We'll be reading uh from the Old Testament written hundreds of years before Christ's coming that prophesies about where the Christ, the anointed Messiah, will come from But instead of glossing over this prophecy to get to the New Testament, we're going to take a deeper look at Micah and his context. Micah prophesied at the time of the fall of Israel. the the northern kingdom. God's people had sinned repeatedly against the Lord, and the Lord punished them by allowing the Assyrians to conquer them and take them into exile. The prophet Micah was a contemporary of the prophets Hosea and Isaiah, and Micah prophesied to King Hezekiah of the southern kingdom of Judah. And Hezekiah listened and witnessed one of the greatest miracles of the Old Testament. The Assyrian army had besieged Jerusalem and verbally abused the God of Israel. And Hezekiah led the people in repentance and beseeching the Lord. And the Lord heard their prayers and destroyed a gigantic Assyrian army. Regarding the book of Micah, the ESV Bible puts it this way: the theme of Micah is judgment and forgiveness. The Lord, the judge of all. Who scatters his people for their transgressions and sins is also the shepherd king who in covenant faithfulness gathers, protects, and forgives them. Let's pray. Jesus, we are sinful, weak people, saved only by your mercy. By the preaching and hearing of your word, root out sin and pride and self-reliance in our lives. Teach us to trust you. Teach us to depend on you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Micah 5, verses 1 through 6a. Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. But you, O Bethlehem Ephrata, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth, and the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. And he shall be their peace. Imagine having to ask your boss, your money-hungry, selfish boss, for a favor. Time off at Christmas. In Charles Dickens' classic A Christmas Carol, Bob Cratchit worked for the money-loving old accountant named Ebenezer Scrooge. Bob Cratchit wanted time off work so that he could spend time with his family celebrating Jesus' birth. But his boss, Mr. Scrooge, said, I suppose he'll be wanting the whole day off tomorrow. It isn't convenient and it isn't fair. It's a poor excuse for picking a man's pocket every twenty-fifth of December. But Bob couldn't just take off himself. If he did, Mr. Scrooge would kick him out of a out of a job. So Cratchit had to ask for help from his selfish boss. There was nothing else he could do. But as the story goes, not only did Bob Cratchit receive Christmas Day off, he received a whole lot more from the unlikely Ebenezer Scrooge. Scrooge gave him a Christmas turkey and a raise and used his resources to fund medical help for Cratchit's sixth son, Tiny At Christmas, we sometimes find ourselves having to ask for help from unlikely sources. In financial difficulty. Some husbands might have to ask for help from their wives to make ends meet. And some parents might even find themselves asking for financial help from their children. Some prisoners find themselves asking complete strangers to get gifts for their children at Christmas. Liberty supports a ministry called Angel Tree, which does precisely this. At Christmas time, as at other times in the year, we sometimes find ourselves unable to make it on our own, and we're moved to ask for help. And sometimes we even have to look for help in the unlikeliest of places. Here's what I'm trying to tell you today. Because God's people cannot overcome their enemies on their own, they must accept help from an unlikely place in order to attain an overwhelming peace. Let me say it again. Because God's people cannot overcome their enemies on their own. They must accept help from an unlikely place in order to attain an overwhelming peace. Point number one, God's people can't overcome their enemies on their own. In the time of Micah, God's people were surrounded by physical enemies. Intent on slaughtering or enslaving the Israelites. The situation was embarrassingly dire. Let's look at verse 1. Micah is being sarcastic when he says, muster your troops. There aren't any troops to muster. In 2 Kings 18, in 2 Chronicles 32, and in Isaiah 36, the story is told of how Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, sent his general called the Rab Shekah. To taunt Jerusalem and to destroy it. The Rabshaka taunted Jerusalem's officials, saying, Come now, make a wager with my master, the king of Assyria. I'll give you two thousand horses. If you're able to, on your part, just set riders on them. And Jerusalem couldn't. The Jewish officials were so embarrassed by the Rabshaka 's taunts. They they asked him to stop speaking in Hebrew and instead use Aramaic because the taunts were discouraging the soldiers within earshot on the walls. The Israelites were demoralized, embarrassed, and convinced that they could not overcome their enemies on their own. Their king and judge, Hezekiah, was basically slapped in the face by Sennacherib's siege and insults. And we know that Micah of Moresheth, the author of the text before us today, uh spoke into this siege situation, we know it because it's recorded for us in Jeremiah 26, 18. Micah of Morasheth, this is quoting Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah, King of Judah, and said to all the people of Judah, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Zion shall be ploughed as a field, Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded height And it was in part because of Micah's prophecy to Hezekiah that Hezekiah sought the Lord's help. Micah's language here would stir up embarrassment for the ancient Israelites. It's embarrassing when your country is overrun by enemies. It's devastating when your capital is surrounded and besieged. And then to add insult to injury, the general makes it personal by trash talking. Israel was backhanded by Assyria. And the ancient listeners would have felt humiliated as Micah reminded them of their lack of ability to defend themselves and defend their own honor. And yet that's right where God wants them. The purpose of Micah's message to Hezekiah, to the people of Judah, and to us today is to humiliate us into a desperation. That leaves us nowhere else to turn, nowhere else to turn besides to the Lord God. So bringing us into the 21st century, have you reached that point, Liberty, where the circumstances arrayed against you are too great for you to bear alone? Have you reached that point like the Israelites did of embarrassment of their own weakness, at their own insufficiency? A poet of our age says, Sometimes you can't make it on your own. Best you can do is fake it. Sometimes you can't make it on your own. Are you ready to cry out to God, I can't make it on my own? But maybe you're not there. You're feeling like I don't have any enemies. Or or maybe you feel like you do have some enemies, but but you can take care of them. What about death? Can you conquer that in your own power? What about the evil in this world? Can you undo that in your own power? What about the evil at work in your own heart? Have you even been able to master your own heart to do that which is right? Then there's that supernatural evil, Satan, whom the Bible describes as a lion seeking whom he may devour. Satan wishes to sift Jesus' servants like wheat. You have enemies within and without. You cannot conquer them in your own power. So, what are you relying on your own strength to provide? If you think that you can save yourself from what's coming, you you either Uh your estimation of your own strength is incredibly naive, or you seriously underestimate the forces that are arrayed against us. Judah's enemy had ruthlessly rolled through kingdom after kingdom before they besieged Jerusalem In light of such odds, Hezekiah led the people to prayer, crying out to God to save them. God heard their cry and miraculously helped them. And one of the most significant displays of God's power in the Old Testament, an angel of the Lord went out and struck down a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. And this is Isaiah 37, 36, and 38. And when the people arose in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. And then Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, departed and returned home and lived in Nineveh. And as he was worshipping in the house of Nisrach his god, Adremelech and Sherazar his sons struck him down with the sword. This type of miraculous, overwhelming victory only comes through crying out to God in weakness. So what is it that you're not crying out to God about? What have you stopped crying out to God about? What are you trying to go up against in your own strength? Is it a project at work? Is it a lawsuit? Is it a family member you're struggling with? Is it your family's finances? Is it a sinful addiction? Is it sickness? What God's Word was saying to the Israelites was this: your situation is embarrassingly dire. Admit your weakness. Admit your inability to do it on your own. Admit your humiliating history of defeat Cast yourself wholly on the Lord's mercy. Then you will find mercy. In order to get help, we must admit that we cannot beat our enemies on our own. Main point number two. Accept help from an unlikely place. Look at verse 2. But you, O Bethlehem Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. The help that the Israelites are going to get is not from a powerful nation like Egypt or Babylon. It's not even going to come from any of the walled cities in Israel. It's going to come from backwater Bethlehem. From insignificantly small Bethlehem. Will come one from ancient times and eternity. In the Hebrew it reads like this: His coming forth is from the east, out of days of eternity. What do they mean by the East? Eden. And God planted a garden in the East way back The prophesied ruler has been coming since the ancient times, since the very beginning. He's like Adam. He's the new Adam. He's old school. He's classic. He's tried in true credibility. He's orthodox. He's been around the block He's got experience even though he's coming from nowhere's ville. And he's got staying power, days of eternity. He's eternal. He's outside of time and into futurity. Mm but how could this ruler be coming from ancient times, from days of eternity, and from first century Bethlehem at the same time? Do they have like a warp gate there or a time machine landing pad or something? No, but they have a little stable where the eternal God of the universe became a baby. When Micah's original audience would hear Bethlehem, they would have immediately associated Bethlehem with King David. King David was the greatest king of the United Kingdom of Israel. He was a man after God's own heart. And he had come from Bethlehem as a shepherd boy. But it would have struck them as strange at the same time. If this coming king, the rescuer, was supposed to hearken back to David, the glory of David, why not say he was coming from Jerusalem, the royal city? The fact that the Savior will come from Bethlehem and not Jerusalem communicates God's plan to be among his people as a meek and lowly shepherd. God is coming to save not merely with power, but with humility. God wants his people to trust him as their strength so he comes in weakness. In order to cure us of our lust for fame and fortune, the healer comes in ignominy and poverty. Jesus said, the one who wishes to gain his life will lose it, and the one who loses it for my sake will gain everlasting life. And Jesus didn't just say it, he lived it. He laid on his life from beginning to end. And there's even more the fact that the Savior will come from Bethlehem. Bethlehem meant house of bread, storehouse of bread, family household of bread. But there's a relevant double entendre hidden in the Hebrew. In ancient Hebrew, there are basically no vowels. The written vowels are implied, the vowels are implied and understood. So all it's written down is consonants. And the consonants for Bethlehem, Beit, Tav, Lamed, He, Maim , are the same consonants that spell out the word house of battle, house of war. That makes poetic sense that the Savior, the Son of David, should come from Bethlehem. Jesus, who called himself the bread of life, who hails from the house of bread, who fed the 5,000 with bread Comes to bring sustenance, life, and health to his people. And he is the mighty God of war, born in the house of battle, for battle, the man who said he came not to bring peace, but a sword Wages war not against flesh and blood, but against demonic powers, yea, even death itself. When he's born in Bethlehem, he looks like a gentle infant, meek and mild. When he's dying on the cross, he looks like a pitiful criminal. But be assured that this Jesus comes in the strength of the Lord God, the majesty of the Lord God, with the angelic army of the Lord God. Though at one time he was a baby wrapped in swaddling claws, lying in a manger, Revelation tells us what we will yet see. Behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is Word of God And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. And from his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. And on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written: King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God's people. Your situation is so desperate, you are opposed by a world that hates you. That persecutes you more than any other people. A world that killed more Christians in the last century than in all the other centuries combined. We are thwarted by our own sin that entangles and frustrates our every good work. We're encircled by a supernatural enemy, evangelic proportions, whose purpose is to shred us to pieces. The accuser, please with the throne of God, that he might be able to torture us as our sins deserve. These are the powers arrayed against you, people of God. And do you look to Washington to save you? Do you look to Prozac to heal you? Do you look to Christian store trinkets to ward off evil? No, instead, let us look to that unlikely place, Bethlehem Ephraim, for our every help. For in Bethlehem was born a Savior who is Christ the Lord. He is the Prince of Peace, and it's only through his power that we can have peace. On Christmas morning, my son Aiden, who's seven, is probably going to come into my bedroom and say, get up, Daddy, get up. And and I'll I'll roll out of bed and Sophie and Club will come grab me and start dragging me down the stairs, saying, come on daddy, come on. And we'll go down the stairs and as we go down this smell of Cinnamon rolls and Starbucks coffee will anoint our noses. Because Annie, my wife, uh who probably won't be able to sleep herself on Christmas morning, will get up and and go make that for us. And we'll get to the bottom of the stairs and and we'll see approximately 37 presents arrayed underneath the ch the the tree with all its lights and and things and um and we'll we'll probably look through our stockings first and maybe eat a piece of chocolate and and then we'll get to start opening presents. Um and there's there's big presents and there's little presents and there's There's nicely wrapped presents, maybe that my wife did. And then there's maybe not so nicely wrapped presents. Which one would you be most looking forward to opening? Which present would you most be looking forward to opening? The nicely wrapped present? The big present? Or the crudely wrapped present? The little present? Well, the Savior of the world, the greatest gift of all, was sent in some crude packaging. He was born as a baby boy, and yet he was the greatest gift. Will you look to little old Bethlehem for your greatest gift this season? Or will you look in a more likely place? My application for you today is where have you where have you ruled out getting help from? The church? Prayer? God's word? Jesus? The Israelites had no idea that their ultimate salvation would come from Bethlehem A tiny hill town. Bethlehem seemed too small to be of service. What have you decided is not big enough to help you in your effort? Are you acting as if Jesus isn't big enough to help you? Do you think that God is too distant to help you? Have you been making it work on your own? Where do you go to get through your struggles in life? Who or what is your functional savior? Is it drugs? Is it work? Is it the bar? Is it online? Is it the opposite sex? Is it friends? Is it family? These things are too small. They will leave you unsatisfied and overrun. Go ye to Bethlehem. Cast your cares upon Jesus because he cares for you. His mercy is contra-conditional. His goodness is real. His love is everlasting, and his peace is overwhelming. Point number three, to attain an overwhelming peace. Verse 3, therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. Give them up. God is going to give his people up To judgment, exile, punishment, foreign oppression. This actually happened. God's people were given over to foreign rule. God gave them up, but didn't give up on them Do you see the difference? Giving them up means letting them have the destructive consequences of their sin. Giving up on them would mean never restoring them, but God does. Why was Israel given up? Because she sinned and became used to her sin and become set in it. Just because someone is part of God's people does not render them immune from the consequences of their sin. Fear God, because He is a holy, holy, holy God who cannot abide sin. And sometimes He does give his people up to the earthly consequences of their sin. This message was to cause Israel to repent with fear and trembling. And it should cause us to repent with fear and trembling. Until she who is in labor has given birth. This refers to Mary. An angel of the Lord visited a teenage girl from another backwater town, Beth Nazareth. The teen's name was Mary, and she had kept herself pure and was engaged to be married. But she was told that she would conceive a child before she was married, and the power of the Most High would overshadow her. She was told the child which she would give birth to would be called Holy the Son of God. He would bring salvation to her and he would be God among his people. Emmanuel. It's the story of Christmas. And this is true. And this is from God. And Micah prophesied this truth 700 years before it happened. And God has brought salvation through Jesus the Christ. The ancient king from Eden to eternity was born through a pregnant lady. He was human. He came into the world just like everybody else comes into the world through it from a womb. He's not some magical hypothetical idea. He is flesh and blood, prophesied 700 years ago Earlier. This isn't make-believe like the flying spaghetti monster. This is real history. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel Jesus ushers in a time when the dispersed people of God would be united under one head. We see this scripture fulfilled and acts as God's people from around the Mediterranean world and beyond gather together for Pentecost in Jerusalem. And that as the exiles return from Babylon and as their dispersed Jews return to God at Pentecost, we see this promise only partially fulfilled. There's an already and not yet aspect to Jesus' unification. God's people have already experienced unification at Pentecost. And yet there is worldwide unification under the banner of Christ that has not yet happened. Already, Jesus has brought together Jews from many different lands under his banner. And already he's brought pagans from all around the Mediterranean, all around the world, and yet people from every tribe and every tongue. Every generation have not yet gathered together in one place. Not yet has God's like returned to Zion as the new Jerusalem descends out of heaven. Jesus has brought in and ushered in the greatest unity the world has ever seen. There are Christians all over this earth. But there is a greater unity yet to come when every trunk, tongue, tribe, every people is gathered together before the Lord of creation to praise the risen Lamb. Verse 4. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord. Micah is prophesying a shepherd king who stands in the strength of the Lord. He prophesies a majestic king. This seems to be a contradiction in terms, though. A majestic shepherd. Shepherds were anything but majestic, smelly, maybe. But majestic. No. And who needs the strength of the Lord to watch sheep? Is it really that hard? Yes. We need the strength of the Lord to do anything. And Jesus did shepherd in the strength of the Lord. Matthew 9:36, he looked on the multitudes and cared for them. He fed them. He healed them. He protected them from the wolves who might seek to feed on them when he refuted the Pharisees and converted tax collectors and Roman officials. But has Jesus really made God's people dwell secure? Yes and no. Already and not yet. He has made God's people dwell secure, and that they've been surely adopted into the heavenly family by the power of Christ's work on the cross. Their ultimate salvation is secure. Romans, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. God's people have a heavenly home in Christ. It cannot be undone. No one can take us people from his care in Christ. Listen to what Jesus says in fulfillment of the prophecy in John 10, 27. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. Does this security mean that God's people will never die? No. But though they die, they will live, being raised with Jesus to the resurrection of life. Micah says that the prophesied shepherd will be great to the ends of the earth. Usually people don't get on the celebrity A-list from shepherding. But Jesus shepherds his way into the world history books. He never went to rabbinical school, and yet Jesus' name was known in Ethiopia within mere years after his death. And Ethiopia became one of the first ostensibly Christian nations by the fourth century. He was homeless and owned very little. And yet Jesus was preached in India perhaps as early as 56 A. D. And the Martoma Church continues to this day. Jesus never held public office, but the apostles spread the gospel unhindered all over the Mediterranean. Even into the heart of pagan Rome, into the Praetorian Guard, Rome's version of the Secret Service, Jesus wrote no book. But in the first century, in the Eastern Han period, there is documentation that two Syrian missionaries came to China, and it's reported that their purpose was to spread Christianity. And by 246 AD, a large iron cross with a Christian couplet was erected in the Jiangxi province Jesus never undertook a building project in his own name. Yet the venerable Bede, the famous church historian, says that Lucius, king of what we know today of his England formally requested instruction in the Christian faith by 156 A. D. Modern historians suggest a much later date of 171 A. D. Has a man born in Bethlehem ever had a name that was known to the ends of the earth Indisputably, Jesus has. Jesus is the fulfillment of this scripture. There is no one else that has fulfilled this scripture, and there never will be. Verse 5, and he shall be their peace. It doesn't really say that he will make their peace. It doesn't really say that he will orchestrate their peace. It doesn't only say that his victory in terms shall purchase their peace. It says that he shall be their peace. Having him is having peace. Connection with this one from Bethlehem, this Christ, will be all one needs for peace. He shall be their shalom, their welfare, their well-being, their prosperity, their contentment. Their shalom is wrapped up in Christ. If you have Christ, whether you be at war or you have peace, though you be at war, you will have peace. Peace with God. Peace with your conscience. Peace with men the world over. But if you have not Christ, though you get welfare, you won't fare well. Though you have social security, you won't be secure. Though you have the end of the war in Iraq, behold you shall be at war in your own soul. In 1914, the world was at war. Horrible new atrocities were unfolding every day. Men were being slaughtered. Those that weren't slaughtered were starving, dying from malnourishment and lack of proper care, and two epic powers were pitted against one another, and neither side seemed to be able to get the upper hand. There was no end in sight, and all around there was death and destruction. Friends, maimed and lost, the stent of mud and decay and death and burning choked out every other smell. The scene was post-apocalyptic, a wasteland of barbed wire and bombed houses and criss-crossing trenches. But then along came Christmas. And the warriors entrenched on either side of the battlefield began to walk out into the no man's land between their lines. It was called no man's land because usually if anybody walked out on there, they'd be shot by one side or the other. But on Christmas Eve, the men started singing Silent Night. And they were singing in different languages, but they began to sing the same song at the same time. And men who had been trying to kill each other the day before came out to offer each other a sign of peace and Merry Christmas. And they exchanged handshakes and gifts and well-wishes. And they ventured out to bury their dead and to play soccer. And in the middle of the no man's land. And they wanted this peace to spread, but it didn't. And they wanted this peace to last, but it didn't. It was back to war the next day. But not so with the Christmas peace that comes from Jesus. It spreads, it lasts, it overwhelms all enemies, it goes to the ends of the earth. While we were yet sinners, God gave his one and only Son to accomplish peace, deep peace, whole peace, everlasting peace between God and man, between man and man and within man himself. Hallelujah. Isn't that something to celebrate We have peace, a peace that can't be taken away, that spreads rather than recedes, a peace that doesn't merely affect one day, but affects all days, every day of our lives. The peace of Christ can overcome even the scariest nightmares of our guilty conscience. And that no politician or general could ever take accomplish for us. This peace exists already and not yet. There's a peace that you can have with God today that secures that final peace. Listen, it's easy for me to talk of peace. I'm not at war. Some of you have been in war. I've never been in war But the prophet Micah was talking about peace in wartime. In the midst of a siege, God's people had been destroyed, taken captive, and they were holed up in their last castle, Jerusalem. And that's where Micah talked to them of peace. Coming through a Messiah from Bethlehem. Some of you may have been physically besieged before. Some listening may be besieged as we speak. We don't preach peace through strength of arms, through allegiances and weaponry, but rather peace through one child born long ago. But this message of eternal peace is the only thing that can truly comfort a soldier pinned down in a pillbox. And it's the only thing that can truly comfort a little child sitting in the warmth of his home on Christmas. Worldwide, everlasting peace. It's Christ's gift through Christmas. Listen, if you're troubled by enemies, Physical or spiritual, there is grace for you today from God's word. This grace to you is secure, peaceful shepherding from Jesus. Profound, comprehensive, all-encompassing peace with our enemy. How can that be? Our enemy is Satan. He's wicked. He would never strike a peace treaty with us. But Satan's already defeated. He's like a snake that's got its head chopped off, it's in its death throes, it's dying. Our greatest enemy, our most powerful enemy, is God himself. He cannot look upon sin and yet we're filled with sin. Because of his holy character, he must punish sin and yet we can't stop sinning. There's nothing we can buy him off with, because there's nothing he wants more than our holiness. He sees all, knows all, and has the power to find us and destroy us. So, how does one from Bethlehem give us holiness, give us forgiveness, give us victory? Through the cross. See, Christmas just points to the cross. It was on the cross that Jesus took upon himself the punishment for all our sin and bought peace with God for those who trust in him. Will you trust in him today? The war in Iraq has been declared over. I've heard that before. The soldiers are coming home. But what if all wars were declared over? What if all soldiers were coming home permanently? What if there was peace on earth? The whole earth? It's not a possibility, it's a certainty. But only through Christ alone. And they shall dwell secure for now. He shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, apply this to our hearts. Give us peace. Give us contentment. At Christmas time, it is our custom to want, want, want, and want what we don't have. Give us peace. And we can sin and run away from you. Give us peace with you through the power of Christ's death on the cross. And Lord, we we pray for worldwide peace. We don't just want Personal peace. We don't just want peace with fellow men. We want an end to war. And we know that that can only be had through your power as you are lifted up. As you um Become Lord over everything. We thank you for the peace that you've already given us, and we look forward to the peace that you yet will give us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand and stand