Amen. Thank you, Choir. If you have your Bible with you this morning, would you turn to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 9? And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the we ones for wonders of worship downstairs with uh Denise Madden and Maxine Saylor. And I see Faith Frampton here on Thanksgiving break. Welcome, Faith. You come back after a while, you get noticed, and Anyone else here uh anyone else here on Thanksgiving break that we haven't seen in a while? I can't see everybody. I know uh Russ and Joe Lingle were up for a while this week. Have they gone back, uh Chucky Zalia? All right. Oh, somebody's pointing to somebody. What? So you pointing over here? Somebody raise your hand if you What do you? The Godex are here. All right, all right. I don't think it's anybody anybody uh we haven't seen in a while. Um Mark chapter 9. Let's uh let's begin at verse 2 and read through verse 29. Now, after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up on a high mountain apart by themselves. And he was transfigured before them. His clothes became shining exceedingly white like snow, such as no launderer on earth can whiten them And Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah, because he did not know what to say, for they were greatly afraid. And a cloud came and overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him. Suddenly, when they had looked around, they saw no one any more but only Jesus with themselves. Now, as they came down from the mountain, he commanded them that they should tell no one the things they had seen till the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept this word to themselves, questioning what the rising from the dead meant. And they asked him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? Then he answered and told them, Indeed, Elijah is coming first and restores all things. And how is it written concerning the Son of Man that he must suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I say to you that Elijah has also come. And they did to him whatever they wished, as it is written of him. And when he came to the disciples, he saw a great multitude around them and scribes disputing with them Immediately, when they saw him, all the people were greatly amazed, and running to him greeted him. And he asked the scribes, What are you discussing with them? Then one of the crowd answered and said, Teacher, I brought you my son, who has a mute spirit. And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, he foams at the mouth, gnashes his teeth. and becomes rigid. So I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out, but they could not. He answered him and said, Oh faithless generation How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me. Then they brought him to him. And when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, and he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming at the mouth. So he asked his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said from childhood. And often he has thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Jesus said to him, If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Death and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more. Then the spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly, and came out of him, and he became as one dead, so that many said he He is dead. But Jesus took him up by the hand and lifted him up, and he rose. And when he had come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, why could we not cast it out? So he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing but prayer and fasting. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his holy word. Let's pray. Father, we do uh acknowledge every time we approach your word that if it is to have free course within us. We are dependent upon your Holy Spirit to anoint it, to use it, to apply it Lord, you know that uh we are weak, we are but dust, and there are many distractions that flit across our minds even as we sit and at attempt to be attentive to your word. And so we need your help. We pray for your presence. We pray for your power. And we ask specifically if there be anyone here this day outside of Christ, anyone dead in trespasses and sins, anyone who does not know the joy of sins forgiven in eternal life. That this might be the day of salvation for that one. May there be rejoicing in the presence of the angels over a sinner that repents today. And may your people be established, nourished, strengthened in your truth. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it had been an amazing week for the disciples of Christ. On a walk to the area of Caesarea Philippi, north of the Sea of Galilee, they had apparently talked together of all the things they had seen and heard, and they had evidently finally agreed together that Jesus was more than a mighty prophet, more than a holy man, more than a servant of God. They had determined, given all they had heard and seen, that he was nothing less than the Son of God, the promised Messiah, the anointed one. Who do you say that I am? Jesus asked him. Peter responded, You are the Christ. And he added the words, Matthew tells us, the Son of the Living God. Jesus immediately confirmed Peter's assertion with the words, Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. Jesus then warned the disciples not to go spreading that news that he was the Messiah. It was not yet time for that. But no sooner had they begun to think about all the ramifications of Jesus being in fact the Messiah and publicly acknowledging that to them Presumably they began to think about when and how he would assume the throne of Israel as the one who is greater than David. No sooner were they thinking about those things than Jesus revealed that things would not happen the way they thought. He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, be killed, and after three days rise again. Now this was so contrary to what they knew of the Messiah, and so contrary to what Jesus should receive, given what they knew of his character as the sinless Son of God. That Peter simply couldn't bear to hear Jesus talk this way, and he took him aside and rebuked him. Jesus, recognizing any suggestion that he should avoid the horrible death awaiting him in Jerusalem, as a temptation from the evil one, rebuked Peter. And then, calling the twelve disciples to himself, along with a larger crowd of followers who never seemed to be very far away. Jesus astounded them by explaining that not only was he going to suffer and die, but that whoever desired to come after him would have to deny himself, take up his own cross, and follow him. If you want to save your life, you'll lose it. If you lose your life for my sake and the gospels, you will save it, he said. So I think for the twelve, this must have been an e an extraordinary emotional roller coaster. They went from thinking Jesus was a prophet, a wonderful prophet of God. to realizing no he was in fact the messiah even though he doesn't seem to be the sort of messiah we were expecting and then now he the they understand he must suffer and die. And then he tells them, and by the way, if you follow me, you can expect much of the same. Then, six days later, Jesus takes Peter, James, and John up to a high mountain Where he is dramatically changed in appearance. His face becomes shining like the sun, his garments bright and white and glistening. And then they witness Moses and Elijah talking to him on the mount. Suddenly they're overshadowed by a cloud. They hear a voice from the cloud say, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear him. It was a glorious experience, a foretaste of heaven, and the thought of it would no doubt sustain those three disciples in the coming persecution, exile, and martyrdom that awaited them. But like all mountaintop experiences, it was short-lived. And the time soon came to descend the mount. On the way down, Jesus commanded them not to speak about what they had seen until after the resurrection They consented, but they remained confused about the resurrection. What's he talking about? What resurrection? Is he talking about the end of the age? As they thought about recent events and revelations, a question arose in their minds. If indeed you're the promised Messiah, as you affirm and as we believe, Why do the scribes say that the Messiah will not come until Elijah comes first? Look at uh at verse 12 of Mark 9. Then he answered and told them, Indeed, Elijah is coming first and restores all things. And how is it written concerning the Son of Man that he must suffer many things and be treated with contempt? I I think Jesus is saying here, don't put too much stock in what the scribes say. They didn't seem to pick up on the fact that it is written that the Son of Man must suffer and be treated with contempt. But in this case they are right to a degree. That is, the scribes citing the last chapter of Malachi, the last chapter of our Old Testament, taught that Elijah would come before the Messiah. We read there, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Malachi 4. 5 R. C. Sproul writes, for centuries the Jewish community waited for Elijah, knowing that his reappearance would be the harbinger of the breakthrough of the kingdom of God and the appearance of their Messiah. If Elijah must come first, then all we have to do is watch for Elijah. When Elijah comes, we know the Messiah can't be far behind. The scribes believed, quoting Sproul again, the scribes believed that Elijah would come first. And when he came, he would lead the people into a spirit of repentance and would anoint the Messiah for his messianic vocation. Now look at verse 13. But I say to you that Elijah has also come, and they did to him whatever they wished, as it is written of him. Now, the parallel passage makes it clear that the disciples then understood that Jesus was speaking about John the Baptist. He came in the spirit and power of Elijah. He preached repentance, as Elijah did, and he anointed the Messiah, as they expected Elijah would do. Now, picture this scene. The Lord Jesus has just experienced, evidently for the first time since he left heaven, a bit of the glory and majesty that is rightfully his. as the eternally begotten Son of God. He uh uh what was a foretaste of heaven for uh Peter, James, and John was for him a a reminder of the glory that he had. uh long before the world was created. Jesus has conversed with Moses, representing the law. He's conversed with Elijah, representing the prophets, about what the law and the prophets foreshadowed and explicitly foretold. Concerning his impending sacrifice for his sheep. And now, having had that glorious experience on the mount, it's time to come back to earth, so to speak. He descends the mount with his disciples. And uh what does he find upon his return? Well, as Moses descending from Mount Sinai and Elijah descending from Mount Carmel He finds things in disarray. Elijah descends Mount Carmel to find Jezebel threatening to take his head. Moses descends Mount Sinai to find the people of Israel given over to idolatry. And Jesus descends the Mount of Transfiguration to find his disciples in the midst of a huge controversy with the scribes. Verse 14. And when he came to the disciples, he saw a great multitude around them and scribes disputing with them. Immediately, when they saw him, all the people were greatly amazed, and running to him, greeted him. Now, we're not told why the people were greatly amazed when they saw Jesus. It may be that his face still glowed. It may be his garments were still white. In any event, they they apparently noticed some sort of physical difference. They were amazed when they saw Jesus. And we read verse 16. As he approached, he asked the scribes, directing the question to them. What are you discussing with them, with my disciples? Jesus as captain coming to the defense of his men in the field asked the scribes what they were discussing. The scribes don't answer, not surprisingly, but someone does. Verse 17. Then one of the crowd answered and said, Teacher, I brought you my son who has a mute spirit. And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down. He foams at the mouth, gnashes his teeth, and becomes rigid. And so I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out, but they could not. We don't know how old this man's son was at the time. Luke refers to him as a child. I picture him as 10 or 12 years old His affliction seems to be very much like what we would call epilepsy. The Jews had a term for it, by the way. They called someone who had it moonstruck. And uh in Matthew's account of this, that term moonstruck is translated epileptic. This child had something like what we would call epilepsy, but in this case there was a demonic spirit afflicting the child as well. And the epilepsy, or what we would call epilepsy. was a manifestation of this spirit toying with this child. Now the issue with the scribes was the man had asked Christ's disciples to cast the spirit out of his son, and they could not. And the scribes evidently seized on the disciples' inability to help this poor man and and to help his son as evidence that Jesus was a fraud. And so they were uh disputing with the with the disciples at the time, probably taunting them. What's wrong? Can't you do this? I thought your master was uh this great prophet of God, and yet you can't cast out a a demon Uh the irony is, had they been able to cast out the demon, the scribes probably would have concluded that they were only able to do so because they were in league with the devil. That's what they concluded earlier when Jesus did such things. I think it was the hard-heartedness of the scribes that drew forth Christ's rebuke here. Look at verse 19. He answered him and said, Oh faithless generation How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me. Think about it. The scribes were those who should have recognized Jesus as the Messiah long before anyone else. They were enabled to give themselves over to the study of Scripture. And there was so much in the scripture that pointed to the Savior, yet they missed him themselves and seemed determined to make sure that no one else would embrace him as Messiah. So here's the Lord Jesus going from communion with Moses and Elijah, communion with his heavenly father, and now coming down from the mount to to confront the hard-hearted unbelief of the religious leaders of Israel, the very scribes that devoted themselves to the study of God's Word Oh, faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Look at verse 20. Then they brought him to him. And when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, the child, and he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming at the mouth. So he asked his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said from childhood. And often he's thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Note it was the evil spirit that convulsed this child at the presence of Jesus. This demon had evidently long had his way with the boy from a child. And as a cat toying with a mouse, he would sometimes throw his prey into the fire, sometimes cause him to have uh uh uh uh to get rigid and fall into water. And now, as Jesus approaches, he convulses the child again. And the father in desperation cries out to Jesus, Lord, if you could do anything, have compassion on us. You'll notice this was no great statement of faith. Contrast it with the faith of Martha of Bethany Who said to Jesus, although her brother had been dead four days, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Nevertheless, I know, even now, whatever you ask of God, God will give you. In other words, if you ask God the Father to raise up my brother from the dead, God will do that. That's what she's clearly seen to be saying Contrast the faith of this poor man who said, Lord, if you can do anything, help us. Have compassion on us. If you can do anything, help us. Contrast that faith with the faith of the centurion who said, Lord, I'm not worthy that you should come under my roof, but only speak a word and my servant will be healed. You don't have to come to my house. I'm also a man of authority. I know what it means to give orders and require others to do what you ask. Just say the word. Then my servant will be healed. You don't have to come to my house. I'm not worthy for you to come to my house. What great faith that was. This desperate man says to Jesus. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. He says it with tears. Now we're not certain of the words of Jesus' response. Some manuscript streams have it this way. Jesus said to him, if you can believe. All things are possible to him who believes. And some manuscript streams don't include the word believe in that first clause. Those manuscripts have Jesus responding, if you can. All things are possible to him who believes. And if that's what Jesus said, then he was highlighting the man's words for emphasis. He might have been saying it this way, if you can Lord, if you can do anything, help us. If you can. All things are possible to him who believes. Or he might have been saying it, if you can. It's not a matter of if I can, it's you can. Can you believe? Do you believe? If you can. He might have been turning the words back upon the man himself. All things are possible to him who believes. In either case, the point is the same. Jesus was trying to draw out this man 's faith. He was trying to strengthen his faith, you might say, to confound his faith. If you can believe. All things are possible to him who believes. Remember, his faith in Jesus and in Jesus' disciples had just been squelched. He already brought his son to them. We don't know how long they'd been having this Interaction, but the disciples had utterly failed to cast the demon out of his child. So this man, whatever faith he had in Jesus and his disciples, it had been certainly dampened. over the the previous few minutes or hour. And so he says verse twenty four. He says, immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. I'm trying, Lord. I believe you can do this, but I admit it my faith is weak It's a very weak faith, Lord. Help my faith. Strengthen my faith. Help my unbelief. Verse 25. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, a larger crowd is gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Deaf and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more. And the spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly, and came out of him, and he became as one dead, so that many said, He is dead. But Jesus took him up by the hand and lifted him up. Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up and he arose. Jesus saw the people gathering. He saw the crowd coming And this was not a sideshow. Jesus didn't want an even larger crowd to gather, so he immediately rebuked the unclean spirit and commanded it to leave the man's son and enter him no more. And like an evicted tenant who tries to do as much damage to the premises as he can before leaving, the demon convulsed the child greatly, and when he was finally gone, the child was so still that he appeared to be dead. Well Jesus took him by the hand, lifted him up, and he arose. Luke tells us they were all amazed. They were all amazed at the majesty of God. That's the way. Doctor Luke puts it. All those who saw this were amazed at the majesty of God. And we can imagine the joy of the Father as his son was restored free for the very first time since he was the young child from that demon that had so oppressed him. And then verse 28, when he had come into the house, um We're not told which house, whose house he came into the house, perhaps the house that belonged to this man and the child, perhaps one of his disciples. His disciples asked him privately, Why could we not cast it out? So he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing but prayer. And some manuscripts read in fasting. This kind can come out by nothing but prayer, and as I said, some ancient manuscripts Add the words and fasting. Jesus' words here confirm what is suggested in other passages of God's Word, that there is what we might call a hierarchy. or a lower archy, if you will, among the demon world. You may remember that Daniel fasted and prayed for three weeks, we read. seeking further understanding of a vision that he had. And when he received an answer, the messenger of God who brought it said, Look, I would have come sooner, but the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me for twenty-one days. And behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me. I would have been here when you first began to pray three weeks ago, but the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me for twenty-one days until Michael One of the archangel one of the high angels, what did he say? One of the one of the chief princes came to help me. So evidently some demons and this shouldn't surprise us, evidently some demons are more are more powerful. than others. And Jesus said, this kind can come out by nothing but prayer. Now the disciples wouldn't have known that But I wouldn't be surprised if they, when they couldn't cast it out, began to pray together. And uh probably would have uh continued to pray until they were able to cast the demon out. This is one reason I don't think that the Lord's lament, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? How long shall I bear with you? This is one reason why I don't think that was directed at the disciples. I believe the disciples had faith to believe they could cast out this demon. I don't think the problem was their lack of faith. I mean they had already been out on a preaching mission casting out demons. Remember, they came back. They were rejoicing that even the demons are subject unto us And Jesus said to them, Yeah, that's great, but you ought to rejoice rather that your names are written in heaven. That's even better news. I believe they had faith. I believe these disciples had faced sufficient faith to believe they could cast out this demon. I think they were probably surprised when they failed. not what they expected to happen. They failed not because of a lack of faith, but because they were wrestling with a very strong demonic power. And this was a battle that required intensive prayer. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against spiritual wickedness in high places. This is a battle, and this required prayer and perhaps fasting as well, giving yourselves over to prayer. Now, let me point out some things before we leave this passage. First of all, something we shouldn't miss, the hard-heartedness of the scribes. Think about it. One would have thought that even common compassion would have led them to gather around this poor man and his only son, join hands with the disciples. Come on, let's let's pray for this poor man. Amen. Join hands with the disciples and pray that our heavenly Father would cast out this demon. Pray to God for this child's deliverance. One might have thought that Jesus would descend the mountain find an impromptu prayer meeting in session Right there, right there, around the man and his child. The scribes, all those who believed in in uh Jehovah, praying together that God would mercifully intervene. If theirs had been a generation of faith in which those who were religious leaders in name were also religious leaders in fact, that's exactly what Jesus would have found But he descends from his mountaintop experience of majesty and glory, a little bit of heaven on earth. What does he find? The scribes not assisting the disciples in their attempt to help this poor afflicted child, but squabbling with them and apparently taunting them because they were unable to help him. No wonder Jesus lamented, O faithless generation. Faithless generation. How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Secondly, when Jesus said all things are possible to him that believes , It wasn't implying that it doesn't make any difference what you believe. It doesn't make any difference in whom you are trusting. It's a common thing in our day for uh cities to launch uh campaigns encouraging people to believe. I think Baltimore has one. Believe! Believe, hun! Believe. I'm not a hun, but if I were , not sure it would be clear to me just what I'm being urged to believe. When Jesus said all things are possible to him that believes, he wasn't advancing a visualization technique. He wasn't saying if you you visualize yourself on a yacht. Every morning when you get up, visualize yourself on a yacht, and then the next day and the next day and the next day, you keep doing this, then then eventually you'll find yourself on a yacht. the the deck hand of your pastor on on a yacht. That's not what he's saying. One of our uh family traditions when I was a child was to uh gather in our family room, living room, whatever we called it back then. uh each week to watch uh Disneyland or uh the wonderful world of Disney, or the wonderful world of color. Wonderful world of Disney and color. And uh the show would begin, as I recall, with uh Jiminy Cricket singing, uh, when you wish upon a star, it makes no difference who you are. Anything your heart desires shall come come to you. And Jiminy was uh among the smartest crickets that that I knew as a child. He was certainly in the top five. He could spell Encyclopedia, I remember that. But I don't think I ever bought into his uh wishing philosophy. You know, when you wish upon a star, it makes no difference who you are, anything your heart desires. shall come to you. If I did, uh I'm sure I would have wished to be able to play third base like Brooks Robinson. And it was pretty evident pretty quickly that I couldn't When Jesus said all things are possible to him who believes, he certainly didn't mean that it doesn't matter what you believe or in whom you believe. Nor did it mean that the most critical component of faith was the degree of your faith. On the contrary, the most important component is the object of your faith. It's been well said that a little bit of faith in a very strong bridge is far better than a great deal of faith in a weak, rotted one. A mustard seed degree of faith, that was Jesus' point. A mustard seed degree of faith in the true Lord is far better than a trainload of faith in someone or something that's not true. Nor was Jesus saying that if we believe in him, whatever we desire will certainly be done. He said all things are possible to him who believes. You see, our face should be like that of Daniel's friends, best known by the names given to them by their Babylonian captors. The Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebednego. When commanded to worship a golden image erected by King Nebuchadnezzar, threatened with death by fire if they refuse, what do they say? Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us from your hand, O King. But if not Let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship your golden image. They believed God was going to miraculously deliver them, but they knew that they were going to be delivered, whether through extraordinary means or through ordinary means, just simply by allowing them to die and taking them to heaven In any event, we're not going to worship your image. I heard a sermon on this passage when I was away on study leave, which was an interesting providence I mentioned to a couple people when I was away on study leave, went to a PCA church and the pastor was preaching through the very same section that I was studying here in the Gospel of Mark, and I had some issues with it, some things I was kind of trying to understand, and so it was helpful. But uh in a passage in a sermon on this passage, the PCA pastor said he was once in a service in another denomination. a denomination where it was taught that uh it was the degree of faith, the strength of your faith that was the deciding factor. He said in that service that he attended, there was a blind man sitting in the front This would help if we had one here this morning, but uh as an illustration. There was a blind man sitting in the front, and the pastor pointed to him and said, Uh, if you had enough faith, and if we had enough faith you would be able to see. And there were loud amens in the congregation. Amen. Amen. If only you had enough faith. You could see. In other words, the only reason he remained blind is a lack of faith. R. C. Sproul recounts a young man he called a dynamic, devout Christian who suffered from cerebral palsy. Some well-meaning friends had come to him saying, we're going to heal you of your cerebral palsy, and they laid hands on him and they prayed for him, and then they walked away, declaring him to be healed. But he still had the disorder. Then subsequently they told him, well, the problem is you don't have enough faith. You have to believe you are healed before you can be healed. Right. Uh so he tried, I believe, I believe, I believe, uh, but he remained unhealed And then they surmise that he must be guilty of some heinous sin that was blocking his healing, something blocking the healing Finally, they concluded that he must be possessed of a demon, like the child in our passage, and they attempted an exorcism, but still he was not healed You see, to say that all things are possible to him who believes is not to say that everyone who believes will certainly be healed. The Apostle Paul most certainly believed. But he was not healed of his painful physical affliction. Although he had three separate seasons of prayer dedicated to pleading with the Lord to deliver him. What did the Lord say? My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is sufficient is made perfect in weakness. God didn't choose to heal Paul. God had his own reasons for not healing Paul. God wanted to continue to keep Paul humble. And that was a difficult thing, given the fact that all the revelations granted to him and being caught up to heaven and writing a big portion of the New Testament. So the constant reminder that he was a mere man, frail, dependent upon God, if it was indeed a an eye problem, which I s suspect. That would be a constant uh uh means of keeping him humble. No doubt the uh the believers prayed just as fervently for the apostle James when he was arrested by Herod as they did for the Apostle Peter. It was Peter, James, and John on the Mount here, Mount of Transfiguration. James was arrested by Herod. And Herod killed James. And when he saw it please the Jews, then he arrested Peter. And he was going to kill Peter. I'm sure the Christians prayed just as fervently for James as they did for Peter. Peter was released, James was not. James was released. But not the way the Christians were praying. Did the believers have faith God could deliver Peter, but insufficient faith that God could deliver James? Indeed, it often happens, as James, the brother of our Lord, now the different James, reminds us In his letter, it often happens that the prayer of faith will save the sick and the Lord will raise them up. But that's not always the case. Because it's not always God's sovereign plan that we should be made well. Think about it. It's not always in our interest to be made well. And if we were always made well, how would we ever leave this earth for the glory awaiting us in Christ's presence? Thirdly, let me remind you parents here that Satan would just as soon attempt to destroy your child as the child of this poor man in this passage. And he has numerous ways to do it. Bad company, bad friends, false teaching, love of money, desire for fame , innate corruption Pride, rebellion, lust. Mom and dad, you better be on your knees. You better be on your knees for your child because Our adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, goeth about, seeking whom he may devour. And we are not to be ignorant of his devices. You got a spiritual battle on your hands. You better be praying fervently for your child, your children. Story is told of a doctor who uh this is years ago, probably in the 19 uh 19 century. A doctor who was called to the bedside of a child, he had to perform immediate emergency surgery. I think it was an uh uh uh what do you call it amputation uh of a limb and you know in those days they didn't have all the anesthesia that we have today and so before the surgery the doctor said to the father uh And and the child, shall I pray? Shall I pray with you? Do you want to pray with me before the surgery? I think is the way it happened. And the father intervened and said, Well, you know, I haven't uh He's not a religious I haven't uh imposed my religious thinking on him of allowing him to make a decision when he's old enough to, et cetera, et cetera. kind of poo-poo the whole idea of prayer. And in the process of the surgery, the child began to scream and swear, violent oaths, swearing violently, cursing God. And the doctor turned to the father and said, you didn't think it necessary to teach your son to pray, but Satan had no qualms about teaching him to swear. Finally, I find some encouragement in this passage, in the words of the beleaguered father, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. Lord, I believe, but help my unbelief. It's a cry that's been echoed, I suspect, countless times down through the ages How many believers have said or thought that at times? Lord, I believe. I believe, but did Balaam's donkey really turn and talk to him? Help my unbelief. Well, Lord, I believe, but did the sun really stand still in the sky as Joshua defeated his enemies? Help my unbelief. Well, Lord, I believe, but how did Jonah survive three days inside a great fish or a great whale or whatever it was? Help my unbelief Lord, I believe, but how can you be sovereign in salvation while we're still held responsible to repent and believe? Lord, I believe, but help my unbelief John the Baptist believed. He said when he saw Jesus, this is he of whom I said, after me comes a man who is prepared, preferred before me, for he was before me. Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. I have seen and testified that this is the Son of God, John 1:34. And yet Languishing in prison, sometime later, we read that he sent two disciples and asked Jesus, Are you the coming one? Or do we look for another? Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Many of those we think of as great men of the faith, men mightily used of God, frankly acknowledge periods of doubt, questions. That may forever go unanswered for them on this earth. And that may be true of you. Lord, why did you take my child? Why did you take my job? How can that possibly be good for anybody? Why would you do it? Why did I contract this disease? How is this beneficial to anybody? Why did I contract this? Why was I paralyzed? 17 years old diving in a little water, why was I paralyzed? The rest of my life I'm going to live this way. Why? What could possibly come of it? Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. See, ultimately, our faith is in a person. Our faith is in a person. Our faith in Jesus Christ, the person, Jesus Christ. We believe because we trust him. We trust him because we know him. You can only trust someone insofar as you know him or her. We trust Jesus because we know Jesus and we take his word at his word. Heaven and earth shall pass away, my word shall not pass away, Jesus said. If you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed. And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. John 8 It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you, they are spirit, and they are life. John 6, 63. What I'm saying is when your faith is under attack, go to the Word of God. Go to the sword of the Spirit. Use the sword of the Spirit to put to flight the enemies. The enemy Go to the Word. I love to go to the Gospels. I go to the Gospels. Just read the Words of Christ. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Because your faith will be tested in this world. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Now, a closing word to anyone who may be here who doesn't yet believe. The the message of the gospel is simply this. That God created us. He's the one who is the the reason we're here He made us for his own glory. He made us in his own image. But part of that was giving the first man an opportunity to obey or disobey. Man chose to disobey God, we rebelled against him, and as a result, we come into this world with a sinful nature. We disobey, we're ungrateful, we're unkind, we get angry, we get hateful, it's all inside of us. It's already there. Nobody has to come and tell your child how to disobey. Your child already knows. There's something wrong inside. That's why there's wars and murders and robberies and hatred. It's something inside of us. We've all got it It's not just the Muslims, it's not just the other people, it's inside of every single one of us. But the good news is God loved us so much. He sent his own Son. He came here to live a perfect life, to keep the law that I broke, to perfectly keep the laws of his father, what we've all failed to do. And by doing that , He therefore did not deserve death, so when he went to the cross, he wasn't dying for his own sin, he was dying as a substitute for sinners. God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Jesus died upon the cross. He rose again the third day as if to say the Father saying, I've accepted the sacrifice of my son. It's done. It's sufficient. Jesus went to his astounded apostles and said, now go into all the world, preach this good news. And they went in the wall of the world. Preaching this message, and others heard it, and others told others, and others told others, and now we heard it, and we're telling others. The good news is if you'll see yourself as a sinner and repent of it, that means recognize your sin as vile, recognize it as rebellion against the Holy God, turn from that sin in disgust and lay hold upon Jesus by faith. And I believe all your sins will be forgiven. You'll be given this gift of eternal life. You will be adopted into God's family. Not because of any good thing you've done. You're only a sinner like the rest of us. Because of what Jesus did for you on the cross. That's the message of the gospel. That's why we're here. But remember, the same evil being who through one of his powerful demons took pleasure in torturing this poor child is seeking your destruction as well. The end he has in mind for all men is the same. Death, destruction, torment. The means to that end may be slightly different for each of us. For some it's self-righteousness. I don't need to say I'm good. I'm righteous. I'm holy. I'm a good man. I go to church. For others, it's decadence and open rebellion against God. But for each of us, Satan's goal is that we will not repent of our sins and trust in the sinless Redeemer God has provided. Satan finds pleasure in disrupting God's work. destroying those created in his image. Perhaps he's toying with you as the demon toyed with the child in this passage. But the same powerful word of Christ that delivered that child can deliver you. As Jesus commanded the deaf and dumb spirit to come out of that child. May he, by his grace, even today. Open your ears to hear his word. Open your mouth to declare his praise. Let's pray. Oh Lord, uh what a wonderful thing it would have been had we been there in the midst to see this take place, to see Our Savior come down from that mount and cast that demon out of this child. But you've preserved for us here in your word. And so it feels like we were there. It's as if we were there. Lord, thank you so much for the power that we see at work in this passage and the power that many of us have experienced in our own lives. He brought us up out of that horrible pit, out of that miry clay. You set our feet upon a rock, you established our goings. Lord, we give you all the praise. Thank you, Father, for redeeming us. And I do pray for anyone outside of Christ. Here today. Draw that soul by your spirit for your glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.