Since I've been up here, I was thinking with Barry this morning. I said, I think I might have been up here a couple of times while I was teaching over at the school and I I know I preach for Mark Pett, some of you remember Mark years ago and and also for Larry, but uh it's been a while. If you would open your Bibles, please, to the book of Exodus, Exodus chapter 3. This is written by Moses, and of course he's uh telling the story of how the children of Israel were brought out of Egypt and taken into the Promised land. Moses was one of the giants of the faith, but he didn't start out that way, if you remember. And that's what we're going to see this morning. All right, Genesis chapter 3 beginning Exodus chapter 3, beginning in verse 7. Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are Are in Egypt, and I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their suffering, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hands of the Egyptians. And to bring them up out of the land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites the Ammonites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And now behold the cry of the people of Israel has come to the land Lord, and I have seen the oppression of which my the Egyptians have oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may now bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? He, God, said, But I will be with you, and this shall be a sign to you. That I have sent you when you have brought the children of Israel out of Egypt, you shall serve the Lord on this mountain. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, has sent me to you. And they shall ask, what is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said to Moses, I am who I am. Now, if you would move over to chapter 4, verse 1, where again Moses says , But behold, they will not believe me. nor will they listen to my voice. For they will say, the Lord did not appear to you. And if you would go over to verse 12, where God now finally says to him, Now therefore go, and I will be your mouth and teach you what to say But he said to him, O my Lord, please send somebody else. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. Bow with me in prayer. Father, we thank you that this is your word. It's a word that is clear to us, but we see that Moses was not willing. And so I pray that you would speak to us this morning. Perhaps our hearts are resistant at times with you. And I pray that you would speak and show us very clearly. that you are God. And when you call, we are to listen. Guide, now I pray as we look into your word, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen I think one of the most frequent questions that I was ever asked working with young people and also while I taught over at the school Was how do you know God's will for your life? Ever thought about that That question I think can come at almost any point in our lives. As I said, I was often asked that question, but when I did, I'd always come back with another question. And they would say, Mr. Hill, why do you always answer a question with a question? Because it causes us to stop and to think. And so the second question here is Suppose you know that God's will for your life, but you just don't want to do it. Most of the time, you know, we've been through situations like that Have you ever discovered that, thinking back, that God came to you and you know he wanted you to do something specific? He had a decision that you had to make, but you didn't want to do it. The reason I'm asking you to think about that because I think sometimes we have all been through that type of situation. And while you consider that, you know While it may be a while too since God has come to you and faced you with that type of question, it's a very real question, particularly when God is asking asking it. Possibly he comes to you and asks for a major decision. Maybe it's something that you really don't want to face because you've kind of been putting it off. You know that. Now I know that we have a wide variety of people here in this congregation, and some of you may be thinking, well, it's a little late in life for me to stop and think about that. But not necessarily Others of you in the earlier part of your life may not want to think about it at all. God might be asking you to do something that you really don't want to do. You've got other plans for your life. We all know that decisions are critical. They're part of life. But for the believer, I believe considering God's will is so important in any state. I believe there are times when God comes and asks us a question and we know it's from Him, but we just avoid it. Don't do it. And that's the situation we see this morning with Moses. Several questions come to mind. Several questions you've probably been asked, and I have too You know, what will God ask me to do? Will it be something that I like? Will it fit into my plans? And that's where we are with Moses this morning. He went through a very similar experience at a very critical point in his life. As I read a moment ago, God was calling him for a specific purpose. He wanted to send Moses back to Egypt to bring his children out of Egypt and take them into the promised land Well let's back up for a moment. Let's go back in a few years and and set the stage, so to speak. You probably recall that that God had brought Jacob and his family down to Egypt during the time That Joseph was in power. He was second in command behind the Pharaoh. Recall, he'd been taken to Egypt by a Midianite caravan. His brothers had sold him into slavery. And then recall that they took his robe, they dipped it in blood, and took it back to their father Jacob and said, Uh, Dad, we've we found this. This is Joseph's robe. We didn't see Joseph. Many years passed, a famine hit the land, and having been guided by God, Joseph, who was second in command, as we said then. Prepared Egypt for what was to come. Even though that they had plenty of food, they'd even had food that they could sell to other countries, Moses made them ready Many of the countries sent people down to Egypt to buy food. And Jacob was one of those. He sent his ten sons back to Egypt to buy grain. Joseph recognized them, but they didn't recognize them. recognize him. And that begins a series of events that we can trace through five chapters in the book of Genesis until Joseph finally reveals himself to his brothers. If you don't remember that, you can go back and read it through for yourself. It begins with chapter 42 in the book of Genesis. We want to jump ahead now. Joseph is bringing Jacob and his families. Bound to Egypt. Brings even their livestock. They settle in Egypt in the northern part of the land, a very fertile part of the land, called the land of Goshen. Israel really became a nation at that time. Point in Egypt. Life was good for a while. But after a time, Joseph and that generation died. The Jews remained in Egypt. They were multiplying. They grew. In fact, the book says that the land was full of them. As I went back to my study Bible, and I read that about this time it was estimated there were Over two million Jews that were left in Egypt. Now we're told in chapter 1 that a new Pharaoh came to power and he didn't know Joseph. And so looking around and seeing this rapidly growing people, the Jews, he decided he had to run a campaign to get rid of them. And so he began to kill off the boy babies. It was about that time that Moses was born. Next to this chapter 2 tells us that his mother hid him out for about three months. Because as he began to grow, she couldn't hide him out any longer. She recall he she got a basket, she put him in this basket She floated it out onto the Nile River in the shallows there, where she knew that Pharaoh's daughter and her slave girls came down to bathe. They found baby Moses. No, it wasn't Moses then. They took him into the palace and they named him. The name Moses means is born. And he became Pharaoh's son. God continued to orchestrate those early days of Moses ' life. You recall his mother became his nurse. And he even Got paid for raising him. Later on, as he grew and became a teenager, we're told that he was taken back into the palace and he became the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He was educated there and he had all of the advantages of the palace life. Scripture ski over a good portion from that Point on and many years later. But one of the things we are told is that Moses never claimed to be the son of Pharaoh or of his daughter. Moses knew he was a Jew. Probably he's been told that by his real mother. And as he grew, we're told that one day he went out to his People and he looked at their burdens. One day when he was there, he saw an Egyptian beating up on a young Hebrew Looked around, didn't see anybody, so he killed him. And he buried him in the sand. But word got out. We saw that m wonder posters went up all over Egypt. Moses had to run. He had to run for his life. And he fled to Midian. And suddenly, here he was in a strange land. Going from a position of power 40 years in the palace of Egypt. And now he was in the desert of Midian. His former life was over. He'd blown it big time. And now he had to run. The desert of Midian, also known as the Negev , was one of the most desolate places on earth. One writer I read described it as 400,000 miles of kitty litter. There he met Jethro. Jethro was the priest of Midian. He married his daughter, Zipporah. He had a son, and he settled down to work as the life of the shepherd for his father-in-law. Gone were those early years of ambition. What happened in Egypt had destroyed his desire for greatness. But that was exactly what God wanted. God has a way of humbling his leader. I once heard Chuck Swindall say, before God can use a man greatly, he has to hurt him deeply. So now we find Moses. Forty years later, down in the desert of Midian, he's now 80 years old. He has the life of a shepherd. And as far as we know, he hasn't heard from God in forty years. He knows that he'd blown it big time. Probably God would never use him. There may be somebody here this morning like that. Maybe there was a time in your life where you did something that you think totally disqualified you from God ever using you. God wouldn't take time for me now. And yet God is a God who forgives. We know that. And so in the story of Moses, we find the same thing. God takes us where we are and builds us and makes us into the kind of person that can serve him. Now I know you've heard from this pulpit that God is that kind of a God, that he loves his children. That he forgives and he wants to use all of us, whatever point we are in life, as part of his plan for communicating his love and his forgiveness. Forgiveness. And that's the way it was with Moses. Even though he thought he'd been forgotten, God hadn't forgotten him. He'd been training him all of this time, planning him for what he had ahead. Getting him ready to bring his people out of the land of Egypt and take them back to the land that he prepared for them. But Moses wasn't ready for that. that yet. I think sometimes that God 's plans and his preparations are not all that we would like to hear. He sometimes has to take us into our own little desert, designated just for us, to get us away from all the previous distractions and to teach us humility. And to make us willing to do what he wants us to do, to totally trust him. It's what he did with Moses. We're told that one day Moses was out taking his sheep, and he had to take them to what was called the far side of the desert. I checked in my map and Midian is way here and Moses took him way over here. He took them all the way down to the the base, really, of the Sinai Peninsula, trying to find water and better grazing land. And while he was there, he came on a very strange sight. He looked over and here was a bush that was on fire. Now that wasn't so strange. That could happen. It was a hot, dry area. Sometimes it would, bushes would catch on fire and they'd burn up. You look back a moment later, and that bush was still burning. Strange. So he goes over. He wants to check it out. What's going on here? And when he got over there, you probably recall what happened. We read just a moment ago. The angel of the Lord appeared to him out of the burning bush. Now the Old Testament, if you go back there and read, the angel of the Lord was the pre incarnation appearance of the second person of the Trinity. Words, this was Jesus appearing to Moses. The second thing that we note is that fire is very often used in Scripture to represent God. Now Moses had heard about the time when Abraham had a vision of God, of a smoking firepot, and later of a blazing furnace. He later wrote about it in the book of Genesis And this time now he comes and and sees another fire. Reminds me of back in Isaiah, where God says, the light of Israel, God, shall be a flame of the floor. You go to the New Testament and John the Baptist, speaking of God, says he baptizes with the Holy Ghost and with fire. You recall Pentecost. Remember those tongues of fire that set over each of those in the upper room there waiting for the Holy Spirit to come? The writer of Hebrews says, our God is a consuming fire. Fire was also the symbol of the eternal quality of God. Now here in this account, God now calls Moses out of a bush twice. He'd seen that bush burning, fire. And he says, Moses. Moses. Now I'm sure that Moses looked around. He didn't see anyone. Here's his voice. But he answers. He says, Here am I. And then God speaks. And he said, Moses, take off your sandals. You're standing on holy ground. I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. The next verse I don't think is any surprise. We're told that Moses hid his face because he was afraid to look at God. So there he stood, standing there by a bush that's burning, having heard a voice, his shoes are off, but he's surrounded by God And as he hid his face, because he couldn't look at God's glory , reminded me of a passage that I read over in Proverbs. I'm sure you know it. Where David writes, and he says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Wisdom and knowledge of the Holy One. Holy fear. Scripture indicates that it brings wisdom. Obedience. Friends, I believe that we will never have any trouble discovering and carrying out God's will for our lives if we have that kind of fear of We're going to make sure that we find out what he wants us to do, and then we'll go do it. Here we have God reminding Moses that he still loved him. And now he was going to draw him out of defeat and into victory to make a name, a name that would impact others. It was necessary for Joseph to go into, I mean for Moses to go into a desert first, to hear what God had to say, to be alone with him. Years earlier, as we looked at Moses and back in the life in which he was raised, I believe he thought that life pretty much revolved around him. He did things much his own way, the way he wanted to do it. Probably often expecting that these people, because of his position in Pharaoh's house, would listen to him and do what he wanted them to do. You know, I sometimes think that we're like that. That we expect others and maybe even God to listen to us and to do what we want to do. Isn't that what society tells us? Do your own thing. In a conversation that I had recently with someone who was not a believer. They said that something that I was not really surprised at knowing them. They said this. They discovered that the way for real joy Yeah, was to learn to love yourself and to put yourself first. I don't think so. Some of you are shaking your head It's not what God has to say. It's not the way he puts it. The key to joy is putting God first. Allowing him to control your life. I found out early on in my counseling ministry that control is one of the major sources of problems in a relationship. Who runs the house? I think if we would learn to yield our lives to the Lord To trust in him, to have that relationship with God, and to stop resisting him, allow him to be Lord, we'd be alive Happier. And we discover the way God has it planned. And we would certainly better honor Him in our lives. I believe that God sometimes will send us into areas in our life of a defeat until we're ready to turn and to listen to him and obey When Moses did that, he discovered that God has to have a center place in your life. He has to be in charge. It's called lordship. The Lordship of Christ. One writer said he is the Lord of the ship. He's in charge. Life is to revolve around him, all of life. If it doesn't, if he's not in charge, you know And that's not his life. Now Moses knew who was speaking and why this was called holy ground. He knew he was in the presence of the living God, even though he was very uncomfortable. It's probably what made him uncomfortable. The God of history, the God about whom he had heard many stories, a God who had been trusted by Abraham, a God who had kept his word and his promises to his people people, a God who had cared for his people, even though sometimes when he appeared to them he seemed rather strange. And Moses was afraid. He was afraid because of what he knew of God, of his holiness, of his reverence. And perhaps he was afraid because of what God might ask him to do. As we read, God identified himself as the God of the patriarchs of Israel. The God of Abraham, the father of the Jewish nation, a man of great faith. He was the God of Isaac. Who trusted God enough to allow himself to be put on the altar of sacrifice. And he was the God of Jacob, the God who turned that deceiver into a sacrifice. Strong leader of his people. Moses had heard all the stories. He knew what God had done in the lives of the heroes of his people, and yet he was afraid to look at God. He'd heard the voice of God. He knew Psalm 29 that says, powerful is the voice of God. It thunders. And now he was standing in the presence of a powerful God. And he hid his face. The writer of Hebrews says it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. What he's saying is that only as we have a right kind of fear, an awesome majesty We understand that's what God is. Until we're ready to accept that and to understand his will, then we're going to be fearful. God wanted Moses to stand before him, to discover who he was, but he wasn't there yet. If you look back at verse 7, God tells Moses that he had heard the cry of his people. And he was ready to deliver them. He wanted to take them out of Egypt, to bring them into a new land, the promised land, and to have them be his people. And he says, Moses, you're my man. I'm going to send you to Pharaoh. What did Moses say? Great, Lord. I'm ready to go. Wonder what took you so long to realize I was a leader. Is that what he said? Not quite. We see now that Moses gives God five reasons for excuses excuses, why he would not go. And if we're careful and listen carefully, we just maybe hear something that we might say. First thing, verse this verse 11. Moses answers. He said, who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? God remember me. I had to run from my life to get out of Egypt. Pharaoh wanted my head. The only reason I'm still alive is because I got out of there fast. And God, remember, I'm getting old. I'm 80 years old now. I've lost my edge. You can't do this, Lord. It's a job that's just too big and I'm too small. And God agreed with him. He said, Moses, you're right. You are too little, but I'm too not. And then he said to Moses, Moses, I will be with you. And this will be a sign to you when you have brought the people out of Egypt. Do you hear what God said? He said, when you have brought the people out of Egypt. He was going to do it. It was a done deal before God. And so God said, end of discussion. Moses wasn't satisfied. Came up with a second reason or excuse. He said this in verse 13. I don't know enough about you, Lord. I mean, I'm going to need some more information here. These people in Egypt have been there a long time, and Egypt has many gods. Now, who exactly are you? What's your name? And God says something very briefly. He said, I am who I am. You shall say to them, I am has sent me to you. Now, what was God saying? I am is a present tense of the Hebrew verb to be. In other words, it means always existing. God was saying to Moses, I'm self-existent. I'm unchangeable. I always have been, I always will be. God derives his existence from himself. And everything else in this world derives its existence from him. God continues. Or Moses continued. No, God did. I am absolute, self-dependent, eternal, the same yesterday and for today and forever. And then in verse 15 he says, identify me as the God of your fathers. What's he saying? Moses, reach back into your memory bag. Thanks. Remember the ancient stories of the living God, the God of your ancestors. That God is your God. I am that God. I'm alive, I'm well, and I'm ready to be to help. Now that's the picture that God gave to Moses. And he guarantees that he will be forever what he has been in the past. And while God didn't show Moses very much at this point, he did give him enough to reveal to him his identity. And it came out of the history that Moses already knew. In addition, God said, I will cause the Egyptians to let my people go. And when they leave, when they leave, they won't be leaving empty-handed. They've been slaves for years and they're going to get all of their back pay. And so he says next that the women, the Hebrew women, are going to go to their neighbors And they're going to ask for silver and for gold and for clothing to put on their children. They will plunder Egypt. But even hearing that, Moses still wasn't satisfied. The third excuse. He said, what if they just don't believe me? If they won't listen to what I have to say? And then God said, Moses, what's that in your hand? Oh, well, it's my staff, Lord. I'm a shepherd. It's a shepherd's staff. It's the job that I do. God said, Moses, throw it down. Moses did, and you recall that it became a snake, and Moses ran from it. And God said, pick it up. What? No the other end, you dummy. And so Moses reached down and he picked it up and it became his staff again. And then God told Moses to put his hand inside of his robe, and when he pulled it out, it was white with leprosy. He said, Put it back in your robe, and he put it in and pulled it out again. And it became whole. And then God told him, He said, If they don't believe you, with these signs that I give you, take water from the Nile, pour it out on the ground, and it will become blood. Now, what was God saying with all this? That he was God, and I'm going to show them a miracle. I believe God often takes ordinary, familiar things Same way with people, and he makes us instru extraordinary. You know, a miracle is just something that Of God really being himself, adapting his laws or changing them to achieve his purposes. I believe his greatest miracle is a changed life, a brand new life that comes through knowing Jesus Christ. God takes what we give him, what we have in our hands, ordinary, everyday things, and he says, throw it down. I will use you. I'll use your talents, your abilities, where you are, what you're good at. And God says, just take it and give it to me. Trust me. You see, God is the most powerful resource that we know. And as we're gathered here in this sanctuary this morning, I believe he meets us as individuals exactly where we are. And he wants to take us and make us into the kind of people that he can use. People with boldness. People that are not afraid to go out and share what we have discovered in our own lives, knowing Jesus Christ. Tried that with Moses. Wasn't good enough yet. Fourth excuse. Moses says, I can't speak. Really? Moses was raised in the court of Pharaoh. He was trained to lead. Perhaps even one day, looking ahead to being Pharaoh. Acts chapter 7 says he was powerful in speech and in actions. And so God now probably losing some patience Says, Moses, who made your mouth? Moses, I can give you the words to say. Now you go. So what do we have? Four excuses to this point and four answers from God Essentially saying, Moses, I will be with you. I'll give you what you need. You're going to be successful. Now go. But finally the real reason comes to the surface What does Moses say? Lord, please send someone else. Calls him Lord. Lord means Means master, Lord, please send somebody else. I don't want to go. Verse 14 then tells us that the anger of the Lord burned against Moses. What does it make God angry? I believe it's making excuses. Not being willing to do what he asks us to do. And that's what it was with Moses. But you know, even in his anger, as you look at the end of this text, God is gracious. He says, in effect, Moses , not gonna let you off the hook Now you won't accept what I've asked you to do, okay, but I want you to go to your brother Aaron. I know that he speaks well. And so you tell him what to say, Aaron will say it, and I'm going to teach you both what But Moses, you're going. Of course, we all know what was ahead. It was an important part of Moses' life and the training really that God was putting him through, preparing him for what he had ahead, to lead his people out of Egypt and into the promised land. Do you think he could have gotten the children of Israel out without Moses? Of course he could. Can God reach that friend of yours who is in the office and doesn't know Jesus? Yes, he can. Can God find another Sunday school teacher other than you? Or another voice in the choir? Of course, if that's What he wants. But whatever the job, whatever the calling, God will accomplish his will. But God has a plan for you. God took a look at Moses. He saw everything that Moses was and everything it heard everything that he said. But he didn't let him off the hook. He said, Moses, I have a job I want you to do, and you're going to do it for me. I believe that's what God wants of every one of us. Every one of us who is his children is his child. I believe he can look around in this congregation and see the ones that God has developed and those that he has used and is using. But he's not done yet. He may want you I believe God figuratively says to each one of us at some point in our life, Moses, or whoever you are. Take off your shoes. Humbly submit to my majesty, to my holiness. Will you fear him? Will you fear him in the right sense? In other words, respecting his power, his ability to mold you, to take you and to use you if he's not already where he wants to put you. Will you offer to him whatever is in your hand, allowing him to use that, your gifts, your abilities, all of which he's given to you You see, God knows the how, but he wants you to be the who. Or will you be as Moses and say, here I am, Lord, but send somebody else. Bow with me in prayer. Father, we know that your presence is in this place. This is holy ground. And as believers in Jesus Christ, we have a unique relationship with you. I pray that you would help us now to affirm that that and to recognize that this means obedience to your will. Whatever calling you have on our lives, help us to understand that if we don't. Help us to know that you want us to make ourselves available to you and that you may take what we think is ordinary. And use it to impact other lives for Jesus Christ. We pray in his name. Amen.