Now turn to your Bibles to chapter 1 of the Gospel of Luke. Chapter 1 of the Gospel of Luke, and we'll be reading starting at verse 26. And while you're turning to today's passage, let's consider the context of the passage. At the beginning of chapter 1, Luke gives us the reason that he wrote the gospel. Luke tells the recipient of the gospel, Theophilus, that he has written a thorough account of the life and ministry of Jesus. It's based on solid historical evidence, and it was given by eyewitnesses, so that Theophilus would know for certain that what he was taught was 100% accurate, true, and reliable. So we could say that Luke's gospel is a salvation history. in which he gives an account of how God worked through the lives of individuals to bring about his salvation through the coming Messiah, Jesus Christ. And in his gospel, Luke wants to demonstrate how the Old Testament prophecies concerning the Messiah were fulfilled through Christ. And as he wrote in verse 3, he starts at the beginning of Christ's coming by giving an account of the announcement that John the Baptist would be born. And then followed by Gabriel's announcement to Mary that she would be the mother of the promised Messiah. And that's what we will read today, starting at verse 26. Let's hear God's word. Now in the sixth month, the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin, betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. The virgin 's name was Mary. And having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son, and his name shall be called Jesus. He will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Then Mary said to the angel , How can this be, since I do not know a man? Come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also, that the Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Now indeed, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age. And this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren For with God nothing will be impossible. Then Mary said, Behold, the maidservant of the Lord Let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. Let's pray together O Father God, how we thank you for your word, for your word which brings us life. How we thank you for the gift of your grace and of your spirit who dwells within us that we can understand and know your word. So we pray, Lord, that you would teach us today through your Spirit, that we would be filled with Him, that we might be more knowing of you and drawn closer to you. We thank you and praise you for your great grace to us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, our passage today is a very familiar one to us, is it not? And how many times have you heard it? How many times have you seen it depicted in children's pageants and Hollywood films? How many great works of art have there been that have tried to capture it? Or how many songs had been sung about it? And yet while it's so familiar to us, yet it seems so very foreign to us as well. Not only was it in a different time many centuries ago, but it was in a distant land with a very different culture and different customs. But even more so, even more so, how do we relate to Mary? How do we relate to her situation, to her experience? After all, it was a once-in-all of eternity happening. Of all the women who ever were, she was the sole person to have this single solitary experience of being the mother of the Messiah. She had a distinct and singular role in God's plan of salvation, which would never, ever, ever be repeated again. What's more, she gets visited by an angel. I've never been visited by an angel, have you? And not just any angel, but Gabriel, a four-star general of an angel who stands in the very presence of God. So how do you possibly relate to that? How do you possibly relate to her situation? Yet even though she had this mysterious and supernatural experience, and even though she was given such an incredible honor , We can still find points of connection with Mary. For her experience mirrors our own experience in our faith with Christ. So let's consider then a point of connection. We'll start by looking at verse 26. Let's look at verse 26. The angel Gabriel peers to her and he says to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Now notice what he doesn't say there. Notice how he doesn't address her. At first, he doesn't greet her by name He doesn't greet her by name, but instead he identifies her by what she has received. She is the highly favored one Or put another way, she is the highly graced one, for the word favor there is translated grace. She is the one who is full of grace. Now the Roman Catholic Church has misinterpreted Gabriel's words. And the Roman Catholic Church has taught for centuries that Mary, full of grace, meant that she bestows grace on others That she is the source of grace for others, and so we can go and pray to her and receive grace. It's almost as if she is a kind of mediator between us and God. And they believe that she, being full of grace, can dispense grace, her grace, to others. But that's making more merry than we should. That's making more merry than Scripture warrants And that is not what Gabriel meant when he said that she was highly favored and full of grace. No, what he meant wasn't that she was the source of grace. Rather, she was the recipient of God's grace. She had received his favor as the one woman in all of history who would be the mother of the Messiah. And just think about that. Just think about that for a moment. In Luke's account of this announcement, we see here God's plan of salvation for mankind. spoken of by the prophets for centuries past is was now about to happen. It was now about to happen. All history past And all history future rested zeroed in on this one particular moment, on this one sole person who would be the mother of the coming Messiah, the Savior of the world. And so we might ask, well, why was she chosen? Why was Mary chosen for this distinct honor? Well, we could assume that she was chosen because she had the right family connections. She had the right family connections. The Old Testament prophets said that the coming Messiah would be of the line of David, and that he would inherit his kingdom and his throne forever. And we know that one of the most familiar of these prophecies is Isaiah 9, 6 and 7, which says that a child is born A son is given, a son who is both man and God, and that he will establish an everlasting kingdom upon the throne of David. He will be David's son, his descendant. But this was not a new prophecy. No, this was an echo of a previous prophecy. The first time it was ever said was to David himself by the prophet Nathan, who spoke a word of God to Nathan, saying that, David, there will come w one time one of your descendants. Who will be a king on your throne, and his kingdom will last forever. Your throne will be established forever through him. And so we can see that it would make sense that Mary would be chosen to be the Messiah's mother because she was a descendant of David. And Gabriel makes this very clear in verse 32 that Mary is indeed a descendant of David. He says the Lord God will give to Jesus the throne of his ancestor David. Now, how can it be that Jesus would be the son of David unless his mother herself was also a descendant of David? So we might assume that she was chosen because she had the right family connections. She was of the line of David. In fact, we also know that not only was she of the line of David, but Joseph was as well. But there's more. Mary not only had the right family connections, she also had the right location. She lived in the right neighborhood, as real estate agents will tell you, location, location, location. Well she had the right location. Luke records that she was from Nazareth, and so was her future husband, Joseph, which meant that when Jesus would grow up Where would he grow up? But in their hometown, fulfilling yet another prophecy of the Old Testament, that the Messiah would be one who would come from Nazareth. We see this in Matthew 22, 23, when Matthew records that Jesus went and lived in a city called Nazareth. so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, he shall be called a Nazarene. Well, we might also think that she was chosen because she was a virgin. Which she affirms when she says that she had not known a man, being yet unmarried and engaged to Joseph So again, Mary fulfills yet another prophecy that the Messiah was to be born of a virgin, a supernatural birth Isaiah 7. 14. Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear forth a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. So Mary fit the criteria for being the Messiah's mother. She had the right family background, she had the right qualification, she lived in the right area. But there's but why then? Is that the reason why? God chose her above all other women. Was that the reason that she met certain criteria? Well, after all, there may have been hundreds of women from the same background who met the same qualifications who had the same family background and lived in the same area, they could have all also been chosen to be the mother of Jesus. So why her? Why Mary? Why did she get such an incredible honor to be the sole person, to be the mother of the Messiah? Well, when we think about someone receiving an honor, it's usually because they have earned an achievement. that they've earned it through smarts or through their sweat. But Mary did nothing. She did absolutely nothing to receive this privilege. She didn't win a contest. She didn't fill out an application or an entry form. No. It was completely a gift. Something that was totally unexpected, and it was unexpected because it was totally undeserved. For who was she? By the world standards, she was inconsequential. She was a nobody. She was a poor young woman without a penny to her name from a small, obscure, backwoods Galilean town. There was nothing, nothing about her to warrant such a blessing, being of such a low status. She was hardly the person that anyone would expect to be the mother of the king whose reign would last for all eternity. And she herself recognized her own unworthiness, her own undeserving of such an honor. Notice what she says in verse 28 and also in verse 29 when she's greeted by Gabriel. She wasn't so much frightened by his appearance as she was troubled by the way that he greeted her. What did he just say to me? Highly favored one? The Lord is with you? The Lord is with you. Why, that's what the Lord said to Joshua before he entered into the promised land. The Lord is with you. That's what the Lord said to the judges. The Lord is with you. That's what the Lord, that's how the Lord was with Moses. The Lord was with him. Why would he say that to me? Why would the Lord be so gracious to me? And she reveals her own sense of unworthiness as she sings her song of rejoicing to Elizabeth later on in the chapter. In verse 48, she says, the Lord has regarded what? The highest state? The Lord has regarded my highest state? No. He's regarded my lowest state of his maidservant. She acknowledges that she is a nobody who has received this incredible, amazing privilege. Even more striking is verse 47 in this Song of Mary, where she says, My spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. She acknowledges that she needs a savior. That she is not without faults, that she is not without failings, that she is not perfect, that she is a sinner just like the rest of us. So how is it that she can be the chosen mother of the Holy Son of God if she's a sinner? Well in verse 30, Gabriel calms her fears, and he says to her, You have found favor with God. In other words, you have found grace with God. For why was she chosen? Why was she chosen? solely out of God's grace. As Luther pointed out, she is the embodiment of God's unmerited favor. She is the embodiment of God's unmerited favor. So, right here, brothers and sisters, right in these two verses, we find a connection with Mary. Brothers and sisters in Christ, just as Mary had received a miracle, so have you. That every morning when you get up and you look in the mirror, you're looking at a miracle. Now you might be thinking, you haven't seen me in the morning. I don't look like a miracle. It's a miracle that I'm awake. But you are. You are a miracle. If you are trusting in Christ for your salvation, you are a recipient of a miracle. as one who has received the gift of his grace through faith, just like Mary. For just like Mary, who received the baby Jesus in her womb by faith, so have you by that same grace received Christ in your heart. So if Gabriel were to come today And if he were to greet you, Christian, he would greet you the same way he greeted Mary. Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. You are his favored one, full of grace. What has occurred in your life is no less a miracle than the one that Mary experienced. Like you, like her, you were chosen to receive Christ before the foundation of the world In John's gospel, Jesus says this himself. He says to his disciples in John 15, You didn't choose me, but I chose you to bear much fruit. And Paul makes a similar statement in Ephesians 1. 4. Paul writes, For the Lord chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. And again, writing to the Thessalonians, Paul tells them, from the beginning, God chose you to be saved through the sanctifying work of the Spirit. So like Mary, why did he choose you? Like Mary, why did he choose you? Was there anything about you to cause him to want to choose you? For what were you? Well, he didn't choose us because of our family connections, that's for sure. For we were from the wrong family. We are from Adam's lineage, and therefore a sinner. We've inherited his sin nature. And because we are all sinners, we could never stand in the presence of a holy, perfect God without experiencing the holy terror of his wrath and judgment. For Scripture says in Psalm 14, there is no one who does good. No, not one. So we weren't chosen for our family lineage, for we are all of Adam's fallen race. Well we're chosen because of where we live? No. We were from the wrong neighborhood too. We live on the wrong side of the tracks. In fact, we were across enemy lines. Because we are all enemies of God, hostile to him. We all are in enity against him and his authority over us. Before he reconciled us to Christ, as Paul writes in Romans 5. In fact, Ephesians 2, verse 1 puts it so bluntly. And it puts it so plainly. Paul writes, what were you before you came to Christ? But you were dead. You were dead in your trespasses and sins. Before you came to Christ, you were DOA, dead on arrival. You were unable to come to Him, unable to reach out to Him. Your whole being was opposed to him. You were dead in judgment, and you stood condemned, and there was nothing, nothing, nothing that you could do to make yourself right with God. And then it happened. And then it happened. A miracle. The grace of God overshadowed you. The Holy Spirit came upon you. And the Lord took what was dead and he made it alive. Just like he filled an empty virgin 's womb with the glory of his son, so has he filled your empty heart with the glory of his son's presence. He took your dead mind and he revived it so that you could perceive his word. He took your deaf ears and he made them able to listen, to hear his word, and to comprehend it and to hear the gospel. He took your lifeless lips and he enabled them to sing God's praises. Is that any less a miracle than what Mary experienced? And just as the virgin birth was foretold in Scripture centuries before Mary was born, so too your spiritual rebirth was foretold millennium before you were born. In Ezekiel 36, in verses 26 through 28, when the Lord said, I will give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. He was speaking of you. When he said, Christian, I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart, I will put my a flesh, I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes. He was talking about you. So when you read those verses in Ezekiel, think to yourself, that is me right there in that text. God so loved you. He so loved you that he took you a nobody, a speck of dirt in the cosmos, dead as petrified wood, and he caused his spirit to make you alive. Just as Mary's privilege was a gift of grace, so too your faith. Is a gift of God's grace. As Paul writes in Ephesians 2, it is by grace that you have been saved through faith. And this is not of yourselves, it is a gift of God. So that no one can boast. In fact, we could say that our faith in Christ is no less a miracle than what Mary experienced She received him in her womb. You've received him in your soul. She bore him for nine months in her body. He dwells with you for all eternity. Brothers and sisters in Christ, is there any greater miracle than what Paul writes in Colossians 1. 27? This mystery, this mystery, which is Christ in you. Christ in you, the hope of glory, your Creator The creator of the universe, your savior who has died for you, dwells within you. And Jesus, Jesus received nourishment from Mary in her womb for nine months. But brothers and sisters in Christ, we united to Christ received spiritual life and nourishment from him. John 15, 5 says, I am the vine and you are the branches. He who remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. Consider this as well. Jesus, like all young men, eventually left home to go off on his own And at 30, he left his mother's home and the family business to begin his earthly ministry. And the point of this is that there was separation, there was separation from his mother. There was separation in that relationship. But what does the risen, ascended Lord Jesus Christ say to you, beloved? Lo, I will never leave you nor forsake you. I am with you, always, even to the end of the age. In Christ, there is no separation. In fact, we are so intrinsically bound to Christ. Our connection with him is so deep, our destinies with him so intertwined that this is how Paul describes our union with Christ in Romans 6. That when Christ died, we died with him. When he was raised to life, it was as if we were raised to new life When he ascended to heaven and now sits at the right hand of the Father, Paul writes in Ephesians 2 that it's as if you were already there with him in the heavenlies. So great is the transforming power of Christ working in you that you are dead to sin Dead to its corrupting power and condemnation, it no longer holds its death grip on you And he made you alive in Christ as a new creation. He's given you a new mind and a new heart reoriented to desire to do his will. And he's given you a new destiny, eternal life, where we share in the glory of Christ. So that the words spoken to Mary are words for us as well. Fear not, fear not, the Lord is with you. Christ has vanquished for us the fear of death in his death on the cross. and he has taken away our sins so that we fear not God's righteous judgment. No, and since our sins had been washed away, we can say the Lord is with us. The Lord is with us. Are you not then? Brothers and sisters Are we not then his highly favored ones, full of grace? Well what are we to do? What did the angel Gabriel tell Mary to do? But to rejoice. to rejoice, to kick up our heels, to sing and shout and dance, to shout it from the rooftops that we have been saved. For we are his highly favored ones, full of his grace, that we can rejoice because we were dead and he made us alive. We can rejoice because we were lost. and he found us, we can rejoice, for you have been the object of his wrath, but now instead you have been made the object of his outrageous love. It's a cliche to say that the Christmas season is so busy that we often lose the meaning of Christmas. But a cliche is a cliche because it's so often true. And in the flurry of baking and buying and rapping and going to Christmas parties. How easy it is to forget the meaning of Christmas. How easy it is to forget it. So what is the antidote for Christmas meaning amnesia? is to reflect on the grace of God and what He has done for us in Jesus Christ. To meditate on his grace that has been given to us. A favor we can fully, never fully fathom, a grace we can never get over, the marvel of it all. This morning we have seen a connection with Mary. Like her, we are the Lord's highly favored ones. Full of his grace. He has given us the gift of his grace, our salvation in Christ through faith, for nothing with God is impossible He's chosen us to have a new life, and we have union with him for all eternity. God with us And being a gift. It is something unearned. In fact, we know that it's totally undeserved. The question is, do you possess this gift of his grace? And if so , do you rejoice in it Let's pray. Oh Father God, how we praise you and thank you for the gift of your Son That we were lost and dead and in darkness, and you lifted us up and gave us new life, hope, eternal life with you, union with you. Oh Lord God, this is so much to fathom. We can never completely fathom it. All we can do is rejoice in it and offer ourselves to you as Mary did to offer our lives to you. And so, Father God, we pray that you would be with us in a very special way during this holiday season, that we would remember what you have done for us, and that we would be a strong, faithful witness to it. Wherever you have placed us, wherever you have called us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together and sing and rejoice. Good Christian then rejoice. Hymn number 159