If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to Psalm 133. We 'll be looking at verses 1 through 3, which is the whole Psalm. And I would invite you to stand in honor of the reading of God's holy word , Psalm 133. Beginning with the superscription , a song of ascents of David Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. It is like the precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron. running down on the collar of his robes. It is like the dew of Hermon which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there the Lord has commanded the blessing life forevermore. This is the word of the Lord. Let's be to God. You may be seated. Let's go ahead and begin our time with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today. We are so thankful, O Lord, for the opportunity to be in your presence. Whether we're sitting, standing, singing, praying, Lord, and even now to hear from your word. Lord, we pray that you would speak to our hearts what we need to hear this morning. Lord, this is a short psalm of three verses and yet packed with meaning and significance for who you have called us to be in Christ. And Lord, we pray that you would take your word and by the power of your Spirit apply it to our hearts and our lives and our church this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, last week we were in Psalm 132, and the way the Psalms are laid out, you don't have to do them one after the other. They are thematic. But there is a connection between 132 and 133. Last week, looking at 132, it highlighted The oath that God had made to King David that was fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ to establish his son on the throne forever. And it's really out of that particular oath and that particular promise fulfilled that Psalm 133 follows, a psalm of unity. Why is it that unity seems to be so difficult to achieve among God's people? You can think this this applies at so many different levels. We can think of unity within a particular local church. Sometimes churches have conflicts and infighting for a wide variety of reasons that make unity very difficult to achieve in that local body. Then it could be among denominations, from one denomination to another. Unity is hard to come by. And yet it is something that is so near and dear and precious to the heart of God that we have this psalm before us. In fact, we read earlier, if you were paying attention, from Ephesians chapter 2, verses 11 to 22, which was talking about the unity that was achieved through Christ. between Jew and Gentile, taking two different people groups and making them into one people in Christ The main point of our sermon or of the psalm, which our sermon is on this morning, is this, that unity among Christians is attractive to people. and results in their blessing. In fact, if you have if you're visiting with us this morning and you've never been here or you're This is your first time. You'll notice on page 5, you'll see that sermon idea laid out there for you to follow along with. It is unity among Christians is attractive to people. and results in their blessing. Let's jump into this. Let's look at first at the necessity of Christian unity. We see this alluded to, believe it or not, in the superscription. When we look at the life of David, we see very clearly in the superscription, this is a psalm of David. David was the author. Now, we know that we know a lot about David's life, but one of the questions we have to ask is what do we know about David as it applies to the theme? Let me just lay out a few things. I'm not going to go into great detail with these. But in short order, we know that David was God's anointed king from 1 Samuel 16. When God rejected Saul from being king because of his sin and his unrepentance and his making excuses for his failures rather than confessing them to the Lord, God rejected him. And what did God tell the prophet Samuel? I will search for myself for a man after my own heart. And that is the apt description of David. uh from Psalm or from 1 Samuel 16. He was anointed as the king after God's own heart. Secondly, we know that David was a skilled musician. who played the lyre, which is a small stringed instrument, the kind of like a small harp. And we know that because right after David is anointed in 1 Samuel 16, verses 14 to 23, because God had taken his spirit from Saul and put it into David to empower him to be the king over his people. Saul was afflicted with an evil spirit, and David was brought in, and when David would play this music on his lyre, it would calm the soul and the spirit of Saul. We also know, thirdly, that when David brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem, later on in 2 Samuel chapters Chapter six rather, it was David who led the worship of Israel as Israel, as a nation and all as a people, were all gathered in one place for worship. for the uh ascension, as it were, of the Ark of the Covenant. We know from First chronicles that David was the one who organized the Levites, the priests, the temple musicians, the gatekeepers, and the other officers for the temple worship of the Lord. In the place that he chose to put his name. Fifthly, we we also know that David wrote many of the psalms that we find in the book of Psalms, which, as we know, was the hymn book. of ancient Israel when they would come to the temple and worship the Lord. And lastly, as we saw last week, God made a covenant with David and put to put one of his sons on the throne forever. Now I don't know about you, but when you take a step back and you listen to all of that in big picture format, it sounds really positive. It sounds really positive. So what is it about David's life that can teach us about the challenges to unity among God's people? Well, believe it or not, as good as all of that sounds, there were obstacles to unity. in Israel during David's time. And despite all the positive things, let's take a look at some of the things that we can find that made unity hard to come by even in that glorious age of David's kingdom First, if you look closely at David's life, we see the obstacle of jealousy by King Saul Now all these things are just building to this call to unity in our Psalm. But first we see the obstacle of jealousy by King Saul. And you see that over many chapters, 1 Samuel 18 through 31. Again, not long after David's anointed in by Samuel in 1 Samuel 16, he kills Goliath the giant in 1 Samuel 17, and then in chapter 18 he's placed over the military of Saul. And when you read the story and you read the narrative, David leads the armies out, he brings them back in, and it's victory after victory after victory after victory. And you know, we know that in 1 Samuel 18, 7, the women were celebrating, uh dancing in the streets, singing, Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands. Now you can imagine if your king in the ancient Near East to have an underling praised higher than you is going to spark some kind of jealousy. Why? Because people seem like they're more loyal to David than Saul. And so what does Saul do? Event after event after event he tries to kill David. It leads him to pursuing David's life. Most commentators that I've read um are guesstimating around maybe fifteen years David was on the run. uh for his life, can you imagine that? For fifteen years? And so the the king That God had anointed in place of Saul, and then Saul, the residual king, are at odds with one another, and you can see among God's people division. Division Which leads to the second obstacle. So we got jealousy. The second obstacle is the obstacle of political division in Israel. We see that in 2 Samuel chapters 2 through 4. After the Lord finally does remove Saul in a very violent and painful manner from being king, he removes him from this life. David is anointed king. In Hebron, which is a city in the territory of Judah in the south. And what we find is there were actually two kingdoms among God's people in David's lifetime. There was David reigning as king over Judah in the south, and then all the rest of Israel being under the kingship of Saul's son Ish bosheth, which in Hebrew just means the man of shame But most of us tend to think of the divided kingdom coming after Solomon, David's son. We don't we miss the fact that even during David's lifetime, there was a divided kingdom. There were political allegiances for one reason or another between David and the house of Saul. And you can imagine it they were always at war with one another, and you can see there it's not just jealousy. that can lead to division among God's people. You can see political division leads to issues among God's people. And that leads to the third obstacle. The obstacle of David's sin with Bathsheba. Now my notes here, I kind of extended that not just to chapter 11, which is the chapter that records the event, but I Extend that all the way to chapter 19 because you see the effects of it all the way to chapter 19. Many of you remember the story. We know that he committed adultery with his friend Uriah's wife, Bathsheba And then when he found out that she became pregnant, he orchestrated the death of his best friend. Most of us also missed the fact that Her father, Eliam, was also one of David's thirty mighty men, along with Uriah. So it's not just that he betrayed a close friend, he betrayed two close friends and murdered one And it's interesting because even even as David repented from his sin , chapter 12 The Lord does forgive him, and yet the consequences of that sin, if you remember, God said the sword will not depart from your house. What is that pointing us to? Division. What happens? Well, just like David couldn't control his lust, his son Amnon lusts after his half-sister Tamar and rapes her. And that leads to, secondly, Absalom, the brother of Tamar, who's a half-brother with Amnon, murders Amnon for raping his sister, just like David murdered Uriah. You see this whole idea of sexual morality and murder trace its way through the life of David and his family from then on out. And then thirdly, Absalom then turns on his father David and usurps the throne in Jerusalem, causing David to have to flee. And when you read that narrative, that historical narrative, you find most of the people actually side with Absalom, not David. Which is why David has to flee. But what do you find? Division among God's people. Now I've always scratched my head at that. Why would Absalom usurp his father's role as king and do this to his father and then seek his father's life. And you know, the best answer I can come up with, and you can take it or leave it for what it is is that I believe he lost respect for his father David for doing nothing to discipline and punish Amnon for his sin. Isn't it interesting when you've when you fail to discipline someone, they do lose respect for you. You see it right there. Fourthly, when David is restored to the kingdom, you think the division's over when Absalom's rebellion is crushed, not so A man in Israel attempted to lead the northern tribes of Israel in rebellion against David. In fact, it's interesting that What he says to David in his rebellion, he says, We have no portion in David, and we have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, O Israel. He says that in 2 Samuel chapter 20, verse 1. Sadly, David had to send the army after him and put the rebellion down forcefully with great violence. Interestingly enough, this is the exact same thing later on, after Solomon's death, when Israel divides. This is what they say to his son Rehoboam. in 1 Kings chapter 12 verse 16, when the kingdom did finally divide permanently years later. And so it's really interesting. When you look at the life of David, his reign, you do see that unity among God's people was hard to come by. And it leads us to ask what kind of obstacles stand in the way of Christian unity today? What kind of things should we be aware of today? Well, I think in short order, jealousy, complete competing political affiliations, and sin and leadership can stand as obstacles in the way of Christian unity that obscures our view of Jesus. And don't miss that. When there is no unity among God's people, the view to Christ is obscured. And those three things I just gave: jealousy, competing political affiliation, and sin in leadership. Let's look at those each in turn. Jealousy does hinder Christian unity. People tend to get jealous about how God may be using someone around them for his glory. You see this very subtly in the body of Christ. And I'm not just saying in each local church, I'm just saying broadly in general, you do see this jealousy come up among people uh who are really trying to build a name and a platform not for the Lord Jesus Christ but building a name and a platform for themselves. That's one of the interesting things I I've noticed about Christianity today. Um I don't mean the magazine, I'm talking about just Christianity in our day and age Isn't it interesting how many ministries out there, we talk about vision and mission, and if we're not careful, if we're not really grounding what we talk about as vision and mission in the scriptures, What we end up doing is we end up creating our own agenda, and then that own agenda needs a face and needs a person to carry that out And that leads to people platforming themselves and highlighting themselves in their own glory rather than the glory of Christ. It's a very subtle danger, but it's a danger I think we're seeing more and more the consequences of in our day and age It's a danger that can easily lead to us maneuvering and planning around people in ways that threaten the advance of the kingdom of God because it creates internal turmoil. And so what we end up doing is we end up building our own kingdoms for the purpose of our own glory. That's what Saul was eventually after, wasn't it? We seek our own glory rather than God's. And when we do that, it will always tear at the heart of Christian unity in the body. We also see competing agendas hinder Christian unity. Just like there was political turmoil in Israel in different stages of David's life for different reasons. We also live in a time and a day where different people have different political commitments and different visions of where our country is going. In fact, it's really interesting. I've been doing a lot of listening on podcasts lately about what Christian nationalism is all about. If you've been paying attention to the PCA. We formed a study committee very recently as a denomination to study out the issue of Christian nationalism. What should we be thinking biblically about this issue? competing agendas. And the problem with with this is when we as a church let political agendas determine the vision and mission that we're called to have. We end up anchoring our churches into things that come and go. What does the scriptures teach us? Empires rise and empires fall It's inevitable. And we're arrogant if we think as Americans that the way things are today is the way things always will be. It will not. But in the midst of political turmoil come competing visions. And when we rally , however, when we rally around God's Word as our ultimate authority, Our ultimate agenda will coalesce closer and closer together as we are obedient to God's word, when we keep Jesus Christ as the king of our lives, the king of our hearts, than his kingdom agenda, which is expressed in the Great Commission, make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to obey all that I've commanded you. You know, the more we ground ourselves in God's word, the more we are protected from being carried about by the winds of political movements that can assail the church. And by the way, please don't hear me say that all politics are bad. Christians do need to be involved in politics in one way, shape, or form. We're called to be salt and light in a in a variety of spheres of our lives. We just can't let these things determine the vision and mission and identity of who we are as Christians and who we're called to be as the church. Because when we do, it will rend unity. And the last thing is the sin in leadership hinders unity, Christian unity. We don't just see that in David's life with David's sin that led to division in Israel. We see that the sin of leaders in the church today can lead to division in the body of Christ. Why is that? Why is that? I'll tell you why. In fact, in his book, uh The Reformed Pastor, Richard Baxter Puritan um pastor and author talked about how the sins of leaders in the church, particularly pastors and elders have the tendency to hurt people and , violate their trust more than the sins of just anyone else sitting in the pew. And this is because the sins of leaders are more public than the sins of individuals, which can tend to be more private and when they're more public they are they lend themselves to greater public scrutiny in the body of Christ I may have shared this example before, but when I was a teacher, um probably This was maybe seven or eight years ago now. Um, towards the end of the school year I had a s a student of mine who was a senior, he was about to graduate and I noticed he was in my home room and I got to know him really well and I noticed he the last couple of weeks he had been like really down. and discouraged. And so I I asked to have lunch with him one day and we met and I asked him what was going on. I said, I've noticed kind of a change in your demeanor, your behavior. You you're usually very upbeat and you just seem very dis downcast, like, is everything okay at home? Like what's what's going on? And he was very discouraged because um he had attended I don't know if he still does, but he attended at that time the largest mega church in the country. In fact, the guy who was responsible for really starting the megachurch movement was his pastor, and he actually knew that guy personally. He and his family were very close to that pastor. And that pastor was going through at that time some accusations of inappropriate relationships with women. Um And I remember him telling me all of this. I actually heard it for the first time from him, and then I started seeing the avalanche of articles online coming. And I think what really caught um Really got him down was he started seeing some of the other leaders in the church that were noticing this behavior. um confronting this pastor very publicly and then this pastor getting very defensive very publicly and denying those charges and all of a sudden you have this infighting among the leadership of the church. Why? Because of the sin of one leader. It hurt this young man. And it hurt the unity of that church. And so these are things we need to be aware of as we think applicationally of what lies in the background of this psalm of unity. And that leads us to jumping right in. in our second point, which is the occasion of Christian unity in verse 1. We see again in the superscription, the Song of Ascens, and I do want to comment very briefly on that because it is important to how we're going to apply this. The occasion of Christian unity is the occasion of public worship. When we talk about the Song of Ascents, that's what we're talking about. The saints of God's people in the old covenant would come and ascend to the temple to come to worship. In case you were wondering what psalm of ascent meant, it was ideally there to prepare the worshipers to stand in the presence of God to present themselves as his people in worship. And the idea of a sense is because God put his name in Jerusalem in the Old Testament, which is located in the Judean Mountains. And then on top of that, the temple was located in the highest place of the city. And so just as God's people are called to lift their hearts to God's presence, they are also physically ascending to get to the place where he chose to put his presence. We also see that the unity is to be expressed in public worship. Why? Because these are the kind of Psalms, Psalms 120 to 134, the Psalms of Ascent. were written as as worship guides for for the saints coming to worship the Lord, likely in one of the three feasts of Israel at that time. Passover, Pentecost. And booths or tabernacles. In other words, they're coming for the purpose of worship. And it was during that time that all of God's people from all twelve tribes were to descend upon Jerusalem and they were supposed to be displaying in the most clearest fashion possible the unity of the body of God's people in that time as a nation. And notice what verse 1 says when that happens, when God's people come together for public worship and ascend to the temple. Behold, verse 1, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. Very interesting. That word pleasant there in Hebrew has the connotation of drawing people in, but also of preserving or protecting them. It's related also to the word like Naomi in the book of Ruth. Her name means sweet. Pleasant. You could also translate her name as lovely, which is ironic when she comes back to Bethlehem. She's like, don't call me beautiful, sweet, pleasant, or lovely. Call me Mara. Call me bitter, right? Well, this is supposed to be sweet. Unity is supposed to be sweet. It's supposed to be lovely. It's supposed to be beautiful. Let me give you just two examples to make the point of drawing in and preserving. The first one is we think about drawing people in. This is the same word here that Solomon uses in Song of Solomon 116 and Song of Solomon 7, 6, when he the she's talking about the two the beauty of the two lovers and how their beauty draws each other in into intimacy with one another as a married couple. In other words, the beauty is attractive. Right? Draws you in. Second is the idea of preserving people. David uses The same verb that's related to this word pleasant, when he talks about Jonathan's love for him, preserved him or protected him Through the distress and danger of King Saul pursuing his life. What is the psalmist saying then? When he says, behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. Well, what he's essentially saying is that unity of believers, the unity of God's People is meant to attract them in, and it is meant to function as something that protects them spiritually in Christ. And so how is goodness and pleasantness of Christian unity expressed today? It's expressed first and foremost in the context of public worship on the Lord's Day. I believe the context of the Psalm of Ascents makes that very clear. The unity of public worship. That's what he has in mind. This is where the community uh where where people God's people gather, they build community, they build relationships with one another, and then that is fostered and expressed in worship, first and foremost. Why? Because it is in worship that our our minds, well first of all, we could say our bodies are all gathered here, right? But our minds are engaged from God's word, our hearts and affections and desires are engaged as we pour out our praises together. This is why Hebrews 10, 24, and 25 says, let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good works. not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. The day being the day of Christ, the day of judgment, but also the day when we are gathered together at the wedding supper and feast of the Lamb Which is what all of those feasts in the Old Testament were meant to point forward to in some way, shape, or form. When we come to worship and we center ourselves on Jesus Christ like we do this morning, And we worship him as people who have the same problem with sin. We are saved the same way by grace through faith. That is meant to bind us together. When I was in college, in community college, right before the Lord got a hold of me and then got a hold of me, I joined a campus ministry called Spartan Christian Fellowship at this local community college and you know I really didn't want to go at first. My brother kept, you know, encouraging me to come. You know, you should come and meet some of these people. And I really didn't want to do it. And I'm not gonna lie, I didn't really want to do it because I kind of saw some of these people as, you know, these people are just dorks, you know, I don't want to hang out with them. It's kinda like this too cool for school attitude, you know. It's like, I don't want to hang out with them. Well, my brother finally prevailed on me to go, and I I went, and you know what I actually found? Uh we actually did spend time worshiping together. That was how we started our time. But you know what I found? These kids were dealing with the same garbage of the same sin, the same stuff, and the same struggles that I was dealing with. And they were remaining faithful to the Lord and they were building each other up and encouraging one another, and there was a lot of blessing that came out of that. And man, I remember repenting of that attitude, just like, oh my gosh, I thought these people were like this, and they have been such a blessing to me because of the unity that we had. Worship orients us around the reality, brothers and sisters, of Jesus' kingdom rather than our own. And worship orients us to the Lordship of Christ in our hearts, our souls, our minds, and our lives. So the question is, why is the Psalm of Ascent necessary to orient us to proper unity through worship? Well, because I think there's unity in the ascension. Let me let me flesh that out really quick. You know, when when we look at the prayer of Jesus Christ, by the way, I really wrestled. Should we read Ephesians 2? Or John 17 as our New Testament scripture reading. Because John 17 is where Jesus prays explicitly for the unity of God's people. Listen to what he says in his high priestly prayer before he went and ascended to the Father. He says in John 17, particularly verses 19 to 23 , He says, and for their sake I consecrate myself, that they may also be sanctified in truth. Let me pause there. Unity among the body of Christ will sanctify you. That's what he's getting at. He continues. I do not ask for these only, in other words, these twelve, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. That's us. Why? That they may all be one. Just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they may also be in us. And that the world may believe that you have sent me. Don't miss that. The purpose of him praying for their unity is so that the world will know that the Father has sent Christ. Our unity is based or is impacts our testimony. The glory that I have The glory that you have given me, Christ says, I have given to them. Why? Again, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them and you in me Again, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Is it interesting? We're called to live the Christian life in light of the unity that we already have with Christ and the Father through the Holy Spirit. And because Christian unity is grounded in who God is as a triune God, as we confessed earlier in this service, mark this well. Unity is not an option. It's a command. It's an expectation. We see it in the ascension of Christ. We know that Christ ascended into heaven. The psalm is fulfilled ultimately when Christ ascends into heaven and enters that heavenly tabernacle on our behalf. But it's not just his ascension, it's our ascension too. Don't miss that. You and I are in the process of ascending to the heavenly Zion where Jesus is located at the Father's right hand in that heavenly tabernacle. This is what Jesus told his disciples in the upper room in John 14, verses 1 through 3. Let not your hearts be troubled Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I'd go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself, that where I am you may also be There's a lot of joy in those words, I think. Ascension. Throughout the Christian life, we're on our way to Zion in our own ascension. And when we meet each Lord's day for worship. Again, mark this well. This today is a rehearsal for that day when we ascend into the heavenly Zion to worship and celebrate in the immediate presence of God. Which is meant to bring joy. Which leads us to our final point this morning, the description of Christian unity in verses 2 and 3. He gives two kind of analogies, two descriptions here. The first one in verse 2 is Christian unity is like good oil. You're like, well, what kind of oil? Are we talking about mortar oil here? Cooking oil? No, not quite. Look at verse 2. It being unity is like the precious oil on the head running down the beard on the beard of Aaron. Running down on the collar of his robes. Now, I'm not going to go into all the details here. Throughout the Old Testament, kings and priests were all, both of them. um anointed with oil, which meant there was a flask of oil broken over their head. It was poured down on them. That was part of their ordination and their anointing as a priest. or a king. In this case, we get the idea that this is talking about the ordination of a priest, the one who leads God's people into his presence. But think about it. That oil would have produced a delightful and an enjoyable aroma. It really matches the beauty of the unity of God's people, which is meant to attract. Right? And the good oil runs down. In verse 2, that's a participle occurring twice in order to emphasize the continuous nature and effect of oil running down. What he's essentially saying here is the goodness of Christian unity is meant to continue to roll down and cascade down in its blessing. to other people. We see also in verse 3, it's not just oil. Christian unity is like the fresh morning dew. Now because most of us today don't just dump oil in our heads, that might be a little harder to understand. Maybe perfume and the smell of that might be more akin to your experience, but the fresh morning dew Is something that I think all of us understand and can appreciate. He writes in verse 3: It is like the dew of Hermon which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there the Lord has commanded the blessing, life forever more. Well, that's a pretty vivid imagery What's really important for us to understand is Mount Hermon is a prominent mountain on the northern border of Israel with Syria and Lebanon. In fact, I'm going to let the commentators Kyle and Dalich explain to you their experience of Mount Hermon. They write this in their commentary. Here I sat at the foot of Hermon. Or as I sat at the foot of Hermon, I understood how the water drops which rose from its forest mantled heights. And out of the highest ravines which are filled the whole year round with snow, after the sun's rays have attenuated them and moistened the atmosphere with them, descend at at evening time as a heavy dew upon the lower mountains which lie around uh at its spurs. One ought to have seen Herman with its white, golden crown glistening aloft in the blue sky. In order to be able to rightly understand this figure, nowhere in the whole country is so heavy dew perceptible as in the districts near Herman. You know the closest thing I can think of is sometimes I come here and during the week and um one of the men are out there cutting the lawn and mowing it and particularly in the fall when I open that um little window and it's just a small window in my office. I opened that window And you get the cool autumn air in and the smell of freshly mown grass with dew still in it. Let me tell you, there's nothing like studying for a sermon with that smell permeating your office. That's the idea here. It's meant to be reflected. Refreshing the refreshing results of this do is that he commands his blessings on Zion. By the way, in zi in the old covenant, when he talks about blessings, it's usually meant to like talk about the fruitfulness of the land, okay? Let's just be honest and straightforward about that. In Deuteronomy 28. 8, talking about the covenant blessings, the Lord will command the blessing on you in the barns and in all that you undertake. And he will bless you in the land that the Lord your God has given you. Crops, food, things to enjoy are the result of the refreshing dew on the land. By the way, it was that food that God's people would bring in their crops to the three feasts when they went to Jerusalem, and they were supposed to share that with everybody. And so when you look at these descriptions of the refreshing nature of Christian unity, why should we pursue Christian unity today? We should pursue it because it refreshes the hearts of God's people with new life. I mean, just think about it. Let's take the two imagery images. Let's just pull one thing out of each. One was fragrant. The imagery of fragrance of anointing oil is important because good fragrance can be attractive to people. And this brings us back to how pleasant it is, how attractive it is when God's people are in unity with one another. The Apostle Paul picks up on this in 2 Corinthians 2, 15-16. For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved. But there's another side to this. And among those who are perishing. To one, a fragrance from death to death. To the other, a fragrance of life to life. Isn't that interesting? When we come united to Jesus Christ, we come to the Lord with a fragrance and a savor of Christ. When you stand here or sit here this morning in public worship before the Lord, clothed in Christ, united with him, you have the savor and the fragrance of Christ. to God the Father. There's something very precious about that, isn't there? So when we live in a society where people are divided over so many issues , We have an opportunity as believers to be the fragrance of true unity based on the reality of Jesus Christ. and empowered by his Holy Spirit, with whom the oil that priests and kings were anointed with in the old covenant was meant to point forward to the Spirit that would be poured out on all of God's people. which you who are in Christ have received. And lastly, fruitful. The imagery of dew is also refreshing. Focusing on not so much on drawing people as it is blessing them. The fruitfulness of the ground meant that people brought their crops. What kind of fruitfulness do we look for in the new covenant? Well, Paul tells us in Galatians 5, 22 and 23 the fruitfulness that comes from the Holy Spirit. What does he say? But the fruit of the Spirit is what? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Let me just say, I'm sure you guys know this. When you really meet someone who truly is filled with the Holy Spirit and is bearing the fruit of the Spirit in their lives, it is evident. There is a big difference between someone who just merely says they're a Christian and someone who is truly filled with the Spirit, and you know they're a Christian. Because it's attractive, it's refreshing, and it brings blessing to those who are around. Isn't that interesting? The fruitfulness points to the Spirit. It's in the community of saints, brothers and sisters, that the fruit of the Spirit are to be expressed among us, leading to greater unity. That brings us right back to our main point, doesn't it? Unity among Christians is attractive to people, and it results in their blessing. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, none of us does this perfectly. Every one of us has faults that can threaten the unity of the body Lord Jesus, we pray that you would pour out your spirit and fill us afresh. Oh Lord, that we, as Liberty Church, and even those visiting us today that they might enjoy and experience the unity of the body of Christ and all of the refreshing and blessing that comes as a result. Strengthen us, O Lord, as we go forward. Lord, as we look to our upcoming series in 1 Corinthians, a church plagued by divisions Help us to understand on the front end of that from this psalm the importance of unity and love in the body. We ask this in