If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 10 through 17. Now I would invite you to stand, if you are physically able, for the reading of God's holy word. First Corinthians chapter three, verses ten to seventeen. According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder, I laid a foundation, and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, Each one's work will become manifest, for the day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss. Though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. Do do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. This is the word of the Lord. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you as your people gathered to hear your word. Oh Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes. Give us the mind of Christ as we saw Paul talk about in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 16, Lord, we need the mind of Christ to understand your word, and we also need the mind of Christ if we're going to have the wisdom to apply it. And so Lord, we pray that you would be working in our hearts, individually, but also corporately as a church, Lord, that you would be working here. Building your church and your kingdom as our assurance of pardon said, not by strength nor by might, but by my spirit, says the Lord. So as we come into your word, give us understanding that we may see how you work and how you continue to use us for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, when we read the Old Testament account uh earlier this morning of the construction of the temple by Solomon, or at least David's announcement of it and his instructions to Solomon, it is so clear that David and then later Solomon chose only the best materials for the construction of the temple Think about it, they chose the best stones, uh the best wood, the best timber, the best gold, the best vessels to use within the temple. the best silver and bronze for the vessels outside in the courtyard of the temple. You read the whole account, you see they use the best fabrics. that they had available at that time for the various um curtains and veils that were needed to shelter the glory of God among his people. Why did they have to use the best? is the question. Well, because when you're talking about building the temple, you're talking about building a structure that is supposed to house God's presence. And when you get to passages like 1 Kings chapter 8, when Solomon completes the temple, you see the Shekinah glory of the Lord. coming and filling the temple so much so that the priests who were ordained to minister in that temple could not stand to be in the temple because of the glory and the presence of the Lord. And all of God's people worshipped in his presence at that time. The same principle applies today. in the New Testament church. You'll see the sermon idea printed in your bulletin on page 5 that we're going to unpack, which is the main idea of this passage this morning. We are called to build our church on the foundation of Christ through gospel-centered doctrine, knowing that the day of judgment will test the quality That is the best I can do to crystallize the teaching of this passage into one statement. We are called to build our church on the foundation of Christ through gospel-centered doctrine, knowing that the day of judgment will test the quality of each of our work. Let's begin to unpack this briefly this morning as we look at our first point, namely in verse 10 and 10 alone, building on the foundation of the Take a look at verse 10 again as it says clearly, according to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder, I laid a foundation and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. Let's just stop there. We've mentioned many times that we can find the historical context. of Paul planting this church in Corinth within the book of Acts in chapter 18, verses 1 to 17. And again, if you read through that again, you'll know that Paul planted this church despite the fact that he had a whole lot of fear that was dwelling within him. In fact, and I've said this before, he had so much fear, it took the Lord Jesus Christ coming to him in a vision of the night to encourage him, Paul, I have many people in this city. Do not close your mouth. Do not stop speaking, but go on preaching. He was told not to be silent. And he did not continue silent. He went on a year and a half. Preaching, teaching, and ministering in Corinth as he planted that church in that city. I think if anyone knows what goes into church planting, it would be the Apostle Paul. And if it's anyone who's going to say to us what's in this passage, it would be the Apostle Paul. Notice that he speaks of himself as a skilled master builder. You can really translate that as to say, he is a wise architect, because that phrase master builder in the original Greek is the Greek word architectone, which is where we get our English word architect from. And anyone know anyone who knows an architect or knows what goes into architecture knows you've got to draw up a blueprint. You can't just walk onto a site and say, okay, pick up that piece of wood and start doing this and and do it willy-nilly. You have to have a plan. And that plan oftentimes starts with a foundation. And so what Paul is telling you is he's calling himself a wise architect by using this analogy that kind of alerts us to How he's going to describe the church. The church is a building. And he sets us up for this back in verse 9. Now I know I've been gone for two weeks, but you remember three weeks ago I ended the last passage in verse which says, we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field. He was talking about the church in terms of agriculture in his analogy. And then he switched it mid-verse. Those last words in verse 10, you are God 's building, God's edifice, God's structure. And so he already alerted us that he's going to do this, but he's the one here, he tells us, who lays the foundation. Again, think about the context here. We've been seeing the one of the main problems in the Church of Corinth that Paul has been dealing with all the way back to chapter one is the problem of divisions in the church. You remember what he said? He said it twice. Once in chapter 1, and then he said it in the beginning of chapter 3 in our last passage. You know, some of you say, Well, I follow Paul. Oh, I follow Apollos. Oh, you guys are all lost. I follow Cephas. And others, I follow Christ. Paul's been dealing with divisions in the church. Think about what this analogy of a building and Paul being the master builder, think about how that relates to that context of division. Paul, if he's the architect that the Lord has called to lay the foundation, that means that Paul is the one that God revealed the plan of how to plant and build these churches. And again, we saw last week, you know, I planted, Apollos watered, but God is the one who gives the growth. All of these things, you Corinthians, are dividing over? Dividing over us? We're all working in the same project. We're building the same edifice in the same building. I just happen to be the one as the one who planted the seed, who laid the foundation. Another analogy, the same truth. But notice the humility of Paul as a master builder. It's not just that he walked in and said, I know how to do this, guys. Everybody look at me and do exactly as I say. No. I once had a professor in seminary. Um I remember the first day he went over the syllabus and somebody raised their hand and said, What are we going to be responsible for on the final exam or even on the midterm? And I remember Those words were chilling to me. He said, Every word that comes out of my mouth you are responsible for on the final exam. I rem I I really didn't look up for my computer in that class because I wanted to get every word down. And my notes ended up being like 390-something pages of single page spaced notes. No, Paul doesn't seem to have that mentality here. Notice what he says in verse 10. According to the grace of God that is given to me. Yeah, he calls himself a skilled master builder or a wise architect, but he attributes it ultimately according to the standard of God's grace that is given to him. He gives the Lord all the credit. And again, that that that really strikes at the heart of the divisions among the Corinthians. When they say, I follow Paul, I follow Apollos, I follow Cephas. They're giving way too much credit to those that were teaching among them Paul is trying to set the stage so that even he as an apostle can't sit there and grandstand and pedal himself, pedestal himself. That is a dangerous way to build a church. And Paul understands, look, even as an apostle, my job was just to lay the foundation. Because when you lay a foundation, it implies that something else is going to come on top of it. Something other than just the identity of those apostles and their personal importance. The church will go on. And that leads us to the exhortation that we see in verse 10 as well. He says, Therefore, let each one take care how he builds. Notice what that presupposes or what that assumes. It assumes that there are going to be others that are going to come behind him and come behind Apollos even, and that are going to build on the foundation that they have laid. The warning here is for pastors and elders and anyone really who serves in the church to pay attention to what God has called them to do. Now here 's something interesting I want you to think about. The fact that Paul had to give this warning in the apostolic times when he was still alive. about be careful how you build, that should really cause us to stop and pay attention. Because if that was true in Paul's time when the apostles were living and could just show up at any city and just tell you, no, no, no, no, you're doing it all wrong. You're teaching all wrong. If it was a problem in their time, how much more in ours? This is a warning that we need. Be careful, each one, how he builds. On the surface, it would appear that Paul is speaking only to the elders and the pastors. And I do think that probably first and foremost he's probably got them in mind. But there's I think when he says, let each one take care, it shows that this actually applies to the whole church in which Paul is writing. He'll get to that later in chapter twelve when he's talking about spiritual gifts and how everyone has been given something by the Holy Spirit with which to contribute to the larger body of Christ and the building up Of the name and the fame of Christ among the nations in his church. Peter uses a little bit of a different analogy when he talks about the priesthood of all believers. In 1 Peter chapter 2. He uses that same temple theme, doesn't it? In 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 4 and 5, but you yourselves are like living stones. being built up into a spiritual house to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. He goes on in that chapter and verses nine and verse nine particularly to say, but you are a chosen race of royal priesthood. There's a priesthood of all believers here that as Protestants we have really seen and understood because of the scriptures. Everyone has value in the kingdom, in the church, not just pastors, not just elders, but but we all need to be careful how we are building, and that's what he's getting at here. But when he gives this exhortation, it also speaks of how others are going to build and fit whatever they're building on that foundation that he has laid. Don't miss that. When he uses the how question, he's pointing to the manner in which someone builds on that foundation. He'll get to the materials in just a minute, but there is a precise and correct way to build in the kingdom of God, in the church, and then there's a wrong way. to do it. And he's saying, be careful how you build. So the question we ask ourselves by way of application is how does the context and exhortation inform how we understand our work? Both as pastors or elders, but also as a congregation. So this is me and you. Well, we're to begin to take care of how we build the church by first understanding that our calling as Christians for the gospel Depends on the grace that is given to us, which requires humility first and foremost. Humility first and foremost. We're called to grace and humility. One of the sad realities that we continue to see and hear about in the American church at large is pastors who fall into some kind of scandal. That scandal could be all kinds of scandals. It could be sexual in nature. It could be financial mismanagement. It could be bully leadership. It could be one pastor years ago that was very prominent got busted because he wrote a book and then um paid, I don't know who he paid, but he paid a whole lot of money to have the book sales manipulated so that he ended up on the New York Times bestseller list. Um all kinds of scandals that men have fallen into Then many of these men are people that we have looked to um at one time or another in the last several decades to say that guy Is the example of what a pastor should be in his church is the example of what all churches should look like. But the problem Seems to be the same thing that Paul is worried about in this passage when he talks about being careful. Like I laid the foundation, be careful how you come behind me and build. And it's the problem of putting one man on a pedestal or a grandstand or branding their ministries, building ministry around themselves, their reputation. their name, their gifting, and so on and so forth. Look, brothers and sisters, I don't care how gifted a pastor is, the Church of Jesus Christ is far bigger than any one pastor. And the Church of Jesus Christ is going to continue to thrive beyond the lifetime or skill of any one pastor. And we can praise God for that, can't we? Yes, thank you. Amen. Somebody gave me an amen. This is why I can go on vacation for two weeks and liberty 's not going to crumble. I can come back and Pastor Jared tells me, guess what? We have no fires. Praise God. Because this doesn't depend on me. It doesn't depend on any one pastor. And Paul is saying here, by the grace given to me, I am a skilled master builder. He's even looking beyond himself to the grace of God as the foundational thing that holds the church together. And what that should do in each of one of our hearts, even as we seek to pour ourselves out for the good of others in this congregation and the building up of this church, it should create a humility within us. That we can't do this alone. We have each other. And because we can't do it alone, look, we need to bow the knee to Christ. He is the Lord of the church. But we're also called, as we saw in this passage, to give careful thought about how we build on that foundation. I found in my brief experience of 20 plus years, and there are a lot of pastors out there who have been doing it a lot longer than me. But one of the things I've seen and observed is that there's oftentimes two types of people that are engaged in any kind of ministry, whether it's like actually as a pastor or even just as a congregant. And I'm going to grossly simplify this for the sake of our time this morning, but two kinds of people. The one is those who function almost solely on principle. to the neglect of how that principle is going to apply to the people that they are either serving or trying to reach in the community. And so what this looks like in our circles is if only I have the right theology, that's all that matters. Who cares? About anything else. We got the truth. And what does Scripture say? The church is the pillar and the ground of truth. And so we're going to stand on that. But they don't really give thought as to how to communicate that truth in a winsome effective way, either to those they're ministering to in their congregation who deal with the ups and downs of real life. Or those on the outside of our church walls who are lost and need Jesus. They don't give thought to that. It's just as long as we're faithful to the doctrine, that's it. Who cares? That's heartless. The other type of person are those who function with the aim of the mission in mind so much so that they tend to neglect any form of principled stance or spiritual discernment. You've probably seen people like that as well. They are so infatuated and so taken up with the mission of reaching the lost, and that's good. Just like it's good to want to have solid theology. They want to get the mission completed. But sometimes In the quest of trying to achieve that. It is so easy to cut corners, make decisions that have uh a little less than integrity that the Bible would call us to. They compromise their principles. All for the sake of accomplishing the task, right? And both of those are really, when you stop and think about it, two ways of building And those are both two ways of building that we want to avoid at liberty, right? We want to have good theology and be principled, absolutely. But we also want to think through how does how do those principles and how does the gospel in its purest form, biblically speaking, how does that apply? to people who are going through problems in their marriage. Problems with with with and challenges with parenting. Um issues when you've got to work with people in context where you're around a bunch of unbelievers and How do you maintain your integrity when you're being asked to violate it? Because of company policy. Those are real things, and real people go through those. All that to say, as we look at building the church and being used by God for the sake of Christ, We're called the humility, but we're also called the careful thought on how we build on this gospel foundation. That leads us to our second point in verses 11 through 13, building through sound doctrine. Lest you think I was denigrating sound doctrine. He gets to that in verses eleven through thirteen. Let's take a look at verse eleven. We see building on a foundation that is once laid. Verse 11, for one No one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Again, he he goes on to explain what people who are in architecture and construction understand implicitly and instinctively, no one can lay a foundation more than once. And the point that he's already stated in chapter 2, verse 2, when he said, For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. and him crucified, he's already giving you beforehand what the nature of this foundation was. The cross, the resurrection. Again, he says in chapter 1 verse 30. And because of him , namely God the Father, you are in Christ Jesus who became to us the wisdom of God, righteousness. Sanctification and redemption. I mean, this is what the foundation in Jesus Christ is all about. Let me be clear, and this may come across the wrong way, so I'm apologizing ahead of time. But the gospel is not that God loves you. The gospel is not that Jesus Christ came to bring love. Now, is the love of God a part of the gospel? Yeah, but that's not the whole thing. Paul is laying the foundation here of who Christ is, what he's done on the cross, and the benefits of the covenant of grace, wisdom from God. Righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. This is the focus of his ministry. And this needs to be the focus of the ministry of the church through the ages. In other words, the foundation of Christ that he's talking about centers on everything in chapter 2, verse 2 that mentions it, and chapter 1, verse 30 that mentions all these benefits. That flow from the cross. This is the foundation of the gospel message upon which we are called to build. If you are building on any other message than that, you are not One, preaching the gospel, and two, you are not really building the church. You might be making an effective social club. And I I feel really sad to say that there are churches who are, you know, s more social clubs than anything. I remember Alistair Begg telling a story when he was young and in in his theological training he went to this church in Scotland and It it was the minister had really built this church up over like forty years of ministry there, but when he when that minister got there, the church was really small. And You know, when this guy who went in that that whatever group sent him in there to pastor this little church basically just had the intention, well just send him there. He's young. He'll kinda, you know, uh sharpen his chops in that church and then when it dies we'll send him somewhere a little more important. And this guy went in there and he took a look around and he's like, Well what have they got going on? Well they the the the men over there have like the card club game card game you know, club going on on Wednesday nights. The women have the knitting club. And he went in and just said, we're mixing all of that. None of that has anything to do with the gospel. That's a social club. This is the Church of Jesus Christ. He nicked all it. Did he make people mad? Yes, he did. You better believe he did. But that church grew because he started building on the foundation that Paul's talking about here. It's the foundation we're called to build. Now he gets to verse 12 the importance of the building materials. Now again He's likening gospel realities to think tangible things that people would understand. And he's continuing with the theme of building. We see in verse 12 the importance of the building materials. Look look what he says. Now, if anyone build from the foundation with gold or silver or precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become manifest on the day, and the for the day will disclose it. because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. Now if you're a careful reader, you'll notice there were six elements that he mentioned, and you can divide them into two categories. Right? The first category, he's talking about building with incombustible materials. What do I mean by incombustible? It means they can't burn up, right? Look what he says. Gold, silver, precious stones, those are incombustible. And when the Old Testament tabernacle was constructed, and then later the temple, these were the materials that were used. To house the glory of God among his people. And so when he mentions fire, testing the quality of each one's work, you have to see. That gold and silver and precious stones, if you know anything about those things, they're forged underground under tremendous heat and under tremendous pressure. And so when they come to the surface and their mind out of the ground, particularly the gold and the silver, and you put it through the fire or you put it through intense heat, what tends to happen? The impurities and the dross falls off the metal. And because of that heat and that pressure, the end result that comes out Is something that is pure and something that is valuable and something that is precious to the Maker You can make all kinds of things out of it. You can make a gold ring, a wedding ring, a necklace, earrings, a crown. A scepter. But it becomes pure and valuable and precious to the maker. That's what he's talking about here. It's not just that it is beautiful to look at, and gold and silver and precious stones are certainly beautiful to look at. But they're durable. And they're lasting. And again, pointing back to chapter 1, verse 30, Where Paul mentions the wisdom of God, the righteousness of Christ, the sanctification and redemption that comes because of the cross of Jesus Christ, those things have eternal value. It's wisdom from above, not this world. It's a declaration of righteousness by faith in Christ from the eternal God Himself who sits on the throne to judge the living and the dead. It's sanctification and where all the trials that we go through in this life and the difficulties Are the pressures that God is forging in us so that we might stand before Him in glory. You remember what Paul said in Romans chapter 8? I think it was verse 18, but somebody could fact-check me on that. But he says, you know, for I consider the present troubles, the present distress, the present tribulation is as nothing compared to the glory that is going to be revealed. Notice that all these things are things that flow from Christ, the foundation. And all these things have an eternal value to them, and they last. But look at the other group of materials here. The other group if the first group is combustible things, the the second group is or incombustible things, the second is combustible materials. There are some that build with those. Wood, hay, stubble. By the way, wood is not bad in and of itself. They used timber and wood in the temple, right? But what did they do with it? They overlaid it with gold. Hay and stubble will certainly burn very quickly. They're all subject to being destroyed by wind and fire. They don't last. Contrary to the wisdom of God, and I'm going back to chapter 1, verse 30, contrary to that is what? The wisdom of the world. Contrary to the righteousness of Christ is a self-righteousness of our own and trying to make it by our own good works. The sanctification, the contrary to that, is again very similar, trying to live a good life under our own strength, and no one can really redeem themselves. They don't have eternal value. Wood and hay and stubble. It's likely here that the Corinthians are being unduly influenced by the wisdom of the world and the philosophy and worldview of pagan Greek thought and perhaps trying to syncretize that and blend it with the purity of the gospel. We don't need to get into all the ways they may have been doing that, but the question becomes, um, how does this influence Of what we choose to utilize in the building up of the local church at liberty, how does that affect the way we think today about church life? We're called to build the church upon the gospel of Christ of the cross of Jesus Christ and the sound doctrine that flows from it. Again, there's a warning here from substituting the gospel with the latest trend. You talk about building with wood and hay and stubble and what that looks like today? Let me just give you a quick run through. There's no there's no secret that fads come and go in Christian circles. We've had the modern seeker-sensitive model of church growth, which is based on the preferences of what unregenerate people want the church to be. You know how that got that m movement got started? It actually got started about half hour from where I'm from. Uh a local pastor um who's now I don't know if he actually retired or if he just got defrocked. Uh there was a scandal at the end of his ministry, but what he did when he was getting started was he sent out like a questionnaire, a survey to like 10,000 people in the community and said, what do you want in a church? And they these people answered the questionnaire, told them what what they wanted in a church, and and they made a church based on that. We don't want a church that makes us feel guilty for sin. We don't want this church to even mention sin. We don't want a church that you we want a church that feels like at home for us. And they developed the church around the tastes and whims of the people. Twenty years later, when I was in college, we had the emergent church movement that swept through many quarters of the evangelical world. which made culture the arbiter of how we should do church in order to stay relevant. Have you heard that term before? Now don't get me wrong, I'm not I'm not advocating that we shouldn't be irrelevant, but I'm saying if if you just make relevancy Um really the aim that you're you're shooting at, and that's all you're gonna do is what is immediately relevant, what you're doing, is you're telling the culture that it has authority over the scriptures to determine what the church should be. And then when you get to pat what do you do when you get to passages in scripture which don't seem relevant? Well, it's not important then. And you see how that chips away at the authority of God's word. Sadly, many of the thought leaders of that movement have walked away from Christianity or any claim to being a Christian. Now we have the influence of critical theory, people using it as an analytical tool, whether it's critical theory on race, gender, sexuality, so on and so forth. Could be economics, I suppose. Making inroads into many quarters of the church at large. And again, in the attempt to be relevant, we want to make all kinds of um accommodations for people. in how we do church. And again, the fundamental problem in all that is allowing philosophical trends to determine how We do church and what the church is for the sake of expediency. And I want you to mark this well. That is only pragmatic grounds. You do that, you're going to build your church on a foundation of wood, hay, and stubble. And it may not even take the day of the Lord to burn it up. It saddens my heart when I either visit or see churches and I look at them and I'm like That church is going to be outdated in five years. They're going to have to reinvent themselves and figure it all out again in five years because of how quickly time are changing. We've got something more enduring. The gospel is what has the power to save and to build in people's lives individually and corporately. And so the exhortation this morning from God's word for us is that we are going to build this church, Liberty Church, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, because that is what we're called to do. There are a few great realities that apply to everyone, everywhere, at all times. I don't care where you're at on the globe. We are all great sinners. Christ is a great savior. That applies to anyone everywhere. Now the particulars might look a little different. That's fine. But the message is the same And I want you to hear from me, as I've just come back from vacation, from the pulpit, that as long as I'm here in this pulpit and have the privilege of it. and being the having the privilege of being your pastor, I'm going to labor to make everything we do from this pulpit preach and proclaim the gospel. Because what Paul says is absolutely right in Romans chapter 1. I am not ashamed of the gospel. Why? For it is the power of God unto salvation. To the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Why? For the righteous, for the uh God's people are saved by grace through faith. For the righteous will live by faith. That leads us to our third point here in verses 14 to 15. And actually I'm going to extend that to 17, but 14 to 17, building in light of testing through judgment. We see in verse 14 that this testing leads to a reward. In fact, verses 14 and 15. form two contrasts here. Look look at fourteen first. It begins with the positive side of the contrast. If the works that anyone has built and the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. In other words, the workman, the person doing the ministry. The person serving. And notice the way that Paul is saying that, he is assuming the way he writes that, that the person is going to be faithful and that what they build will survive the fire of God's judgment. And he's saying, if that's true, then there's a reward. You know, another example of that same principle is the Lord Jesus in in the parable of the talents, or in as Luke has it, the parable of the ten minors. Remember the story, like the master goes away and he gives one servant like five talents, another two and another one. The guy who had one went and buried it, and then the guy who had two and five went out and they traded and they doubled the investment, and the master came back and he was happy with them, and then with the guy who had one, he punished them. His work obviously didn't prosper. It didn't last the scrutiny. That's the idea here. And Paul is making the point here very strongly to the Corinthians that as they do their work, as they seek to serve the Lord and walk and live faithfully to him, they should keep the reward of having their work survive. constantly in mind. Let me just say, as a church, when we think about serving the Lord, when we think about building something here, are we thinking about building something that is going to last? Or are we just out for the short-term gain? Verse 15 looks at the testing that leads to the loss of everything. That's the downside to this. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. I don't know that I really need to comment on that. I think that that's pretty straightforward enough what he's saying there. But we see in verses 16 to 17 that that testing gives way to judgment. And sometimes that judgment is good, but Paul gives another warning here. Look at verses 16 to 17. Do you know there's something comforting in this warning? Do you know that you are God's temple? Or do you not know that you are God's temple? And that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. Now the Bible uses this temple language to describe a few things in the New Testament in John chapter 2 um when Jesus is warning, you know, destroy this temple and I will build it up in three days. And they didn't realize he was talking about that Later in chapter six, when he's talking about a warning about sexual immorality among the Corinthians, which was another huge problem they had. in their church. He uses this analogy of you are your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Therefore don't defile it with sexual morality. That's true on an individual level. The Each of us is a temple. But here, he's not talking individually, he's talking corporately. How do I know that? Because in the original Greek, and I'm sure the King James English probably is very similar, the words you are in a plural form. You plural, corporately, are the singular temple of God. That's what he's getting at here. So when one does something that is destructive to the church by means of how they serve or sabotage that service to the body, the Lord is promising judgment. Which should really cause us to step back and say, okay, how am I serving today? And so how does this impact our motives in serving the Lord? Well, let's press on, knowing that the value of how we minister today will be weighed on the day of judgment. It is possible to serve poorly. I think there's going to be people who show up on the day of judgment and say, but Lord, I did this and I did that for you. And the Lord's going to say, I didn't ask you to do that That doesn't mean anything to me. That's going to be a really sad day for some. And there's others who are going to build and labor mostly quietly. Mostly unnoticed and faithfully, who are going to receive the Lord's praise on that great day Paul's exhortation of watching how we build on the foundation of Christ and sound doctrine should lead us to weigh the value of how we're building in light of God's word. What we do is going to be one day tested. And the question we have to each ask ourselves this morning is How we're building, what are the intentions behind it? Because the Lord weighs not just the actions, but the motives. That leads to this right back to the main idea, doesn't it? We are called to build, I'm going to say Liberty Church together. We are called to build Liberty Church on the foundation of Christ through the gospel-centered doctrine of Scripture, knowing that the day of judgment is going to test the quality of our work. Let's labor on, brothers and sisters, knowing that when we do this with the right heart, when we do it according to God's word, it has tremendous and eternal value. to the Savior who's gifted us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we have two things put before us in this passage. Building With wood, hay, and stubble, and building with valuable things like gold and silver and precious stones. Lord, I pray that you'd be working in each of our hearts this morning, consecrating us for service to you. Paul talks about in 2 Corinthians that in a rich man's house there are two vessels. There are vessels used for honorable uses and vessels used for dishonorable uses. Lord, I pray for each of us today, and I pray for our church that you would sanctify and set apart and consecrate each of us to be vessels for a holy use. for the building up of this church with the finest of things that we can bring. Gold and silver and precious stones. Lord, we pray that you would multiply our investment here of our spiritual gifts, our time, our energy. energy, uh even our bodies and our lives, that it would glorify you, and that one day when we stand in your presence, Lord, we will be able to look back. and see the beauty of all that you are building here at Liberty through us today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.