If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 5 this morning as we stand together for the reading of God's holy word. First Corinthians chapter four, one through five. This is how one should regard us. As servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found faithful. But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. For I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me. Therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his condemnation, a commendation from the Lord. Could be condemnation, but it says commendation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. You gotta be careful with words. They are important. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. Um Lord, we come with the memory of what we read earlier from Ezekiel chapter 34. And now i in a negative sense. Um now we see this passage in a little more of a positive light, but Lord, in both of these we see how important the leadership is in the local church and how important it is to have healthy leadership in a local church. Lord, we pray That you would help us to have sober eyes, sober minds , sober judgment this morning as we come before you in your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, when we look around us today in the day and age that we're living in, I don't know if you've noticed this in the last couple of years, but It seems to me that the context we're living in is a context of growing contrasts. Growing and ever-increasing contrasts. We see these contrasts widening, not getting closer together in, say, the sphere of politics. in our country. Maybe dealing with lifestyle choices that people make , how we see education. The list can go on and on. We see a series of contrasts, and the gulf between those seems to be ever widening. We also see a world of contrast, if you look very carefully or listen carefully enough, to how people tend to view ministers or pastors or any kind of leader in the local church context. Even among Christians, there is a contrast in how leadership is seen. And there are always dangers in the extremes if we're not careful. Now, I'll get to some of the details of these contrasts as we work through this passage, but people see leadership very differently, and for very different reasons. Some of those reasons are understandable. Some of those reasons maybe not so excusable. But the main idea of our passage this morning is simply this. Christians today should regard their pastors as servants and stewards who are under the judgment of the Lord. who will one day judge their motives even as they serve the church. Let me repeat that. Christians today should regard their pastors as servants and stewards who are under the judgment of the Lord, who will one day judge their motives, even as they serve the church. Boy, that is a sober idea, and you can imagine it was not comfortable for me to put this together this week, but it is in God's word, and it needs to be said from the pulpit. It's important As we unpack this idea this morning, there's going to be further application questions that arise out of the passage. that I hope to make clear and that we will seek to answer together. So I want to unpack our first point this morning, which is this the pastor as servant and steward. Let me just say, I I I titled it pastor there, right? Um I think the same does apply to, say, ruling elders. Uh we'll broaden that out as we work our way through. But Let's look at verse one as we begin looking at the question of how to regard pastors. Verse 1 begins by saying this. This is how one should regard us As servants of Christ and as stewards of the mystery, uh the mysteries, plural, of God. So you can see very clearly there where the question comes up out of the passage. How should we regard our pastors or our elders or those who labor among us? He he answers it very clearly. Now, keep in mind the context that we're talking about here, we have been looking at in 1 Corinthians as a context of deep divisions in this body. In fact, division is not the only issue this church has. As we will work our way through this letter, there are many profound issues pastorally that Paul's working through. But this one, he continues to, I think, round off this discussion of division. How should you regard us as servants of Christ and as stewards of the mysteries of God? I think it's important to notice when he says, regarding us, you know, how should one regard us? That's a plural. He's not only talking about himself. He's talking about himself, but he's also mentioning, he's mentioned before Cephas or the Apostle Peter, who seems to have had some kind of influence in the Corinthian church. somewhere along the line. He mentions Apollos in uh many times in this passage, and he even mentions Sosthenes. If you remember, way back in the beginning of this letter, in the first couple verses, he's addressing this letter to the Corinthians from himself and Sosthenes, our brother. Sosthenes being The former leader of the synagogue in the city converted under Paul's preaching and teaching, and now apparently has an influence in that church. These are the us. How should you regard all of us who are ministering among you? Now the reason that he's Bringing up this question is because the Corinthians are clearly questioning his authority as an apostle, uh, his influence and his role in ministry there. And they're doing so because if you imag if you remember, some of them are saying, well, I follow Cephas, or I follow Apollos. I don't follow you, Paul. Right. And and some of them are saying, well, I I don't really regard uh Cephas or Apollos, I follow Paul or The list can go on and on. You get the point. You can see that issue there. He's asking, how should you regard us as a whole? All of us who serve among you. In other words, he said before, we minister together. Some plant, Paul said, I planted, Apollos watered, some plant, others water, but we're doing this together. And overall, how should you regard all of us who labor together among you? By this question of how should you regard, he's really getting at the the heart and the attitude that they have towards the leadership in their local church. You know, it's really interesting. I didn't put this in my notes, and I I always try to be careful when I go beyond my notes here, but If you look at some of the early church literature, particularly the Apostolic Fathers, there's a letter by Fer called First Clement. In other words, Clements being uh a leader in the Church of Rome, writing a sixty-something chapter letter to the church in Corinth, and one of the problems that he's addressing later in that letter, and this is not scripture, but it gives us insight into the character of this church, is that All of the younger men who came up in leadership essentially rebelled against the older men in leadership and deposed them in an illegal manner. Think about that, what that says about the attitude towards leadership that you see later on in the history of this church. And Paul is seeing the same seeds and roots of that problem here. And so he's getting at the heart attitude that they have towards leadership among them in general. And he he answers the question that he poses, how should you regard us? He answers it here in verse 1. And we need to look at the meaning of servants and stewards because he does go on to say, you should regard us as servants of Christ and as stewards of the mysteries. Those those are two phrases that we want to unpack this morning because I think that that's going to get not just at the attitude of how Paul sees leadership, but how he wants the church to understand leadership among them. The first one he says, the meaning, we need to look at the meaning of a servant in its context. Now the first thing he says, you're to regard us as servants of Christ. That word of Christ in the original Greek implies that Christ is the one in a sense who owns them, who possesses them. They are his possession. But that word servant is not the word that you would normally expect Paul to use Oftentimes when Paul writes his letters, he begins by saying, you know, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ or a servant of Jesus Christ, and he uses a certain word in Greek. The word is doulos, like it can mean servant or slave. That's the word you would expect him to use. That's not the word he uses here. He uses a different word, and the uh Princeton theologian Charles Hodge Comments on the use of this particular word. Let me just read that quote. It's it's very um illustrative here He writes literally the word, and he puts the Greek word there, means an under-rower. So think of like a sailor, right? Or a common sailor, someone who is on a boat. When you think of an under rower, some of you have seen the movie Ben Hur when they were like you know under the galleys and they're rowing. Um that's kind of the idea here. He goes on to say, and then sub a subordinate servant of any Now, by the way, as I wrote this in my notes here, I underlined the word common and I underlined the word subordinate. servant of any kind. He goes on to say it is generally and properly used of menials or of those of the lower class of servants. Think about that. This is not always the case, he says, but here the idea is of entire subjection. That's the idea that is to be retained. Ministers are the mere servants of Christ. I underlined mere as well. They have no authority of their own. Their whole business is to do what they are commanded. What a way to illustrate what Jesus says when he's talking to his disciples as they're arguing about who's the greatest in the kingdom. And he's like, do you want to become the greatest? You must become the least, right? You must become the most menial servant. And that's what Paul is saying here. um about himself, uh Peter, Apollos, or anyone who ministers in the local church and leadership, he's saying, look, you're a servant, like a menial servant Who is under the possession of Christ as his his possession or his property? That's the attitude that Paul had of himself. That's the attitude that I think he embodied. I mean, if you really think about it, he was willing to suffer and deal with a lot of issues within the Corinthian church He didn't seek his own fame among them. Rather, he understands that he is the possession of Christ. He is subject to doing what Christ wanted done in the churches. So as he's saying, Corinthians, as you wrestle with how to regard us, well, this is the starting point. You're to regard us as servants of Jesus Christ. Now, notice the second one he is. We want to look at the meaning of a steward in its historical context. The second phrase he says is, and as a steward of the mysteries of God. Now that word steward has a household flavor to it. It's used of servants who serve in the household of their master. But a steward is not just a menial servant, actually. This is a word where the person who has that title does carry some measure of authority with it. It's like a manager over the other stewards or members of the household. Right? And this particular type of servant, this steward, in its historical context, when that title had the role of someone managing the household, But someone particularly preparing and dispensing of the master's provision among the other servants. That's the idea. This is a more specific term than the one he used above. It's one who has the authority, but also the responsibility and then the accountability to the master. For taking what belonged to the master, particularly like food, right, and having it prepared to make sure he was ready to feed the household. So, in this case, Paul and his associates are these stewards. What is the provision that they're dispensing out to the Corinthians? as the household of faith. Well notice what he writes there, the mysteries of God. They're stewards of the mysteries of God Some have proposed that that phrase mysteries of God is a reference to the sacraments. I actually don't think that in context that idea is supported by this passage. I think the context rather supports the idea that the mysteries of God were dispensed in the regular preaching and teaching of God 's Word. Now we see that in the context. Remember Paul said earlier in the letter, you know, I I judged or determined to know nothing among you except for what? One thing. Jesus Christ and him crucified. It was his job to dispense the gospel through his teaching and his preaching. And I think that that's really important because he spends all of chapter two talking about how the natural man really doesn't understand the gospel or the or the word of God because those things are spiritually discerned. They they need the inner work of the Spirit to enlighten their eyes and open their ears and open their minds and their hearts and all that. And yet the Spirit uses the means of Paul and his associates as ministers to dispense this provision of God's word to the Corinthians. And so I want you to see these humble pictures describe how the Corinthians are to regard Paul and his associates. And he's encouraging them to regard them based on whether or not they have been faithful to steward God's word in feeding them as a local church. And so as we seek to apply this, what does it mean for a pastor to be a servant and a steward of Christ? Well, I think for a pastor to be a steward and a servant, it requires that he be humble before the Lord. Not exalting himself, right? And dispense faithfully the provision of God's word to the flock. Now, I just kind of broke this down here. The humility of a pastor as a servant before the Lord, I do think the imagery of Charles Hodge as he talks about like a a servant uh being like a an under rower or having these menial tasks. I think that that's really instructive for us today. Now, to be sure, pastors and ministers of the gospel should be humble. But remember, the initial question is asking how we are to regard our pastors, not how pastors are to regard themselves. And so when I speak about their humility, I'm speaking to your estimation of your pastors. And I'm going to broaden this out to your ruling elders as well. Right? Who have that responsibility over you. You are so there's there's two two kind of extremes. I mentioned extremes from the beginning. There's two two ways to do this that I think are unhealthy. One of them really can tickle the flesh of a church leader, but it's it's very dangerous. On the one hand, you could uh really lift up your pastor and put him on a pedestal that is really unhealthy. As a pedestal that he has no place being on, only Jesus Christ has the right to be on that pedestal. Right? That you can idolize any kind of church leader. Our celebrity pastor culture, that seems to be a problem in the modern church age, would really fit into this category. Now, please don't hear me say you can't have people like pastors that you admire. I'm not saying you can't admire certain pastors or teachers for their faithfulness. There are men that I admire. Some of them are passed away now but have been within my living memory and that I would have looked up to. But at the end of the day, um these are not men who are um above being able to disagree with them or criticize or critique a decision that they've made that you may think is not wise Some of our charismatic brothers and sisters in their particular church circles might fall into this category where You know, to question the pastor is to question the Lord's anointed. And if you question the Lord's anointed, you are in sin and must repent and you might be ostracized, right? That's not healthy either. So that's that's the one extreme. Like putting a pastor on a pedestal, we're not called to do that. And this passage warns us from doing that. Now, the other side of the extreme is to be hyper critical and cynical. I would maybe not even say critical, I would say cynical. In scrutinizing every single thing certain pastors do and look I I certainly understand why some people do that. Some people get burned in churches and and just have a bitter taste in their mouth. Um there are people out there that suffer abuse at the hands of bad leaders and pastors. Um there are others who maybe they didn't have a personal encounter, but they see all this stuff on the internet that seems to be going around This pastor fell this way. This pastor, you know, botched his ministry that way. And it's so easy to just get cynical and think all pastors are like that. All elders are like that. And that's not healthy either. Neither extreme is how God's word calls us to uh see and assess pastors and elders in their leadership role. How are we to assess them? As servants of Jesus Christ, as stewards. With the mysteries of God. And that's about it. That's about it There are any look, I'll be the first to say from the pulpit, there are many things that pastors are called to do beyond just teaching and preaching. No pastor has all the answers. I certainly don't. No pastor has the corner market on wisdom. I know I don't. There are many things that you could criticize, I suppose, about a pastor, but this this passage kind of centers us to saying, okay, how do you assess a man's ministry? Well, you assess it based on the faithfulness of the w of of his faithfulness to the word. That's really what the Lord is going to do. And and That leads us to just understanding that there is a responsibility of pastors and stewards to feed the flock on God's word. I think that that was really one of the major problems in the Old Testament when we read that Ezekiel chapter 34 passage. about the false shepherds. That that was mainly about the kings, but the kings were meant to um really found their kingdoms on God 's word. and to dispense justice and righteousness like David did most of his reign, um, and Solomon did, at least in the beginning of his reign, and when they began to sin. They began to silence the prophets who were proclaiming God's word and bringing God's law to bear. Um and and by doing that they really led the people into sin. And then by leading them into sin, it led them into judgment. And what did they do? Why were they doing this? Only to platform themselves. They were hindering God's word. But the responsibility today of pastors like me, for instance, it is my responsibility, but it is my privilege as well to dispense God's word to you. week in and week out from the pulpit. And it re it re carries a heavy responsibility because of how important it is to God. And so as you think about how you regard myself or Pastor Jared or any of the any of the ruling elders who may teach a Bible study or a Sunday school in their home or here. Your assessment of them and us and me is really, are we being faithful to the word? Which I've said this before from the pulpit. I'm going to say it again, and this probably won't be the last time I say it. This is why I encourage you guys to bring your Bibles together church because as I'm preaching the word I may be saying something and if you think I'm really off on something well then guess what Maybe you need to have a conversation with me. There is a responsibility in this. Right And that leads to our second point here in verses 2 through 4. The pastor is one under Christ's, you could say, judgment or purview. Look at verse 2. The pastor must be found faithful. He continues making his point of how you do assess them and now why. Moreover, it is required the servants of servants that they be found faithful. That begs the question, who is the one doing the finding? Right? Well, the Lord Jesus Christ is the one who is doing the finding, and he's either going to find a pastor or a shepherd. Faithful, or he's gonna find him not faithful. Those are your really your only two options Jesus gets at this. We get a glimpse of this in Mark chapter 13, verses 34 through 36. Jesus gives us a parable as he's talking about his second coming. And how nobody knows the day or the hour, and then he this is what he says. It is like a man going on a journey when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge. each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore, he tells his disciples, stay awake. For you do not know when the master of the house will come in the evening or at midnight, or when the rooster crows or in the morning, lest he come and suddenly find you asleep. Okay. Well, that's an example of finding a servant being very unfaithful. He's told to do one thing, stay awake, and he fell asleep. He he failed at his job, right? And so if Paul and his associates, and they are, are the servants, then he's pointing out that Jesus Christ will one day find him either faithful. or unfaithful. And as we'll see in a moment, as we look at the end of this passage, I believe he's arguing that Jesus will find them faithful. But the point is very clear. Jesus will find them one way or the other Now, because of that, we see the implication in verses 3 through 4, the pastor will stand in Christ's court. Now this means that the Lord is going to be the one that judges pastors, but look at how he develops his argument. Look at the beginning of verse 3. He says, but with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. Okay. Now when he mentions judgment here, the word he's using for judgment has to do with rendering an opinion about something after very careful scrutiny. and after testing something. In other words, there's intentionality and observation. Now the Corinthians at this point, if they've had a year and a half, uh previously of Paul living among them and and doing ministry as we see in Acts chapter 18 when he planted the church. They seen and minister among them and no doubt spending any time among them they clearly formed an opinion about him or two. And when you look at the overall tenor of this letter in Second Corinthians, what you actually find when you take the big picture um in whole is they they did not really form a very positive opinion of Paul and his leadership. They didn't. They had a lot of complaints. And Paul has to deal with all those. And many of the complaints center around when you get to 2 Corinthians. He's talking about some of you guys complain and say, oh, he's so he's so bold in his letters, and yet he's so weak and frail and humble and unimpressive in person In other words, Paul was not necessarily the kind of leader that they expected him to be. He wasn't like probably wasn't just like type A corporate personality. He was much more pastoral than that. The Jews had the same problem with Jesus, didn't they? He wasn't the leader, the king that they were expecting, and so they rejected him. And so because of that, he's look, he's mentioning it's it's a small thing to me that I should be judged by you or by any human court. That's an interesting phrase here. In the original Greek, you would literally translate that I am not to be judged by you or by the day of man. What does that mean? Well, it sounds a lot like the day of the Lord. Right? We all know what the day of the Lord is going to bring. The day of the Lord is going to bring judgment. And salvation for God's people, but judgment. And so what he's saying here is, this is kind of like court language here. I am not going to stand before the court of man 's judgment and his opinion and scrutiny. Say what they may, Paul is not concerned about their opinions of him, which begs the question. Isn't this prideful on Paul's part? Now I don't care what you think. Right? Is that what's going on here? Well, I think we'd have to answer that as no, I don't actually think it's pride. Why do I say that? Well, if you go back to chapter 3, verse 1. He says, but I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh As infants of Christ. And he goes on to say, look, I can't give you the solid food that you think you you can handle. I have to give you the milk. My point is that Paul is not concerned about their opinions because he has considered the source. They are not spiritually mature enough to form a sound opinion as to the value of his service and ministry among them. Now, in our day and age, that might almost come across as a slap in the face or an insult. It's not really an insult, it's more of just an observation of the truth. But he doesn't really stop there. It's not just that he's saying essentially to them here that you guys really don't have the bigger picture. to understand and and weigh the value of my ministry so I'm not as concerned about my opinions of you. He doesn't stop there. He goes on to say that he does not stand even under the judgment of his own conscience Look at the end of verse 3 and then the beginning of verse 4. He says, in fact, I don't even judge myself For I'm not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. Well, in other words, what he's saying is, look, I In all fairness, I have a clear conscience in how I've ministered before you, which is one of the reasons I don't really, you know, care about your opinion of me and I'm not too worried about it. But look, even if I, just because I have a clear conscience, that does not, by that fact, that does not acquit me. That in itself does not prove me innocent. My conscience is not the final court of appeals, is what he's saying Now, I understand you never want someone to violate their conscience, but at the end of the day, someone's conscience and how they feel about something is never really the final court of appeals. It's important because none of us can really escape our own conscience, right? In Romans 2, Paul talks about, look When he's talking about the Gentiles, he's telling these Jewish readers, like, look, these Gentiles do what they have not been given through the scriptures in history. They seem to do what's right before God and their conscience acquits them, it doesn't condemn them. Others, their consciences might condemn them. But what he's saying here is, look, my My conscience is clear, but that objectively does not clear me. There is something more objective, more transcendent. And what is that? Well, look what he says at the end of verse 4. It is the Lord who judges me. You guys don't judge me. My own conscience really doesn't judge me, and even if it did, that's not the final court of appeals. The Lord is the one who judges me. And by the way, that word for judging there, when he says the Lord judges me, it's the same word he used before for it's the idea of like Trying something, examining something very carefully before rendering judgment. He says, the Lord is the one who does this. He leaves his ministry in the hands of the Lord And in his mind, only the opinion of the Lord matters at the end of the day. So that leads us to the question for application. Who will ultimately hold court over pastors? for how they minister to his bride, uh, the church? Well the answer is pastors do not stand under the scrutiny or the judgment of the people that they served in an ultimate sense But they stand under the judgment of Christ. It's the Lord who examines and judges the ministry, my ministry. Pastor Jared's ministry, our elders' ministry. We saw this back in chapter 3 already, didn't we? In chapter 3, verses 10 through 17. Um Paul lays the foundation. He's like, others will build on it. Some will build with precious metals and do it the right way. Others will build with like wood, hay, and stubble, and it's going to burn up. It's not going to last. This is done wrong. When Paul says that he's not the subject of the court of men, I want to be very clear about something. Two things. One, the the assumption behind this passage is that we're talking about pastors who faithfully minister God's word. That's kind of the assumption Paul is working on. And we'll get to that at the end, but that becomes very clear. The second thing that I want to just highlight by way of nuance, this does not mean that pastors or elders can do what they want because they don't care what anyone thinks. It doesn't mean that they can run rough shot over the flock because they're not in accountability to anyone. When he says, I'm not going to stand before the court of men, what Paul's not saying there, he's not excusing holding pastors accountable. I want to be clear about that. There are times , sadly, there are times, and I've seen it happen to men. Where they have to be disciplined in our circles, it would be by the Presbytery. In a previous Presbytery, I remember seeing two men in my time there who were defrocked of their ministry. In other words, they were stripped of their ordination status, they lost their ministry for the case of sexual immorality. You know the sad thing? Both of them were men that no one would have expected that to happen to. Right? And we exercise discipline. That's not exactly what Paul. That happens. And those things need to happen. That's not what Paul is saying here. We can't simply do what we want as pastors with impunity, claiming that no one can judge us but God. That's not what he's saying. I just want to be clear about that. But what he's saying here is when it comes to faithful pastors who are faithfully teaching and preaching the flock from God's word. And they have that track record that at the end of the day, some of you are going to have opinions about, well, I like the way that guy preaches. I like the way that guy preaches better than this other guy. Okay. Fine, but at the end of the day, those opinions really don't matter if they're being faithful, right? That's what he's talking about. It leads To our final point this morning in verse 5, the pastor whose heart matters to the Lord. For my part, this was the hardest part of preparing this message because the truth just digs right in. Look at verse 5 and how he concludes. He issues a command that is based on everything he's been arguing up to this point. He says, therefore, Do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his, and I'm going to get it right this time, commendation from God. Now that's that's a pretty simple command at the end of the day. Don't be judgmental. He's telling the Corinthians not to judge him, not to judge Cephas , not to judge Apollos or Sosthenes or anyone else who's leading among them, who's proven to be faithful. Why? Because the Lord is the one who judges their ministry. Now, as you'll see as you we work through this book, there are several tough things that Paul has to say to the Corinthians along the way. And like the Corinthians are no different than us today. Sometimes when we hear truth, it doesn't, we don't like the person who's telling us the truth. We all struggle with that to some degree or another, and it happens in churches, and so Paul is saying, look, when when those things happen, people have a tendency to judge the guy who's telling them the truth. They jump in front of the Lord in passing judgment in what this guy may be saying or doing and I think one of the reasons Paul counsels don't rush to judgment of men who are otherwise faithful in their discharge of the word is because there's always things that we don't know or have insight into What is he talking about? Well, look what he says here. The reason is that only the Lord can judge the heart He says two things right there in verse 5 that the Lord is going to do. One, he's going to bring to light the things that are now hidden in darkness. I don't think he's talking about sin there necessarily. He's just talking about things that are not clear. And two, he elaborates on that. And the Lord will disclose the purposes of the heart. I think those are two complementary phrases that kind of get at the same truth. Let me give you an example of how Paul himself applied this in his own life. In Philippians chapter 1, verses 15-18. In the context of that passage, Paul's in prison. He's awaiting trial by the emperor. And this is what he says to the Philippians. Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will. The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel. So in other words, well Paul's in jail. We need to pick up the slack and start preaching. He goes on, the former proclaimed Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What then, he asks? Only then in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. Now, you may be thinking, well, wait a minute, he did just judge the motives there. Well, but he didn't get specific. He didn't point out, well, James over there is is clearly selfishly ambitious and Not sincere. He he's just stating general principles, right? But even if he had some people in mind, he s certainly didn't you know, defame them to the Philippians by judging the motives of their hearts before the time. That's because even Paul doesn't know the contents of people's hearts specifically. But he makes it very clear that the Lord knows. The Lord sees. And notice the way he ends in verse 5. I I I kind of love this. The Lord will give his commendation, or you can translate that word as praise, to each one on that day. Here's what's fascinating to me. Again , this is what highlights the assumption that he's talking about faithful men who faithfully discharge and preach and teach God's word To God's people and thereby feed them from God's word so that they get strong and built up. Because he doesn't mention As I mistakenly said when I read it the first time before, he doesn't say then each one will receive their condemnation. He doesn't highlight the negative there. He doesn't say God is really going to give it to them And wipe the floor with them for all the abuses that they've done. That's not what he says. He says, but then when the Lord reveals these things, the motives of their hearts as they serve, God will give each one the praise or condemn or commendation that he deserves. He highlights the positive rather than the negative. And so what is the implication for a church's attitude towards their pastors in response to Paul's overall teaching in this passage? Well, the overall implication is do not judge your pastors too harshly because you don't know their hearts, but the Lord does. The Lord knows my heart. He knows Pastor Jared's heart. He knows every one of the elders' hearts And he will judge or give us our praise accordingly. You know, it is easier to judge than not, isn't it? Let's just be honest. It's easier to judge. It's so much easier to look at your leaders because of the expectations that we have and to scrutinize everything that they say or do. Sometimes It's well founded. I get it. But if we're honest, let's just take a step back and look at ourselves for a moment. Most of us want to judge the heart motives. of other people and criticize what they mean. Sometimes they say something and you're like, well you said this. Well you meant this. And it's like, well no, let me clarify. No, you meant that, you know We seem to want to judge the intentions and motives of other people, but we we want to be able to be assessed on our actions, not on our own hearts. It's one thing to be discerning about the actions that we see in others, including pastors, especially pastors maybe. We can hear what they say, we can see what they do, but ultimately we really can't judge their hearts. It's so easy to preach a message like this or even listen to one and be thinking to yourself, man, I wish so-and-so was here to hear this. They should hear this. And then you're judging the motive of their heart, right? Should they they need to hear it? Well, what about you? What about me? I can't deal with your heart. Even as your pastor, I can't. I might be able to dress things that come out that have to do with your heart, but ultimately that's the work of the Spirit While I can't deal with your heart, I can certainly deal with mine. And you're the same way. You can't deal with someone else's heart, but you can deal with yours. If you're here this morning and you're struggling with a heart of cynicism and judgment against anyone else, let's just broaden it out from pastors, anyone else. Including those of us who are called to service stewards. Then I believe this passage is calling you to work through your own heart and motives rather than trying to deal with the hearts of others. And dealing with the hearts of others is the business of the Holy Spirit who does this by the means of God's word. There are things going on in your hearts and your lives that I am completely unaware of. I'm up here preaching, and every now and then sometimes some of you will come and tell me, sometime during the week, like, you said this and it really touched me this way or applied to me this way. And I'll be honest with you, most of the time I'm I'm just rejoicing with you. Like, wow, that's great. I had no idea when I was up there preaching. Um Um, but let's remember as we relate to one another, as we think about not judging them, that every time we deal with someone that's a brother or sister in Christ, We're dealing with somebody who's already been justified, who's already been declared righteous by God through faith in Jesus, and we're dealing with someone who one day God is going to give a reward to. the day of judgment. And so if God is merciful and gracious in Jesus in his assessment of people despite their faults, maybe we should too. Amen. Well, let's pray. Heavenly Father, every single one of us in this room If we were sticklers about it, we could find something to judge. Something that we fall short in, something that we fail. Lord, we pray that you would continue to take your word, write it on our hearts. Lord, make us a people that is characterized by grace. Help us to be people who don't judge one another as this passage warns us and commands us not to do, but people who properly Not idolatrously, but properly esteem one another. Lord, and then help us. Help me as a pastor. Help Pastor Jared. Help our elders and our deacons, O Lord, steward the responsibilities and the mysteries of God in Christ that you have given us. Help us to be faithful. Lord, the health of our church, the health of liberty depends upon that. And so, Lord, where where us pastors need it, give us a um a backbone of steel. To stand on the truth without compromise. Lord, where we need to have tender hearts To shepherd our people? Give us those tender hearts of compassion. And Lord, sometimes where we need the humor of a clown to be able to laugh at ourselves, And not take ourselves too seriously while taking our work seriously. We pray that you would help us to have that kind of humility Lord, I ask this for myself, but I also ask this for the health of this church. In Jesus' name. Amen.