Gospel of John chapter seventeen. Christ's great high priestly prayer. And once more, let's read verses uh one through seventeen. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself. With the glory which I had with you before the world was. I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have known that all things which you have given me are from you. For I have given to them the words which you have given me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. And all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I have kept, and none of them is lost except the Son of Perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. Let's pray. Father, before we attempt to proclaim your word, we once again pause to acknowledge our utter dependence upon you. We pray for your Holy Spirit to take your word, anoint it, apply it, and accomplish things in our hearts and lives that will last forever. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. There are a few passages of Scripture that give us as much insight into the heart. of the Lord Jesus Christ and his relationship both with his Heavenly Father and with His disciples, as John 17. In this great prayer of intercession offered the very night before his crucifixion, Jesus commits the keeping of his disciples and all those who would believe in him through their words. Into the loving care of his Heavenly Father. And before we continue our verse-by-verse study, I want us to think for a few moments about the prayer as a whole. Prayer, as you may know, is more than simply asking God for things, isn't it? True prayer can also entail praise and adoration. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Now that's a petition. We're asking that God's name would be hallowed or kept as holy. It's also Adoration, acknowledging that God's name is holy. When the Apostle Peter and uh John were threatened by the chief priests and elders of Israel for preaching the gospel Their fellow believers prayed for them. We read about it in Acts 4. And remember, their prayer began: Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. Who by the mouth of your servant David have said, Why did the nations rage and the people plot vain things? You'll note that they began their prayer with adoration. But it's possible for Christians to conclude that the height of true prayer is adoration. That is, not asking God for things, but simply enjoying His presence and praising and adoring Him. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. It's possible to begin to think that it's most appropriate and most spiritual to confine one's prayers to exalting God. And recounting his perfections rather than actually asking him to do things. I mean, after all, he's God. Can't we simply leave things in his hands and trust that everything will work out? Isn't that the logical reaction once you truly understand that God is sovereign? Well, think about this. If ever there was one who knew the essence of true prayer, it was the Lord Jesus. If ever there was one who knew that God was in sovereign control of all things, and had foreordained whatsoever comes to pass, it was the Lord Jesus. Yet, if you consider this remarkable prayer, the fullest record we have of any prayer that Jesus offered on earth, you will see that it is comprised primarily of intercession. The Lord Jesus is asking his Father to do certain things. He asks that the Father would glorify him so that he could in turn glorify his father. Verse 1. He asks that his disciples might be one. He asked that their joy, that his joy might be fulfilled in them. He asked that they would be kept from the evil one. He asked his father that his disciples might be sanctified by the truth, that they would be with him in heaven. That the world would believe that he was sent by the Father. He's asking his father to do certain things. Now, of course, prayer, genuine prayer, involves adoration. It involves a confession. It involves communing with God. It involves thanksgiving. But true biblical prayer is first and foremost asking God by faith to do certain things. Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our debts. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and the door shall be opened unto you. If a son asks bread of his father, will he give him a stone? The Lord is near to those who call upon him. He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. You called in trouble, and I delivered you. In the Screwtape letters, the demon Screwtape wrote to his nephew Wormwood, quote, False spirituality is always to be encouraged. On the seemingly pious ground that praise and communion with God is true prayer, humans can often be lured into direct disobedience to the enemy. Who has definitely told them to pray for their daily bread and for the recovery of their sick So Christian, I ask you, what have you asked God to do in this week past? What have you asked him to do for your family, for your friends, for your church? For the needy souls that you know. Yeah, but the Bible says he has foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. The Bible says he does whatsoever he pleases in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand nor say unto him, What doest thou? Why then should I ask him for things? And the answer is, because he has told you to ask him for things. And if you want a bit more to help satisfy your curiosity, don't you see that this infinite God, who knows the end from the beginning, can take your intercession in time In what is this, 2012? In time , into consideration, when from all eternity he determines what he's going to do It's possible for those of us who embrace the sovereignty of God to reason ourselves out of praying. But God is never glorified by disobedience. And God says, Call upon me, and I will answer you and show you great and mighty things which you do not know. Eight or ten of us uh gather every Wednesday evening here to pray. Suppose it were eighty. Or a hundred. Now look again at verse 9. I pray for them, Jesus said. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. That's where we left off last Sunday. I pray for them. I don't pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me. Now, it may seem to you to be strikingly out of character for Jesus to say, I do not pray for the world. Well, didn't he tell us to love our enemies and to pray for those who despitefully use us and persecute us? Didn't he pray for the soldiers who drove the nails into his hands and his feet at the cross? Father, forgive them, they know not what they do. Why then does he say here, I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you've given me? Well, remember what he's asking here. What's he praying? He's asking that they will be kept, that they will be one, that his joy will be fulfilled in them, that they will be kept from the evil one. Verse 15. That they'll be sanctified by God's truth, verse 17, that they would be with him in glory, verse 24. All of these things are fulfilled in believers, not one of them is fulfilled in an unbeliever Jesus is preparing to give his life as the ultimate satisfaction, the ultimate payment, the ultimate ransom, the ultimate atonement for his bride. And it is for his bride, the one for whom he goes to prepare a place in his father's house. It's for his bride That he prays here. Of course he was concerned for the world of the world of unbelievers. His heart yearned for them. Remember how the scripture says he loved the rich young ruler, even though he turned his back upon him and walked away. Jesus, beholding him, loved him, the scripture says. He wept over the hard-hearted citizens of Jerusalem who rejected him. How often would I have gathered you together as a hen doth gather her chickens under her wing? And ye would not. And even here, he desired that the unity of believers would testify to the world. That God had sent him. Verse 21, that they all may be one, as you Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. But he was not atoning indiscriminately for the sins of all men and women, boys and girls. According to Jesus himself, the good shepherd was giving his life for his sheep. I am the good shepherd, the good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. John 10, 11. And so his intercession here is for his own. Now look at verse 10. And all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And all mine are yours, and yours are mine. This has been described as a distinct and emphatic assertion of Christ's equality with the Father. Think about it. All mine are yours, all yours are mine. It's very similar to what he said earlier. It's recorded for us in chapter 16, verse 15. All things that the Father has are mine. Therefore I said that he will take of mine and declare it to you. All things that the Father has are mine, he said. What kind of talk is this? Can you imagine any created being Having the audacity to declare, all things that the Father has are mine Or praying, all mine are yours, and all yours are mine. So, friend, when a couple of Mormons or a couple of Jehovah's Witnesses come to your door And they suggest that Jesus was anything less than the eternal second person of the Trinity Among all those other passages to which you can refer them, and there are many: John 1, Hebrews 1, Colossians 1, Isaiah 9, Isaiah 40, Isaiah 44, Isaiah 45, Psalm 110 John 10, John 14. You can also point them to John 17. All mine are yours, all yours are mine. All things the Father has. are mine. Everything that belongs to you is mine, your nature, your attributes, your dominion, your glory, and here, your people. All mine are yours, all yours are mine. And then he says something If that's a striking statement, he goes on to say something that's maybe even more striking. And I am glorified in them. What? I am glorified in them. Well, given what we know of the apostles' lack of faith and lack of spiritual discernment. What did he say? Somebody forgot to bring bread? What's he talking about? Given what we know of the apostles' lack of faith, the lack of spiritual discernment , Their rivalries, their jockeying for position. We might think it more accurate for Jesus to say, I am dishonored by that. But he says, I am glorified in them. I am glorified in them. Daksatzo. To magnify, to exalt, to praise, to ascribe honor to. God is glorified. In his disciples. Now God is glorified by his works. God is glorified by his son. But here Jesus says, I am glorified in my disciples. When the apostles risked prison and death to preach Christ before the very same men who conspired against Jesus, Jesus was glorified in them. When the Apostle James was martyred by Herod for no other crime than being a follower of Jesus Christ, Jesus was glorified in him. When Peter and John healed a lame man at the temple gate, we read about it in Acts 3, Jesus was glorified in them. When the Apostle Paul endured a persistent thorn in the flesh, without murmuring, without bitterness, Jesus was glorified in him. When the Apostle Thomas reportedly got as far away as India, proclaiming the gospel, Jesus was glorified in him. And Christian, if Jesus was glorified in them, Jesus can be glorified in you. Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. When you invite that neighbor to a Bible study or to church, or you speak the wonderful words of life to a co-worker or a friend, Jesus is glorified in you. When you overcome, parents, your natural indolence, and you lovingly engage with your children, and you bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, Jesus is glorified in you. When you endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ, Jesus is glorified in you. When you do well and you suffer for it and you take it patiently, Jesus is glorified in you. When you're loving and kind, when you're humble, when you're gentle, when you're faithful, when you're obedient, when you're forgiving, when you're submissive, Jesus is glorified in you When you face death with courage, as Ginny Keisling did, as Bonnie Summers is doing now. Jesus is glorified in you. When other people see it and take note of it, Jesus is glorified. When nobody sees it, no people see it, no people take note of it, Jesus is glorified. Because there's a spirit world that's every bit as real as the world that we see. And the angels of God take note of it. And the demons take note of it, and they're rebuked by it. Jesus says, all yours are mine, and all mine are yours, and I am glorified in them. What a glorious thing. I am glorified in Jesus is glorified in you. He's glorified in your life. I want to fall. Look at verse eleven. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you've given me, that they may be one as we are. Let's go on to twelve. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me, I kept And none of them is lost except the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. Here the Lord Jesus entrusts his disciples to his father for their safekeeping, or for his safekeeping, I guess you'd say. They are his priceless possessions. You might say his only priceless possessions. So he commits them to the Father's care. He says, While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. I suppose it was unbeknownst to the disciples that all the while they were with him in the world, he was keeping them. Right? Keeping them from falling. Keeping them from turning away. Keeping them from throwing up their hands and saying, I'm going back to my old trade. I'm not going to follow this Jesus anymore. When perhaps they began to long for their old ways, their old habits, when Satan tempted them to turn away and abandon the Lord or dishonor him through scandal, Jesus was keeping them. Christian, the same sort of influence which Jesus put forth to keep his disciples from apostasy, that's falling away, is being exerted today. In answer to his prayer, to keep you from departing from him. Because remember, he said, I do not pray for these alone, verse 20, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. Well, people believed in Jesus through the Apostles' word, and other people believed in Jesus through their word, and ultimately we believe in Jesus through the words of the apostles. Written down for us and conveyed to us through the centuries. So that's you. That's me. Jesus prayed for you the night before he died. I pray not for these alone, but for those who will believe on me through their word. Should that gracious influence be withdrawn from you. Even temporarily. That gracious influence that upholds you, that keeps you, should that be withdrawn from you even temporarily. Into what quagmire of sin would Satan swiftly bring you? You'd be as vulnerable as the Starship Enterprise in battle with her shields down. Peter was given a little taste of what it would be like to war in his own strength the very night Jesus spoke these words, Before the cock crow thou shalt deny me. Job awoke one morning seemingly on top of the world, in fellowship with God and man, in wealth, in comfort, in safety. By the end of the day, devastated, broke, and broken, he was tempted by his wife to curse God and die. And I suppose he would have done so had it not been true that greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world Christian, think about this. You are kept by the power of God. You're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. 1 Peter 1. When you hear of a man who is wallowing in pornography or adultery or some other sexual sin. When you hear that an old acquaintance has been sent to prison for embezzlement, when you read of a company executive who's deceived his board and defrauded pensioners and stockholders of millions of dollars. Say to yourself, not, how could anyone do such a thing? Say to yourself, there before the grace of God go I Jesus prayed to his father, Keep through your name those whom you have given me. These were not empty words. Jesus knew that without his personal supernatural influence exerted daily, hourly in the lives of the disciples, they would surely fall. Jesus knew the power of the God of this world. The prince of the power of the air. And Jesus knew that Satan was a murderer from the beginning, the father of lies, the spirit that works in the children of disobedience. He knew that we don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Now, notice something. God has not only determined the end, Christian, that is, that you would not be destroyed by Satan, God has determined the normal means by which uh uh that end will be accomplished. He will protect you from Satan Stand therefore having girded your waist with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, having your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, above all taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. You see, the normal means of protecting you is revealed to us here. You need to pray. You need to take the sword of the Spirit. You need to memorize God's words so you can use it to war against the evil one when he attacks you. Be not ignorant of his devices. He goeth about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. You better have that shield of faith ready. You better be shocked with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Because you have an adversary. So here Jesus prays that his that his father will keep his disciples When he, Jesus, is parted from them. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. He that keepeth Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. And we noted he's not just praying for the apostles here, he's praying for those who would believe on him through his word. So here's the truth, Christian, that should call forth praise from your heart. Jesus has prayed for your protection. Now that doesn't mean you'll never be tempted. That doesn't mean you'll never succumb to temptation. But it means that ultimately Satan's designs for you will be thwarted. Ultimately, if you're a believer, Satan's designs for you will be thwarted. Simon, Simon, indeed, Satan has asked for you that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for you that your faith should not fail. Luke 22, 31. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Now, notice something in verse 12 before we move on. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me, I kept. None of them is lost except the son of perdition. While I was with them in the world, I kept them. Not from all doubts, right? They had doubts. Not from all seasons of unbelief. Not from failures, not from testings, not from trials Peter said, We are in heaviness through manifold trials. We that are in this tabernacle groan, Paul said, being burdened Not going to deliver you from all trials. He's going to deliver you from the power of the evil one And none of them is lost, Jesus says, except the Son of Perdition. The twelve were kept with a notable exception of the Son of Perdition. the one who fulfilled the prophecy, even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his heel against me. It's called the Son of Perdition. You know, the only other place in Scripture I think that that phrase occurs is in 2 Thessalonians 2, where it refers to the Antichrist. Judas is called a thief, a devil. He had a high office. He had the unspeakable privilege of being Christ's close companion for about three years. He was granted gifts. He healed the sick, cast out demons, preached the good news. His life's a reminder that we may have great privileges and yet be lost. We may have great privileges, we may have great gifts and yet be lost. You may be raised in a Christian home and enjoy the privileges of hearing the word and partaking of the sacraments. You may give evidence of having spiritual gifts and still be lost But you may wonder why was there a Judas among the twelve? Yeah, I know it was prophesied But why? Well what possible purpose did it serve? Well Pastor Marcus Rainsford wrote, it may be this Our dear Lord, when he came to this world, came to be tried. He came to taste the sorrows and the difficulties of all his people so that he might know them all. There's not a greater trial or greater sorrow for a tender heart than unkindness and ingratitude. Here was one bound up with him in the family circle, the constant companion of Christ, admitted to the closest fellowship And yet a traitor to him in heart, watching him with malice and betraying him for thirty pieces of silver. Think about that. Thirty pieces of silver, a few half dollars, some quarters. I believe it was one of the bitterest of the sorrows which he tasted here. one of the bitterest of the sorrows that he tasted here. Let's look on to verse 13. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. What was Christ's joy? What brought him joy even in that dark hour? He says, I want my joy to be fulfilled in them. Now think about this. This is the very night before the crucifixion. And he's still talking about his joy. What how in the world could he have joy at this point? His joy was that he was going to be with his father very soon. Lord, now I am no longer in this world, but now I come to thee. Glorify me with the glory that I had with you before the world was. He had been longing to be renewed, restored with his Father. The prospect of entering into his glory brought him joy. We could have that joy if only we could live in the light of the hope that is set before us. We're not going to be here that long. It's a matter of a few years. And then we're going to be with him. Some of us will be with him very soon, some a little longer, but it's all a relatively brief period of time. We need to have that joy set before us, that hope set before us. We need to meditate upon it. If only we'd remembered that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Only we could, as Moses, esteem the reproach of Christ of greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, looking for the reward. Hebrews 11. Our day-to-day concerns would pale into insignificance if they were beheld in the light of heaven. Jesus facing an excruciating death, in fact, the death that gives us the word , excruciating. Had joy because he was going to his father. When John Bunyan, author of Pilgrim's Progress, died, he said, Weep not for me, but for yourselves. I go to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will, through the mediation of his blessed Son, receive me, though a sinner, where I hope we shall meet to sing the new song and remain everlastingly happy, world without end. It's reported that as Philip Melanchthon, Luther's fellow servant, died, after several portions of scripture had been read to him, he was asked by his son-in-law if he would have anything else, and he replied, Nothing else but heaven. As the man most responsible for banishing slavery from the British Empire, William Wilberforce, lay dying He said, My affections are so much in heaven that I can leave you all without a regret. Yet I do not love you less, but God more. Augustus toplady who gave us to him Rock of Ages reportedly said before he died, The consolations of God to such an unworthy wretch are so abundant that he leaves me nothing to pray for but a continuance of them. I enjoy heaven already in my soul. Well, I want to underscore four brief thoughts from this passage before we close it for today. First of all, let me remind you, Jesus asked his father to do great things for his children. Will you not ask the father to do great things for you? For your family, for your church, for your country, for the lost. Ask him to do great things. Thou art coming to a king. Said Newton, Large petitions with thee bring, for his grace and power are such, none can ever ask too much. Secondly, there's cause for praise in this passage. Christ has placed you in the Father's safekeeping, Christian. Christ has placed you in the Father's safekeeping, and no one is able to pluck you. From his hand. What a blessing that thought is. We're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. And then Christ is giving you precious promises in order that his joy might be fulfilled in you. Jesus wants his joy to be fulfilled in you and fulfilled in me. So I ask you, is your life characterized by joy? Or is it characterized by murmuring and complaining? And fourthly, finally, Jesus said he would be glorified in his disciples. He's glorified when we're patient He's glorified when we're forgiving, when we're merciful, when we're kind, when we're gentle, when we're truthful, when we're zealous, when we're bold, when When we persevere, when we're faithful, when we're loving, when we're holy In other words, he's glorified when we're Christ-like. Because he's being revealed through us. He's being glorified. So Christian, I ask you, how is Jesus being glorified in you? Let's pray. Father, it's it's true as we look at our lives. It seems at times for us it would be more accurate to say, for Jesus to say, I am dishonored in them. We look at our failures, they loom large before us. But oh Lord, help us. Help us to focus on Jesus and what He's done for us and the joy that's awaiting us. The glory that is Him and His that's manifested in us. May we glorify you in this brief time we have on this earth. Forgive us our sins, forgive us our failures. Lord, it's a brand new day. It's a brand new week. May we bring you glory. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name. Be glory for thy mercy and thy true sake. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.