We offer wonders of worship for children downstairs at this time. I'm gonna respectfully disagree with my study Bible regarding the passage before us. And I'm going to respectfully disagree with the NKJV translation of the text before us. That's in part why you have it in your bulletin. If you open up your bulletin a little bit, there's the text from the ESV and some sermon notes there. But if you remain unconvinced regarding this interpretation of the story of Jephtha in Judges 11, 29 through 40, We have a paper by a professional in the in a one of these areas over here, by Professor Jay Scular, that's available that delves in the topic more thoroughly. But at the end of the day, it doesn't matter whether you are convinced of this interpretation of Jephthah, the applications that I make from Scripture are for all of us. And they're from other other scriptures. Judge not, lest by the same standard you be judged. Make vows to show appropriate thankfulness in light of God's grace. And in light of Jesus' sacrifice, offer yourself up as a living sacrifice. None of these truths is any less true because of your interpretation of the Jephthah story. So who else here has a study Bible? Does anyone else have a study Bible? Alright. They're good, they're helpful. But you need to know that just because something is written here in this book in the study Bible does not mean it's true. It obviously does not have the same authority as the scriptures themselves. Often as you read through the Bible, questions arise and you turn down to the the your eyes down to the notes, the commentary. But frequently whatever I have a question about is not answered in the study notes, or infrequently, sometimes I have a question about something and I disagree with the study notes. But there are some other ways to uh use God's word to interpret God's word. One of the best ways to get deeper knowledge and understanding of the scriptures is to use the cross reference. Now some of your Bibles will have that. In mine it's like kind of right here, and some of yours it's like in the middle. And what it is, is a list of other verses in your Bible that help you understand a vague word or a vague reference or a character and what he's doing in other situations. It's very helpful. And then the other tool that you always have, whatever Bible you have, is context. It's the paragraphs before, the paragraphs after, the rest of the corpus of that author, the rest of the book. It's always helpful for you to look at that in order for you to understand a difficult passage. So the best tool to help you understand the Bible is the Bible. Who here has an English translation of the Bible? Most of you? Okay. The Bible that we read every Sunday morning is a translation. The word of God originally came to the prophets and apostles of many centuries ago, and they wrote it down in classical Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek. Not only are these languages foreign to us culturally and grammatically, they're also foreign to us historically. They're from another time. At another place. Therefore, interpretation needs to go into every translation. And every translation is interpretation Each English Bible is not a word-for-word transliteration. It has been interpreted. Critical decisions have been made as to how to translate certain words. Sometimes ancient Greek and Hebrew copies have different words or letters to one another, and this makes translation even more difficult. Decisions have to be made as to which Greek, Hebrew, Syriac, Aramaic, Coptic, or Latin to go with. And these decisions are made giving preference to the most ancient and the most widespread wording. And the NAS and ESV are based on the most ancient scrolls that we have available to us now. Regardless, the translations that you have before you effectively convey the truth that God intended from all time to communicate to his people regarding his dealings with men. When we disagree with study notes, we're not calling God's word into question. When we question a word or phrase in our English translation, we are not necessarily questioning God's truth. We may merely be questioning an interpretive decision. Much care and scholarship is taken into account to bring you the Bible translation that you have before you. And much care and scholarship is taken into account to bring the preach word to you here every Sunday. So it's with all humility and reverence that we approach God's holy word. As I pray, you can turn to Judges 11. 29 or follow along right here. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, we thank you that you are true and that your word is truth and that you effectively convey to us your truth. I pray that that would be the case here this morning, that your truth would go forth and not return to you void. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's read Judges eleven, twenty-nine through forty. Then the Spirit of the Lord was upon Jephthah. And he passed through Gilead and Manasseh and passed on to Mizbah of Gilead, and from Mizbah of Gilead he passed on to the Ammonites. And Jephthow made a vow to the Lord and said, If you will give the Ammonites into my hand, then whatever comes out from the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the Ammonites shall be the Lord's. And I will offer it up for a burnt offering. So Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites to fight against them, and the Lord gave them into his hand, and he struck them from Arawar to the neighborhood of Mineth, twenty cities. And as far as Abdel Keramim with a great blow. So the Ammonites were subdued before the people of Israel. Then Jephthah came to his home at Mizpah, and behold, his daughter. Came out to meet him. With tambourines and with dances. She was his only child. Besides her, he had neither son nor daughter. And as soon as he saw her, he tore his clothes and said, Alas, my daughter, you have brought me very low, and you have become the cause of great trouble to me For I've opened my mouth to the Lord, and I cannot take back my vow. And she said to him, My father, you have opened your mouth to the Lord. Do to me according to what has come out of your mouth, now that the Lord has avenged you on your enemies, on the Ammonites. So she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me. Leave me alone two months, that I may go up and down on the mountains and weep for my virginity. I and my companions. So he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months, and she departed, she and her companions, and wept for her virginity on the mountains. And at the end of two months she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow that he had made She had never known a man, and it became a custom in Israel that the daughters of Israel went here by year to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year. When someone lets you uh merge into traffic in front of them, how do you respond? A little wave, a little smile. When someone makes you a home-cooked meal for dinner, how do you respond? Do you say thank you? Do you express your thankfulness by cleaning up after dinner? When someone sacrifices for you day in and day out, how do you respond? What would be an appropriate symbol of thankfulness? With the little things, it's easy. You say thank you, you smile, you pass it on, you leave a tip, you give a hug, write a card, do a favor. But when the graces and the gifts get bigger, it's appropriate that the thanksgiving gets bigger too. What's an appropriate show of thanksgiving when someone risks getting hurt so that you don't have to? What's an appropriate show of Thanksgiving when someone gives you a car, a college education, a house? What can you do? You can honor them with your life, well lived, you can respect them, be kind to them, take care of them later. Give them a gift if you have something that's appropriate. What if somebody wins a battle for you, saving you and many others from death? What should you do in response? What would constitute appropriate thankfulness? A token offering? How about allegiance? Do you make them your ruler? When it comes to thankfulness, it seems that we have several problems. One, we forget to be thankful at all. Guilty? Okay, two, when we are thankful, we can err by not showing thankfulness appropriate to the gift Or three, sometimes we have been given so much that we don't even have the resources to show appropriate thankfulness. The story of Jepha deals with each of these issues, though that is not its main purpose. Its main purpose is to find my study notes here. Okay. Its main purpose is to tell the history of God's dealing with his people. So let's explain Jephthah here. Immediately before the story in Judges 10, we see that the people of Israel have rejected the Lord And he's allowed them to be oppressed on either side by the Philistines and the Ammonites for eighteen years So when the people cry out to the Lord to save them, the Lord responds by saying, I will save you no more. I will save you no more. God is saying to them, You can't have other gods and live as if other things are better than me, and then when things get bad, come crying to me. You cannot have God merely for a Savior. He insists on being your Lord, your master, then as now. And this directly parallels the Jephthah story in Judges 11. The Ammonites came out against Israel and encamped in the area of Gilead So the sons of Gilead asked themselves, Who will begin the attack against the sons of Ammon? Whoever does will be our leader. Chapter 10, verse 18. Now pause for a second. What's the correct answer to that question? Who will begin the attack against the sons of Ammon? The Lord. Not Jephthah. Not a king. The Lord. But the sons of Gilead don't turn to the Lord, they turn to Jephthah. Now that's particularly ironic seeing that they had early rejected Jephthah. You see, Jephthah was a son of Gilead, but his mother was a prostitute. So Jephthah was a living, breathing reminder of an episode in their family's history that they'd rather forget. They also didn't want him to get any share of the inheritance, so they ran him out of town to Tob in the wilderness. And Jephthah went to live there. And Judges eleven three says, Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob, and worthless fellows collected around Jephthah and went out with him And Ankh Jivesis raided with him. Now, there's a question as to whether Jephthah killed his daughter and offer her as a burnt offering to the Lord, or merely gave her up to the Lord to serve as a virgin at the tabernacle. And Judges 11, 3 affects people's understanding of Jephthah's character, so it deserves a careful look. First, the New King James Version says that Jephthah went out raiding with them, and the word raiding is added. It's not necessary. Vayatso means go out in Hebrew, and even the Septuagint, the first translation of the Old Testament in Greek, merely has exalthon, which means go out Rating is added because Jephthah is viewed negatively because of his association with worthless fellows. Well, what does worthless mean? Well, worthless comes up again. The English word worthless comes up again in Judges 19 and in 1 Samuel with regard to some really wicked guys. But there's a different Hebrew word that's used that is more of a connotation of wicked. Baliyah is what's used in all those other occasions. In Jeppa's case, the men who go out with him are Re Kim. Empty, hungry, heedless poor fellows. It's not necessarily a connotation of evil. So take care how you judge the judge. Just because he's the son of a prostitute does not mean he's an evil guy. Just because his own brothers reject him doesn't mean he's an evil guy. Just because empty-headed men surround him and go out with him doesn't mean he's an empty-headed evil guy. In fact, he reminds me of Jesus. Jesus wasn't the son of a prostitute, but people certainly questioned his mother's morality when she claimed she had not known a man. Jesus' own brothers reject him, and the townsfolk, and Jesus hangs out with tax collectors and sinners, and empty-headed men, otherwise known as the disciples, go out with him wherever he goes. Jepha was no Jesus, but he mirrors the story of God and Jesus in interesting ways. So Jephthah after being rejected is asked to lead the Gileadites and the Israelites in battle against the sons of Ammon. And he asked them why, after rejecting him, they're coming to him to save them. And they replied that they want him to fight with them, and he'll make him head over them. And they swear by the Lord. And so Jephthah speaks words before the Lord at Mizpah. And then you think that this rash raider, Jeptah, would charge! But he doesn't. He sends a message to the king of the Ammonites, asking, asking, why do you come up against me in my land to fight? Whoa. He seeks first to understand, then to be understood. And you may think that Jeff is rash, but enemies have invaded and are encamped in his hometown. And he sends a message. Why have you invaded my hometown? And Ammon basically replies, I had it first. And instead of replying, No, you didn't. Jephthah sends another message to Emma, and it is chalk-full of covenant history. Historia Salutis, the history of salvation. He sounds like Moses or Joshua as he recounts to the pagans all that the Lord has done for the people of Israel. Let's read Judges 11 14 through 28 Jepha again sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites, Ammonites, and said to them, Thus says Jephthah, Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites. But when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh. Israel then sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Please let us pass through your land. But the king of Edom would not listen And they sent also to the king of Moab, but he would not consent. So Israel remained at Kadesh. Then they journeyed through the wilderness and went around the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and arrived on the east side of the land of Moab. and camped on the other side of the Arnon. But they did not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnun was the boundary of Moab. And the Ammonites and the Moabites are related. That's another story. Israel then sent messengers to Sion, king of the Amor Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Please let us pass through your land to your country. But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory, so Sihon gathered all his people together and encamped at Jahaz and fought with Israel. And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sinon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them. So Israel took possession of all the land of the Amorites who inhabited that country. And they took possession of all the territory of the Amorites, from the Arnhem to the Jabak, and from the wilderness to the Jordan. So then the Lord, the God of Israel, dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel And are you to take possession of them? Will you not possess what Shemosh, your God, gives you to possess? All that the Lord our God has dispossessed before us, we will possess. And now, are you any better than Balak, the son of Zapor, king of Moab? Did he ever contend against Israel? Or did he ever go to war with them? And while Israel lived in Heshbon and in its villages, and in Erewhare in its villages, and in all the cities on the banks of the Ornan three hundred years, why'd you not deliver them within that time? I therefore have not sinned against you, and you do me wrong by making war on me. The Lord, the judge, decide this day between the people of Israel and the people of Ammon. But the king of the Ammonites did not listen to the words of Jephthah that he sent to him. Notice how Jepha describes how peaceable the Israelites were, asking permission. Going around, not invading. And notice how Jeptah ascribes victory to the Lord. The Lord gave Sihon into the hand of Israel. The Lord dispossessed the Amorites, not the Ammonites. We merely possess what the Lord has given us. All that we have is a gift from God. And notice how he concludes. He doesn't say, I'm the judge, and what I say goes. He says, the Lord is judge, and he will decide. So Jephthah has an ignominious birth, a sad childhood, an exiled adulthood, an empty-headed entourage. And yet he honors the Lord, asks for peace, and courageously leads God's people in battle. The application for us here is twofold. First, if you think that you are too far gone to be used by the Lord, if you think you are too bad to ever be of any use to the Lord, think again. See how the Lord used Jephthah and other sinful servants to accomplish his holy purposes over and over again in the scriptures. Listen, if you have exiled yourself from God's presence because you think you're worthless. Come to him. He can use you. He loves you. Secondly, be careful how you judge people Rise above the temptation to judge illegitimate children or write off those that hang out with a rough crowd. The person you think is worthless may be the orthodox believer God uses to save you. Now we get to vows. So before Jephthah makes a vow to the Lord, we'll first look at what vows are, and then look at his vow in particular. What's a vow? In our culture, a vow is a promise to do something or a swearing that you're speaking the truth. But when we barely believe in God and when we elevate our feelings above our promises, it's hard for us to understand a biblical. vow in our culture. But even for those of us who believe in God and subject our feelings to our promises, we can still misunderstand the idea of a vow. Many would think a vow is a bargaining with God. God If you give me victory in this game, I will give you a tenth of my winnings. God, if you heal my dog, I will go to church. If you get me out of this mess, I will stop drinking and smoking. But those are not how vows are supposed to work. We have no standing to bargain with God. We owe him everything. We stand totally condemned before him, and he has made clear our duty towards him. Vows are totally optional. So they are appended to the laws in Leviticus. It's like they're tacked on there at the end. What they should be is a public promise to show appropriate thanksgiving There should be a public promise to show appropriate thanksgiving. We are so prone to ask God for something and then forget to thank him and move right on to the next thing that we're asking him. Or we thank him disproportionate to his grace. We do this with God, we do this with people. Vows are a mechanism to help prevent that. They should not function to threaten God or to motivate God or another. They should arise out of a serious need, and they should be fulfilled in response to grace. in order to stir up your heart to appropriate thankfulness. In Leviticus 27, which deals with vows, it repeatedly states that you may not vow something that you already owe to God. Imagine going into McDonald's and paying your $1. 6 cents for a McMystery burger. And the McCooks get it ready and slide it to the McCashier. But she doesn't give it directly to you. She holds it and says, I'll give you your McMystery burger if you take out the garbage for me. And you're like, what? I already paid for my McMystery burger. She says, ah. If you take out the garbage of these two cans, I will give you your McBurger. And then you say Can I speak to your manager? She can't bargain with something she already owes you. You can't bargain with God with something you already owe him. Obedience. When you're asking for something above and beyond, it's appropriate to give something above and beyond normal to show that you really think that this is important and that you're really thankful. God, if you bring my friend to faith in you, I will throw a party in your honor. Or if you heal my father's cancer, I will give a thank offering to show my appreciation. Appropriate thanksgiving, thankfulness appropriate to the gift. So when Jeptah is nominated to begin the battle with Ammon, he asks for something above and beyond from the Lord. And after exhausting diplomacy with Ammon, he makes a vow to the Lord. Verses 30 and 31. If you will give the Ammonites into my hand, Then whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the Ammonites shall be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering. First, notice who Jepha thinks is responsible for victory? The Lord. That's who he goes to. Now it may be a rash vow, but at least he understands who victory comes from. That's a lot more than you can say for the run-of-the-mill military commander. And many questions arise at this point. What or who did Jephthah expect to come out of his house to greet him? Did Jeffah intend to burn whatever came out of his house to greet him if he was given victory? What exactly does it mean for something to be the Lord's, to be a law? Is it possible to offer up a living sacrifice? Would Jeffle really kill his own daughter? Would the Lord really accept such a sacrifice? And would the author of Judges record it in this way if he did? Finally, why did he not pay 30 shekels of silver to redeem his daughter according to the rules for vowing persons in Leviticus 27? We're gonna answer some of these questions. I think Jephthah presumed a person would come out of his house to greet him, not an animal. The Hebrews didn't have dog pets that would bound out to lick their face on their return home. Um and they wouldn't have kept cows in the house, which was kind of like the usual big sacrifice, you know. Um and they they might have kept lambs or goats in the house, uh, but I don't think that's likely. Jephthah probably assumed one of his servants would come out of the house to greet him. The word asher, whatever, is very common word in Hebrew and it's unhelpful in determining either way. If an animal came out to meet him, Jephthah would have offered it up as a burnt offering to the Lord. The verb kara, to meet or to greet, though, is not something that animals generally do in the scripture. But even if it was an animal, Leviticus 27, 13 allows for some redemption. You could pay a price instead of sacrificing that animal But if a person had come out to meet him, it's still not obvious that Jephthah meant to kill the person who walked out to call to him. It is possible to dedicate someone to the Lord alive. This is what Hannah does to Samuel. Hannah bows to the Lord that if he will give her a son, he will be Le Adonai to the Lord. Just like Jephthah, same words there. But what that means is that Samuel will live and minister at the tabernacle, even though he's not a Levite. Perhaps Jephthah had a similar intent. In Jeffah's vow, though, he says he will offer it as a burnt offering. That's not in Hannah's vow. The Hebrew word is olah, the noun of the verb Allah. So if the noun in the verb mean burnt offering, the question can be asked: is it more about the burning or is it more about the offering? And if you look at the Hebrew dictionary and look at all the related words to Allah, you notice a theme. High, above, lifted up, over, raised, sprouting. It's all about the lifting, and only secondarily about the burning And when I say Allah, what do you think of? The Muslim God, right? The Muslim mean for God. Now, do they call him that because he is the burning one or because he's the most high? Most high. So then why is Allah about burnt offering? Because an offering that is given up wholly to the Lord, to God, would be burnt up entirely on the altar. Not taken down and part of it eaten. And Olah is offered wholly to God, but it doesn't necessarily have to be burned. But whether you believe that Jepha's daughter was dedicated as a virgin to serve at the tabernacle, or whether she was burned up, she was offered and offered herself wholly to God. Do you thank God every time he grants your requests? Do you give him thanks appropriate to his gift? If you wanted something from God desperately, would you vow? What would you vow? How great is your need? How big is your request? What kind of sacrificial offering can you bring? He's a big God. Ask big things of him and give big things to him in return for and thankfulness. Jephthah had a big need, a military victory. So he made a vow of something dear. Whether it was rash or totally justified, you can decide. But the fact remains you have a big need too You need victory over an enemy that is rarely defeated. Death. So you might go to the one who has already defeated death. Christ the Lord, the risen one, heaven's champion. But if he saves you from death, what will you give him in return? What would be an appropriate act of thanksgiving? Which brings us to Jephthah's daughter. So, after Jephthah's dynamic victory over the Ammonites, he returns home and his daughter comes out of his house to meet him, Kara, with tambourine and dancing. Victory! Tragedy. All rolled into one scene. She rejoices, he grieves. He says, You have brought me very low The opposite, poetically, of the of the word Allah. Because he cannot take back his vow to the Lord. It was tragic because she was his only one, his yehidah Just as Isaac had been Abraham's only one, while other judges had seventy sons or forty or thirty, Jephthah had one daughter. His line would end. And she loved him. See how excited she is to see him, to celebrate with him. So, how does she respond when her father tells her she has made him very sad? She says, You've opened your mouth to the Lord, do to me as you vowed, because the Lord has given you victory. She honors Jephthah's vow. She knows the Lord must be honored. She attributes victory to the Lord. Now this makes her a very strange character, incomprehensible even if she was to be burned. Some few people in the Bible were willing to face certain death for the Lord, willingly. But if she honored the Lord and knew his word had to be honored, why would she not resist Knowing that child sacrifice was an abomination to the Lord, why wouldn't she say, Redeem me, for human sacrifice is an abomination to God? Perhaps it was because she wasn't going to be killed. Perhaps there's another way to be Le Adonai to the Lord. She says, Let me go mourn my virginity. This too is strange if she was to be killed. Why not rather mourn her life, mourn a young life cut short? Why does she not mourn the terrible, unprecedented abomination of human sacrifice? Perhaps because that's not what happened. Perhaps her father was dedicating her to the Lord as a virgin who serves at the tabernacle. The writer mentions her weeping for her virginity again in verse 38. And then when she returns, the writer again reminds us that she remained a virgin. In Judges 21, 21, it seems to imply that the women at Shiloh, where the tabernacle was, were virgins. And in 1 Samuel 22, it again seems that there were unattached women serving at the tabernacle. So it's quite conceivable that this is what Jephthah had in mind and why Jephthah's daughter was mourning her virginity and not her death. But if that's the case, it gets us out of one tragedy and into another. It answers some questions but raises others. For instance, how did Jephthah have the authority to make such a claim on somebody else's life? And why would Jephthah's daughter acquiesce to such an action? See, as individualistic 21st century Americans, the idea of one person dedicating someone else to lifelong service to the Lord It's taboo. We make our own decisions. We can be whoever we want to be. I declare my independence. But the Bible sees things differently. The idea that a parent has a prerogative to dedicate a child to the Lord is actually pervasive in the Bible. The covenant signed between God and his people was to be parents circumcising their children. Not because of their children's belief, but because of the parents' decision to follow, honor, and obey God. They would dedicate their children to the Lord with a sign in hopes that their children would heed the sign and make the outward reality an inward reality. That men and women would be circumcised of the heart, casting sinful flesh aside and dedicating themselves to the Lord through the blood of the sacrifice. And if in the old covenant parents could dedicate their children to the Lord with a sign, it makes sense. But in the new covenant, parents can dedicate their children to the Lord with a sign, the sign of baptism. But children must make good on the sign. The Holy Spirit must seal the things signified on their heart. Jephthah would have had a hard time executing his vow, either way you interpret it. If his daughter had run off in the mountains and not come back. Her father chose to dedicate her to the Lord, but she also chose to dedicate herself to the Lord. And so I must speak to you, covenant children. You've received the sign of the promise. Baptism. Will you make good on your baptism? Your parents have dedicated you to the Lord. Will you submit yourself to the Lord? Perhaps you need some time to consider. Consider well. For following the Lord might mean a life of singleness. A life of following the Lord might mean death. It certainly leads to dying to self. Consider whether you will indeed live your life as a living sacrifice to the Lord. And if you would conclude that you would like to make good on your baptism, And you'd like to dedicate yourself to him, Pastor Russ will be beginning a communicance class shortly. Consider attending, taking vows of membership, and participating in the Lord's Supper with us. So, regardless of whether you think that Jepha killed and burnt his daughter or whether he let her go and let any hope of a lineage go by dedicating his daughter to virgin service in the tabernacle, there's another story which is not in doubt at all. There was another father who offered up his son, his only beloved one, because he so loved the world that he gave him up to torture and death And there was a son who offered himself willingly, not only to chastity, but to an early death, death on the cross, to purchase for himself a people set apart to God. The Father is God. The Son is Jesus. We were destined for death and hell, but Jesus took our place, winning victory over the grave. Hallelujah. What would be an appropriate act of thanksgiving for so great a salvation? Human sacrifice. Living sacrifice, a human sacrifice of living thanksgiving. Give your whole life to God. Because God did not withhold his only Son, but gave him up as a sacrifice for us. We should freely offer ourselves as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is our spiritual act of worship. Hallelujah. Amen. But Jesus, we Dedicate ourselves to you, we dedicate our children to you. We want to be Le Adonai. We want to be to the Lord. We know that we fail and fumble in that. But Lord, our desire is to be wholly yours. And we have that in part now, and we know that we will be wholly yours and you wholly ours in the hereafter. After we have passed through the deep waters of death and come to Canaan's fair land in your heaven. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, come. In Jesus' name. Amen. What's conf