Ephesians chapter 1. Let's read the first 14 verses. As we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs with uh Aaron and Todd. White soul. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. In Christ, just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. to the praise of the glory of his grace by which he made us accepted in the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made known, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself That in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. In him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. That we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance. until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of his glory. May God bless this precious portion of his inspired word to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, we do acknowledge this is your holy word. We are not fit, Lord, in our own strength to read it, certainly not to preach it, but we are dependent upon you and your Holy Spirit, Lord. Speak to our hearts. Teach us through this word, remove from us any obstacles to it. May we be open and receptive to your inspired truth. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Several years ago now, uh Donna and I were at a local fast food restaurant eating a wholesome meal when a woman at a nearby table who was evidently from around here was talking to someone who appeared to be a friend of hers who was evidently new to the area. She was talking to her about the churches in our area. Of course we uh this peaked our Interest. We got a little closer. And uh snippets of the conversation included, Well now so and so church is pretty good. They preach from the Bible. I go to the Baptist church, but they don't have elders. I like Pastor So-and-so, but he believes in selection. And I just can't see that. The Bible says God so loved the world. I just can't believe in selection. Well, before we left, as you might imagine, I stopped at their table and mentioned that I thought one of the best churches in the area Well St. Stephen's. No, it was Liberty PCA and they should check it out. Neither of them was uh familiar with it. I didn't mention that I was afraid that Liberty's pastor, what's his name, might believe in selection too One of the most difficult biblical truths for a believer to attempt to get his or her head around is the doctrine of God's sovereignty in salvation. And in particular, how it can be reconciled with what the Bible clearly teaches about the individual's responsibility to repent of his or her sins and lay hold upon Christ for salvation. We can get our minds around one of those truths or the other, but it's a great stretch to get them around both. So I'd like us to revisit that again this morning. Because it's something that we keep running up against. Most believers will acknowledge that God is a sovereign king over all things. Kind of hard to Uh not acknowledge that. If you read Scripture, the Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and lifts up. He raises the poor from the dust and he lifts up the beggar from the heap, from the ash heap. 1 Samuel 2, 7. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations. Psalm 33 Whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and in earth, in the seas and all deep places. Psalm 135 There are many plans in a man's heart, nevertheless, the Lord's counsel that will stand. Proverbs 19, 21. But when it comes to salvation, the salvation of men and women, we tend to speak of God's sovereignty with a little less confidence. Is God in absolute control over the salvation of individual sinners, or has he voluntarily rescinded his control in such matters? If we assert that God is in control of our salvation, where does human responsibility come in? In other words, How can God hold a man responsible for rejecting the gospel message if that message cannot be embraced by him except by a supernatural work of grace in his heart? How is it possible to believe in both divine sovereignty and human responsibility? Now let's admit it, it would certainly be a lot easier for us. If the only truth we had to embrace and declare regarding the salvation of the lost is that unsaved men and women have a responsibility to repent of their sins and trust in Christ for salvation. It would be easier for us if we could just leave God's part of the equation out. And we could do that. If we could do just one other thing, stop consulting the Bible. If we stopped consulting the Bible and we relied only upon our common sense, we wouldn't have to confront such passages as Acts 13. Paul and Barnabas were preaching in Antioch in what is now Turkey, and because the Jews were by and large rejecting the message of the deity and resurrection of Christ, Paul and Barnabas began to preach the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us, they said, and then they quoted God's word to the one he called his servant in Isaiah forty-chap two, I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, that you should be for the for salvation to the ends of the earth. Then the Bible tells us when the Gentiles Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. And as many as, to get it accurately, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. 1348. Later, Paul received a vision compelling him to go to Macedonia, departing Asia for Europe. And at Philippi, he and his companion Silas spoke to some women who had gathered at a river. Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. Acts 16. Verse fourteen. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. If we stopped consulting the Bible, we wouldn't have to deal with first Corinthians Corinthians chapter 1, where Paul says, For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world. To put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world and the things which are despised, God has chosen. And the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in His presence If we stop consulting the Bible, we wouldn't have to deal with Ephesians 1. He chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame. Before him, in love, having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself. Why? According to the good pleasure of his will. We wouldn't have to uh, if we stop consulting the Bible, we wouldn't have to deal with 1 Thessalonians 5, for God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Or 2 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians 2. 13, but we are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord. Because God from the beginning chose you for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and belief of the truth. that's on the front of our bulletin this morning. If we stopped consulting the Bible, we wouldn't have to confront all those passages in the Bible that speak of God's elect. To elect means to choose, to pick out. We had an election not too long ago. We'll have one in 2018. You may hear about it. The word elect appears in various forms dozens of times in Scripture For example, it appears as an adjective identifying someone as having been chosen. In Isaiah 42, it is used in reference to the coming Messiah who would bring forth justice to the Gentiles. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my elect one. My soul delights. My elect one, my chosen one. But of course, it's used most frequently to identify those who have been chosen out of darkness into God's At the return of Christ, he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. thirty one. Shall not God avenge his own elect who cry out day and night to him? Luke eighteen seven. The Apostle Paul asks, Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? Romans A thirty three. And when he writes to the Christians in Thessalonica, he does so, knowing beloved brethren, your election by God. Now, I frankly admit it would be easier for my brain if I didn't have to believe that God is sovereign in salvation But I am constrained to believe it when I read such passages and when I think about what the Bible says about the depravity of man, our spiritual inability. We're described in our natural state as dead in trespasses and sins, Ephesians 2. 1. Jeremiah asks rhetorically, can the Ethiopian change change his skin, or the leopard his spots, then may you also do good who are accustomed to do evil. Jeremiah 13, 23 Behold, David said, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Psalm 51, verse 5. If I am as powerless to overcome sin as I am to change the color of my skin, if I was brought forth in iniquity, if I'm dead in my trespasses and sins, then clearly I need God's power to change me or to cleanse me, to give me life. Now it would be convenient for me to deny God's sovereignty and salvation and to focus solely on man's responsibility But then I would have to ignore what Jesus said about the necessity of the new birth. He told that religious leader, Nicodemus, Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. God. John 3. 3. The whole point of that conversation with Nicodemus seemed to be to teach him that it was a spiritual birth that was needed. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. And then he explained, the wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but cannot tell where it comes from or where it goes, so is everyone who is born of the Spirit. Now this coincides with that verse in Ephesians 2 that we started a few moments ago, you he made alive, you who were dead in trespasses and sins. Ephesians 2. 1 Who makes the spiritually dead alive? He does. You, he made alive. That which is born of the spirit is spirit Who is the instrumental cause of that new birth? The Spirit. Now, I'd like to be able to affirm that God is sovereign in the universe, except in that one area of salvation. Because in that area, he leaves it all up to us to either choose eternal life or to reject it. As I said, that would certainly make it easier. For my brain's filing system, I could file salvation under human responsibility and just be done with it. But then I come across passages that indicate that even repentance and faith. which God requires us to exercise in order to be saved, are described as being given by Him. The passage like that which we know best is is Ephesians 2 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. What is the gift of gift of God. That faith that he's talking about. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Acts 5. 31. God has exalted Jesus with his right hand to be a prince and a savior to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. Who gives us repentance. God does. In Acts 11, Peter explained to his fellow apostles and other believers why he went to the house of Cornelius, a Gentile, and baptized him in his household. And when they heard Peter's account of what happened and how the Holy Spirit descended upon Cornelius and those who were with him, we read, when they heard these things, they held their peace and glorified God, saying then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life. Where does that repentance to life come from? God granted it to the Gentiles. God is called the author and finisher of our faith. Now that's an odd way to put it if he's not involved. Hebrews 12, 2. If God's not involved in our exercising of our faith, then why is he called the author and finisher of it? Now, I don't have to try to convince you that it is our natural tendency to attempt to resist this truth. You may remember I remember hearing that a man once came to the great Baptist preacher, C. H. Spurgeon, saying that he had read the Bible through twenty times on his knees and he saw nothing about election there. Virgin, as you might imagine, responded, you might have seen it if you had read your Bible in a more comfortable position It is our natural tendency to resist this truth. In John 6, Jesus spoke of himself as the bread which came down from heaven. The people who heard him had a difficult time accepting his words. And then he said to them, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. Then he said We're getting applause now. That wasn't an applause line, but and then he spoke to them about eating his flesh. and drinking his blood. And he said again, no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. And then the scripture says From that time many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. Spurgeon commented, a true disciple sits at the feet of his master and believes what he is told, even when he cannot quite comprehend the meaning or see the reason for what his master utters. But these men had not the essential spirit of a disciple, and consequently when their instructor began to unfold the innermost parts of the rule of truth, they wouldn't listen to his disciples Reading of it. They would believe as far as they could understand, but when they could not comprehend, they turned on their heel and left the school of the great teacher. Besides, the Lord Jesus Christ had taught the doctrine of the sovereignty of God and of the need of the Spirit of God that men should be led to him. No man can come unto me except that were given him of given unto him of my Father. Here our Lord uttered a bit of old-fashioned free grace doctrine. Such as people nowadays do not like. They call it Calvinism, and they put it aside among the old exploded tenets which this enlightened age knows nothing of. What right they have to ascribe to the Genevan reformer a doctrine that is as old as the hills, I do not know. But our Lord Jesus Christ never hesitated. To fling this truth into the face of his enemies. He told them, You believe not, because you are not my sheep. As I said to you, no one can come to me except the Father who has sent me Let me draw him. Here he tells them plainly that they could not come unless the Father gave them the grace to come. This humbling doctrine they could not receive and so So they went aside. But of course, just as clear as is the doctrine of God's sovereignty in our salvation, is the doctrine of man's responsibility to respond to the preaching of the gospel. We see it in the preaching of the apostles. Peter priests, you denied the Holy One and you asked for a murderer, Barabbas. To be granted to you, and you kill the Prince of Life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we apostles are witnesses. Repent, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. So that the times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. Acts three. You see here, Peter places the responsibility of repentance squarely on the shoulders of these Jerusalem citizens at Jerusalem. and pilgrims. The Lord Jesus rebuked the cities where he had done most of his mighty works. Korazin, Beseda, for example, He said, if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre in Zidane, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. He said in Capernaum, if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. Matthew 11 Jesus said, he who believes in God's Son is not condemned, but he who does not believe is condemned already, because he's not believed in the only begotten Son of God. John 3. And you remember he referred to a tragedy that had occurred, the collapse of a tower that killed 18 people. He said, Do you think that those were worse sinners than all other men who dwelt in Jerusalem? You think the fifty or whatever the number is of people who were killed in Houston recently because of the hurricane? Do you think they were uh more uh uh the greater sinners than anyone else who dwelt in Jerusalem? Uh well dwelt in in uh in Houston. In other words, do you think this was in some sense God's judgment upon them because they were particularly wicked And Jesus said, I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Luke 13. And so, as you know, the message of the gospel is repent and believe. After his resurrection, Jesus told his apostles, thus it's written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead on the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations. Jesus said, what we're to preach to all nations is not just remission of sins, forgiveness , except Jesus as your personal Savior, but repentance and remission of sins. The scriptures declare, Whosoever will let him come, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you are a Christian, you have experienced this. You've called upon the name of the Lord. You've said, ugh, I see my sins. I don't like them. Lord have mercy upon me. Lord forgive me. Lord save me. You've repented of your sins and you've put your faith in Jesus Christ. If you're a Christian, you've done that. Now again, uh some of you may have done that when you were so young you don't have any real clear recollection of it, but somewhere along the line you put your faith in Jesus Christ. You were born from above, and that's how you were enabled to do that. Because that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So what I'm saying is that appears to be a contradiction If God is sovereign in salvation, if he is the one, the only one, who brings men and women, boys and girls to saving faith, if he is indeed the author and finisher of our faith. Then why do the scriptures call upon men to repent and believe? And how can God hold men responsible for not exercising the faith that He Himself did not choose to impart? Dr. J. I. Packard, professor of theology at Regent College in Vancouver, when he wrote this book, wrote an excellent little book on the subject called Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God And he used the word antinomy to describe God's sovereignty and man's responsibility. It's, I think, somewhat helpful. He cites the uh the shorter Oxford Dictionary definition of an antinomy antinomy as a contradiction between conclusions which seem equally logical, reasonable, or necessary What Packer writes, for our purposes, however, this definition is not quite accurate. The opening word should read an appearance of controversy. For the whole point of an antinomy in theology at any rate is that it's not a real contradiction, though it looks like one. It's an apparent incompatibility between two apparent truths. An antinomy exists when a pair of principles stand side by side, seemingly irreconcilable, yet both undeniable. There are cogent reasons for it believing Each of them rests on clear and solid evidence, but it's a mystery to you how they can be squared with each other. You see that each must be true on its own, but you do not see how they can both be true together. And then he gives the example from physics of light. There is cogent evidence to show that light consists of waves, and equally cogent evidence to show that it consists of particles. It is not apparent how light can be both waves and particles, but the evidence is there, and so neither view can be ruled out in favor of the other, or explained in terms of the other. The two seemingly incompatible positions must be held together, and both must be treated as true. Such a necessity scandalizes our tidy little minds, no doubt, but there is no help for it if we are to be loyal to the facts. And he continues, man is a responsible moral agent, though he is also divinely controlled. Man is divinely controlled, though he is also a responsible moral agent. God's sovereignty is a reality. Man's responsibility is a reality too. The Creator has told us that He is both a sovereign Lord and a righteous judge, and that should be enough for us. Now to our finite Lines, this thing is inexplicable. It sounds like a contradiction. And our first reaction is to complain that it is absurd. Paul notices this complaint in Romans 9. Thou wilt say then unto me, why does he, God, find fault? Why does he yet find fault for who has resisted his will? I mean, we're only doing what he wants, right? We're not resisting his will If, as our Lord God orders all our actions, how can it be reasonable or right for Him to also act as our judge and condemn our shortcomings? Observe how Paul replies. He doesn't attempt to demonstrate the propriety of God's actions. Instead, he rebukes the spirit of the question. Nay, but O man, who art thou that repiest against God? What the objector has to learn is that he He, a creature and a sinner, has no right whatsoever to find fault with the revealed ways of God. Creatures are not entitled to register complaints against their creator As Paul goes on to say, God's sovereignty is wholly just, for his right to dispose of his creatures is absolute. It should be enough for us to know that God is wise and just The problem we face is we're trying to comprehend the plans of a God of infinite wisdom. And there are things about his nature and his providence that That we can't understand. But when we think about it, that ought not to surprise us, right? We can't comprehend w how one God exists in three persons. We don't know anybody else like that, or how Jesus can be both God and man in two distinct natures and yet one person. And we can't understand how God can be sovereign in salvation and yet man be a responsible moral agent. The Westminster Confession says, God has freely and unchangeably ordained whatsoever comes to pass, yet so as thereby neither is God the author of sin, nor is violence offered to the will of his creatures. The Lord said through the prophet Isaiah, as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Isaiah 55. The God who created this vast universe by his powerful word, who set the stars and planets in motion to establish the laws to keep it all in order, the God who placed us on this planet that is spinning around and hurtling through space, does it really shock you that there are things about God and his dealings with man that you not you cannot comprehend and your little three-pound computer. But of course, God equipped us with that little three-pound computer, and He does expect us to use it Use it, right? Till the battery runs down. So we shouldn't uh too quickly throw in the towel on difficult doctrines. It helps me to view it this way: when a sinner stands before God's judgment seat He will be judged for the sins he has committed, sins which his conscience recognizes as his own. His conscience will verify that he freely chose to commit them, and he will Knowledge that he is responsible for them. His judgment will be for his sins, not for rejecting the Savior, a Savior of whom he may have never heard. Now, however far we get in wrapping our heads around God's sovereignty and man's responsibility, Christians do not have the option of simply saying, I don't believe in it. I don't believe in it believe in election or selection or whatever you want to call it. If God speaks of his elect, his bride, his church, his sheep, his called ones, his chosen ones, then who are we to deny it? Now, we can fall off the horse on either side. What happens when we put too much emphasis upon man's responsibility? Then we begin to think and act as if the salvation of others depends solely upon us. If I can talk to my niece at just the right moment , with just the right combination of zeal and compassion and just the right illustrations, I might just win her to Christ. If in a worship service we can make the the right emotional appeal, followed by the right music and the sufficiently passionate invitation, we can elicit the right response. If we leave God's sovereignty out of the picture We can view evangelism as a battle of the wills, a battle that we can win if we learn and practice the right techniques. For example, a soul-winning booklet published in 1958. speaks of, quote, the controlled conversational technique. The booklet said, lay your hand firmly on the subject's shoulder. with a semi commanding tone of voice, say , Bow your head with me. Do not look at him. Bow your head first. Bowing your head first provides considerable Psychological pressure. Considerable psychological pressure? Is that what we are seeking? I heard R. C. Sprohl say that an evangelist once told him, Give me fifteen minutes with anyone, and I can get a profession of faith. But our heart's desire and prayer for others should be, as the Apostle Paul's was, that they might be saved, not simply make a profession of faith and parrot certain words, having been manipulated with psychological pressure Our prayer is that God would bless his word to enlighten their minds, that he would regenerate them and bring them to true saving faith. Amen? I remember hearing Pastor Hayes Minnick. He was the first uh pastor I remember, uh pastor of the church called the Orlando Bible Church that I attended when And my brother Doug began to witness to me and to my wife. We were uh twenty, twenty-one, somewhere in there. And I remember him saying, uh, and this is what uh well over forty five years ago I guess that he he knew of a church where every staff member, assistant pastor, youth pastor, minister of youth music, etc. every staff member member was expected by the senior pastor to have at least one person at what they called the altar every Sunday. That is, one person who was prepared to go forward at the senior pastor's gospel. I would be surprised if very many of those decisions made in that sort of an atmosphere proved over time. To be genuine. Paul said, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. Now the other error, and the one we Presbyterians are more inclined to fall into, Is to place too much emphasis upon God's sovereignty and neglect human responsibility. The responsibility of the individual sinner to repent and believe, and the responsibility of the individual Christian to evangelize. If we overemphasize God's sovereignty and neglect the truth of man's responsibility, then we can lull ourselves to sleep while men and women and children perish all around us. us, comforting ourselves with the assurance that God is in control and He will save all those whom He chooses to save. You probably heard the classic illustration of Of this, it was a meeting of uh Baptist ministers over 200 years ago now, and William Carey, young man, stood up to express his burden for the millions in foreign lands who were perishing without Christ. And he proposed that they pro that they get together a concerted, that they make a concerted effort to reach the Those millions of people without Christ. And the chairman of the Minister's Fraternal spoke up and he said, Sit down, young man. When God is pleased to convert a heathen, he will do it without your aid or mine. Well, the old Christian had learned the lesson of God's sovereignty. He might say it received An advanced degree in the doctrines of grace, but it seems that in the process he had forgotten the first things, the lessons he presumably learned as a young Christian. Go ye into all the world. And preach the gospel to every preacher. How shall they hear without a preacher? How shall they preach unless they're sent? Now, how should these twin truths, the sovereignty of God, the responsibility of God Of man affect us. Well, first of all, the truth of God's sovereignty does not remove our duty to evangelize. The secret things belong to the Lord, but those things which are revealed belong to us. That we may do all the words of this law, Deuteronomy 29, 29. One of the things God has revealed to us Is that we are to have a part in reaching the world with the gospel. Now, imagine you work at a factory and the management announces that there's a new product, widgets. And you're given a specific job on the assembly line. And when your shift is over, your supervisor takes you aside and says, hey, what happened? You didn't do your job. You were supposed to take part A and put it on part B, but you didn't do it. And you say, Oh that. Well I heard the decision of the management to make those new widgets. And I know these guys. What they decide will in fact be done. I know the widgets will be made, so I didn't think it was necessary for me to do anything. Right? What's your supervisor going to say? Well, you're right. The widgets are going to be made, but not by you. You're out of here. Well, this is the parable of the talents in modern terms. Yes, God's going to save his elect, that's true, but the means he has chosen to use is the witness of his children. Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. The proclamation of the good news by those who have themselves been saved Now some may object, wait a minute, how can I tell my friend that if he believes he'll be saved, when I know that if he's not among the elect, he can't be saved? You can do it because Jesus did it Jesus knew that all that the Father gives me shall come to me, that no one can come to me unless his father draws him, and yet he told the masses to come to him, to rest in him, to believe in him, to trust in him. The responsibility to repent and believe was firmly on them. You can do it because it's quite true. He who believes will be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Romans 10:13 Now, from our human perspective, and that is the perspective that we humans have, whoever will embrace Christ in simple faith, like the thief on the cross, will be saved. Your friend does not need to know or understand the sovereignty of God involved in all of that. He does not need to believe that God is the author of his salvation. He simply needs to experience it. A true understanding of the sovereignty of God and salvation can actually be an encouragement to evangelize. Right? We can be confident that, as we saw in Acts 13, as many as are appointed to eternal life will believe. When Paul began to preach in the immoral city of Corinth, the Lord encouraged him with these words. Do not be afraid, but speak, and do not keep silent, for I have many people in this city. God already had many people in this city. People didn't know it. Paul didn't know who they were. Paul continued preaching there for 18 months and it was revealed to him experiencing That the Lord did have many people in that city. When we take Jesus at his word, and we believe that his sheep will hear his voice and follow him, we can proclaim the word with boldness. Knowing that it will not return void, it will accomplish the purpose for which it's sent. If not for our confidence that God is able to breathe upon dried bones and make them live , We could rightly conclude that we're wasting our breath talking to the natural man who receives not the things of the Spirit of God Perhaps that's why historically those who embrace the sovereignty of God and salvation have been among the greatest instruments in God's hands for the proclamation of the gospel. Think about it. Men like George Whitfield, Robert Murray McChain, and David Brainerd and C. H. Spurgeon. Men like John Newton and John Bunyan and John Owen and John Edwards and John Calvin and John Flavel and John Knox. You want your son to be a great preacher, you'd be wise to name him John. Amen. How about you? Do you put so much emphasis upon trying to get someone to say the right words or pray the right prayer, that you've forgotten that God does the saving? Or have you fallen off on the other side of the horse? Are you using your belief in the sovereignty of God as an excuse to neglect the Great Commission, to allow your friends and loved ones to leave this earth without ever hearing one word of concern for their souls from your cold lips? Perhaps you are the instrument God intends to use to bring that person to true saving faith The Apostle Paul was fully aware that salvation was not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy. But it was also Paul who said, I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. He said, I am become all things to all men, that I might by any means gain some. So, Christian, let me encourage you to do something. not doing it already. Pick two or three people that you know who are outside of Christ and begin to pray for them. Begin to pray for them regularly and look for opportunities to tell them what Jesus means to you. How he's changed your life. to And then look for opportunities to proclaim the gospel to them. The subjective testimony, that's what God has done in your heart, and the objective testimony testimony, the gospel, the good news. Explain it in your own words. Give them a booklet that that explains the gospel clearly. Give them a CD of a sermon. Invite them to church. Invite them to a Bible study. Invite them to your home. Invite them to lunch. And then pray that God will bring others into his or her life to demonstrate Christ's love and convey the gospel message. Pray that God will open those blind eyes. Let me uh leave you with an encouraging story that I've recounted before. The story of a woman who boldly witnessed for Christ in a very dangerous situation. Her name was Louise, and according to the Associated Press report, she was at home in Memphis, Tennessee, one day, 1984, when a young escaped convict who had been serving a 26-year -old Sentenced for second-degree murder, forced his way into her home by prodding her husband with a shotgun. Louise, who was 73 years old at the time, showed kindness to the escaper. She fixed him breakfast. She constrained him to pray. And then she convinced him to surrender. The escapee, whose name was Riley Arsenaux Later said that his encounter with Luis was the beginning of his journey toward Christ. He uh he was returned to prison. He he did uh Turn himself in. He returned to prison. He got twenty years added to his sentence for trying to escape. And he tried to escape again four years later. And he ended up in solitary confinement. He says that there , on his knees, in solitary confinement, he prayed for salvation. He recounted the first time he ever prayed with his wife and with Louis. Louise in a three-way phone conversation. He said, Louise started off the prayer by saying, God, this is your child. You know me, and I know you. And Arsenaux said to himself, Paroled in nineteen ninety-five, he main con maintained contact with Louise, and he spoke at her funeral in August of 1998 to shouts of Amen. And when he entered the pulpit, he left, recalling her fearlessness in dealing with him and negotiating his surrender. Surrender. She told the police to put down their guns, said I was going to surrender. He said his last visit with her was in January of 1998. He said she was just so happy to see me. He still seemed surprised when he said it. Here's an example of both God's sovereignty and our Responsibility. The sovereignty of God in bringing this man to that woman's house, a believer's home, and Louise's bold, faithful witness. He heard the gospel, but he needed to repent and believe. We have a gospel to proclaim that is empowered by God to change Lives. Amen. It's empowered by God to change lives. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But to us who are saved, it's the power of God. Let's pray. Lord, help us not to fall off the horse in one way or the other. to trust so much in your sovereignty that we don't proclaim the gospel, or to trust so much in our responsibility and the responsibility of individuals that we don't trust you to work in their hearts and your time in your way. Lord help us as your children To believe your word, even when we cannot fully understand your word, even when we cannot comprehend it, because your thoughts are not Not our thoughts, and your ways are not our ways. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.