Would you turn please to Psalm 40 this morning? 40th Psalm. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs with the Staffords. There they go. Psalm forty. Psalm of David. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined to me and heard my cry He also brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my steps. He has put a new song in my mouth, praise to our God. Many will see it and fear, and will trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man who makes the Lord his trust. and does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord, my God, are your wonderful works which you've done. And your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Sacrifice and offering you did not desire. My ears you have opened. Burnt offering and sin offering you did not require. Then I said, Behold, I come. In the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God, and your law is within my heart. I have proclaimed the good news of righteousness in the great assembly. Indeed, I do not restrain my lips. O Lord, you yourself know I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly. Do not withhold your tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me. For innumerable evils have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. Therefore my heart fails me Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion who seek to destroy my life. Let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor who wish me evil. Let them be confounded because of their shame, who say to me, Aha! Aha! Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let such as love your salvation say continually, the Lord be magnified. But I am poor and needy. Yet the Lord thinks upon me. You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. Speak to us now through your word, Lord. We're hungry, we're empty, we need your truth, we need your food, the food that satisfies. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. When you are sharing the good news of Christ with a family member or a friend, And you're making the point that the coming of Christ, his birth, his life, his sacrificial death, his entrance to Jerusalem, many, and his glorious resurrection, of course. were all prophesied many hundreds of years before Jesus came. You might take your friend or family member Remember to Isaiah 9 6. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful, counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Etc. You might take under Micah 5, too, but thou Bethlehem, Ephrata, though thou be little amongst the thousands of Judah, yet out of ye out of you shall come forth he who is to be ruler in Israel whose goings forth have been from old, from everlasting. You might take them to Isaiah 53, where we read of God's servants. Oh, we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. But the Lord has laid upon him the iniquity of us all. He was despised, rejected. Of man, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. You might take them to Zechariah, Christ's entrance to Jerusalem. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, your king is coming to you. He's meek and lowly riding upon a donkey. Zechariah 9. 9. You might take them to the very last book of the Old Testament, Malachi chapter 3. Behold, I will send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before him. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. But you would probably not take them to Psalm 40, even though it's a remarkable prophecy. Of Christ. Long before the announcement to old Zechariah that his wife Elizabeth would give birth to the forerunner, that he would come and prepare the way of the Lord. Long before Gabriel's startling announcement to Mary that she would give birth to one who would reign over the house of Jacob forever. Long before the journey to Bethlehem and the wondrous birth, the eternal Father and the Son covenanted together. That the Son would become flesh, would leave the celestial glories above, and come here and obey his father with his law. Written upon his heart. This psalm that we read this morning, which predates the coming of Christ by about a thousand years, gives us insight into the Son's willingness to come as well as his experiences here while he tabernacled among us. One of the most remarkable things about the Old Testament scriptures is how the authors, filled with and carried by the Holy Spirit Would seem at times to depart from their train of thought and make prophetic utterances about people and nations that did not yet exist. Often they would speak of the Messiah who was to come. Of course, the Messiah is the eternal one, but they would speak of the Messiah who was to come. about whom they would have no knowledge themselves, right, without a divine revelation. And one such remarkable instance occurs here in Psalm 40. If this were the only Old Testament prophecy of Jesus, we would be in awe of it. But as it's only one of dozens, it may not even come to mind when we think of Messianica. Prophecies. David had described at the beginning of the Psalm how he waited patiently upon the Lord, how the Lord in his time brought him up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set his feet upon a rock, and established his goings. Put a new song in his mouth, a song of praise to God. He speaks in verse 5 of God's wonderful works, which cannot be fully recounted. Many, O Lord, my God, are your wonderful works which What you've done. Your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them, they're more than can be numbered. And then without warning, David launches into a passage that is clearly prophetic. And that is affirmed by the New Testament book of Hebrews, chapter 10, to be a description of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 6. Sacrifice and offering you did not desire. My ears you have opened. Burnt offering and sin offering you did not require. Sacrifice, offering, bird offerings, sin offerings. There was a time, of course, when God asked these things of his people. But they were always for his people's benefit, not for God's. God didn't require them. He was never benefited by an offering, whether sacrificial or financial. God's not benefited by what we bring to him. He already owns the cattle on a thousand hills. All the silver and the gold is his. This is his world. He created it. He could create others if he chose. He was never benefited by an offering. Why then did he command that bulls and goats and sheep and doves be offered in his worship? Obvious question. Why then did he command it? Well, it was for our instruction, for the instruction of God's people. It was a picture. All those things were pictures of a great truth. That sin demands atonement. Specifically, that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. These sacrifices, the offering of bulls and goats and calves, those things were for our benefit. Not for gods. They were patterns or types of the one true sacrifice which was yet to come. And the fact that they had to be offered over and over again, year after year, evidenced that they weren't complete, that they were rather pointing forward to something that was It's not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins. Hebrews 10 4. So the Lord Jesus, speaking prophetically here through Psalm 40, refers to his own coming. As the ultimate fulfillment of all those animal sacrifices. But in the process, he uses an interesting phrase in verse 6 : Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, my ears you have opened. Now, perhaps that simply refers to the fact that the son was quick to do his father's will. His ears were open to his father's word. I do always those things that please him, Jesus said His ears were always open to the voice of the Father. And so in obedience he came as our sacrifice. Now that's certainly true, but Hebrew language scholars have pointed out that the passage literally says, My ears you have bored, or my ears you have pierced. Think of uh You may recall uh the Mosaic Law required that when a Hebrew slave, a Hebrew slave, was freed, seventh year, if he chose of his own will to continue in his master's service, hey, I like it here, I like my job, I like what I do, I I like you, I like uh you know, I like serving you. My master, if he if he chose to continue in in in in this case in employment, his ear was to be pierced with an awl. As evidence that he was a willing servant, a slave by choice. So when the Lord Jesus says prophetically, My ears you have pierced, he may be declaring that he was his father's willing servant. My ears you have pierced. Look at verse seven. Then I said, Behold, I come. In the scroll of the book it is written of me I delight to do your will, O my God, and your law is within my heart. Behold, I come In the scroll of the book, it is written of me, when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. In the scroll of the book, it is written of me. In the scroll of God's book, it was most certainly written of him. The animals slain to cover our first parents, the promise of one who would bruise the serpent's head, the ark of safety for the world in judgment, the ram slain in the place of Abraham's son Isaac The rejected stone, Joseph, who was made the head of the corner. The Passover lamb of Exodus, bringing salvation to those who applied the blood to the doorposts. The rock which quenched the people's thirst in the wilderness, the manna from heaven which fed God's people, the bronze serpent in the wilderness that was lifted up for the healing of sinners. The tabernacle, the temple, David, the anointed shepherd, king, Job, Job's living Redeemer, who would stand in the latter day upon the earth. The wisdom personified in the book of Proverbs, the shepherd who leads and feeds his sheep, Psalm 23, the suffering savior of Psalm 22. two. The Son who would rule with a rod of iron in Psalm two. The King of Glory of Psalm 24. The king anointed by God in Psalm 45. The priest after the order of Melchizedek from Psalm 24. Psalm 110. And that's all before you get to the Old Testament prophets. Truly, the Messiah could say, Behold, I come in the scroll of the book, it is written of me. One of our members said to me last week that in reading through Romans, she realized that the Old Testament believers were saved the same way we are saved. through the Messiah. And of course she's quite right about that. No one has ever been saved apart from the Messiah. Let me say it again. No one has ever been saved, no one ever will be saved apart from the Messiah, apart from Jesus Christ. No one ever could be saved apart from the Messiah because apart from the Messiah, apart from the Lord Jesus, there is no redemption. This is why Jesus said: no one can come to the Father except through me. You can't come because of your sins. I can't come because of my sins. And that's the case of every person who's ever been born. Other than, of course, the Lord Jesus Himself. But what confused this member, at least for a time, was, well, what about all those people who died before Jesus came? How could they be saved? Jesus hadn't come yet. He hadn't gone to the cross yet. He hadn't been raised from the dead yet. What about all those people? Well, it was the same for them as for us. Anyone who died without being redeemed would have to be judged by a holy God for his sins. But anyone who was redeemed had his or her sins. Covered. He had the sins atoned for. But how could someone's sins be atoned for before Christ came? Before his miraculous birth, sinless life, sacrificial death? How could a sinner's sins be covered before the coming of Christ? Well, the same way a sinner's sins are covered now. They're covered by faith. He that believes on the Son has life. Jesus put it this way with the religious leader. Nicodemus. He who believes in the Son of God is not condemned. He who believes is not condemned. But he who does not believe is condemned already. Why is he condemned already? Because of the fall of man. Because we've rebelled against our God, our creator. He who does not believe is condemned already. As Paul put it in Romans, there's none righteous, no, not one. Because the only remedy is Christ, Jesus went on to say in John 3, because they have not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. They're condemned already. I mentioned it this way before, but it's uh helpful, I think. It's it's like someone who who's been bitten by a poisonous snake. The poison is already coursing through their veins There's only one antidote. If they don't choose to take the antidote, they're condemned already. They have no hope. How were people saved before Christ's birth? The only way people have ever been saved. By faith. By believing God's promise that He's going to send us the Messiah. Or that He's already sent us the Messiah. That's the only way to be saved. Genesis 15 says of Abraham, he believed in the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. Abraham's faith was accounted as righteousness. Abraham was not righteous. No one is. He was a sinner, but his faith in the Lord and And in the promise of the Redeemer was accounted as if it were righteousness. He was saved by faith just as we are saved. He was looking forward to the coming of the Messiah. Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Jesus said. What? Thou art not yet fifty years old. Have you seen Abraham? This was enough for the Jews. They took up stones to cast at him. What kind of talk is this, John 8? Abraham rejoiced to see my day. What is he talking about? In faith, Abraham looked forward to the coming of the Messiah. He didn't know his name was Jesus, but he knew he was coming. He was saved the same way the same way we are saved. Now we know much more about the Messiah. We know his name. uh uh Yeshua or Jesus. We know about his birth, his life, his betrayal, his crucifixion, his resurrection. We look back to the Messiah while Abraham, Moses, David, Isaiah look forward to the Messiah. This is why Jesus could say, Abraham rejoiced to see my day. This is why godly old Simeon entered the temple. And took the baby Jesus out of the arms of Mary and Joseph and held him up and said, Now Lord, allow your servant to depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen your salvation and the glory of thy people Israel. A light to lighten the Gentiles. He was looking forward to his coming. He knew Christ was coming. He didn't know exactly when, but the Lord had revealed to him that he wouldn't die until he had seen the Christ. What a blessing. And then the Lord revealed to him, This is the one. And he said, Now Lord, you can let me he sound like he wanted to leave. Now Lord, allow you can allow your servant to depart in peace. For mine eyes have seen your salvation. Behold, I come in the scroll of the book it is written of me. Psalm 40 goes on. I delight to do your will, O my God. Verse 8, I delight to do your will. We're reminded of his prayer in the garden, not as I will, but as thou wilt. Not my will, but yours be done. My food, he said to the disciples, John 4, my food is to do the will of him who sent me. He delighted to do his father's will. That was his food. I don't need bread. My food is to do the will of him that sent me. They said, have you eaten anything? Well, well, my food is to do the will of him that sent me There's never been a man who so fully did the will of the Father. I am come not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. But note the text doesn't merely say he did God's will. It says he delighted to do God's will. And there's a difference, isn't there? There's a major difference. A y uh a son or daughter who grudgingly, belatedly, after much cajoling, obeys his father, has done his father's will , but he hasn't delighted to do the father's will. Well, Jesus didn't balk at enduring the humiliation of leaving the glory above and limiting himself to the confines of the human body. He didn't balk at the humiliation of a life of poverty and itinerant preaching. And although the prospect of being forsaken by his father and enduring his father's wrath, as if he were the vilest of sinners was horrifying to him. Causing him to say, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful even unto death. Yet he went to the cross willingly, as there was clearly no other way to save. His bride. To save the church. A man doesn't uh uh uh y uh long for the opportunity to stand in front of his wife as someone's firing a bullet at her and take the bullet, but he will willingly do it if that's the only way to save her That's what Christ did for his bride. I delight to do your will, oh my God. And then he says, your law is within my heart. Your law is within my heart. Every man whose conscience is not completely defiled has some remnant of God's law written in his heart. Romans 2. The Gentiles, the unbelievers, show the work of the law written in their hearts, Paul said. Even someone who's never heard the sixth commandment knows somehow in his heart that it's wrong to commit murder. You don't have to have ever heard the seventh commandment to know in your heart that it's wrong for you to commit adultery. That's your conscience. That's God's law written upon your heart. But the believer has God's law more deeply imprinted on his or her heart. Oh, how I love your law. It is my meditation. Psalm 1199. The Lord Jesus was the one man who had God's law written fully and engraved deeply within his heart, because his heart was the heart of God. Laws within my heart. Look at verse 9. I have proclaimed the good news of righteousness in the great assembly. Indeed, I do not restrain my lips. Oh Lord, you yourself know. I haven't hidden your righteousness within my heart. I've declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly. Think for a minute about Jesus as a preacher of righteousness in the great assembly. We know that on one occasion there were 5,000 men in attendance, as Jesus taught. Plus women and children. 4,000 on another occasion. This was in normally deserted places, far from towns So it makes one wonder how many gathered then when he preached in Bethseda, or when he preached in the Decapolis, or in Capernaum. Matthew says, great multitudes followed him. Great multitudes. Luke speaks of an innumerable number of people who would gather to hear him, so many that they trampled one on another. Luke chapter twelve, verse one. So many they trampled on one another. Mark describes a multitude following him. Truly Jesus could say, I have proclaimed the good news of righteousness in the great assembly. And note what he proclaimed. The good news of righteousness, verse 9. Your faithfulness, your salvation, your loving kindness, your truth, verse 10. He says in verse 10, I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. He proclaimed it. He declared it. He declared God's righteousness. He declared, whoever breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. He declared God God's righteousness. He declared his father's faithfulness. Heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of much more value than they? He declared his father's salvation: the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. If anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. He declared God's loving kindness. The Father Himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came forth from God. John 17 He declared God's truth. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you sent. Not one jot or one tittle of the law shall fail till all these things are fulfilled. He declared God's truth. And as the Lord Jesus surveyed his ministry, which was as clear to him, by the way, in one thousand BC, as it's clear to us in 2000, whatever it is, uh A. D. He could say, I have not hidden your righteousness. I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth. from the great assembly. To sum up all, wrote Spurgeon, we may say that our Lord's three years ministry was matchless in its Perfection, such as he could look back upon without a single regret. It was matchless as to its doctrines, and as to its completeness, it was unsurpassed. All his life long there is no flaw, there is no excess. No spiders allowed on the falcus here He says, I finished the work which thou gavest me to do. He could truly say as he laid down his earthly ministry and ascended to exercise his ministrations before the throne. I have truly I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. Note uh if in fact the prophetic aspect of the Psalm continues in verse eleven and following Then we have here a foreshadowing of Christ the Good Shepherd preparing to bear the weight of the sins of his sheep. Look at verse 11. Do not withhold your tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me, for innumerable evils have surrounded me. Reminds me of Psalm 22. Strong bulls of Bashin, you know, have surrounded me. They're mocking me. If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross. See, so he says here, uh, do not withhold your tender burning. Innumerable evils, verse 12, have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head, therefore my heart fails me. How much this sounds like our Savior in the garden. When being in agony, he prayed the more earnestly that the cup of his father's wrath might pass from him. Lord If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And if this continues this messianic passage, then there's here further insight into his pleading. God's loving kindness and the truth of God that he had formerly preached. He's saying, Innumerable evils have surrounded me. I want you to imagine for a moment that every sin you've ever committed all your life Were laid upon your account at one time, and you were held to account of it. This afternoon God holds you to account, let us say, for every single sin you've ever committed. What a great weight that would be I'll imagine that not only are all your sins laid upon you, but the sins of everyone else in this room laid upon you. What a great weight that would be. Now imagine all the sins of every believer in the state of Maryland, every believer in the United States, every believer in the world, every believer through all ages. Imagine all of that weight being laid upon you. Innumerable evils have surrounded. He became sin for us, he who knew no sin. My iniquities have overtaken me. As one theologian put it, the transfer of sin to the Savior was real, and produced in him as a man the horror which forbade him to look into the face of God, bowing him down with crushing anguish and woe intolerable. I'm not able to look up. I'm not able to look up There my God bore all my guilt. This through grace can be believed. But the horrors which he felt are too vast to be conceived None can penetrate through thee, doleful dark Gethsemane. Sins against the holy God, sins against thy righteous laws, sins against his love, his blood Sins against his name and cause, sins immense as is the sea. Hide me, O Gethsemane. My iniquities have overtaken me I'm not able to look up. There was for the first and last time in eternity a cloud between the Father and the Son. A barrier. He couldn't look up to see his father's smile because he was made sin, he who knew no sin. And God is a pure eyes and to behold evil. look upon iniquity. Jesus felt the horror of sin 's consequence, the wrath of his father. Therefore my heart fails me, he said. He began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed, we read Matthew 26. He was sore amazed and very heavy, we read. Mark fourteen of Jesus in the garden. Sore amazed, terrified, horrified at the process Look at verse thirteen. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion who seek to destroy my life. Let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor who wish me evil. Let them be confounded because of their shame who say to me, Aha, aha Now Jesus didn't desire personal vengeance upon his enemies, those strong bulls of Bashan that surrounded him upon the cross The hypocritical priests and scribes who were willing to kill a man that they knew to be innocent simply to protect their own position and possibly their own nation. But though he didn't desire personal vengeance, he knew God would glorify himself through judgment upon the nation of Israel. That's why he said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. Verse 16 following, let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let such as love your salvation say continually, the Lord be Magnified. But I am poor and needy. Yet the Lord thinks upon me. You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. How about you? Do you love God's salvation? Do you love that message of life? Can you sing it from your hearts? I I love to tell God the story of unseen things above. Jesus sent his glory. Jesus sent his love. If your life on earth were to end this week Would you be able to say, I have not hidden your righteousness in my heart? I've declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I've declared it. Have you declared it? Your family members, your friends, those you meet, have you declared God's salvation? And his faithfulness? Have you invested your spiritual gifts for the good of the body of Christ? What a comfort it'll be to know at life's end that you have not restrained your lips What a wondrous, gracious act it was for the Son to leave the glories above and come to this sincursed earth, delighting to do his Father's will, proclaiming his righteousness, his faithfulness, his salvation, his loving kindness, his truth. And then to bear those innumerable evils that surrounded him, the iniquities of sinners that overtook him. Have you come to Him and rested your faith in him? Is he your Redeemer? Is he your Savior? Do you know the significance of Christmas? Or is this just what you go through every year at this time? Do you know why Jesus came? Do you know why we celebrate his birth? Do you know the true meaning of Christ's coming to earth? Do you see that he came to be a sacrifice for sinners, to lay down his life for his sheep to give his life a ransom for many. Well if you have any doubt about that, if you that is, if you have any question in your mind as to whether uh you've really gotten this settled with the Lord, you can come to him Today. What do I mean? I mean you come to God and you simply say, God, I acknowledge it, I recognize it, I admit it, I'm a sinner. Some of the things that come out of my mouth Some of the thoughts that enter my mind? Some of the things I've done in my past that nobody even knows about? And nobody but you. God, I'm a sinner. I know it. I'm sorry. God forgive me. You say in your word that there's a way for me to be forgiven, for a way for me to receive eternal life, a way for me to have all those sins taken off me and placed upon Jesus. Lord, that's what I want. Forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You come to God that way. You come to God that way as a little child, not proud and puffed up about all your accomplishments and your spiritual successes. You come to God just as a sinner, empty-handed. Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to your cross I click. You come to God that way. And he promises. He'll forgive all your sins. He'll adopt you into his family. He'll give you everlasting life. You'll be with him forever. Without being Cumbered by sin anymore. Pure and spotless and holy. In God's presence. Rejoicing in Him, serving Him. Won't you come to him today? You know, I I mentioned it's every year it comes back to me. It was this time of the year when God opened my heart and drew Me to saving faith. And I remember sitting in church early in December thinking, boy, I'd love to get this thing settled before Christmas. Because I want Christmas to mean something. Won't you come to him today? Let this be your first Christmas as a Christian. Pray. Oh Lord, how wondrous is your word. Thousand years before Jesus came We read this prophecy. In the scroll of the book, it is written of me. Behold, I come. Lord. I pray that he might come to hearts here this day. That's our prayer, Lord. And we offer it through Christ. Amen.