If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and turn to First Corinthians fifteen as we stand together. To read verses twelve through nineteen. Interestingly enough, last Easter I preached on verses three Through 11. So I'm just picking up where I left off last year. Beginning in verse 12. Now, if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there's no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain. We are even found to be misrepresenting God because we testified about God that he raised Christ from the dead, whom he did not raise, if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and you are still in your sins. And those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come to sit at your feet once again, as we do every week, to learn from you, to hear from you And to have the gospel proclaimed to us and applied to us afresh. Lord, as we come before you this morning, we pray that you would take your word and that you would write it on our hearts and that you would make us even more sure. Of the resurrection of Christ, that you would fill us with joy because of the factuality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We ask this in your precious name, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. Well, as of the last couple of years, there's been a movement happening in Christian circles and even just outside of Christian circles on the fringe, called Christian deconstruction. You may have heard of this. I first heard of it, strangely enough, a few years ago when I was living in Pennsylvania, pastoring the church I was at right before here. I met with a uh a chaplain at a Christian, a local Christian academy, uh, a Christian school. And it was K through eight. Kind of like LCS here. And uh in the community. And I met with this this chaplain and and I asked him what are some of the challenges that you find in your job as you try to to minister to and pour yourself into the lives of young people and students. And I'll never forget what he said because it shocked me I remember him saying, well, I think a lot of the kids these days are really struggling in their their Christian faith, and so what I do is I come alongside of them and I I help them to deconstruct their faith And I sat there like what? I said, you do what? And he's like, yeah, it's okay. I helped them deconstruct their faith. And I looked at him, I was like, d your bosses and the parents of these students know you're doing that? The point is clear, the illustration is clear. There is a movement. in our society. And it's largely a movement of people who've been raised in conservative evangelical Christian churches who have largely come to leave the Christian faith behind. Many of these people have been people who at one point made a profession of faith when they were younger, raised in godly Christian homes by very well-meaning parents. Who may have even been baptized upon a profession of faith if they're in a more of a baptistic kind of church But something happens along the way, and maybe it's an experience they had. Maybe it was going off to college and having their faith challenged intellectually and robustly from unbelieving professors that they were unprepared to face an answer, whatever the case may be. They tend to leave the Christian faith behind. There's a book I read recently called The Deconstruction of Christianity by Alyssa Childers, who's a uh an apologist and a podcaster. She is uh a conservative evangelical. Takes a deeper look at that movement. And if you're a parent, if you're a grandparent, I would really encourage you to look at that book as it really explores what the foundations of that movement really are and seeks to prepare people to confront that movement and to come alongside of their children or grandchildren and encourage them and give them the answers that they are looking for. You know, the Apostle Paul is not one to shy away from doubts. And we see that in our passage this morning. Because at the end of the day, things like Christian deconstruction are not new. They've been things that have been happening since the first century. Paul deals with these doubts in our passage, but he does so firmly and yet gently. And one of the things Paul does in our passage this morning, as I've just read for you, is he addresses some of the misconceptions that the Corinthians had about the resurrection of the dead, and he traces what the inevitable results of those misconceptions will be In fact, if you were listening carefully enough when I read through that, you'll notice that the passage is really laid out With several if-then statements that just build on one another. If-then, if this, then that. Then if that, then this, and so on and so forth. In fact, what he does is he traces out these ideas to show that if you really deconstruct the belief in the resurrection from the dead, it's going to have spiritually deadly consequences. And that really is what the main idea of our passage is. And if you're visiting with us this morning, you can turn the page over in your bulletin on page six. You'll see The sermon idea printed there for you. But the idea is this: if Jesus' resurrection did not really happen, then the Christian faith is in vain. And we are still dead in our sins. That's really the idea that Paul is getting across in this passage. If Jesus' resurrection did not really happen, then the Christian faith is in vain, and we are still dead in our sins. And so this argument that Paul lays out breaks down into two kind of primary um uh heads of argument here. And the first one In verses twelve through fifteen, our first point is the hypothetical vanity of faith Notice I put hypothetical in there because when you talk about an if-then statement, that is what Paul is doing. He is essentially assuming the truth of a false statement. And he is laying, assuming that for the sake of argument and laying out what the consequences will be. He focuses on the hypothetical. So we look at the hypothetical vanity Now look at verse 12 with me again. You'll see the problem that undercuts apostolic preaching that Paul is facing in this context. He wrote, now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection from the dead? Again, notice the if-then statement. Now, in this case, Paul is actually stating something that is true in the first part of the if. If Christ is proclaimed from the dead, he is proclaimed from the dead. We see that in the verses leading up to this. We know that that's what apostolic preaching was all about. But he says, if Christ is proclaimed from the dead, how is it that some of you can say that there is no resurrection? Now, the way he words this is really fascinating. It's really kind of hard to grasp in English, but it is there in the original Greek manuscripts The way that he words this, without the definite article in Greek, when he says Christ is proclaimed raised from the dead. Highlights the fact that Christ is passing from a state of death to a state of life. Now there is a very fine nuance here that Paul is drawing. that is important for us to grasp. He's not focusing only as if Christ is the one who is raised individually from among the myriads of dead Because if that were the case, from this mindset that the Corinthians are coming from, they might be able to just point at that and say, well, okay, that was Jesus. That was unique. That doesn't apply to us. No. He's actually talking about something that did factually happen to Jesus, but he's highlighting the state of death and the state of resurrection. In other words, he was truly dead, and he is now truly alive. Why does he do this? Why does he focus on that nuance of the state of death and the state of life? Notice what the second part of his condition in verse 12 lays out. That if Christ is proclaimed from the dead How is it that some of you can say that there's no resurrection? Again, the way he's stating this He's stating it focusing on the fact, the general statement that these people are making Now here's what's fascinating. He's drawing an inconsistency out in their thinking that they are probably unaware of, but this inconsistency can have spiritually deadly consequences if they are not careful. What's the inconsistency? Well, if go back and look at verse 11, right before our passage this morning. After arguing from the scriptures and all of these eyewitness accounts, including himself that Jesus has risen from the dead, verse 11 says, Whether then it was I or they, they being the other apostles So we preach, and contextually he's talking about, we preach Jesus has risen from the dead, and so you believed. They believe that Jesus is risen from the dead. There's no doubt about it. And yet at the same time, they say, in principle, Jesus aside, the dead are not raised. Do you see the inconsistency? I don't think they saw it in the first century Corinthian church. And the inconsistency is, well, okay, if the dead are not raised, what does he go on to say in verse 13? If there is no resurrection from the dead in general, then not even Christ has been raised. What's the point? Why would they claim this? Why would these Corinthians in the first century church claim that there is no resurrection from the dead? While at the same time saying and believing that Christ himself rose from the dead. Well, I think the reason is that their worldview is more influenced by the Greek philosophical tradition of Plato that permeated the thinking of their culture at that time. in the Eastern Roman Empire. And that's where Corinth was located. In the Eastern Roman Empire, in Greece, not too far from Athens. And what's the point? What is the point of this Greek philosophical tradition? Well, to boil it down to its bare essence, the Greeks essentially believed in a division between the body and the soul that was fundamentally unbiblical. Why do they why is that unbiblical? Because in their mindset, those two really aren't supposed to mix. You see, our physical bodies in this Greek philosophical mindset, this worldview that they had, that they all just inherently believed because they were raised in this to think this way. The body was seen as something that was uh less than good. It was seen as dirty, it was seen as polluted. In fact, the body, the physical body, was seen as a prison for the soul. And so at death, the Greeks believed that this prison was destroyed and broken out of, and the soul is set free. Because the soul is pure. It's spirit. And it's meant to inhabit this spiritual world of purity. That was the mindset that they had. And so if you really stop and think about it, if that were true Yeah, why in the world would anyone who dies and their soul is set free from this earthly prison, why in the world would anybody want to be risen from the dead and enter back into the prison again? That's the mindset That's what Paul is addressing here. Paul is addressing these cultural worldview issues. uh that that have crept into the Corinthian church and he's confronting it with biblical truth. What's the purpose? Is it just to win the argument? No, it's it's is to correct them. Because, again, at the end of the day, ideas have consequences. And sometimes the ideas that Christians bring into the church from the world that sometimes they're not even aware of can really bring disastrous effects into the body of Christ. And that's what Paul is getting at here. In fact, you can see the idea, you can see this worldview illustrated in the first century when you go back to Acts chapter 17. If you remember, Paul is in Athens and he goes to Mars Hill and he goes to the area of Pegasus and he's preaching the gospel, but he's essentially reasoning with all of the Greek Epicurean and Stoic philosophers, and I'm not going to get into all the nuances of what the Epicureans and Stoics believe. You can research that on your own. But they all held to this duality, this separation of the body and the spirit. And when you get to Acts chapter 17, verses 30 verse 32. Paul gets to the point where he mentions that God raised a man, who we know as Jesus, raised him from the dead. And if you look at that verse, it does say some of them mocked and laughed. A few believed, but most mocked. Why? Because the resurrection from the dead, that God would raise a man from the dead, was an insult to their sophisticated and educated and elitist intelligence And the point I want to highlight in all of this detail is that their worldview did not fundamentally allow for the possibility of the dead to be raised. And so, in principle, some in the Corinthian church were categorically denying the possibility and the premise that the dead are resurrected. In other words, their worldview determined what they could and could not believe. And it's very subtle how this all works. Because most people don't stop to think about their presuppositions and their assumptions. But the argument goes on. After laying out what the premise is that he's arguing against, it goes on in verse 13 through 15 to look at some of the implications of undercutting this apostolic preaching. Alright, Paul says, let's take a step back. Let's assume that this worldview idea that is crept into the church is true for the sake of argument. It's not. Let's assume that it is. What are the implications? Well, in this first section, he lays out four implications. And there's really kind of two if-then statements that unfold, but there are four implications, kind of four then parts. Those are the implications I want to highlight. Look at verse 13. Again, if the dead are not raised, then not even Christ has been raised. That's the first implication. If the dead are not raised in general as a statement of principle and truth, then specifically Christ has not been raised. What Paul is saying is, Corinthians, if you're going to be consistent in your thinking, if you're going to be consistent in your faith and what you believe , Then you have to link the principle with the specific example of Christ. Why? Because Jesus Christ is just as human as you or I. Now he's more than a human, we know that. Right? Orthodox biblical faith has long confessed, rooted in Scripture, that Jesus Christ is one person who exists truly and fully in two natures. uh a human nature and a divine nature, but he is just as human as you or I. That is why he can stand as our representative And so if the dead are not raised categorically, then guess what? Jesus Christ is no different than you or I. He cannot be risen from the dead. That's the implication. That Paul is getting at. What's the second implication? Well, look at the look at the second part of verse 14 Again, he repeats it. If Christ is not raised, he's just picking up where that left off, then our preaching is in vain. Let's stop there. What is the substance of apostolic preaching? This is where the Christian worldview is entirely consistent within itself. If you go back to verses 3 and 4 of our passage here, for I delivered to you as the first importance What I also received. That Christ died for our sins. What? In accordance with the scriptures. Verse 4. That he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day. Again, what? In accordance with the scriptures. And then he goes on to highlight how Jesus Christ, who was physically, literally, historically, truly, bodily. Risen from the dead, how he appeared to Cephas, that's Peter, then to the twelve, then to more than five hundred brothers at one time, many of them who were still alive, when Paul wrote this and The Corinthians could have verified that by talking to them. He appeared to James. Remember, James was the brother of Jesus, who, according to John 7, didn't believe in Jesus. It took the resurrection of his own brother and an appearance of his brother to him to convince him. He appeared to James. He appeared to the rest of the apostles, and last of all, verse 8, he appeared to me, Paul says. So here's what you have. You have The scriptures of the Old Testament pointing forward to the resurrection of Christ. You have all of these eyewitness testimonies That's the substance of apostolic preaching that he's talking about in the second part of verse 14. But if Christ is not risen from the dead, because the dead are not raised, then guess what? Our preaching is in vain. The scriptures are in vain. Are all these eyewitness testimonies in vain? What do you do with that? That's what Paul is saying. This is the worldview challenge. What do you do with that? How do you explain that away? You know what you hear by way of an answer? Nothing. Silence. You can't explain that away. But let's again assume that it's true that the dead are not raised, that Christ is not raised That apostolic preaching is in vain, the scriptures are false. What's the third implication in the third part of verse 14? Well, it's not just that our preaching is in vain. Verse 14 ends, and your faith is vain. Boy, this is where it gets really personal, isn't it? Your faith If all that's true, like some of you are saying, then your faith is in vain. You've shot yourself in the foot, spiritually, is what Paul is saying. By the way, when he uses the word vain here It implies that their faith is empty. That's another way to translate that Greek word. Your faith is empty. It is without substance. It is without meaning. Is what he's getting at. If in fact the dead are not raised and Christ is not raised. And one more. One more. Fourth implication in verse 15. We are even found, we being the apostles, are even found to be misrepresenting God because we testified about God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if it is true that the dead are not raised. By the way, that's one of the most dangerous ones in my opinion. If you really stop and think about it. It it really is dangerous if the apostles and Paul If the dead are not raised and Christ has not been raised from the dead and they've all been duped and their faith is in vain, why is it dangerous? Well look at the passive verb. We are even found. That highlights that they are exposed as frauds if the dead are not raised. But what is it they've been found if Christ has not been raised? Look what he says. Literally, we have been found as false witnesses of God, or you can translate that, false witnesses against God even. Why? Well, he follows that up. Because we've borne witness about God or against God that he did something that he really didn't do. John Calvin, the 16th-century Protestant reformer in Geneva, writes this in his commentary in this passage. The expression false witness of God, we may understand in two ways. Either that by lying, they used the name of God under a false pretext. That's the first one. Or that they were detected as liars in testifying what they had received from God. Now he goes on to say the second of these I prefer Because it involved a crime that is much more heinous, and he had spoken previously as to men Now, therefore, he teaches that if the resurrection of Christ is denied, God is made guilty of falsehood in the witnesses that have been brought forward and hired by him. The reason too that is added corresponds well because they had declared what was false not as from themselves but from God. It makes God a liar. That's why it's dangerous. Do you really think that God is going to tolerate on the day of judgment somebody who made him a liar? No So what do we do with this as we kind of take a step back from this argument and we apply it to ourselves? Here's what I think this distills into. Without the resurrection of Christ, the Christian faith would be vanity, and we would have to essentially change our entire worldview. Understand, brothers and sisters, that what Paul is getting at here by focusing on worldview should take us, make us take a step back and examine our own worldview. Now, we don't live in the first century cultural milieu that is just influenced by Greek philosophy in the same exact dichotomy. But we do live in a secular and a naturalistic worldview and society around us. And there are some similarities Now there is a distinction, it's not the same exact distinction, but there is a distinction when we talk about secularism, when we talk about naturalism between what we would call the physical and the spiritual. And the difference is that where the Greeks saw both as existing truly, spiritual and physical, there is a distinction today, but it's different. The distinction we make today is that anything spiritual is just seen as pie in the sky fantasy. And people today only up walk around operating as if this world And what is physical and material is all that exists. And the sad thing is that there are a lot of Christians who have this kind of mindset uh sometimes unintentionally and sometimes they're unaware of it and they live as if this world is all that they have Isn't it? I mean, think about it. Today, the educated The secular elites, the intelligentsia, just like the philosophers that Paul dealt with on Mars Hill. They outright deny the existence of the spiritual and the supernatural. They argue that only the physical and the natural truly exist. Have you ever heard people say things like, oh yeah, well prove it. Give me evidence. Why do they say that? Because they are assuming that this world is all that there is, and that scientific knowledge Of the physical here and now is the only way you could possibly know something. That's what they assume. And you know a lot of Christians walk around buying into that. It's really kind of sad. And they argue that, look, since the resurrection of the dead is not a repeatable, testable scientific event, they argue that it's categorically out of hand. It's impossible. Again, details aside, you don't have to follow every little philosophical nuance that I just said. The details aside, the point is the same. The worldview of our general society today, just like in Paul's day, categorically denies the premise and the possibility that the dead are resurrected. The worldview of our secular society determines what we can believe is and what is possible. Why where does the rubber meet the road in this? This isn't just Ivory Tower stuff. This is where our unbelieving family, our neighbors, our friends, our coworkers, people that we love and care about that don't know Christ This is where they live and where they think. And we need to be aware of it. And part of our application this morning is that understanding that worldview is important, our worldview, going back to verses 3 and 4. And following in our passage, our worldview, first and foremost, must be shaped by the scriptures as well as the eyewitness testimony of Christ's resurrection, which eyewitness testimony is contained also in the scriptures of the New Testament. How do you explain away 500 witnesses at one time? You cannot just say that this was a mass hallucination. The science behind hallucination tells you that hallucinations are not shared by multiple people at one time, much less 500. The Christian worldview is the only worldview that makes sense of all the facts in a coherently consistent way. And so we need to understand, brothers and sisters, the resurrection is a worldview, it's a worldview shaping, and it's a worldview-shaking event. And it is the center of the Christian faith, isn't it? That leads us to our second point this morning. In verses 16 through 19, Paul makes some of the same points, but he really drives it home. in this second section. The hypothetical futility of hope for salvation. Again, notice I said hypothetical there. In verses 16 to 19. Again, he lays out four implications between verses 16 and 19 that I want to unpack for you. Now notice verse 16 begins with 4. That alerts us to the fact that he's about to explain what he previously did. said. But notice what he says in verse 16. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. He goes back to his beginning point. Because he's going to trace it afresh again and make this very personal for these Corinthian Christians. The first in verse 17, very simply, and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. Okay, that's the same basic idea about calling their faith vanity back in verse 14. But calling it futile takes it a little further because futile is a little bit of a stronger word than just empty or vain or meaningless. Now it's like you're beating your head against the wall. Like You know what they say about insanity? Insanity is like doing the same thing over and over and over and over and over again, expecting a different result every single time. That's the idea he's getting at here when he talks about futility. It's a little stronger than just vanity. But by making a stronger statement there He's driving it home and making this more personal for them. He's getting in their personal space. Verse 17 continues. Not just saying that their faith is futile, but that they are still in their sins. That's what futility or uselessness of faith really is. You are still dead in your sins if Christ has not been risen from the dead. And the question is, why is this the case? Why is it that without the resurrection of Christ are we still in our sins? Well, let me try to trace this out as Succinctly as I can. Paul argues in Romans 6. 23 that the wages of sin is death. Right That's the the the wages of sin, uh the the price, the penalty, the result of sin. He argues in f in Romans five 12 to 21, that sin entered the world through Adam, who sinned by transgressing the one commandment that God gave him back in Genesis chapter 2. And that one sin brought death to all humanity who descended from Adam. And that's all of us. The point is that the power of sin is death, because death is the consequence of sin. He argues also in Romans 8. 3 that God did what the law was powerless to do in condemning sin in the flesh. And he did that through the crucifixion of Christ, but in the resurrection, Christ conquered the grave, defeating the power of sin, which is death. You realize in Romans chapter 4, verse 25 , Paul writes that Christ was raised for our justification, in other words, for our forgiveness of sins. for our being made righteous in God's sight that comes through the resurrection. Romans 4, 25. And so if Christ has not been risen from the dead, then yeah, you're still dead in your sins. That's the second one. The third one, third implication that he continues to push forward in verse 18, then those who have also fallen asleep in Christ have perished. Now, of course, he doesn't mean literally falling asleep here. He means death. We see Paul use The idea of sleeping in terms of death in 1 Thessalonians 4, 14 to 15, to talk about those Christians in Thessalonica who have died in Christ. Jesus himself uses that term sleeping for death in John 11, 11. Lazarus has fallen asleep, and I go to awaken him. Well, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he'll recover, he'll get up. And then he just says, he said plainly, Lazarus is dead. Guys, you don't get it. Lazarus is dead. He's using it the same way here But that's a sad statement, isn't it? If Christ has not risen from the dead, then those who died in Christ have perished. Think of the gut punch. That must have been for the Corinthians. You go back and you read Acts chapter 18 and you see that the Corinthian church was founded and planted amidst much trial and persecution, and you can only imagine that some of that persecution at times may have led to the death of some of those saints. Or some of those saints may have died because of sickness or illness. And he's saying, look, those that you love, those that died with the hope of the resurrection, if it didn't happen, they perished. They're gone. Deal with it. That sounds kind of harsh. And then lastly in verse 19, now he goes even further in making this really personal for them. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied. Think about that. If Christ is not raised, our faith is futile. We are still dead in our sins. We perish when we die like our loved ones. then of course Christ is only useful in this life. But then think about it. Take it a step further. Is Christ really useful in this life if he did not rise from the dead? I would actually argue no. But just think about it. What's the chief experience that all Christians seem to go through in some one way, shape, or form? Tribulation, trial, suffering. Those are all kind of the same words to get the same reality across. Well let's grant that premise. If Christ is only useful for hope in this life, then at the end of the day, when we die and all is said and done, we perish, we are most to be pitied. Why? Because we are naive in following a Savior that cannot ultimately save us. But that is the point of the gospel, isn't it? That Christ offers forgiveness of sins by his death on the cross, by the shedding of his blood. Remember what he said in the Last Supper? This is my blood which is poured out for many? For what? For the forgiveness of sins. And then he offers eternal life in his resurrection. Boy. All that is undercut is futile if the dead are not raised. So again, what are the implications for us to apply today? By the way, all that sounds really negative, doesn't it? And it can be kind of heavy. I'm going to actually put a positive spin on this as we look at our application here at the end. And I feel justified in doing that because take a look at verse 20. Now, thank God our passage didn't end in verse 19. You go to verse 20, and what does it say? But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead. The first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. That's why we're here this morning. Because he did rise from the dead, factually, literally, bodily, historically, truly And because he raised from the dead, you can take all of those negative implications, you can look at them in a positive light because of the factuality of the resurrection. So what are those implications in a positive light in light of the resurrection? Well, let's take a look at just a few of those. One, we are alive in Christ rather than dead in sin. Boy, that's good news, isn't it? And and and um um when you look at this, in fact, the fact that Christ has been raised from the dead, which we see in verse 20 The first fruits are those who fallen asleep. So we are not dead in our sin any longer, but we are alive in Christ. What does Paul say in first, I'm sorry, the first. I'm thinking Ephesians chapter two verses one through five. You who were once dead in your trespasses and in your sins have been made alive together in Christ. and seated with him in the heavenly places. Or what about 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 3? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Because In his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of his son Jesus. Wow And because of that, Paul can say in Galatians chapter 2, verse 20, he says, For I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who both loved me and gave himself for me. And then he goes on in the rest of that book in Galatians to argue the idea that we are saved, that we are justified, another way to say that we are declared righteous, forgiven of our sins. Through faith alone, apart from the works of the law. This should comfort us this morning and fill us with hope. As we look at who we were and who we now are. Now the question you have to ask yourself this morning is this. Do I really believe that Jesus Christ died for my sins? And rose again from the dead to offer me eternal salvation. That's the question you have to ask this morning The other question is this, am I trusting in Jesus Christ alone for my salvation, or am I trusting in something else? John Wesley once had a conversation, I believe it was in the year 1736, but the fact checkers can correct me if I'm wrong on the date. This is before the Lord really got a hold of him. He had a conversation with a Moravian missionary from Germany by the name of Peter Bohler, and Bohler asked him, John. Do you believe that Christ has died for your sins? And you know what John Wesley's response was? Well I believe that Christ died for the sins of the world. Notice how impersonal and distanced that answer is. And Peter Buller didn't stop there. I mean that is that's a correct answer, but that's not what he asked. He pressed in. But John Do you believe that he died for your sins? And Wesley writes in his journals and accounting that event, he had nothing to say. Because he knew. That he didn't yet truly believe that Christ had died for his sins. That's the question that you have to ask here that comes out of a positive look of these implications. It is a call to salvation. It is a call to faith. It is Paul, in a sense, pleading with you to come to the resurrected Jesus and trust in him for your salvation. The second implication that we can look at in a positive way is we can grieve our believing loved ones with hope when they die. Notice that's the reverse of verse 18. And again, it's good news indeed. Because when Jesus Christ has been risen from because he's been risen from the dead, those who have died in Christ are safe and secure with Christ. Mark this well. Presently. This is the implication of what Jared preached on Good Friday. From Luke 23, specifically verse 43. You remember what the penitent thief on the cross said to Jesus after rebuking the other guy who was mocking Jesus? Jesus, when you come in your kingdom, remember me. In other words, remember me, the poor sinner. And Jesus' response, even as he himself is dying on that cross, burying the sin of the world, taking on the full wrath of God for our sin that we deserve, says to him, Truly I say to you. Today. Remember he asked, when you come in your kingdom? Today, you will be with me in paradise. Maybe you've lost somebody you love. Recently or a long time ago. And they were in Christ. That is where our believing loved ones are. They're with Christ. They're with Christ. You remember what Paul said To live is gain, to die is Christ. I long to depart from this world and go where? Be with Christ. Because of the resurrection of Christ, we can have hope that our loved ones who have passed away in Jesus will one day be risen from the dead. And that, brothers and sisters, should comfort you. this morning and fill you with hope as you grieve the temporary loss of those who have gone before us. Let me encourage you with these words from Paul, and it is a long quote, so bear with me from 1 Thessalonians. Chapter 4, verses 13 through 18 on this point of comfort. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. That you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. There's that language about death again. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then those who are alive who are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, this is the application of all of that. Encourage one another with these words. Be encouraged this morning. If you've lost or maybe are about to lose somebody. Who's in Christ? At least our final application this morning. Verse, we have a hope that transcends this life. You remember what Paul said, if Christ didn't rise again, we only have hope merely for this life? Verse 19, and because of that we'd be most likely to be pitied. Well, the opposite of that, because Christ has in fact risen from the dead, according to verse 20, is that we have a hope that is not just limited to this life, but transcends this life. And again, that should fill us with hope and confidence. Because the reality is, every one of us here, well, I should say most of us here. Most of us, well all of us don't know the day of our death, that's for certain. And most of us have no idea how we are going to go I had a very tough conversation with a brother recently. Um who has very severe illness and said to me, you know, I always used to I don't mean to sound morbid, Pastor Aaron, but I I used to wonder for a long time how I'm going to finally go They said to me, well, I don't know the day, but now I know how. When you look at it that way, it can sound very morbid. It can sound very dark and hopeless. But this passage tells us something very different. It's meant to instill in us a confidence through faith in Jesus, who was literally, historically, bodily, and factually risen. from the dead three days after his crucifixion, that we too will one day rise from the dead when he returns and makes all things new. And in the meantime, we can be confident that like our loved ones, we will one day in Christ rest with him in paradise until he accomplishes the final work of his redemptive activity. In resurrecting our own bodies, death will not have the final say This is why John writes in 1 John 3. 2, Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. In other words, Christ in his resurrected glory has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him because we shall see him as he is. What a hope that stands in contrast to the main idea of all of these if-then implications. Because that main idea was if if Jesus' resurrection did not really happen, then Christ's Christian faith is in vain, and we are still dead in our sins. Praise God that we can reverse that. And say that because Jesus' resurrection really did happen, our faith is valuable. And we have been made alive in spite of our sins. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful for the resurrection of your Son Jesus from the dead. How you did it, how you accomplished that, Lord, we don't know. That is why we walk by faith. But it is not a blind faith. Your word in Scripture never speaks of blind faith. There's always a faith, Lord, that rests in your Your faithful character, in your promises , your integrity, the fact that you are sovereign, and that all things happen according to your will in this world. Thank you for the hope of the resurrection. Thank you for the reality of the resurrection. We pray that you fill our hearts with joy, comfort. confidence in light of that this morning. In Jesus' name, amen.