If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and let's open them as we stand together for our reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Verses twenty four to twenty seven. Not that long of a passage Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize? So run, that you may obtain it. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So I do not run aimlessly. I do not box as one beating the air, but I discipline my body. And keep it under control, lest after preaching to others, I myself should be disqualified. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning needing your Holy Spirit to come into us, to open our eyes and our ears and our minds and our hearts. So Lord, that we might see and hear and understand and receive with joy and thanksgiving what your word has for us this morning. Lord, we do pray that you would work in our hearts through the preaching of the word. That again, as I prayed in the beginning of this service, that your son Jesus would be magnified through this. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. What is it about sports that seems to really just capture the imagination of people? We can think of all kinds of sports. You can think of baseball or even football being the great American pastimes. Or in more recent years, things like combat sports. Like the Ultimate Fighting Championship or something maybe a little more historic like boxing or wrestling if you're into that kind of thing. But whatever it is about sports seems to capture the imagination of people. Sometimes it goes exactly the way you think that it would go. And the team or the athlete that you think is going to win wins. And other times it's more of an upset. I remember several years ago, and please don't ask me the year because I really don't remember. It may have been close to ten years ago now. Um I was at a my boss's house for a Super Bowl party and The teams that happened to be playing that year were uh the New England Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons. And I remember my roommate at the time was born in Boston, and so he was clearly rooting for the Patriots. And the rest of us were just rooting for the Falcons because we were so sick of seeing the Patriots win all the time And I remember sitting there and as people do in sporting events, uh, we were trash talking, and I was particularly trash talking my roommate, just to give him a hard time because I I really like him and get along with him, but I just felt like I wanted to nudge him. And so the whole game is Atlanta was seen to be winning the game for at least a full three quarters and then into a significant part of the fourth quarter. I mean I I could not stop trash talking my roommate uh about how New England was finally gonna get their comeuppance and and and get taken down. Well, pride comes before the fall, and I remember it was probably the last three to five minutes of that game when New England just came back from a devastating uh what appeared to be a devastating loss and within those three to five minutes ended up winning the game by a matter of a few points. I couldn't believe it And I remember all of us that were trash talking the whole game all of a sudden got really quiet. And I remember my friend, my roommate, who was just taking this in and and taking the trash talk like a man, uh finally, you guys were saying Pride came before the fall, didn't it? There is something about sports that captures the imagination and I speaking as a man, I can't speak for women, but as a man, there's something Something about it that I just you just love the competition. I tend to like combat sports myself. I've told you this before from the pulpit. I I like the ultimate fighting. And it has it's not really for me the idea of one person just beating the snot out of another person. It is the strategy, it is the technique, who is going to make their strategy and their will dominate the opponent. I d I just love it. And then I love when there's upsets. Like last weekend there was a major upset in the UFC and I I couldn't believe the guy that actually won won the fight, but he won the fight. Combat sports, sports, competition, things that capture the imagination. Any athlete knows, maybe some of you in this room may compete or have competed. Heated in a sport. And you know that discipline is required if you're going to compete or you're going to play. There's a lot of things that people normal people get to do that athletes do not get to do. There are things that athletes certainly have the freedom to enjoy. and participate in that they choose to forego for the sake of competing for the prize. If you're gonna win, you've got to sacrifice somewhere And that's really what this passage is all about this morning. Our main idea is this. The Christian life is a race in which we aim to win through sacrifice. It's a pretty short, succinct idea, isn't it? The Christian life is a race in which we aim to win through sacrifice. Now I think that this naturally breaks down into two sub-points as to unpack the idea. And I want to begin to unpack that in verses 24 and 25, as we look at our first point. the Christian life and the aim of freedom. Now to put this passage in its wider perspective, its broader context, The Apostle Paul, all the way since chapter 8, in the beginning of that chapter, has been talking about Christian freedom. How do Christians choose to use the freedom that they have in the gospel? And you remember in chapter 8, Paul was talking about eating uh meat sacrificed to idols. That was an issue that was going on in the church at that time. Some were arguing, wait a minute, we have the freedom in Christ to eat these meats sacrificed to idols. Idols are nothing. And others ha had qualms in their conscience about doing that because God has saved them out of that. Why would I go back and do the very things that I used to do when I was a pagan? And so there was this debate. Paul begins to work through that centers around the issue of freedom. And we saw in the last two weeks Paul transitions the argument using himself as an illustration. to say, look, look at me as an apostle. I have the freedom to be supported for the ministry I exert among you, and yet I lay down my rights. for the sake of Christ, for the sake of the glory of his kingdom. And it's kind of in the middle of that argument that Paul picks up here. And I want to draw your attention back to verse 23, which is the verse right before our passage, again to show you where this where the hinge of the argument moves from one point He said, I do it all for the sake of the gospel. In other words, I lay down my rights, my freedoms, for the sake of the gospel, that I may share with them in its blessings. Share with them being those he ministers to. And then he jumps into this this illustration, if you will, about the Christian life and the aim for freedom. And he uses this analogy in verse 24, the Christian life as a race. Take a look at that again in verse 24. Do you not know? It's kind of a question, right? Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize? Let's look at the historical context really quick. There is a historical background to this that was unique to Corinth. Now we all know, or maybe maybe shouldn't say that, but many of us know that in the Roman Empire at that time, many of these cities that were influenced by Greek culture before the Romans came in and took it over, had the these amphitheaters in in the the town, in the city. And in these amphitheaters, it wasn't just a place for theater and arts and culture and things like that. They would compete and participate in sports and games. And at this time in history, the city of Corinth hosted what was called the Isthmian Games. Again, it would be like a modern example would be something like the Super Bowl or the World Series or the World Heavyweight Title for Boxing, something that just drew a spectacle in an audience. And people would come and cheer on their favorite athletes. And in the Isthmian Games, one of the primary sports that was competed in was running, racing. In fact, we can see it in the way that he words it in verse 24 when he says, Don't you know that all that run in a race, that word for race May sound familiar to you in English. It's the Greek word in stadio. In a stadium. In an arena. That's what it means. They they compete in this arena and and historically we know that this arena that he's talking about in Corinth was 200 yards long and 30 yards wide and it was meant for racing on foot. Now they could do other things like horse races, like Maybe you think of Ben Hur, the movie or something. Maybe that could happen, but they competed by racing on foot. And I realize a lot of times today when we think of races, short races on foot around a track, we might think of like relay races or something like that where you pass the baton from one person to another. But back then it wasn't a team sport. It was it was an individual sport. One athlete would compete against other athletes. to win the prize. And so the Apostle Paul picks up that that imagery that would have been so common to daily life in Corinth that he uses that picture picture as a picture of the Christian life. And he uses this idea to say the Christian life, in a sense, is a race. Now again, maybe some of you have competed in running, for instance. Many high schools and colleges have things like Like track and field and cross country, and that really gives us two kinds of races, doesn't it? Now I tend to think, based on the historical context, that Paul probably had in mind here what we would call today is like just track or kind of sprinting, where you're thinking of a short distance, a a burst of energy. Something like where you just unleash high speed all at once for a short period of time until you get to the end and win the prize. But the other type of race that I think is probably more apt, at least in my mind, to what he's communicating here is cross-country. A cross country is very different than just sprinting or relay racing, isn't it? Because in cross country, you you you don't have this short distance you're worried about. You're thinking long distance And you're not thinking short bursts of rapid energy, you're thinking long endurance. This isn't high speed all at once, it's pacing yourself. To get to the end. Now, I don't know about you. I I I don't really run anymore, I'll admit. For cardio, I tend to ride a ride a the exercise bike, but that's just me. I used to do running a lot when I was younger and I don't know if any of you have ever trained for a marathon or something like that. like that. There comes a point where when you're running you something happens where like you hit the wall. And you know what I'm talking about. When you hit the wall, all the muscles in your legs they they tend to get very painful, they feel stiff. You feel like your legs aren't going to work any longer, and that's because you know all your muscles have secreted all the little juices that are supposed to keep them going. And you don't feel like you have any more to give But any runner with experience will tell you, when that happens, you're hitting the wall, you need to power through it. Because when you power through it, just when you feel like you you can't go any longer. Your body gets another uh juice of adrenaline and you keep going. Now I've never competed in a marathon myself. That's 26. 2 miles. of running. I'm sorry, that just doesn't sound like fun to me. But I do have friends that have, and I've got a few friends as well who have done things like triathlons. And some of you may know someone who's done that, or maybe you have done that yourself. Triathlons, 2. 4 miles of swimming. Then you get out of that, you dry yourself off, you jump on a bicycle, and you bike for 112 more miles. And then immediately when you're done biking 112 miles, You run 26. 2 miles to get to the end. Can you imagine that? Like that's an Iron Man. That's what they call an Iron Man. But when you do it, you win the prize. And that's exactly what Paul gets at here. He uses this analogy of running where you might hit the wall, you might get tired out, you might get discouraged, you might feel like you have nothing more to give, and you press on for the prize. And that's what he gets at in verses 24 and 25. The Christian life is about competing for the prize. Notice what he says in verse 24 again. But only one receives the prize. All race, all runners run, but only one receives the prize. And he says, so run that you may obtain it, it being the prize. Now that's interesting. The word that he uses there for prize could be translated the victor 's prize. And when I look that up in the Greek and English lexicon , What it told me was this is not just any prize. It is a hard one after prize that comes after intense suffering and intense competition. So, in other words, you really have to work for that kind of prize. And what Paul is saying here is we are called as Christians, as we're living the Christian life, keep your eye on the prize. By the way, that is what keeps you motivated, doesn't it? When the going gets tough and you feel like you have nothing more to give and you're hitting the wall and you're wondering, can I even do this? What's the point of continuing to power through? Well, you're going to lose heart if you take your eyes off the prize. But if you understand and keep your eyes on the prize and know how valuable it is, you keep going. And look at how he identifies that prize in verse 25. Now again, he's leaning into his historical context of these Isthmian games. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it, this is what I want to focus on here, they do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. That word for wreath is translated in other parts of Scripture in the New Testament as crown. And again, maybe you've seen this before. We've seen this in some of the statues or um artistic renderings of say the ancient Caesars, they would have this little crown, uh this wreath of of foliage on their head. That that's what he's talking about. And by the way, it was really interesting when the when the athlete wins the prize, the crown crown of wreath, um, of garland on his head, it's It's interesting because whoever was the politically highest uh representative in the government at that time, sometimes the emperor, would also receive the crown as well, as if he did something wrong. Sounds like a politician, doesn't it? You get something for nothing. A wreath means a crown. And in this case, Paul is saying, look, look at these athletes. Look how hard they compete What are they competing for? They're competing for a crown that is going to perish. And it perishes physically, yes, because those wreaths and those garlands, I mean all that foliage will eventually rot and and crumble and fall off the little branch. But it also fades from the memory of people, doesn't it? Some of you are probably more into sports than I am and can tell me what team won, what championship in what year. I'm not like that Like I c I can't even remember a few years ago who won the Super Bowl, right? I I told you I love combat sports like UFC. If if you were to ask me, oh yeah, well who won UFC twenty-five? I don't know. I remember I I remember I probably watched the fight and I probably enjoyed the fight. It was good entertainment, but I don't remember who won The person fought so hard to get the title, and yet who really remembers? It's a perishable reward And yet look what he contrasts that with. The Christian's prize, the Christian's reward is imperishable. We get an imperishable crown, not just a wreath. By the way, the Apostle Peter gets at this when he's talking about elders and leaders in the church. He says this in 1 Peter 5. 4. And when Christ, the chief shepherd, appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Now, Peter says that about elders because he's making a point in his letter that was geared towards elders at that point. However, Paul broadens that out here to include all believers. It's not just elders or deacons who get an unfading crown of glory. It is all believers who run the race faithfully and seek for the prize. So what do we do with this in terms of application? Well, we are called to run the race of the Christian life in such a way that we are competing for the prize at the end. Now the one difference here between the athletes in Corinth and even athletes today and the Christian life, the one discontinuity in the analogy is that in sports only one person or one team wins the prize. Right? Whether that prize is some kind of massive trophy, a belt or a title or some kind of ring that they can wear in their finger. One person or one team wins the prize. The beauty of the gospel, the beauty of the Christian life is that all of God's people win the prize. Amen. And by the way, that is not D E I. This isn't just like you you get the prize for showing up. No, you st you still have to run the race, right? Look what he says in verse 24. So run that you may obtain it. What is this? This is a call to action for Christians. Some people have this idea And it is an unbiblically and uh unbiblical and uh and mistaken idea that the Christian life should be easy. That the Christian life is is is easy to live, it's easy to understand. That's not true. I mean, you can study your Bible every day of your life. You will never exhaust the the riches uh of theological depth and truth number one so is it always easy to understand no is it easy to live no because even when it's easy to understand easier said than done And then let's face it, anyone who's lived life know for any length of time knows life comes with difficulties, and sometimes we go through difficulties and we don't understand why or how these things are happening to us. For a long time the church has been plagued with a so-called gospel of what many have called easy beliefism. Just make a profession of faith and you're good. Just walk down the aisle and that's it. That's all that's needed And yet, how many people have walked down the aisle or made A merely intellectual profession of faith, or even an emotional decision, at one moment in time, to walk away and have their life completely unaffected and unchanged by the gospel of Jesus Christ That's not the gospel. And that's not salvation. And then these people that will say that will say, Well if you say if you tell any Christian that they actually have to live for Christ once they're saved, that's tantamount to telling them that they're saved by works. No, it's not not. What Paul is saying here when he says so run that you may obtain the prize Is he's telling you that the salvation that has been given to you has cost the Son of God everything And because it costs him everything, he calls you to radical discipleship that will oftentimes cause you to lay things down. Lay freedoms down and writes down that you may have for the sake of his glory. In other words, this easy beliefism separates saving faith. from the fruit that God intends to follow from that saving faith. And what Paul is doing by saying, run the race of the Christian life as if you are going to win the prize, Paul is reconnecting them. I didn't choose our call to worship this morning on a whim. Let me read it again to you. Because this is where the call to run is rooted in the gospel of Jesus Christ. If you remember, Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 to 2. one and two. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Before us. How are we called to do that? Verse 2. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Why? What did he do? What did he accomplish for us? Again, Hebrews 12, 2. Who, for the joy that was set before him, in there's there's the reward, the prize. endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. What is it telling us there? Jesus Christ laid aside every right that he had, went to the cross for us to pay the penalty for our sins, ran the race that was assigned to him. He endured. And despise that shame, but for the joy set before him, for the prize, the prize of being with the Father, sitting at the Father's right hand, receiving glory and honor and majesty and all things. to put be put under his feet. He went through all of that so that you and I might be brought near to him. Brothers and sisters, if it costed him so much, if he ran so hard, why would it be different for us? Some of you this morning are running through opposition in various areas of your life Just like the Corinthians, you go back and read Acts chapter 18. They went through a lot of opposition as that church was planted. Some of you know what opposition is like, and you're trying to continue to run through it. Some of you are running through issues of persecution or suffering or illness or grief. Challenges in your life, much like the Corinthians Where do you find the strength to run the race that is set before you? By looking to Christ. That's where you find your strength. When you're about to hit the wall spiritually or emotionally or even maybe physically as a Christian in faithfulness to Jesus, Where do you find the second wind? By looking to Christ. When you keep your eye on the prize, you realize Christ Himself is the prize. And that leads to our second point. Our first point really focuses is on the what. The second point focuses on the how in verses 25 through 27, the Christian life and spiritual disciplines. And by the way, let me just say before I get into the second point, this is not legalism. I'm not saying you do this to earn salvation. I'm saying we do this because we have been saved. Let's look at verse 25. The discipline of an athlete's training. Again. He makes it very clear in verse 25. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. Period. Let me stop there. We already talked about the second part of that verse. Let's focus on that. the first part. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. There is a discipline of self-control that is required if you are going to be an athlete. Here's something that's interesting. This is an interesting word study that comes into play here. When he says every athlete, he uses a word that I did not expect him to use in the original Greek. Now again, brace yourselves here. This is really creative. The word for athlete usually used in the New Testament is the Greek word athlete. How about that? that. That's where we get our English word athlete from. Very creative. It's the word that Paul uses in 2 Timothy 2. 5 when he says this: an athlete. an athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. That's not the word he uses here. What word does he use? He uses a word that sounds like this: Agonidzaminus. That's where we get our English word agonize from. How about that? In other words, the agonizer. Jude 3 uses this word when he writes this. Beloved, although I was eager to write to you, about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you appealing to you to contend, to agonize For the faith that was once for all delivered. See the word he's using here for athlete, and he's talking about this athlete needing self-control. It's the idea of somebody who really has to agonize and fight for what they want. And part of the fight is the training. They have to exercise self-control in all things. And by the way, I think any athlete understands you train hard So that game day comes, game day is easy. I remember when I used to wrestle in high school, the harder I trained, the easier the competition. Actually, it was. Because I'd made it hard on myself beforehand. That's the idea. How do they exercise self-control? How do athletes exercise self-control? Well, a few things. One, there 's self control comes through diet and exercise. I mean I think we many of us understand that. I r again remember in wrestling I I was skinny as a rail. I never really had to struggle to make weight, but I I had friends on my team that really struggled to make weight. And I remember they can't do this anymore 'cause it's illegal, but I remember back then in the late nineties, you could wear those, you know, um plastic body suits under your sweat sweatpants and sweatshirt and what was it what was the point? It was designed for you to sweat out as much body weight as you can so you can make weight. I won't tell you some of the other things guys used to do to make weight. Some of it's kind of fun And some of us really sad, but I remember one guy wearing a bodysuit one time under two sweatsuits just to make weight and we were we had this exercise where we had to run up and down these flights of stairs and when you went You had to carry the guy was closest to your weight class on your back running up the stairs, and then you'd get off and run down and then switch off. And we did this for an hour and a half straight And I can remember the guy in front of me, we got to the top at one point, and the guy in front of me just boom! Just collapsed. Lost so much. weight, so much body water. Diet and exercise. Sacrifice. Boy, it may be good to go get a you know, a deep dish pizza or New York style pizza, but if you've got to make weight, you don't want to eat that. that stuff. It's going to make you sluggish. So self-control through diet and exercise. Self-control through knowing the rules of the game. That's what he said, right? In 2 Timothy 2. 5. An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. Yes, to know the rules. A basketball player who does not understand the rules behind traveling is going to be no good to his team because every time he gets the ball, he's going to travel and it's going to mess up the game Thirdly, developing and refining skills. Let's just be honest. No athlete or shouldn't I say no athlete should be content with the skills that they presently have. Every athlete worth their salt looks to develop and refine their skills. Bruce Lee once said he was one of his tasks in life was to set out to explore the physical limits of the human. body. And you have to be careful with that because he died at 32 years old. I think he wore himself out. But every athlete wants to push the envelope and get to the very um pinnacle of their capability. That's the idea. Exercising self-control. Now let's look at verses 26 and 27. How did Paul apply this kind of attitude and mentality and principles to his own spiritual life? We see the discipline of Paul's rigorous spiritual exercise in verses 26 and 27. Look at verse 26. So I do not run aimlessly. I do not box as one beating the air What he's telling us here, going back to the previous verses, is he runs with a purpose in mind, that purpose being to win the prize. And then he adds boxing. Some people think that that can be translated as wrestling. It really doesn't matter how you do it. I I tend to think he's talking about boxing because he talks about beating the air. Look, I can shadow box all day long with the air. No one's going to give me the heavyweight title of the world. Why? Because there's no target to hit, right? The whole point of boxing is to hit the opponent and win the world title. Paul's saying, look I have the prize set before me. I've kept my eyes on it. I don't detract. Therefore, things when I'm running, I'm running with purpose. If I'm boxing, I'm not boxing because I'm beating the air. I've got a target in front of me that I'm aiming at. But, look at verse 27A. But I discipline my body and I keep it under control, lest after preaching to others, I myself should be disqualified. Those are interesting phrases and I think the ESV while translating that very well um I think smooths over the edge of Those words are words that have uh kind of a punch to them. When he says I discipline my body That same verb is used in other places in Greek literature to give someone a black eye or to hit them in the face. That's a strong, strong kind of analogy. What Paul is essentially saying here is, look, I treat my body roughly I train hard spiritually in my own sanctification. When he says he keeps it under control, it's another strong word. In other words, I enslave my own body I make my body my slave to make it do what I want it to do. Those are strong, strong words. Why does he do this? He's looking for consistency between what he says and how he lives. He doesn't want to be a hypocrite. If I'm going to preach others and tell them one thing, tell them to repent, tell them to pursue holiness, tell them to pursue Christ, well then I want to do it. I want to make sure I'm doing it too. And like an athlete, I'm going to train as hard as I can to make sure that I'm doing everything I can to set an example for others as well. And by the way, you go to the very end of this section in chapter 11, verse 1, you see what he's getting at. Be imitators of me, even as I am of Christ. He's laying out the example. So again, by way of application, what are we to do with this? Well, just as Paul trained spiritually by means of spiritual discipline. disciplines, like an athlete, so must we if we're to remain faithful. And what this points us to is the need for the Christian pursuit of self-control. Self-control. Like any athlete that is highly disciplined, we have to learn learn to say no to things that we might otherwise have a right to. I think that brings us right back to the context of Christian freedom that Paul And I can't answer this for you, but maybe you need to ask this to yourself, as I have and often do, what might you have a right to, all things considered, that might not be beneficial for the pursuit of Jesus Christ Or you can turn that a different way. What might you have a right to, all things considered, that might not be beneficial to loving others as Christ calls you to in the body of Christ? Let me give you just a a an example. Since we have so many babies being born in our church, my sister just had her. her first child, a parent might have a right to sleep through the night. A crying baby might tell you otherwise. Right. Now again, as a parent, you could choose maybe to sleep through the night and ignore the baby, but that's not really going to be beneficial to the baby that you're called to love. You might have to sleep sacrifice your sleep, get up and feed the baby, right? There's other things we could think of, maybe just forms of entertainment. Maybe goals that we would have had otherwise, but God may call us to lay down for the sake of Christ or the sake of loving his people and building them up. But as we think about this pursuit of self-control as Christians, we need to look at what the spiritual disciplines look like. It's easy to talk about the spiritual dis or the physical disciplines of an athlete. You know, they've got a diet, they've got to exercise, they've got to learn to play by the rules and so on and so forth. What what are the things that correspond to those in principle? in the Christian life. Well, I'll call this spiritual diet an exercise. How about that? What do I mean? Well, just like an athlete has to pay attention on what they feed on and be consistent with exercise, so do Christians. Well, what is it that Christians feed on? It's the word of God. Do you remember when Jesus was being tempted by Satan in the wilderness? The first temptation? Look, if you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. You remember Jesus how he responded? He said, But man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. And he was quoting from the book of Deuteronomy, telling you that the Lord Jesus Himself as he prepared to go and fight the devil in the wilderness, had been meditating and feeding himself on the scriptures of the old covenant. We have the word in the scriptures. And I want to exhort you this morning to feed regularly and consistently on God's word in the scriptures. What might that look like? Well, again, I'll use an example from a man that I know who is a husband and a father to five children. I remember one time I asked them, how do you find the time? Your kids play sports. They're in private school. Your your wife is doing, you know, involved in this, that, and the other. You know, you're you're constantly Constantly running around, then you have your full-time career. How do you ever find time to get into the word? And I'll never forget what he told me. Well, the kids get up at 6:30. That means I gotta get up around 4. 45 or 5, and I've got to get in the word and pray every day. Yeah that's what he does. And I thought, wow. That's another example. Like does he have a right to sleep in until he's got to get up for work? Yeah. But he lays down that right for the sake of praying for his kids and his wife and getting into the word every day. How might you get into the word this week? You know, maybe I would just, you know, encourage you take find a Bible reading plan and stick to it. If you're really pressed for time, look, there's all kinds of apps you can pull up on your phone. Listen to the Bible on your way to work if you've got a commute. Be creative. Memorize key passages of Scripture, verses here and there, and learn to pray through those. It's so easy for us to feed our hearts, our souls, our minds on a lot of other junk, whether it's binge watching TV shows, which by the way I'm not against watching TV shows. Or whether it's doom scrolling on social media. Jared's over there laughing because I was doing that last night and I sent him like five videos. So believe me, I preach to myself before I tell you guys. But look, the danger is when you fall into all these things and this becomes your modus operandi and this is your habit, you you fill your mind with all kinds of things. That maybe aren't always godly. Let's feed ourselves on a healthy spiritual diet of God's Word that includes spiritual milk and spiritual meat. To feed the soul. Because after all, life is hard enough, isn't it? How do people do it without the hope that comes from the promises of God? in scripture. I mentioned competing according to the rules of the game before. Now I realize the Christian life is not about rule keeping. That would be legalism. However, when athletes compete according to the rules of a game, a rules the rules of a game tell you that there is a pattern that an athlete is looking to conform with Why was Michael Jordan so great? Because he understood the game of basketball. It wasn't just the skill. He understood the strategies. He knew how to confront Form his game to the pattern of the rules. The connection here for us as Christians spiritually is that this points us straight to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is the only one that lived perfectly according to the law that we possibly couldn't live up to. He alone is perfectly righteous. And he alone is the standard that we are looking to conform to as Christians And what does all that training and the spiritual disciplines produce as a result? Listen to this from Romans 8. 29. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined what? To be conformed to the image of his son, so that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. What does Christian maturity look like, brothers and sisters? It looks like having the character of Christ formed in us by the power of the Word, by the power of the Spirit, transforming us from the inside out. So that we become conformed to the pattern of Christ. That's what it looks like to compete by the rules of the Christian life. And lastly, I mentioned developing and growing in skills. I liken this to the process of sanctification. where you and I are enabled more and more to die into sin and live into righteousness. How do we do that? It brings us right back to the gospel of Jesus, doesn't it? What does Paul say in Galatians 5, 24 after talking about the fruit of the Spirit? But those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified. The flesh with its passions and desires. Tim Keller is. Known for saying the gospel is not like ABC. Okay, I've done those steps. What's next? The gospel is always to be centered in the cross. Remember what Paul said before? I desire to know nothing among you but Jesus Christ and Him crucified. How do we run? How do we train at the foot of the cross? That brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? The Christian life is a race in which we aim to win the prize of Jesus Christ Himself. through sacrifice. First through his at the cross. And then as we follow suit until the day he calls us home or the day he returns and we meet Them face to face and receive our prize. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful Thankful, O Lord Jesus, that you have gone before us as our older brother, as Paul uses that language in Romans 8. 29. As the older brother, you went before us. You ran the race set before you. You went to the cross. You won the prize. So that in your victory, Lord, we have victory. In your son. Lord, I pray for each person here today that if they don't know you, Lord, if they are not born again, that you would bring them to yourself. And for those of us, Lord, who do know you, some of us are very weary in this room. Strengthen us. To continue running when we feel like we've hit the wall. Strengthen us in our union with Jesus Christ through faith That we might run faithfully this week. We ask this in your precious name, Lord Jesus. Amen.