If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 13 today, and I would invite you to stand. In honor of the reading of God's holy, inerrant, and inspired word. First Corinthians chapter ten, verses one to thirteen. For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea. And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written. The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did, and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now, these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation He will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, your word is very clear that these things are written for our instruction, O Lord, that we might not desire evil as some of your people in the past. Once desired evil. Lord, we pray that you would take your word, that you would convict us where we need to be convicted. And that you would would comfort us with the balm of the gospel where we need to be comforted and encouraged this morning. Lord, we pray and ask your blessing as we sit at your feet to learn from you. We ask this in the precious And powerful name of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Amen. Well, I'll admit I don't know who said this quote, but someone once said, those who do not know or do not study history are bound to repeat it. Many of you have heard this before. I do know that C. S. Lewis once coined a term called chronological snobbery. And if you don't know what chronological snobbery is, it's the idea that, or the attitude, that those in the past in history were far less sophisticated than we are today. And therefore, we cannot learn anything from them. And because of that, we can just ignore what they say or what they did, because it has no relevance to us today. I would dare say that that attitude of chronological snobbery is common today, especially among the intellectual class who feel the need to dismiss the past or to rewrite the past. And this is because people in the past, at least the way it's perceived today, do not live up to the standards of things like social justice. that are around today. And so because people don't live up to the standards we hold today in the past, we can write them off. But the Bible gives us something very different in this passage. It doesn't allow us to dismiss the past But the Bible at the same time never glorifies the past, and it certainly does not whitewash the sins of God's people in the past. It deals with them and is honest with those failings. And one one common sin that seems to come up over and over and over again in in the history of God's people is the problem or the sin of idolatry. And not just the sin of idolatry, the consequences of idolatry. And that brings us to our main idea this morning, which is namely this. Continued idolatry will result in God's displeasure despite past blessing. Therefore, we must be repentant amidst temptation. That's the idea. Continued idolatry will result in God's displeasure despite his past blessing of us. Therefore, we must be repentant. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning, you can see on page 5, right under the liturgy, that idea. Printed there for you. That's what we're going to unpack this morning. Our first point comes in verses one through five of our passage. The warning against idolatry from Israel's experience. And I want to look at verses 1 through 4 because the way this breaks down in verses 1 through 5 is 1 through 4 kind of hang together, and then verse 5 gives a little bit of a contrast. to what verses 1 through 4 says. We see in verses 1 through 4 the experience of blessing. And I'm going to say it like this. Through the sacraments. Blessing through the sacraments in verses 1 through 4. The key word is all. The word all appears five times in those four verses. And the blessing that all Israel experienced can be grouped into two categories that correspond to what we know in the New Covenant as the two sacraments that Christians participate in and enjoy in today. So I want to unpack those very briefly for you from verses one through four. We look at verses one through two, the blessing of baptism into Moses. The blessing of baptism into Moses. Take a look at those verses with me once again as we lay out this first grouping here. Paul writes this to the Corinthians, for I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud. And all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. Now this is a a runoff sentence in in the original Greek. Proper English, you know, s has clear sentences delineated. Uh Greek is just this run-on kind of language. German is very simple. I want to stop here, even though the sentence does continue. All were baptized into the cloud, into Moses, into the cloud, and in the sea. Let's consider what he says here. Because I want to draw your attention and the Corinthians' attention that Paul is doing here back to the Old Testament. Notice he calls them our fathers. That is really fascinating. These are our formerly pagan Gentiles, and he's talking about the Israelites under the old covenant and he calls them our fathers. There's a continuity that Paul is giving to the Corinthians. The history of Israel in the Old Testament becomes the history of all of God's people in the New Covenant. There is an expansion here to who is considered God's people. And what he's pointing them back to is Exodus chapter 14. You remember the story, God redeems Israel out of uh slavery out of bondage in Egypt and he brings them out and in Exodus 14 they get to the sea the deserts on one side the Egyptians are closing in on them to re-enslave them And the people freak out because they're looking at the sea. Where are we to go? And you remember the story? It's Sometimes God's responses to Moses particularly or even to Joshua are a little what we would call in our very overly sensitized American culture, we would call it insensitive, but God gets right to the point. He doesn't spare the words sometimes. He says to Moses, why are you crying out to me? Raise your hands and part to see. And that's what happened. God uses Moses to part the waters of the sea. And you remember, God's people go through the sea on dry ground. But remember what the Egyptians did? They went in after them. And what's fascinating is those waters That parted, that Israel walked safely through and were saved from the Egyptians, those same waters became the waters of judgment upon the Egyptians Because God brought those waters back upon them. And God had promised them when you go through these waters, you will never see the face of your enemies again. Now they did see their enemies again, but they saw them dead, washed up on the seashore. And isn't that interesting? We see the waters of judgment. fall upon the enemies of God's people, and yet God brings his people Israel safely through those waters of judgment as a means of Saving them. Very similar imagery to the flood with Noah. But Paul calls this a baptism of Israel into Moses. Hmm. What's the connection here for the Corinthians? Well, the connection is that the Corinthians were also baptized. Not baptized into Moses, but baptized into Christ. We see this when you look back in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 14 to 16. Paul mentions baptizing himself, Crispus and Gaius and the household of Stephanus. There's that idea of baptizing households that is so prevalent in the New Testament examples. But here's the connection. Just like these Old Testament uh people of God in in the nation of Israel, in the book of Exodus, just as they were our fathers to the Corinthians , There are our fathers today. There's a continuity. Just as they were baptized, having experienced the salvation of God in this great Old Testament redemption. So also were the Corinthians, also now the people of God, baptized into the name of Christ. Having experienced salvation through the preaching of the gospel So I kind of have it written here in my notes. The connection was that both of God's people in the old and the new covenants were baptized into the name of the covenant mediator, whom God had used To bring salvation to his people. This is a tremendous blessing that they experienced in the Old Testament. That's a tremendous blessing that Paul is connecting the Corinthians to. In the New Testament period of the first century. But that's not the only blessing. The other blessing comes in verses 3 and 4. It's the blessing of eating and drinking spiritual food. Take a look at verses 3 and 4. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. Okay, that's really interesting. There's a few things to look through here and think through. It all boils down to this attributive adjective, which is the word spiritual. Notice it comes up three times. That tells you that there's something important by that, right? When it's repeated three times. What we have here is we have spiritual food, we have spiritual drink, and we have a spiritual rock. Now, I'm not going to say everything there is to say about this, but very briefly, the spiritual food was the manna that God provided from heaven in Exodus 16. You remember the people didn't have food, they didn't have meat. They were complaining to Moses. What are we going to do? You brought us out of Egypt where we enjoyed garlic and leeks and all the and fish and we ate Abundantly and freely, and you bring us out to this desert. What does God provide? Spirit, He provides manna from heaven that Paul is calling spiritual food. The spiritual drink was the water from the rock that God provided, and this is really fascinating. If you really read that story, you realize it happens twice in Israel's hands. History in the wilderness wanderings. Ephesus in Exodus 17. I think it's 1 through 7. Somebody could fact-check me on that. I think it's Exodus 17, 1 through 7. Numbers 20, 1 to 13. And the significance of that is Exodus 17 happens at the beginning of the wilderness wanderings. Numbers chapter 20 happens 40 years later, at the end of the wilderness wanderings, when the people come up near the border of Edom and they're about to go into the promised land. Which is really fascinating because Paul says here in this particular passage That the spiritual rock followed them. By the way, that's a past tense adjective. I'm sorry, past tense participle, meaning that the rock was continually following them. And then he identifies what the rock is. And the rock was Christ. By the way, there's nothing unusual about that kind of interpretation among Jewish people in the first century. Paul is using his pharisaical background there as he's interpreting the significance of the Old Testament. The water from the rock. And the rock that followed them in the wilderness was Christ for 40 years giving them water in the wilderness. What is the point that Paul's making? In this context. Well, the point is, just as the Corinthians have had the gospel preached to them, just as they believed So also were the Israelites redeemed, at least outwardly speaking, by the salvation of God in the Exodus. That's one connection. Just as the Corinthians received the blessing of being baptized in the name of Jesus, or if you want to look at Matthew 28 in the name of the triune God, but their union with Christ in baptism So also did Israel receive the blessing of being baptized into Moses. That's two. That's another connection. And then thirdly, just as the Corinthians received the blessing of partaking of the Lord's Supper , uh uh in spiritual food and drink, so also did Israel receive the same type of blessing in the wilderness by partaking of the manna and drinking of the rock Now you would think with these kind of blessings and experiences with God among his people, and we're thinking of the Old Testament at this point, you would think that that would solidify and secure their relationship to God. And yet all was not well in Old Testament Israel. And that brings the contrast of verse 5. Verses 1 through 4 again here, give us the blessings. Verse 5 tells us what happened in response. We look at the experience of God's displeasure in verse 5. Take a look at that very clearly. Nevertheless, catches our attention. With most of them, God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Wow. Okay. God's people had experienced these tremendous blessings firsthand. They experienced this tremendous redemption. walking through a sea that was parted, and God uh bringing down plagues upon Egypt that they saw with their own eyes, and yet God is not pleased with them. He overthrows them in the wilderness. It leads to the question that we have to ask ourselves, why was God not pleased with them? That's really interesting First, I think we can say he judged that first generation that came out of the wilderness because they refused to go into the promised land And as you remember the story in Numbers chapter 14, verses 20 to 38, remember Moses sent out 12 spies? To the land? We only get the names of two of them. We get the name of Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephuna. That's the best I can pronounce that name. Ten spies come back with a glowing report of the land, but not a glowing report about the chances of Israel taking the land. And they they make the people's hearts melt with their bad report. In other words, the people decide they're not going to trust God's promise. Promises to go in and take the land that he promised to give them. They just saw God destroy Egypt. And yet they would not believe that God was for them and that God would keep his promises. And that they could go in and receive the inheritance that God had promised to give them. They did not believe. That was the fundamental problem. Because when they come back and they refuse to go, God literally says to Moses in Numbers 14, How long will this people refuse to believe me? And you remember the story, because they refused to do this, ten of the twelve spies died right before the Lord. And God said, okay, you you were gone 40 days spying off the land. For every day that you are gone spying out the land, I'm going to require that you wander in this wilderness for a year. Which means forty years. And God makes a promise to them because they refuse to believe. Because you refuse to believe. None of you, 20 years old and above, that came out of Egypt will live to see my promises fulfilled. Wow. And God again is very to the point. I will bury your corpses in this wilderness. Psalm 95 picks up on this and it talks about this whole incident of the unbelief. That persisted among God's people in the old covenant, and how God had promised that they would not experience or enter into his rest. What's the point? The point is that despite receiving the spiritual blessings that we would say are akin to sacraments, The Israelites failed to attain the prize that Paul said that we are all running towards in the previous passage. You remember that? Last week we talked about Paul encouraging us to run the race so that we win the prize. They failed to win the prize. And Paul is warning the Corinthians, do not presume upon the grace of God just because you claim the name Christian. There's a difference between resting in God's grace and presuming on God's grace. And that's what Paul's getting at here. And so, how do we see presumption on God's grace among God's people today? Well, we can very easily presume on God's grace by believing that we are immune from his fatherly displeasure just because we have received Blessings in the past We can easily presume on God's grace. I'm going to say it like this, because of Christ at the cross. Now I realize how confusing that sounds. Let me explain what I mean by that. It was easy for the Israelites to look back at the historical reality and the historical occurrence of the Exodus. And to believe that just because God saved their ancestors from slavery, that they could live any way they wanted, because they are God's people. Well, God did this for us in the past. He certainly won't punish us now. This isn't in my notes, but I'll give you an example an illustration of this from later in their history, Jeremiah chapter 7. Jeremiah, right before the Babylonian exile, he's warning the people to repent of their sin and their idolatry. Or if they don't, God is going to send them into exile to Babylon. And they had a common phrase, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. What was the point? The point was, well, because God has put his temple in our midst, there's no way God is going to bring his wrath on us. They can go and worship in the house of the Lord and then go out and live in idolatry any way they wanted. And Jeremiah is calling them to repentance, saying, this isn't true. Presuming on God's grace. It is just as easy for us today, brothers and sisters, to look at the historical reality of the cross. And by the way, let me step back and pause there. You can look at the historical reality of the cross. You can look at all of the historical arguments. And evidence that it actually happened, and you can come to an agreement intellectually and mentally and say, yes, I know and believe that that historically happened, okay? That's what I mean. You can look at the historical reality of the cross And then turn around and believe that you can live any way you want because you have simply made a profession of faith or because your family has been going to church for generations. In 2004, I remember I was with Campus Crusade doing beach evangelism. I know that sounds lucrative and fun. It's not as fun as you would think. It's actually really hard, especially on spring break, when kids aren't there to hear the gospel um and you're trying to engage them. I remember coming up with a buddy of mine and we came up on two two guys laying out of the beach and as we got talking to them one of them was really interested in talking to us at first because his daddy was a Baptist pastor somewhere in Alabama. And as we talked and continued sharing the gospel, because his friend was not a believer, we saw the roles switch, and this son of the Baptist minister decided he didn't want to talk to us anymore. Because we were talking about sin. He didn't want to hear it. His unbelieving friend at first didn't want to talk to us, and by the end of the conversation, he did want to talk to us. Presuming on God's grace. And as a result of presuming on God's grace, one of the sad results that comes up in many Many of us today is the pursuit of idolatry, and let's put this in the context of the Corinthians, even misusing the Christian freedom that is given to us John Wesley once had a conversation with a Moravian missionary by the name of Peter Bowler. And this is before Wesley was converted. By the way, he was already ordained to the Anglican ministry. And he had this conversation with Peter Bowler, who was asking him, you know, do you believe that Christ died for your sins? And Wesley's con Wesley's answer to that was, I believe that Jesus Christ died for the sins of the world. world. There's that I can believe that this historically happened mentality. Peter Bowler quickly recognized the problem and zeroed in and asked them again, but do you believe that he died for your sins? Personally. And Wesley records this in his journal that he really didn't have an answer for that question at that moment. It came later that he was able to say yes later, but it's In that moment, there was a presumption on the grace of God. And people do this today. Let me just say, because he's using the examples of sacraments with the old covenant. Let's put that in our context today. There are people today that presume upon the grace of God. Using the grace of God as a covering for evil. Let me give two passages and then I'll give some examples of what this looks like today. Galatians 5:13, Paul writes this: You are called to freedom, brothers. Then he goes, period. We are talking about Christian freedom in this section. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. But through love serve one another. The Apostle Peter says something very similar in 1 Peter 2. 16. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Same idea. How do you use your freedom? Are you presuming upon the grace of God, brothers and sisters, to live in sin? Because we can so easily presume on God's grace, and then we can look to things like partaking of the sacraments to justify it. And this is one of the things I think religious people easily fall into. It's trusting in the fact that we have been baptized at one point. in our life. And by the way, that's whether we were baptized as an infant or upon a profession of faith as a believer. There are people that presume upon that and put their confidence in that. There are people that look to the fact that they've taken the Lord's Supper. And look, while the sacraments are indeed. Indeed, signs and seals of the promises of God and redemption. Their power becomes effectual when accompanied by true saving faith that clings to the Lord Jesus Christ. as the one who accomplishes the promises that they point to. Right? That's basic Westminster standards right there for you. But how many people, and maybe how many of you, have viewed the sacraments of baptism and the as and the Lord's Supper as things that have some kind of like magical power, or you treat them like a good luck charm. And it's easy to see them like that, like they they weld some kind of power in and of themselves that if we can just somehow partake of these, we can somehow harness and use that power and those things to our own ends while simply living the way we want to live People do do this. And Paul is is warning them, particularly with verse five, we must be warned that God disciplines sin in his people. even when they partake of blessings among his people in the church. I think that same warning from Israel's history that the Corinthians needed to hear is the same warning that we need to hear today. Brothers and sisters, let me just say we can we may be able to point to tangible blessings of God in our lives in the past. When I say tangible, I mean like things that you can point to. That are real, whether physical or spiritual. We can point to blessings. But that does not give us free reign to walk in a way where we are not believing and trusting the The promises that God has given today. We need to beware that God does disappoint his people when they willfully and willingly pursue idols that displease him. And that brings us to our second point in verses six to thirteen. The warning applied through instruction to repentance. Let's look at verses six to thirteen 10. We see instruction from Israel's consistent rebellion. Now this this unpacks verse 5, right? Verse 5 told us God was not pleased with them, they were overthrown in the wilderness. What verses 6 through 10 does is it gives us four examples of Israel's rebellion in the wilderness. And each of these examples follows the same pattern. There's an exhortation against something. Let us not do this. Then it points us back to Israel who did just that, and it points back to them suffering the consequences of God's wrath. Or judgment or punishment. Four examples. Let's take a look. Again, we're not going to say everything there's to say about every one of these examples, but verse 7 gives us the first: the rebellion of the golden calf. Which is why we read this earlier in our service. Look at verse 7. Do not be idolatrous as some of them were, as it is written: the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Boy, notice those infinitive verbs there. To eat, to drink, to play. Now we know this goes back to Exodus 32. We read it earlier. Exodus 32, 6. This is a word-for-word quote. This is a great example, by the way, for Paul to bring up to the Corinthians. Because if you remember the context, particularly from chapter 8, the question they were asking was: can we eat meat sacrificed to idols? Clearly those verbs eating and drinking here connect to that particular theme. And then the word play that he uses here has the idea of people committing sexual morality, and that's our second example in verse 8. The rebellion of sexual morality. Look at what he says. We must not indulge in sexual morality as some of them did. And 23,000 fell in a single day. Now here's something that's really interesting. You see a similar example to the golden calf happen at the end of the wilderness wanderings 40 years later with that second generation. in Numbers 25. And some commentators are split. Some believe that verse 8 is talking about the golden calf. And then some think that it's talking about Numbers 25, where they sinned with worshiping Baal at Peor. You remember that story? The one guy brought the woman into the camp when the people were mourning and um Aaron's grandson Phineas had to go in and kill them both. As an example of God's wrath against sin and sexual morality. I think it's probably still the golden calf incident. But again, this connects to what Paul has just spent chapters 5 through 7. Talking about. That very topic, immorality, was a part of pagan worship in the city of Corinth at that time. just like it was as part of the worship service of the pagan idols in the ancient Near East in the Old Testament time. And what Paul is warning them to do is he's warning them not to put themselves in a tempting position with idolatry, which might occur if they go to the pagan temples. to eat the meat that is there. They might think that they have the Christian freedom to do so. Chapter 8, they give an intellectual argument as to why they can. Paul is warning them there are other things associated with idolatry. that you don't want to put yourself in that position in because you might be tempted to fall into sin. So rebellion with idolatry, rebellion with sexual morality, rebellion of testing Christ. Look at verse 9. The third example. We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents. Let me just say as a side note, it is fascinating to me that Paul writes that they tested Christ, referring to an Old Testament situation, rather than saying more generically, they tested the Lord. I mean, after all, if Christ is the rock and he followed them in the wilderness, that makes sense, doesn't it? But this happens in Numbers 21. And you know what's really fascinating? He's been talking in this context about eating meat to idols. in these chapters in Corinthians. He's giving two examples now of of idolatry and eating and drinking and now He gives an example in Numbers 21, verses 4 through 9, when the people were complaining about the manna in the wilderness. They were calling spiritual food worthless. And what was God's response? He sends fiery serpents in the camp. They bite some of them and they die. You remember the story? They cry out to Moses. Moses cries out to God. Moses has to put up a bronze serpent on a pole that he makes and fashions, and the people can look at that bronze serpent, and if they look at the serpent after being bit by the fiery ones, they live Which, by the way, is a picture of Christ being risen up. We see this in John chapter 3, verse 15. Just as the serpent was lifted up in the wilderness, so will the Son of Man be lifted up, so that all who believe on him will have eternal life. Interesting. He gives this example of testing the Lord. That's rebellion. Let us not do it, he says. Fourth example, verse 10. The rebellion of grumbling. By the way, all these examples kind of flow into one another. Verse 10, nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed, and then destroyed by the destroyer. It's a lot of destroyers. It's hard to pin down what exactly he's talking about there, like what specific incidents, but when you read the book of Numbers and Exodus. this you see example after example after example after example after example of the people grumbling, grumbling, grumbling. They grumble, God gets upset. They grumble You would think they'd stop grumbling. And it was usually disastrous in its results. And so we've seen how God's people were tempted, and I'm going to highlight that word tempted, to idolatry, sexual morality, testing the Lord and grumbling against them. Each time they failed. And so where does this bring us in Paul's argument then? Well, look at verses 11 through 13. The instruction to humility in dealing with temptation. Okay, a lot of failure. How do you deal with that? 11 through 13. There's several things I want to I want us to pay attention here so we can apply this correctly to ourselves and our church today. Verses verses six, I'm going to go back to verse six and then verse eleven. There's instruction here from something called typology. Take a look at verse Verse 6 going back. Now these things took place as an examp as examples in the plural for us that we might not desire evil as they did. But then you look at verse 11, something very simple. Now, these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction on whom the end of the ages has come. By the way, if you pay attention there carefully, both of those verses use the word example, which is where we get our word type from, which is what typology is. And what the point is, is that each of these examples gives us a pattern. You see patterns of behavior. And it's a pattern, by the way, that just as it plagued Israel in the Old Testament, It threatened to plague the Corinthians in the first century. It is a pattern that we could fall into today. Any one of these. And they're written for our instruction. So why do we need this instruction? Well, look at verse 12. This is a problem the Corinthians had. It's a problem we might have today too. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. What are you talking about? Well, commentator William Baker says this. He addressed them as people who were overconfident in their position, even arrogant. Reminiscent of his depiction of them in verses chapter 8, verses 1 and 2, they, being the Corinthians, saw themselves like a giant tree with deep roots. Unfazed by a mighty wind, or like a great warrior holding his ground against all comers. Yet, he writes, this was not their real situation This is a call, brothers and sisters, to spiritual humility and not thinking too highly of ourselves in relation to sin and the possibility of temptation. Lastly, in verse 13, we see humility about our temptation unpacked. Look at how this culminates. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to me. Man. God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. So how we handle temptation to idolatry, immorality, testing the Lord, and grumbling is what Paul is driving us towards. And just like the Corinthians, are we putting ourselves in the path of temptation for the sake of our own Christian freedom, thinking that we are stronger than we really are? So notice here this last verse, which I think is the climax, the culmination of all of this argument in verse 13, comes with a warning and it comes with comfort. Remember at the beginning of this sermon, I prayed that the Lord would convict us if we need to be convicted or comfort us if we need to be comforted? There's both here at the end. Let's unpack this. Humil uh so what effects what effect are the sins of God's people in the past supposed to produce in us? That's what we want to unpack by way of application. The sins of Israel in the Old Testament were written to instruct us in humility towards repentance and sin. Repentance over sin, excuse me. We need humility in not assuming that we are more mature or stronger than we really are. This is something, brothers and sisters, I truly believe we have in common with the Corinthians. Why? Why? Because human nature doesn't change apart from the work of the Holy Spirit. It's as simple as that. Every one of us in this room wrestles with pride. And sometimes the more we grow in Christ, the greater the propensity is to be tempted to spiritual Pride. We tend to think that we are further along than we really are. And when we do that, it's easy to look at the mistakes of others like Israel or the Corinthians. And to think that if we were in their shoes, we would never have done what they've done. And when we begin to think like that, let me just say this is part of the warning. We do not understand our own sin if we fall into that kind of thought. We don't. So there's a warning to humility that comes in verses 12 and 13. But the second part of the application is resisting sin when temptation arises. Now again, there's some warning, but there's also some encouragement here that I think comes from verse 13 as the driving force of this application. And I want to draw a few things out of it. Very briefly. First, this is kind of a first main point. application. When it says that there's no temptation that has overtaken you that is not common to man, what it means is that there's nothing that you will expect. Experience in this life from your sinful nature by way of temptation that is completely unique to you That's a truth we need to understand. It's because we're all made in the image of God, Genesis 1. 27. We all have the same basic sin nature as children of Adam. We all, but we live in a day and age, don't we, where everybody thinks that they are completely unique I don't hear this word that often anymore, but maybe like ten years ago we used to talk about people being snowflakes who thought they were just so Unique, and I don't mean to say that in an insulting way, I'm just saying that's what people would say. This passage challenges that mindset when it comes to temptation and sin. We're not really that unique. And so let's not pretend to think that no one can possibly understand the struggles that we might have Scripture tells us otherwise. And by the way, that's a warning, but the encouraging side of that is that because it means because we're not alone We don't have to struggle alone with our sins and our temptations, even among one another. Now I said that that was kind of a first umbrella application. Let me just keep drilling down into that. The first thing that should encourage us about this as we think about dealing with our own sin and temptation is what Hebrews chapter 2, verses 17 and 18 says Therefore, he, being Christ , had to be made like his brothers in every respect. There's the incarnation. So that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation, that means to turn away the wrath of God for the sins of his people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. Let me encourage you this morning. This means that whatever you struggle with this morning, and there were four examples given in this passage, right? Idolatry, sexual morality, testing the Lord, right, and grumbling. Whatever you struggle with, that's just a sample. Jesus understands what you're going through because he's the Son of God who became flesh and dwelt among us. John 1. 14 And moreover, we see the examples in the Gospels that tell us that Jesus himself was tempted. And what is more, he did not sin. Yeah, hallelujah. So let me just encourage you this morning. If you're struggling with temptation, you're struggling with sin, you don't have to struggle alone. The Lord understands what you're going through. You can come to him. He will not turn you away. The second thing I want to encourage you with this morning, because I realize how heavy this passage is, when we think of dealing with our sin. Is that because we are not unique, other people sitting around you this morning know what it means to deal with the same basic issues that you're dealing with. Now, by the way, that doesn't mean you indiscriminately open up to just everybody about what problems you have in your life, okay? I'm not saying that. Use discernment as to who you're going to trust But it does mean that you should have at least one person, if not a few, at least one, that you can come to with complete honesty about what you're struggling with. And let me just say this as a reality check. If you do not have that in your life, this is something to pray about and to look for. And if you are unwilling to submit yourself to this kind of accountability, it begs the question as to why, which then brings a warning. And the third thing is the warning. When you fall into the trap of believing that you must struggle alone, or that no one can possibly understand what you're going through. It leads us to justifying the covering up of our sins. It justifies living in darkness. And it justifies, at least in our own minds, not letting anyone in. And the warning is that that is nothing but spiritual pride, and it will lead to our destruction and our Downfall. Okay, that was the first kind of big picture application. Let me give a second one because we need some clarity here. And I think the clarity is also Also going to be encouraging as we end. I've seen many people take this passage, verse 13, this idea I I've seen people take that passage out of context. and misapply it to say that God will never give you something that is beyond your ability to deal with. Let me just say from the pulpit in the most sophisticated way that I can, baloney. That's not true. That's not true. In fact, I will say, God intentionally gives you things that you cannot deal with. Why does he do that? Because he's mean? No. He does it to keep us on our knees and dependent upon him. Because Paul will say later on in 2 Corinthians chapter Chapter 12, when Paul's begging God to remove the thorn in his side, which was more than he could deal with in his own strength, God says, My power is perfected in weakness. Why does God give you more than you can bear situationally? One, to keep you humble, but to display his power. And grace in your life. Now, what does this mean then? What it means has to do with temptation and sin, not circumstances in life When it comes to the temptations that we all wrestle with, and each of us in this room has our own besetting sins. The encouragement here is that God always provides us. A way of escape. The encouragement here is that God is faithful not to give you or allow you to have more than is going to suck the life out of you through sin. God always provides the way to come to Christ as Hebrews chapter 2 encouraged us because Christ is able to help us Help those who are being tempted. Are you tempted this morning to any of these things that Israel failed in? Are you tempted to any of these things that the Corinthians failed in? Come to Jesus and he will strengthen you and he will forgive you and he will embrace you and he will call you his own and strengthen In you. It leads us to our main back to our main idea, doesn't it? Continued idolatry will result in God's displeasure despite past blessing. Therefore, we must be repentant or Must repent amidst temptation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you crushed the power of sin. At the cross. And because of that, you write this to us as your redeemed to continue to walk In trust and in faith in your promises. Because it's not a matter of if temptation will come, Lord. It's a matter of when and how. We pray for strength this morning. We pray, Lord, that you would continue to give us a clear picture of Jesus and to cling to Him and His power. Promises and not to presume upon your grace, but to rest in your grace in Jesus. Lord, we ask for this this week For this name and the sake of your Son, because we are his people, baptized into his name. It's in his name we pray