Amen. Thank you, choir. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to Mark chapter three? As we continue our study through the Gospel of Mark, and as you turn there, the uh brought up a key. I think it's a key to a Jetta. Excuse me. So If you have a Jeddah and you're trying to start it, uh I'll just leave this up here on the pulpit and you when you get to the car you'll realize that's that's where it is. Which reminds me, there is a family in the church that is in need of a vehicle temporarily. Um theirs was destroyed in a fire, actually, and uh And if you have a uh a second car that you could uh get along without for a period of time, uh please uh speak to me or I'll let you know uh the details. I think there was one other thing I wanted to say. Oh yeah. If you missed uh Barry's uh Sunday school class this morning, uh uh uh try not to miss it next week. We might have to go out and buy more chairs this week. We Well we set up enough. But uh it's it's an excellent class uh on his dissertation topic and I think there may be something in the bulletin about it, but it's uh how Christians respond to homosexuality and to to uh uh what what the biblical uh basis for our position is and and then uh uh i i it all the stuff that he has been studying for several months uh for his doctorate. So Uh you don't want to miss that. He'll be teaching again next Sunday morning in the Sunday school hour. And then of course on Easter morning we have that fellowship time. But then the week after Easter he'll be teaching again, Lord willing. Mark chapter 3. Let's read the entire chapter this morning. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. So they watched him closely whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, Step forward. And then he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to kill? But they kept silent. And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea. And a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea and Jerusalem and Idumea and beyond the Jordan, and those from Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard how many things he was doing, came to him So he told his disciples that a small boat should be kept ready for him because of the multitude, lest they should crush him. For he healed many. so that as many as had afflictions pressed about him to touch him. And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God. But he sternly warned them that they should not make him known. And he went up on the mountain and called to him those he himself wanted, and they came to him. Then he appointed twelve that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach, and to have power, to heal sicknesses, and to cast out demons. Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter, James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, to whom he gave the name Boenerges, that is, sons of thunder , Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James, the son of Alphaeus, Thaddeus, Simon the Canaanite, and Judas the Scariot, who also betrayed him. And they went into a house. Then the multitude came together again so that they could not so much as eat bread. But when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said he's out of his mind And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, he has Beelzebub, and by the ruler of the demons he casts out demons. So he called them to himself, and he said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand but has an end. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house. Assuredly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they may utter. But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation. Because they said he has an unclean spirit. Then his brothers and his mother came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him. And a multitude was sitting around him, and they said to him, Look, your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. But he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brothers? And he looked around in a circle at those who sat about him and said, Here are my mother and my brothers For whoever does the will of God is my brother and my sister and mother. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray together. Father, as we prepare our hearts now for the Lord's Supper, come upon us with your Holy Spirit. Speak to us through your word. Teach your believers, edify us, build us up , your children, and those who are outside of Christ who may be with us this day or listening. We pray, Father, for your Holy Spirit to touch their hearts. And draw them to yourself through your power. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. In our day, when a man commits a horrendous crime, his defense attorney may offer a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. If he prevails, the defendant is likely to be removed from society and confined to a mental institution. The prosecution, on the other hand, is likely to attempt to prove that the man is quite sane, is simply evil. Deserving of death and incarceration for or incarceration for life. The Lord Jesus, of course, had committed no crime, In fact, he had been teaching, preaching, healing, casting out demons. But his behavior had certainly been unusual. And in this passage that we consider this morning, his family members acting as his public defenders, you might say, perhaps hoping to spare him a worse consequence. Come to him with a thought that he's out of his mind. He's beside himself. Evidently they hoped that he would return home to Nazareth with them. While the scribes from Jerusalem, acting as the prosecutors, you might say, come arguing that he is evil, healing by the power of Satan, and he should be treated accordingly. First, I want you to notice again the great crowds that came out to Jesus. As we left him last week, he had just healed a man with a withered hand in the synagogue. Leaving the Pharisees, who thought this a violation of the Sabbath, so incensed at him that they immediately plotted together with the Herodians to see how they might destroy him. Now look at verses 7 and 8. But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea and Jerusalem and Idumea and beyond the Jordan, and those from Tyre and Sidon. Gentile cities in the north. A great multitude, when they heard how many things he was doing, came to him. Anyone who witnessed Jesus heal a loved one or cast out a demon Would of course tell others. And they would tell others and write to friends elsewhere. And within a few days or weeks we could understand that masses of people, Jews and Gentiles, Would be coming to Galilee searching for Jesus. Verse 9. So he told his disciples that a small boat should be kept ready for him because of the multitude, lest they should crush him For he healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed about him to touch him. And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God. But he sternly warned them that they should not make him known. There were in fact so many people Pressing about him, trying to touch him. Then Jesus asked his disciples to have a small boat ready so that he might be able to get into the boat if need be to avoid the crush. And as he had done before, he silenced the demons who cried out, testifying of him. He silenced them either simply because he didn't want it known at this point. He didn't want it widely spread that he was indeed the Son of God. He had a timetable to follow. Or he simply didn't want it declared by evil spirits. You remember the slave girl in Philippi, who followed Silas and Luke and Paul for days, crying out, These men are the servants of the Most High God. Who come this to proclaim to us the way of salvation? Now that was true. They evidently just didn't want that witness coming from this demon-possessed girl. And so they cast the demon out of her. Look at verse 13. And he went up on the mountain and called to him those he himself wanted, and they came to him. Then he appointed twelve that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach, and to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out demons. And then he lists for us the twelve. There were many who followed him, and of those many, he chose twelve, as there were twelve tribes of Israel. Anchoring the Old Testament, you might say. Even so, there were twelve apostles anchoring the New Testament. And Christ chose them to be with him, the scripture says. To be with him, walking with him, listening to him, memorizing his words, questioning him. Remember, he was not a rabbi who put students in a classroom and taught them. He was what we call a peripatetic teacher. He would walk about, and as he walked about, he would teach, and they would ask questions, and he would respond. They watched him perform miracles. They watched him interact with various people. They watched him respond to opposition, etc. He called them that they might be with him And he called them that he might be able to send them out to preach, proclaiming the wonderful gospel, that Christ has come, that the kingdom is at hand, that the Messiah is here. And also he gave them power to heal sicknesses and cast out demons. Now the twelve are listed, Simon, Peter, with whom we're all familiar. James, the son of Zebedee, that's the brother of John, the first martyr among the apostles, Acts chapter 12, is his brother John. Author of the Gospel of John, author of the three epistles of John , the one who calls himself the disciple whom Jesus loved Andrew, Peter's brother, who first told Peter about the Lord. Now these four were all fishermen Philip, we know him from John 14, have I been so long time with you? And yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father Bartholomew, also known as Nathanael, it was Nathanael who introduced Christ to , was introduced to Christ by Philip. Jesus called out, called Nathanael, and he said of him, Behold an Israelite indeed in whom is no deceit. John 1. 47. Then you have Matthew, the former tax collector, also known as Levi, author of the first gospel in our New Testament, and Thomas, called the twin. It was Thomas who said to Jesus in John 14, Lord, we do not know where you are going, and how can we know the way? And of course Jesus responded, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. And it was Thomas, of course, who was so dejected after the crucifixion that he was not encouraged, even by the testimony of the other disciples, that they had seen Jesus alive again. Then you have James, the son of Alphaeus, also known as James the Less. That would be to distinguish him from James, the brother of John, who was more prominent. And to distinguish him from James, the half-brother of the Lord, who became a leader in the early church after his conversion, after the resurrection. It was this James, James son of Alphaeus, whose mother, whose name was Mary, was at the crucifixion. Mark 15, verse 40. And then you have Thaddeus, also known as Jude, or the other Judas, John 14, 22, and he was also called Lebius, whose surname was Thaddeus, Matthew 10, 3. Simon the Canaanite, also known as Simon the Zealot, meaning he was from a party that sought the violent overthrow of the Romans, and of course Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. Jesus and the twelve entered a house, the scripture says, and then we read, Then the multitude came together again so that they could not so much as eat bread. But when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said, he is out of his mind. His own people evidently refers to his mother and his half-brothers, those who were born naturally to Mary after, to Mary and Joseph, after uh Christ's miraculous birth. They're described, their names are actually given, the names of the the brothers at least, in uh Mark chapter 6. We'll come to that uh someday, uh Lord willing. And he had at least uh at least two sisters. So he had uh uh four brothers that we know of and at least two sisters and they lived about uh twenty miles from Capernaum Now they will arrive here a little bit later in the pat in the passage, but uh they they said to themselves, he's he's out of his mind. No doubt the brothers Who were not believers at this point, John 7, verse 5, even his brothers did not believe in him. No doubt the brothers had a keen interest nonetheless in what Jesus was doing I imagine Jesus' brothers keeping close tabs on him. He was, in fact, the oldest brother. You must remember that they had not embraced him again as the Messiah, and so they were suspicious, I suppose, of his activities. As one who who has brothers and who has had some experience in my youth with sibling rivalry, being of course the favorite son It's not a stretch for me to imagine that as these reports about Jesus and the masses of people flocking to him reached Nazareth, the brothers might have fanned the flames of concern in Mary. Consider a possible scenario. A mother, he's acting erratically. He's stirring up the people. He's in danger from the crowds. He's in danger from the scribes. He's in danger from the occupiers, the accursed Romans. You know that Herod has already arrested John. Jesus will be next Rome was not going to be pleased with these reports of thousands of Israelites flocking to one they believed to be the Messiah or the King. Very well, James. You go and observe and see if it's as bad as some say. Let me take Simon with me. I'll send him back with news. Simon returns. It is as bad as we've heard. Multitudes are following him. He was almost crushed at the seaside. And there was such a crowd at the home where he's staying with his followers that they they weren't even able to eat bread. We have to do something, mother. It is enough. Let us go to him. We'll bring him home. But before they arrived, some others came with other plans. Verse 22. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has Behelzebub, and by the ruler of the demons, he casts out demons. The Elzeba was originally seen as the Lord of the Dunghill or Lord of the Filth, Lord of the Flies. But by this time, it seems the name has become simply another name for Satan Evidently, the Pharisees had reported to the scribes in Jerusalem about the new prophet's dealings. Remember, we saw him last week walking through a grain field, and the Pharisees were right there. Watching what his disciples were doing. Why are they plucking grain on the Sabbath? Why are you healing on the Sabbath? Why aren't you fasting? Why aren't your disciples fasting? They were constantly finding fault with him, and they were apparently reporting back to the the chief priests and scribes in Jerusalem. He has utter disregard for our law. He casts out demons on the Sabbath day. Allows his disciples to pluck grain on the Sabbath day. Chose a tax collector as a disciple. There's not a scribe or a Pharisee in his inner circle. He shows them the non-holy instead of the holy. And yet he does perform miracles. How can this be? And the answer of the scribes, he casts out demons through the power granted him by the ruler of the demons. Don't you see? He's in league with the devil. Look at verse 23. So he called them to himself and he said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, That kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand but has an end. Jesus attempts to reason with them, with the scribes. Why would Satan, do you think, have an interest in destroying his own kingdom? A kingdom divided against itself cannot stand. In the midst of the 20th century, Nazi Germany, in league with Russia and Italy, was on the verge of total domination of Europe. But the Fuhrer's ambition overpowered him and he attacked his ally, Russia. And a kingdom divided against itself couldn't stand. Jesus makes that point. If, as you scribes claim, I'm casting out Satan through the power of Satan, then think about it, then Satan has risen up against himself. He's divided and he cannot stand. In other words, why would Satan do such a thing? Furthermore, verse 27: no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman. Then he will plunder his house. In other words, Jesus is saying the evidence suggests the very opposite of what you're saying, what you've concluded. I am venturing in on Satan's territory, I'm taking from him what he claims as his, that which he has in fact stolen from its rightful owner. I'm casting demons out of those Satan has claimed for himself. Far from being in league with him, I'm plundering his house. Jesus is saying, in effect, we all know that the only way to steal from someone who is strong The only way to plunder his goods from right under his nose is to somehow incapacitate him. The way to plunder a strong man's house is to first bind the strong man. Now this is perfect. We happen to have here Jason. Jason Smith, wake up there, stand up. Phil. Phil over here. Alright, you're awake. I got it. You're you're meditating. Phil, stand up. Alright, this is perfect. Come on, come on, come on, come on. Alright. Now look at this. Now would I try to break into Jason's apartment and steal her or Phil's apartment Steal his uh laptop from right under his nose? I don't think so. Uh not without first binding them. And uh and I can't even get the the uh seatbelt in my car around uh Phil Smith. It was so funny. He kept pulling the thing, they wouldn't go around him. And there's no way I'm gonna bind either of these guys That's Jesus' point. If I'm robbing, if I'm plundering from Satan's household, then obviously I have to first bind Satan to do it. You see? You have to have to first bind the strong man If you were looking if if you were looking at my actions with objective eyes instead of evil eyes, if if instead of in being intent on finding fault That you were just looking objectively, the truth would be self-evident. The only way I could be re redeeming from Satan's authority those who've been in his control, in other words, plundering his goods, is by first binding him. Rendering him impotent. Instead of concluding that I'm in league with Satan, the evidence indicates that I've bound him. And that's what any objective observer observer would conclude. But then Jesus goes further and he takes the offensive and he gives the scribes a very serious warning. Not only were they dead wrong in their appraisal of what Jesus was doing, they were on very thin ice. Look at verse 28. Assuredly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they may utter, but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation. Because they said he has an unclean spirit. Simon Peter in the courtyard of the high priest swore that he did not know Jesus. He began to curse and to swear, I do not know the man of whom you speak. Mark 14, 71. And yet Jesus forgave him. Jesus restored him. Jesus mightily used him. Saul of Tarsus was breathing out threats and murders against the disciples of the Lord, Acts 9:1. And by persecuting them, he was persecuting the Lord himself. But God forgave him and used him. Those who were crucified along with Christ blasphemed him and reviled him the very last day on earth Mark 15, 32. The soldiers mocked him at the cross and blasphemed him and crucified him. Yet when one of those thieves embraced him as Lord and asked for mercy, Jesus promised that thief that he would be in paradise that very day. And Jesus prayed his father would forgive the soldiers who crucified him, for they did not know what they were doing. All sins will be forgiven, the sons of men, Jesus says, and whatever blasphemies they may utter. But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation. Now why did Jesus say this? Because they said he has an unclean spirit. Verse 30. In other words, if you insist on saying that the Spirit who works in and through me is not the Spirit of the Father, but rather the Spirit of Satan. You are in danger of forfeiting any opportunity you have of eternal life. Some of the Pharisees did repent, you know, and come to Christ. Some of the scribes, no doubt, as well. But if you insist on arguing that all that I'm doing is from the power of Satan, you're in danger. humanly speaking, of uh of convincing the people of Israel that I am in fact in league with Satan. Could that not conceivably interfere with God's plan of redemption? Surely the Lord would not, could not permit this. And that might account for the stern warning Jesus gave these scribes. God is patient, but his patience has limits. And he was saying to them, you are walking very near the precipice. You would be wise to think seriously of what you are saying. My father will not take kindly to him who calls the Holy Spirit the very spirit of Satan, and ascribes my miracles to the enemy of all righteousness. the Prince of Darkness, the one who was a liar from the beginning, the one who brought mankind into the state we're in. The one who, because of his evil actions, necessitated my coming to earth if men were ever to be redeemed. Before you repeat this slander, you had better count the cost. Look at verse 31. Now they have arrived. Then his brothers and his mother came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him. And a multitude was sitting around him, and they said to him, Look, your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. This refers back to verses twenty-twenty-one, when they determined that he was beside himself, and they determined to come and somehow rescue him. Give him some time in Nazareth, give him some R and R, get him away from the scribes and the Pharisees and and all the dangers that he was facing because of his I I guess what they would say uh unwise actions His mother and his brothers come to lay hold of him, evidently to convince him to return to Nazareth in their care, because as they saw things, he was clearly not thinking straight. If things were such that he was in danger of being crushed, if he wasn't even able to eat, then he required some family intervention, you see. And so the word was passed through the crowd to the Lord Jesus. Your mother and your brothers are outside, apparently still in a house. Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. Verses 33 and following. But he answered them, saying, Who is my mother and my brothers? And he looked around in a circle at those who sat about him, and he said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of God is my brother and my sister and my mother. Now this must have seemed a very odd response to those who were present. Surely he will pause to honor the request of his mother, right? Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. But Jesus knew what they did not know. He knew why his mother and his brothers had come. They had concluded that he was out of his mind. His response that was no doubt conveyed to the family, must have reminded Mary of the response he gave to her and to Joseph when they found him in the temple at the age of twelve Conversing with the scribes. For three days you'll remember they had looked for him, thinking he was in the caravan with them. And when they found him, they were amazed, and they said, Son, why have you done this to us? This was uncharacteristic of him. Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously. And he said, Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? In this case, Jesus seems to be saying, those normal earthly relationships are no longer primary for me. I am closer to those who do the will of God than to my natural family. Now, let's drive home a few things before we leave chapter 3. First of all, consider what an exciting time this must have been for the people of Palestine. I'm thinking here of the first few verses, verses 7 and 8 that we're considering this morning. A great multitude came to him from Galilee, that is the area near the Sea of Galilee. It would include Cana, Nazareth, Tiberius, Capernaum, Besseda. From Judea in the south, near the Dead Sea, Hebron, Herodium, Bethany, and of course Jerusalem Idumea, further south, west of the Dead Sea, for example Beersheba, and then he mentions Tyre and Sidon, Phoenician port cities in the north, what is now Lebanon, Gentile cities. Remember that news was spreading primarily by word. The news about Jesus was spreading primarily by word , and no doubt secondarily by letter. People who witnessed and experienced of Jesus healing would obviously tell others, who would tell others, and a brother would tell a sister, and a sister would tell her friends, and the friends would tell their family and their friends. I want you to think about this. Imagine if someone began healing the blind, healing the lame, healing the deaf, healing those who have cancer, healing those who have heart disease. In Elkhart, Indiana, this morning. How long would people how long before people would hear about this in Gary, Indiana? Evansville, in uh Bloomington, Indianapolis, and a hundred smaller towns. How long before word spread to Chicago, do you think? In a very short time, the one who was healing would have difficulty staying in any private home. He would very soon have to interact with people in fields or in farms or outside of towns. And that is what was happening to Jesus. With no telegraph, no phones, no mass media. By brother telling brother, by friend telling friend, the good news was spreading. But this was primarily good news of physical healing. The people were coming to try to touch him. The people were coming to try to be healed of him. It's the news that Jesus declared to all who would listen, which was the better news. The news that he came that our sins might be forgiven. The news that through faith in him we can inherit the kingdom of God. That we can be restored to a relationship with our Creator. That was the better news. Yes, Jesus was healing the blind and the lame and the lepers, but that's a temporary healing, isn't it? We can have something far more valuable than a few decades of relatively good health here. If I've had leprosy for 40 years and now I'm healed, I might have another 20 or 30, maybe, of light without leprosy, but Jesus came to pronounce something far better A life where we'll dwell with the Lord forever, unhindered by sin , untainted by that old sinful nature? But in our day, as in Jesus' day, there's a much greater interest in physical healing than in spiritual healing. I guarantee that somewhere this morning there's someone proclaiming spiritual healing in Elkhart, Indiana. And in Gary, and in Bloomington, and in 10,000 other towns, and in Owens Mills, Maryland. That one I'm pretty sure of. But the masses generally do not gather to hear about salvation as they would gather to be healed of blindness or cancer or paralysis. Now, looking at this from a purely human perspective, there are at least two reasons. We humans tend to care more about our health and our comfort here and now than what is yet to come. Pie in the sky by and by. And secondly, when Jesus healed people, it was evident that it was really happening, right? When we tell people that through faith in him their sins can be forgiven, they may not believe it. But by the grace of God, through the Spirit of God, some will. And that's why we proclaim it. Some of the seed will fall upon good ground, ground that has been prepared by the Holy Spirit of God. But what I want to emphasize here is that the way the news spread about Jesus is the same way news is spread about Jesus today and in every culture. Parents tell their children. Brothers tell their brothers. Friends tell their friends. I came to Christ because my brother told me. Brothers tell brothers, sisters tell sisters. Ye shall be witnesses to me, Jesus told his apostles, in Jerusalem and all Judea, and Samaria to the end of the earth. Friends tell friends. People tell strangers. But the word spreads, spreads person to person. You are not responsible for how the seed of the Word of God is received. You have no control over that. But you are responsible for scattering it. I wonder, will someone hear the good news from you this week? Notice something else, the calling of the twelve. He called them to be with him. He called them to be with him and to send about, to preach, and to have power to heal sicknesses and cast out demons. Now we're not apostles, certainly not in the narrow sense of the term. We have not been granted what Paul called the signs of an apostle. signs, wonders, mighty deeds, second Corinthians 12, 12. But as the word apostolos means literally one sent forth, we're certainly apostles in the broader sense, as we've been sent forth to be witnesses for Christ. And you will note that the first apostles were called to be with him, to commune with him, to learn of him, and then to serve in his name. It's not a bad summary of much of what Christians are called to do today. To commune with the Lord, to learn of Him, to serve others. And let me remind you: the apostles were not called to do this on their own. As they communed with Christ, they were communing with one another. They learned together, they prayed together, they served together. We live in a society quite unlike that of first century Palestine. It's possible for us to go a whole week without interacting with another believer. Yet we're called to edify one another, to support the weak, to bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. If you're not interacting with other believers, fellowshipping with them, encouraging them as iron sharpens iron, holding each other accountable in your daily walk, I wonder, can you really call yourself a disciple of Jesus Christ? This is what the disciples did. That's how they lived. That's what Christ called them to Thirdly, it's worthy of note, is it not, that because of Christ's zeal and single-mindedness in his service to his father, his family concluded that he was going overboard. He wasn't in his right mind. Now it's striking that even Mary, who knew full well, or certainly ought to have known full well, exactly who Jesus was and why he had come Mary, who was told by Gabriel that the son that she would miraculously conceive would be great, the son of the highest. He would sit on the throne of David. He would be called the Son of God. Mary knew all that. Mary, who was told that of Jesus' kingdom there would be no end. Even Mary somehow became persuaded that Jesus' behavior indicated that he was not in his right mind. Even as John the Baptizer, while in prison, wondered, remember, if maybe he got it wrong when he pointed to Jesus and said, Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. I wonder, are there any believers whose faith is so strong that they're never troubled by doubts? I wonder. If your faith is sometimes strained, Christian, take comfort. That was evidently true of Jesus' own mother. You are in good company. Take comfort in that and you'll feel even more comfort if someone would open some windows around here. Would somebody please do that? Fourthly. That means you guys on the end of the pews. There we go. Note that even as Jesus was accused of being out of his mind, even so have been his disciples down through the ages. Portius Festus, the Roman governor of Judea, who served historians tell us from AD 60 to AD 62, declared as Paul preached the word, Paul, you're beside yourself. Your much learning has made you mad. If you're serious and zealous in your faith, you too may be called mad. You get excited about the Orioles, get excited about the Ravens, or if you're not in your right mind, you get excited about the Red Sox or the Pirates or Or even the Steelers. And you're called a fan. You're called a fan. Get excited for Christ, you're likely to be called a fanatic. Jesus said, he who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. Matthew 10, 37. Listen, Christian, the time may come When you have to distance yourself even from those in your own family, if they attempt to interfere with your service for Christ, if they attempt to interfere with your faith in Christ. Jesus' mother was to be honored by him, as the fifth commandment declares, but honoring his mother did not mean consenting to her misguided attempt to interrupt his ministry. And then there's good news in this passage for sinners, verse 28. Jesus said, Assuredly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men. And whatever blasphemies they may utter. Yeah, but Pastor, you don't know what I've done. All sins will be forgiven, the sons of man, Jesus said. But you don't know what I've said. You don't know what I've said about God. You don't know what I've said about his name. And whatever blasphemies they may utter shall be forgiven, the sons of man. But what if I've committed the unpardonable sin? Well, I believe that sin could only have been committed by those in Jesus' day. That's why Jesus warned these scribes about what they at that time were saying. The Lord simply was not going to permit that rumor to start to spread. And the easiest way to prevent it from spreading was for Jesus to tell these men they were on thin ice, which he did. But if I'm wrong about that, and if it's possible to commit the unpardonable sin today, there does seem to be near universal agreement among Bible commentators that no one who's genuinely concerned about having done so Could possibly have committed the unpardonable sin. The one who's committed the unpardonable sin has knowingly ascribed the works of the Holy Spirit to Satan. He's turned his back upon all that is holy. And he simply doesn't care. Not in the least. What God's Word has to say about it. The good news for you and for me is all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men. If we can confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 1 John 1:9. If you've not come to Christ, this can be the day of salvation for you. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Come, let us reason together, says the Lord. And finally, here's a comforting thought for the Christian. Jesus considers you his family. Who is my mother? My brother? Whoever does the will of God is my brother, my sister, my mother. The bond he has with you, Christian, is stronger than a family bond, than the bond of a son with his mother. Bond of a brother with his brother. You who do his will are his brother, his sister, his mother. Let all true Christians drink comfort out of these words, wrote J. C. Rile. Let them know that there is one at least who knows them. loves them, cares for them, reckons them as his own family. What though they be poor in this world, they have no cause to be ashamed when they remember that they are the brethren and sisters of the Son of God What though they be persecuted and ill treated in their homes because of their faith? They may remember the words of David and apply them to their own case. When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up Psalm twenty seven ten. Let's pray. Almighty God, I do pray for the believers here. May they feel your presence, your comfort, your love. May they know that they are brothers, sisters of Christ. Oh Lord, may that assurance help them today, through the week, through the rest of their lives. And Lord, I pray for those outside of Christ. Please, Father, you're the only one who can bring conviction of sin. It's the work of your Holy Spirit We proclaim the word, we sow the seed, but we need you to water it, to cause it to grow. So Lord, please do that. We ask it in Jesus' name for his glory. Amen.