After two days it was the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by trickery or treachery and put him to death. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. And being in Bethany at the house of Simon, the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came, having an alabaster flask of very costly oil of spike nut. Then she broke the flask and poured it on his head. But there were some who were indignant among themselves and said, Why was this fragrant oil wasted? For it might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they criticized her sharply. But Jesus said, let her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish, you may do them good. But me, you do not have always. She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial. Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, What this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priest to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. So he sought how he might conveniently betray him. Now, on the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where do you want us to go and prepare that you may eat the Passover? And he sent out two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him. Wherever he goes in, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with my disciples? Then he will show you a large upper room furnished and prepared. There, make ready for us. So his disciples went out and came into the city and found it just as he had said to them. And they prepared the Passover. In the evening he came with the twelve. Now, as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly, I say to you, one of you who eats with me will betray me. And they began to be sorrowful and to say to him one by one, Is it I? And another said, Is it I? He answered and said to them, It is one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. Let's uh end our scripture reading there. We'll read on. Next Lord's Day, Lord willing. Let's pray. Lord We are utterly dependent upon you when we open up your word. We need your Holy Spirit to enlighten us, to help us to focus, to uh keep our minds from wandering. And Lord, we are utterly utterly dependent upon you the open hearts to uh remove the blinders from men's eyes to breathe upon our dry bones that they might live. And so we lift up not only your children here today that we might be nourished and fed from your word, but we lift up those who may be here outside of Christ. Those who may still be dead in their trespasses and sins. We pray, Father. We believers are praying, beseeching you that this might be the day of salvation for some. Open eyes. Draw souls to yourself. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. We have come in our study of Mark's Gospel To the week leading up to the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ. The Apostle John gives us some helpful insight into what was happening behind the scenes. The chief priests and scribes were particularly motivated to take action against Jesus after he raised from the grave Lazarus of Bethany, brother of Martha and Mary. A man who was known to have been dead for four days. And the resurrection of Lazarus took place in front of numerous witnesses. So the priests got together and they said, What shall we do? For this man, Jesus, works many signs. John 12, 47. Apparently it never occurred to them to do the only logical thing, which was to fall down before him and acknowledge him as the Messiah. If we let him alone like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will come and take away both our place, their position, and our nation. Caiaphas, the high priest, said, You know nothing at all. In other words, why are you even discussing it? Nor do you consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people. And not that the whole nation should perish. Obviously, we have to make this man a sacrificial lamb to save the whole nation. Now John says Caiaphas didn't realize it, but he was in fact speaking prophetically, right? Jesus would indeed die for the nation, but not as Caiaphas meant. So they determined to do whatever was necessary. Mark 14, 1. They sought how they might take him by trickery or treachery and put him to death. Whatever it takes, he's got to die. But they didn't want to do it during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people, verse 2. How many hundreds had been healed by Jesus at this point? How many thousands had witnessed his miracles and heard his teaching? And how many of them had come to Jerusalem for the Passover? As far as the religious leaders were concerned, the arrest of Jesus could cause a tumult. Mob action And mob action could lead to the heavy boot of Rome stopping down hard to restore order, and maybe in the process removing the chief priests and scribes from their positions. How could you let this get to this state? the Romans might think. Whatever they did, they had to be careful, or it might backfire on them. They certainly didn't want to have their guards march in and arrest Jesus as he was teaching in the temple or uh as he was uh uh healing and he always seemed to be teaching or healing if only they could find someone on the inside Someone who would lead them to Jesus when he was away from the crowds. Ideally, after most of the pilgrims had returned to their homes in other parts of the country. Well, as we pointed out last week, Judas was in a perfect position to assist the chief priests and scribes. He was, John tells us, a thief. He was the treasurer of the Twelve, so he was in an ideal position to be a thief, and he was siphoning away some of their funds for his own use. It wasn't because he cared for the poor that he objected to the pouring of the whole bottle of precious ointment upon Jesus, John 12. It was Judas who first got the ball rolling there, objecting to this wastefulness, an objection that was picked up by some of the other disciples. It was because he regretted that the perfume was not sold and the proceeds deposited in the Bank of Iscariot , from which he could make surreptitious withdrawals at any time. But Judas was resourceful, if nothing else. He found another way to acquire more of the love of his life. Verses ten and eleven. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priest to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. So he sought how he might conveniently betray him. Judas took the initiative. He missed out on being able to pilfer from the approximately 300 uh denari, the 300 days wages. That uh would have been the proceeds of the sale of the spikenard. And that's why he was angry when Mary uh in his mind wasted it all on Jesus But of course he wouldn't have been able to pilfer all of that money, right? Where's the 300 dinara? Oh, well it's all gone. Well, where did it go? No, he could only take a little bit. If you're a thief, you know what I'm talking about You don't want to steal everything from your employer. Raise your hand if there's anyone. No. So the chief priests and the scribes offered him 30 silver coins, about a tenth of the value of Mary's spiker, right? For betraying Jesus to them. That is, for telling them when and where they could take Jesus into their custody without crowds observing it. Now look at verse 12. Now, on the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where do you want us to go and prepare that you may eat the Passover? You remember, of course, Jerusalem was not the home of Jesus and his disciples. They moved from place to place They were dependent upon the charity of others, and just as a large number of pilgrims who were in Jerusalem at the time, they were dependent upon the hospitality of others if they were to celebrate the Passover. Where do you want us to go and prepare that we may eat the Passover? We don't think this is the first time they had been in Jerusalem for the Passover. This is the third year of Jesus' ministry. And uh perhaps the other two times they had eaten at someone's home, perhaps the same person's home, where do you want us to go? You want us to go back to that place? They assumed he had somewhere in mind. Perhaps somewhere they had received hospitality before. And I'm sure that by this point in Christ's ministry, there were thousands, certainly hundreds of people that would have welcomed him and his disciples into their home. uh to celebrate the Passover. Now, look at uh verse thirteen And he sent out two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him. Wherever he goes in, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with my disciples? Then he will show you a large upper room furnished and prepared. There make ready for us. So the disciples went out and came into the city and found it just as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. Jesus sent two of his disciples into the city, and he said to them, When you go into the city , there will meet you a man carrying a pitcher of water. I want you to follow him. And wherever he goes, then say to the master of the house, where is the guest chamber where the Lord may partake of the Passover? Now, remember Jerusalem was packed at the Passover every year. Historians tell us that uh population estimates range anywhere from several hundred thousand to two million. Josephus says in the year sixty-six anyway, so uh thirty some years later, there were, he estimated, two million people in Jerusalem. Many think that's a uh uh too high a number, but in any event there were hundreds of thousands, certainly, uh people in the city of Jerusalem at the time. Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water, follow him. At first glance it seems Like a daunting task, right? As if the Lord has said to you, go to Baltimore and you'll see a man in an orange hat. I want you to follow him wherever he goes and say to the master of the house Lord, he's gonna lead me to Camden Yards. I think it's pretty obvious. But uh remember, although it was it was indeed particularly crowded with a population during Passover that might in even exceed the population of Baltimore's. The area Jerusalem covered was much smaller than Baltimore's. The city, remember, was entered only by gates, and where the disciples were at the time Jesus spoke to them would determine what gate they would be entering, right? Add to that the fact that it would be somewhat unusual for a man to be carrying a pitcher of water, as that was viewed as women's work. And then the clincher was, Jesus said, the man will meet you. He can be looking for you. Uh we don't know how, by his providence, God arranged this. Perhaps he told the man in a dream or a vision that uh partic to be at that particular gate at that particular time. That's In fact, uh how he told Cornelius to send for the Apostle Peter uh through a vision. The more interesting question to me is, why all the cloak and dagger stuff? Right? Minus a cloak, uh literal cloak. Or literal dagger. Why the mystery? Why not just say, hey, we're going to celebrate the Passover at the home of Judah, son of Simon, on Herodian Road? Or wherever. Well, think about it. Jesus still had very much to teach his disciples. That very night He would wash their feet, giving them a lesson in humility they would never forget. Humility and service. He would give them his new commandment to love as he had loved them. That night he would comfort them. In my father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. All of that had yet to be said. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. He was going to promise them another comforter, a paraclete, an advocate, a family attorney called alongside to help. Jesus had yet to introduce the Lord's Supper. He had yet to offer what we call the great high priestly prayer found for us in John 17. Now think about it. Judas had already entered into an arrangement with the chief priest. What do you think he would have done if Jesus had announced where they were going to be celebrating the Passover? What a perfect opportunity to have the soldiers come in the evening and lead Jesus away while they were all together in an enclosed area. So Jesus does not say where he will celebrate the feast. He doesn't even tell all the disciples where. He doesn't send all the disciples to make ready. Remember, they came to him. Where would you like us to go to prepare the Passover? He doesn't reveal the location at all. He sends only two, and even they are unaware of their destination. So if Judas had sidled up to a them and said, Where where are you going? They wouldn't have been able to tell him. Jesus had more to teach his disciples, and he would not permit himself to be arrested until he had finished the work as he prayed in the high priestly prayer. Lord, I have finished the work which you have given me to do. John 17, 4. Now look at verse 17. In the evening he came with the twelve. And now as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you who eats with me will betray me. Now Jesus had alluded to his betrayal before, notably Mark chapter 10. Look there for a moment, chapter 10 and verse 33. He said to his disciples, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes. And they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles. And they will mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him. And the third day he will rise again. Jesus had alluded to his betrayal and to uh and to the uh his crucifixion before, but here he reveals something the disciples would have never imagined that the betrayer was going to be one of the twelve. One of them would betray him. And the Lord Jesus would then be able to cry out as David did, even my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his heel against me. Psalm 41, verse 9. Now we can only imagine the shock that that news that one of them would betray him must have brought to the disciples. They began to be sorrowful, verse 19, as we can imagine. They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one by one, is it I? And another, is it I? Lord, is it I who will betray you? Am I the one? Clearly, at least some of the apostles were evidently familiar enough with the depravity of their own hearts. The heart is deceitful above all things, desperately wicked, who can know it? They were at least familiar enough with the deceitfulness of their own hearts to suspect that uh any one of them might be the betrayer Look at verse 20. He answered and said to them, It is one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish. Jesus does not declare specifically who would betray him, but he reiterates that it would be one of those presently sharing the meal with him. One of the inner circle. Now look at verse 21. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. Prophecies such as Psalm 22, Isaiah 53 make it clear that the Messiah would be reproached and despised and put to death in the midst of ridicule. These things were, of course, foreordained, a part of the sovereign plan of Almighty God for our redemption. But Judas, acting on his own evil impulses and acquiescing to Satan's prompting, Judas, whose covetousness led him not only to steal from the Lord and his companions , But to trade the life of the one he called Lord for a few silver coins Judas would not experience the pleasure that he anticipated from this little bit of money, his ill-gotten gains. In fact, Jesus said judgment was awaiting him. It would have been better for him if he'd never been more. Now, let's attempt to underscore some truth manifested to us in this passage. First of all, we touched on this last week. I want to hit upon it again. We saw there that according to John 12, it was Judas who prompted the other disciples to complain about what he perceived as Mary's exorbitant gift to Jesus When she poured that entire flask of precious spikenard upon him, why not a little bit of it? Then we could at least sell the rest. This might have been sold for three hundred denarii Given to the poor. But Judas wasn't interested in the poor. He was interested in Judas. He was a thief and he kept the money box, John says And he used to take what was put in it, stealing from the Lord Jesus and his companions and by extension their families that they had left behind to follow Jesus Left their vocations, remember? They had left their uh their fishing boats, they had left their vocations to follow Jesus. Stealing from the Lord and his companions and by extension their families, that was bad enough But trading the life of his master for filthy lucre was as vile a deed as can be imagined. It's no wonder that Jesus warns us: take heed and beware of covetousness. For one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses. Take heed. Beware of covetousness, he says Luke chapter 12, verse 15. Hebrews 13, 5. Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. They who would be rich fall into temptation and a snare And it's in many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, Timothy says, or Paul says to Timothy, sir for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows Now, godliness with contentment is great gain. Well, we brought nothing into this world. It's certain we can carry nothing out, and having food and raiment, let us be there with content. 1 Timothy 6. It has been well said the true Christian ought to be more afraid of being rich than of being poor. The true Christian ought to be more afraid of being rich than of being poor. The many, many more temptations you're likely to fall into. With wealth. How about you, Christian? Are you more afraid of being rich than of being poor? Secondly, there's something we can learn here about God's providence and human responsibility. Judas, like the chief priests and Herod and Pontius Pilate, was fulfilling the desires of his own heart. He was responsible for his own actions. No one put a knife to his throat, compelled him to betray Jesus. He cannot very well stand in the day of judgment and declared, Lord, I only did what you wanted me to do. I was only a character in the drama that you wrote. Yes, God permits the evil actions of men to take place, and he overrules them to accomplish his own purposes. But the men or women acting on those evil impulses are acting according to their own natures and desires. And God does not violate their wills And so Joseph could say to his brothers, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. They were responsible for their sinful betrayal of their brother. And they needed to repent of it. The believer could pray after the resurrection that Herod, Pontius, Pilate, the Gentiles, and Jews were gathered together to do whatever your hand. and your purpose determined before to be done. Acts 4. 28. Now when you vote this Tuesday, and I trust that you will, if you haven't already voted through early voting, you'll be voting according to your own judgment and discretion. Informed, I trust, by God's holy word. But ultimately, we recognize election results are not outside of God's providential control. Amen? The lot is cast into the lap. Proverbs 16, 33. The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. We would say today, you know, that the dice are cast , but the whole disposing of them is of the Lord. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but those things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever. Deuteronomy 29. 20 Lord, you may pray, I can't grasp how these two things coalesce. Man's responsibility, your sovereignty. I just don't get it. And the Lord might respond, does that surprise you? That you don't get it? He says, My thoughts are not your thoughts My ways, neither are my ways, your ways, saith the Lord. In fact, they're not even close He says, as the heavens are higher than the earth, and they're quite a bit higher, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts Isaiah 55. In these events, wrote R. C. Sprawl, we see the intersection between the secret counsel of God and the machinations of the human will. In God's providence, what we call the mystery of concurrence has occurred. Two streams came together, you see? The sovereign will of God and the earthly will of human flesh. Judas did exactly what Judas wanted to do, but God brought good out of evil. He brought redemption out of treachery. Thirdly, we must take note of the connection between the Passover and the time of Christ's death, providentially appointed by God. Bishop J. C. Ryle puts it well. It was meant to draw the attention of the Jewish nation to him as the true Lamb of God. It was meant to bring to their minds the true object and purpose of his death. Every sacrifice, no doubt, was intended to point the Jew onward to the one great sacrifice for sin which Christ offered. But none certainly was so striking a figure and type of our Lord's sacrifice as the slaying of the Passover lamb. Did the Passover lamb remind the Jew of the marvelous deliverance of his forefathers out of the land of Egypt when God slew the firstborn? No doubt it did. But it was also meant to be a sign to him of the far greater redemption and deliverance from the bondage of sin, which was brought by the Lord Jesus Christ. Did the Passover remind the Jew that by the death of an innocent lamb the families of his forefathers were once exempted from the death of their firstborn? No doubt it did. But it was also meant to teach him the far higher truth, that the death of Christ on the cross would be the life of the world. Did the Passover remind the Jew that the sprinkling of blood on the doorposts of his forefathers' houses preserved them from the sword of the destroying angel? No doubt it did. But it was also meant to show him the far more important doctrine that Christ's blood sprinkled on man's conscience cleanses it from all stain of guilt and makes him safe from the wrath to come. Did the Passover remind the Jew that none of his forefathers was safe from the destroying angel in the night when he slew the firstborn unless he actually ate of the slain lamb? No doubt it did. But it also was meant to guide his mind to the far higher lesson that all who would receive benefit from Christ's atonement must actually feed upon him. And except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, there is no life in you, Jesus said. Continuing with uh J. C. Ryle, the lamb slain and eaten by every member of the family, the destroyer destroying angel, the safety within the blood-sprinkled door, would have been talked over and considered in every Jewish household. The very work that our blessed Lord sorry, the very weak that our blessed Lord was slain They'd be talking about it in their houses the very week that our blessed Lord was slain. It would be strange indeed if such a remarkable death as his at such a time did not set many minds thinking and open many eyes. To what extent we shall never know until the last day. The chief priests and scribes sought to take Christ by treachery, and they said to themselves, Let's not do it. During the feast, we don't want there to be an uproar. But God has something else in mind. From all eternity, he had determined that this is when The Passover lamb, the Lamb of God, would be slain. And note fourthly, Jesus told his disciples one of them was going to betray him. Think about it. They did not immediately conclude, oh yeah, that would be Judas. There was always something odd about him. I never trusted him. He didn't seem to be one of us. It seems like that didn't occur to any of them. Who will betray the Lord? Is it I? Am I the one who's going to betray? We see here just how deceptive wolves in sheep's clothing may be. Amen? Judas was the companion of the Lord Jesus Christ for three years, an eyewitness it, eyewitness of his miracles, a student of his master's teaching, both public and private teaching, private counsel. He was on one of those teams that went out preaching the gospel and performing miracles And yet, he was clearly never regenerated. Jesus said to Nicodemus, except a man be born again, or born from above, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Evidently, Judas was never regenerated. He fooled Peter. He fooled Andrew, James, John, Matthew, the others. He may even have fooled himself. Jesus said, it is by their fruits that ye shall know them. And Judas certainly seemed to have good fruits, right? But in the end, he was revealed to be one who served not God but money. And what money could buy him, of course. He was a lover of pleasure rather than a lover of God. The ultimate fruit was rotten. Or the fruit was ultimately revealed to be rotten. Well maybe he was once a true believer in Christ and he fell away. Maybe he was once genuinely saved. And then he was scareless and he was subsequently lost. The scripture is clear, the true believer is kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed. at the last time. 1 Peter. God is the author and the finisher of our faith. Hebrews 12. He who has begun a good work in you, in the true believer, will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Philippians 1, 6. I believe that Christ's true sheep will hear his voice and follow him. He will give unto them eternal life, and they will never perish. Neither will anyone snatch them out of his hand, John 10. Unless one is born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. But when one is truly born of the Spirit, regenerated, made alive, that life that he receives is eternal life. That's how it's described. Not temporary life. It's not a three-year life or a two-year life. It's eternal life. But oh what a reminder is the life of Judas that you and I must make our calling and election sure. If one of Christ's apostles could so deceive those who were ostensibly his brothers Then that means that every church member, every Sunday school teacher, every church officer, every pastor Should search his own heart. Am I trusting in Jesus Christ and his finished work upon the cross? Plus my best efforts to serve and obey him? Or am I trusting in Jesus Christ and his finished work upon the cross alone? Have I come to Jesus empty-handed or with my hands full of my own? uh supposed good works, my own best efforts. Friend, why not settle this today? Why not settle this today? No one knows what a day may bring forth, the scripture says. Now is the acceptable time. Today is the day of salvation. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he's near. What a tragedy it would be for you to hear and to read what Christ endured to save sinners. What a tragedy it would be for you to sit under the preaching of the cross of Jesus Christ. And yet, one day, hear the Lord say, Depart from me. I never knew you. What a tragedy to stand before the Lord one day and acknowledge that yes, I heard the good news. I heard about Jesus, but I rejected it because I loved my sinful pleasures so much I didn't want to give him up Mark my words, they will not be so precious to you in that day. And that day you stand before the one whose eyes are as a flame of fire. But it's not too late. Where there's life, there's hope. The man who wrote our closing hymn was a hardened slave traitor. He almost died several times in his life, came close to death But his tombstone tells a story. John Newton, once an infidel and libertine, a servant of slavers in Africa, was by the rich mercy of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ preserved. Restored, pardoned, and appointed to preach the faith that he has so long labored to destroy. Amen? Believers, let us pray that God's amazing grace may be experienced by lost sinners here today, as it is daily experienced by sin You and by me. Let's pray