Thank you, choir. That's a wonderful blessing. On this Reformation Sunday. We want to consider the power of God's word. God's word which can change hearts, change lives, change families Change cultures and change countries. Turn with me in your Bibles to Hebrews 4, verse 12. And children, you are dismissed for children's church. Hebrews 4. 12, let's hear God's word about God's word. For the word of God is living And powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword , piercing even to the division of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Let's pray together O Father God, how we thank you for your word, which is indeed powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. We pray, Lord, that your word would so pierce our hearts today. that you would indeed teach us, mold us, and shape us more and more into the image of your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your spirit. Pour out your spirit upon us now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Several years ago, I needed to mail a Bible. So I wrapped it and I took it to the post office. And as the postal officer, uh as a postal worker weighed it, he asked me the routine question. Does this package contain anything liquid, fragile, perishable, or hazardous? And I must confess, I was feeling rather snarky that day. And I thought, should I say it? Should I really say it? Because I was tempted to say, you know what's in this package? Do you know what's in this package? What's in this package isn't liquidity Are fragile. In fact, it's more solid than the stone floor we're standing on. And what's in this change Not do that. And what's in this practice isn't perishable. No, quite the opposite. Long after we're gone, long after we've faded like the withered grass, what's in this package will remain. It'll still be here, for what is in here never decays or expires. And you want to know if what's in here is hazardous? Well, let me tell you, what's in here isn't just hazardous. It's dangerous. Absolutely dangerous. What's in this package has set whole continents ablaze with a light, with a brilliant light And then I thought I'd just kind of stand there and stare at him and see what he says. But then I thought better I'd Because talking to a government employee about dangerous packages in your possession is not the smartest thing to do. And I could just see myself in an orange jumpsuit. And I don't look good in orange. So I simply said, No, it's media male. But everything, everything that I thought about saying to the postal worker about this book is absolutely true. And on this Reformation Sunday, we are reminded once again of its power in this brief but profound verse in Hebrews 4. And the first thing that we notice is that God's word is living. God's word is living. And one way it is a living word. is that it comes from the same God who is alive. And since he is alive, that means his word is alive. But the writer of Hebrews also means that God's word is living as it brings life. We read this, of course, on page 1 of his word in Genesis 1, which is also reiterated in Psalm 33. Verses six and nine, which says, By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. For he spoke, and it was was done. He commanded and it stood fast. And the writer of Hebrews himself emphasizes this theme in chapter 11, verse 3, when he writes, the worlds were framed by the Word of God. so that the things which are seen which were not made of things which are visible. So God's word is living as it has formed a world teeming with life simply, simply by the power of God speaking it into existence. But God's word is not only creative, but recreative. It not only brought life where there was none, But it brings life that was once dead. We see this in the New Testament. For example, in John 11, When Jesus' friend Lazarus comes back to life, and he walks out of the tomb at the simple command of Jesus, who says, Lazarus, come out. And Jesus not only raised the dead to new life by the power of his word, but he also taught about in the parable of the sower and the seed about the power of the proclaimed gospel with Which brings new life. The sown seed is the gospel, and when it falls on fertile soil of a responsive heart, then faith Blooms and grows in a person's life. This is picked up in the Epistle of James. James writes in his epistle this very same imagery of God's word as a life-producing spiritual seed when he says in chapter one verse twenty one that we are to receive with humility what the word implanted in you which is able And Peter also echoes this theme that God's word brings new life when he likens it to humanity. human procreation. For he says in 1 Peter 1. 23, that you were born again of what? Not of corruptible seed. But incorruptible seed through the Word of God which lives and abides forever. And you, beloved, you beloved in the Lord, this is your story. This is your song. This is your experience. What Jesus and Jesus James and Peter have described is what has happened to you in your life. One day you're just going along minding your own business. When one day, one day you heard the gospel. And whether it was from your parents or your grandparent, your Sunday school teacher or friend, or you heard a sermon, Sermon. Whatever it was, God's word, God's word is so alive, so active that when you heard it, it penetrated your heart like a seed planted in your soul. And it produced the fruit of faith. God's word is so powerful, so powerful that you were like Lazarus. You were brought out of a tomb of doom and destruction, having been called out by the Lord, who said, Come, come here, come to me. How else do you explain the astounding event that has occurred in your life? That one day you went from being an enemy of God, having nothing to do with him? to becoming a son, a daughter in his kingdom. One day none of this makes any sense to you. You sit there in the pew and you listen to some guy go drone on and on and on and you say what is he talking about up there in that pulpit this makes absolutely no sense this is total foolishness this is crazy and then another day you come And the gospel pierces your heart. And suddenly this book makes sense. And a light bulb goes off, and you see for the first time what you thought was once foolishness is deep, profound, godly will Wisdom. How else do you explain what happened, except that it was the work of his spirit through the power of his word, which is living? And so it brings life. And it's brought life to you, beloved. So the writer of the Hebrews absolutely aptly He says, God's word is not only living, but it's active, it's powerful. Can God fail? Can God fail? Will God's purposes and plans fail? So how can his word fail to do what he Intends it to do. As Psalm 147, 15 says, He sends out his command to the earth, and his word runs very swiftly, and it runs so swiftly that it accomplishes what he intends it to do. Well, how is God's word living and active and powerful? We've already seen that Hebrew seems to suggest the imagery of a seed which grows and bears fruit That may be implied in this verse, but what is absolutely crystal clear is that God's word is like a sword. And not just any sword. It's sharper than any two-edged sword. It's so sharp that it easily, easily easily pick uh pierces its target. And like a double-edged sword, it has no blunt edge, so it cuts both ways. God's word cuts both ways. No matter where it goes, God's word cuts. And one way it cuts is just Judgment. God's word brings judgment to those who hear it. After all, this verse in chapter 4, verse 12. is in the context of warning about God's judgment. Starting in chapter 3, verse 7, the writer of Hebrews reminds these Jewish Christians of what happened to their their forefathers, who had experienced God's deliverance through the Exodus and the parting of the Red Sea. Yet despite this powerful dis demonstration of God's safety Grace in the Israelites' lives, they refused to obey his word. And so due to their disobedience, they were not permitted to enter into Well the writer of Hebrews wants to warn them of God's judgment, because he fears that some under the pressure of persecution Will deny Christ and what they know to be true, that they might go back to their former ways of Judaism, just like the ancient Israelites who wanted to go back to Egypt. even though they had experienced God's deliverance. So he exhorts them, you Hebrew Christians. Don't be like our ancestors who experienced God's grace, but disobeyed his word. For you have been delivered from an even greater destruction than the Egyptian army. And you have received an even greater grace than your forefathers. So do not disregard his word which has saved you. But rather persevere in the midst of persecution, for if you disregard it, you do so at your own peril. For the word of God is alive and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. It cuts both ways, and one way that it cuts is in judgment. God's word is like an executioner Sword, and those that reject it stand under its condemnation. And Jesus made this very clear in John 12, verse 48. He says, He who rejects me and does not receive my words will be judged. The word that I have spoken will judge him in the last day So when we disregard his gospel, when we judge it as foolishness, it in fact will one day judge us When I do a funeral service, it's always a poignant and opportune time to share the gospel. Because in the death of a loved one, we're always confronted with questions. We're confronted with our own mortality. And we have these questions: Is there life after death? Or do I simply cease to exist? Is there a heaven or hell? And if there is, how do I go to one and avoid the other? And when I do share the gospel, I try to read their expressions. Some are quietly sad. Some have faces like flint, hardest stone Others seem bewildered as if to say, what on earth is he talking about? Others are joyful even in the midst of their sadness because they've embraced this truth. And I think to myself, wow. They've heard the gospel. They can never say they never heard it. And it's like a sword which cuts both ways. And for those who hear it and reject it, it's a sword that hits against a hard heart And it's a heart like an anvil which God's word will break. But by God's grace, there will be those who receive it. Well what is it about the word that makes it powerful? It is sharp. It pierces even to the division of the soul and the spirit and the joints and the marrow. In other words, the writer of Hebrews is simply stating this: that God's word cuts down to our deepest level. It penetrates to our innermost being, and it expresses Exposes us for who we are. We can fool some of the people some of the time. We can even fool some of the people People all the time. But we can never fool God any of the time. We cannot escape the scrutiny scrutiny of an all-sovereign God who knows us better than we know ourselves. For we are under his watchful gaze, 24-7. As it says in the following verse in verse 13, there is no creature hidden from us From his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. The Lord knows everything about us. And his word acts not only like a sword, but a scalpel. It judges us As it tears away the pretense of our own righteousness and goodness. God's word cuts us to our very core, revealing what is inside. Now I might think to myself, yeah, I'm a I'm a pretty good person. I obey the law most of the time, except when driving. I haven't done anything worthy of arrest or jail time. Yeah, I'm a pretty upstanding citizen. I'm yeah, I'm good. I'm good. But as I read his word, it just absolutely cuts into me and it opens me up to who I really am. It shows me that even my good intentions are nothing but filthy rags in the sight of God. Why? Because they are done with mixed motives and a desire for self-adulation. My good deeds I do not just out of kindness or sympathy or empathy, but I do them to puff myself up so that I can look in the mirror and say, I am some kind of goodness. But God's word cuts away. It cuts away at my hypocrisy and slashes my self-righteousness, in which I judge others for the very things that I do, think, or feel. So that I'm really not good. But in my heart of hearts, I'm desperately wicked. It's just packaged nicely and cleaned up God's word judges us in our sin. For we realize how far we fall short of the glory of God, of his perfect commandment. And we break his commandments consistently, either in thought, word, or deed. The word of God slays me. It rips me open where I am totally vulnerable. Under its scrutiny I'm like a fricasy chicken, cut up, dead, and ready to be deep fried as it reveals my sinful. soul. For what does this book say? That the wages of sin is death. What do I mean by that? Let's say a patient goes into surgery. And on the outside, he looks perfectly fine. He looks healthy and well and nothing wrong. But when the doctors take their scalpel and they open him up, oh horror, they find a festering putrid stench throughout his whole body. And it's ravaging his very soul. And the doctors just sigh in sadness when they sew him up And when he comes to, they say, We're so sorry. There's nothing that we can do to heal you. In fact, there's nothing that you can do. No amount of exercise or right living or turning over a new leaf can save you. The sin in your life is so deep. It's so pervasive that there is nothing you or we can do. I'm sorry to tell you this, but your condition is terminated. And this book makes it painfully clear that we all have a terminal condition. Which separates us from a holy and just God. So we should stand before a whole should we stand before a holy and just God, marred and mired in our disobedience to his word, we would be rightly condemned. And so his word pierces us, revealing our inner self. We find that it is an executioner's sword, for it tells us how that we stand under the judgment for. Our sin. That's pretty bad, isn't it? But the good news is this: God's word is a double-edged sword. It cuts both ways. For the same sword that renders judgment also brings me life. And it offers me hope. It tells me you have a fatal condition, but there is a great physician who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from destruction. The Lord Jesus comes to us in our hopeless condition and says, I will save you. I will remove the cancer of your sin. By my death on the cross, I will take the judgment that was due to you. And so he was pierced for our transgressions, and he was wounded for our iniquities, and by his stripes we are healed. We are healed when we turn to him And place our total trust in him, and he removes all of our sin. The scalpel of his word, which reveals my fatal state, also reveals the way of escape That when the gospel message goes deep, deep within us, when it cuts into us, when we hear it or read it and realize its truth, and And when we put our trust in Christ, then it is no longer a word that brings the sword of judgment, but it is the very words of life for us. which reveals to us Christ, who has cut away the sickness of our souls and made us a new creation. You see, God's word cuts both ways. It judges us for sin and unbelief, but it also brings life when we put our trust in Him, our great physician Who removes our sin? It's astounding, isn't it, when you think of it? When we meditate on verse 12 and verse 13, doesn't it make you marvel At what God has done for us, that He would even do it in the first place. Let's say that we all had the ability to discern the thoughts and intentions of each other. others' hearts. That we could read people's minds and discern their true motives and know their secret thoughts. Now I imagine that might be helpful if you're buying a used car. are voting for a politician. But in the long run, in the long run, it would just be awful, wouldn't it? It'd be absolute chaos. Mayhem. Imagine the rage, the hurt, the jealousy, the bitterness that would occur if we could read each other's secret thoughts or motives You thought that about me? You thought that about me? Well, let's just take this outside right now. We wouldn't want to But we have a sovereign God. The point is this. We have a sovereign God who knows our every thought, who's aware of every scandalous motive we've ever devised. A pure, holy, just God untainted by corruption, who can see the nightmare, the hellish horror of our inner life. And by rights, he should just wipe us off the face of the earth. And he would be totally just in doing it, wouldn't he? But God's word, God's word cuts both ways. And we read in his word that the Lord says to me, Come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. We worship today a gracious God who has set us free from sin and its condemnation through the death of his own son. And he welcomes us. He welcomes us with outstretched arms and says, Come, my beloved one, come. To my kingdom. It's all all an act of his grace. All out of his astounding love that he we have been spared the judgment. That is view us. Well, not only does God's word save, but it has the power to sanctify us as well. In John 17, 17, the Lord prays to the Father and says, Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. So when we read it and when we study it and when we meditate on it, what is it? It's powerful, is it not? It does its work. A nip here, a tuck there. It removes the wrinkles of besetting sin. It lifts up our sagging doubts and strengthens our feeble faith. It transforms us more and more into the likeness of Christ, for the word of God is alive and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. God's word is amazingly powerful, is it not? It accomplishes what it sets out to do. And we can have absolute confidence that God is using his word for his purpose. He says this himself in Isaiah 55, 11. He gives us this guarantee, this promise. He says, so shall my word be. That goes forth from my mouth, it shall not return to me void, but it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it. Now, who of us can say that? Who of us can do that? No one can but God. And every Sunday, every Sunday when we gather to hear God's word preached It goes out. And he does business with us, with our hearts, so we come expectant. What is the Lord What is the Lord going to do today in our midst? What is the Lord going to do today in our hearts as we hear the preached word? I remember when I first experienced this. I was in my early 20s and I attended a church for the first time in my life where I heard biblical preaching. Expository preaching in which the pastor preached almost line by line, verse by verse. And some Sundays I would sit there and my jaw would just drop open Because I would look at him and I'd say, how did he know? How did he know that about me? He would preach from God's word and he would address a question that I had. He would preach God's word or he would he would address a issue I was struggling with. And I would think, how is it, how is it that the pastor is Living rent-free in my head. For when we hear God's word , when God 's word goes out Whether it's a sermon, a class, a Bible study, it doesn't return void, but it accomplishes its purpose. purposes for it is alive and active and it cuts both ways and sometimes it cuts us to the quick. It's like a Jedi laser. Sometimes Sometimes it corrects. Sometimes it rebukes. Sometimes it instructs in righteousness. Room, but always, always with the purpose that we would be fully equipped according to Second Timothy 3, 16 and 17. This morning we have been reminded today in this verse of the power of God's word. So what are we going to do about it? What are we going to do To do about it. But let me suggest one thing. We as citizens of the United States have rights, do we not? And one of those rights under the Second Amendment is the right to bear arms. And in most areas in the U. S. you have the ability to conceal and carry a firearm to protect yourself. Or others. Well, as believers in Christ, we are not only citizens of this country, but we're citizens of God's kingdom. And we also have the privilege to keep carry a weapon, not a firearm, but a sword. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God according to Ephesians 6. 17. And like a firearm, we are to conceal and carry the sword, the word of God, not only to protect ourselves when attacked by temptation, but also to engage in spiritual battle that surrounds us. It is the Christian's only weapon that's mentioned in the spiritual battle in Ephesians 6. But it is certainly a powerful one. For God's word is alive and active and sharper than any two-edged sword. And as Christians, we've not only a pr a permit to conceal and carry it. But we're exhorted to do it. We're encouraged to hide God's word in our heart, to meditate on it, so that it becomes a part of To conceal it in our hearts and to carry it about as we go about our day, so that we can use it to defend ourselves against the attacks of temptation, of fear, of despair, but also to have it in our hearts so that we can do battle. By being salt and light in a dark world, to shine like stars as we hold forth the Word of God in a dark world. But we need to conceal it. Right? We need to conceal it. For how can we present ourselves to God as one approved, able to handle the Word of God correctly, unless we conceal and carry God's word in us How are we to admonish one another with all wisdom to sing psalms and s hymns and spiritual songs unless we conceal God's Word in our hearts? How can we keep our way pure? Unless we conceal and carry God's word. How can we teach it to our children when we sit and when we lie down and when we walk along the road? Unless we conceal and carry God To know its power. To have it be effective in our lives, we have to study it, meditate on it, and absorb it into ourselves ourselves so that it becomes a part of who we are. If you had an illness and the doctor prescribed for you a daily dose of a medical That would guarantee to keep you healthy, to give you life. Would you keep it on the shelf of the medicine cabinet? Would you look at it and say to yourself, wow, there's so So much power in those pills to make me stronger. But then not take it? No. I think you would make sure that you took your daily dose faithfully Well, these are the very words of life that can transform our minds That help us battle temptation, that enable us to cast down arguments, to take every thought captive for Christ, and to dispel darkness Will we leave it on the shelf and admire its power? Or will we take our daily dose and so be strengthened, healed? Equipped and transformed. For the Word of God is alive and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword Let's pray. Father God, on this Reformation Sunday, we are reminded of your amazing word that is indeed powerful and alive and sharper than any two-edged sword. We thank you, Lord, that your word tells us how we can have salvation through Christ. It shows us our need for a savior and it cuts us to the quick. But also shows us your love for us and providing a way to life eternal eternal life with you. We pray, Lord, that your word would continue to do its work in our hearts, to transform us, to make us Make us more and more like you. Oh Lord, we thank you for your word. We pray, Lord, that we would indeed conceal and carry it in our hearts and in our lives We thank you for all your blessings to us. We thank you for your love and grace shown to us in Christ. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.