Hey man, thank you, Choir. Would you turn please to Psalm 55 this morning? Psalm 55, and as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Should probably uh say we appreciate the work of our uh deacons and all those involved in getting our heat working again this week. I think that was a uh a project always is the boiler never seems to go out in the summer. Do you notice it? Always in the winter. Uh Psalm fifty five. Give ear to my prayer, O God, and do not hide yourself from my supplication. Attend to me and hear me. I'm restless in my complaints and moan noisily. Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked, for they bring down trouble upon me, and in wrath they hate me. My heart is severely pained within me, and the terrors of death have fallen upon me. Fearfulness and trembling have come upon me, and horror has overwhelmed me. So I said, Oh, that I had wings like a dove, I would fly away and be at rest. Indeed, I would wander far off. and remain in the wilderness, I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest. Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues, for I have seen violence and strife in the city. Day and night they go around it on its walls. Iniquity and trouble are also in the midst of it. Destruction is in its midst. Oppression and deceit do not depart from its streets. For it is not an enemy who reproaches me. Then I could bear it. Nor is it one who hates me who has exalted himself against me. Then I could hide from him. But it was you, a man, my equal, my companion, and my acquaintance We took sweet counsel together. We walked to the house of God in the throng. Let death seize them, let them go down alive into hell for wickednesses in their dwellings and among them. As for me, I will call upon God, and the Lord shall save me. Evening and morning and at noon I will pray and cry aloud. And he shall hear my voice. He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, for there were many against me. God will hear and afflict them, even he who abides from of old. Because they do not change, therefore they do not fear God. He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him. He has broken his covenant. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter. But war was in his heart. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. Cast your burden on the Lord. And he shall sustain you. He shall never permit the righteous to be moved. But you, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in you. May God bless this portion of his word. Uh Matthew, if you could turn down my mic just a little bit, I'm getting some sort of reverbace, reserve, I don't know what it is. That's it. We ask your blessing now upon this your holy word. Speak to us by your Holy Spirit. Lord, I pray that you'll build up your saints and bring conviction of sin into the And those who are outside of Christ, Lord, draw them by your grace, by your mercy, to true saving faith. Even today, we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well the the decorations are going up. The uh soundtrack of our lives is shifting to all carols all the time. And we're all being urged once again to celebrate the birth of Christ. the uh American way with lots of shopping, uh lots of uh an abundance of good food, and uh of course uh on Christmas morning a new Lexus in the driveway But with all the seasonal celebration and the genuine joy that we Christians have as we contemplate Christ's incarnation, the wonder of it. We remember that there are many who experience deep pain at this time of the year. Pain of loss, pain of loneliness, pain of physical Physical affliction, etc. So on this Sunday that we hover between Thanksgiving and the month of December, let's remind ourselves that the Christian life is not without heartaches. and trials and at times severe grief. Last Sunday we considered a psalm of great rejoicing This morning, I'd like us to consider a psalm of a different sort. If one takes a superficial look at Christianity, one might conclude that Christianity takes A superficial look at life. We talk about love and joy and peace. We sing about the new believer finding heaven above a softer blue, and earth around a sweeter green. And something living in every hue that Christless eyes have never seen. But as every believer knows or eventually discovers, the Christian life is not just one big fellowship supper. Author Philip Yancey in his book Disappointment with God writes, watching a TV evangelist exuding faith and optimism. Leaning toward the camera, his craggy face splitting into a big grin and jabbing his finger toward a million viewers. Something good is going to happen to you this week. He said, coaxing three syllables out of the word good. He was at his salesman best, utterly convincing. A few days later, however, Yancey wrote, I heard on the news that his son had committed suicide. Life has great anguish, great grief, deep heartache for Christians and non-Christians alike. There are problems that seem to have no solutions, roadblocks that seem impassable, detours that seem to take us backward. There are times when even committed believers feel like they just can't go on. They want to give up. They want to throw in the towel. Would, if they could, just fly away. Fly away from their job, fly away from their problems, fly away from their family, fly away even from their God. David was experiencing some of these feelings when he wrote this contemplative song that we know of as Psalm 55. Look at verses 1 through 5. Give ear to my prayer, O God. Do not hide yourself from my supplication. Attend to me and hear me. I am restless in my complaint and moan noisily. Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked, for they bring down trouble upon me, and in wrath they hate me. My heart is severely pained within me. The terrors of death have fallen upon me. Fearfulness and trembling have come upon me. And horror has overwhelmed me. Hear me, O God. Don't hide yourself from my supplication. You ever had the feeling that God wasn't listening to you when you pray? That he had turned his back upon you. David was evidently struggling against that fear. Attend to me, Lord, hear me, he cried out. I'm restless in my complaint. It could be translated, I give my sad thoughts free course. I let my thoughts wander about. I moan noisily, he said. If you've ever had occasion to spend much time in a nursing home or even in a hospital , no doubt you've heard men or women groaning aloud. in anguish, sometimes from physical pain, sometimes from a a mental anguish that can't be simply medicated away. What in this case was the cause of David's anguish? Well, verse 3, the voice of the enemy, the oppression of the wicked, who brought down trouble upon him and in wrath hated him. And how did David react to their oppression, the trouble that they brought upon him, their wrath and their hatred? Well, verses four and five, his heart was severely pained. Within him. He said, the terrors of death had fallen upon him. Fearfulness and trembling came upon him. Horror overwhelmed him. Now think about it. This is David, God's anointed king, David the favored one, David the man of great faith. David the champion of Israel. David the man after God's own heart. The songwriter of God's people. And here he is experiencing fearfulness, trembling, overwhelming horror, severe pain in his heart, and the terrors of death Are you getting this? This believer was in the midst of severe heartache, fearfulness, trembling, overwhelming horror, the terrors of death. He was restless. He was complaining to God. He was moaning noisily. And he had no assurance, as he cried out, that God was paying any attention to him. him. Attend to me, Lord. Hear me. Listen. He wasn't even sure that God heard him. Don't hide yourself from me. pray. Now consider David's words more closely. He said, My heart is severely pained. This is a phrase that usually refers to the pain of a woman in child. Childbirth. The terrors of death have fallen upon me. You drive through the Blue Ridge Mountains, and I suppose other mountains as well, you'll see places where uh there's uh carved into the mountain uh a uh a road, you might call it, with uh with sand in it. it. It's an exit ramp. It's not paved, but it's made with sand to stop trucks which may be coming down the mountain, which have lost their brakes. a a a trucker who's uh lost control of his vehicle will pull into that sand which is uh raised up a bit and will eventually stop his vehicle I think David was experiencing the emotion of a trucker whose 18-wheeler is barreling down a mountain, and he's got no means to stop it. His brakes have failed. David was experiencing the emotion of a hostage who was being held by murderous terrorists. The terrors of death had fallen upon him. Fearfulness and trembling is how he describes his emotions. Like housebreakers, Spurgeon said, These robbers. Fearfulness and trembling were entering his soul. He did not know what would happen next or how soon the worst would come. He was so terrified, he was trembling. He was literally shaking. One commentator notes it's not inconsistent with godliness to be much moved with fear in a time of danger. Natural affections are not taken away in conversion, but sanctified. and moderate it. David says, Horror has overwhelmed me. As Jonah went down into the sea, Spurgeon again, so David went down into the deeps of horror, enveloped in darkness. Now we don't know for sure what the particular circumstances were that caused David such distress, but there was recorded for us a catastrophe in David's life that seems to fit the description here. Here and then immediately springs to mind. It was when he was forsaken and betrayed, chased from the city of Jerusalem, fleeing for his life from his once loving citizens. Who were now in league with his own rebellious son, a son who was determined to kill his father so he might sit upon his throne as king of Israel Now think about that. Can you imagine the anguish that the rebellion of Absalom would have brought to David's heart? The feeling of betrayal. The feeling of complete failure. Complete failure as a father, certainly, complete failure as a king. The feeling of abandonment by God, the sense of being utterly forsaken, as even some of his most trusted friends were now in league with his son. To seek his life. The scriptures describe the scene. So David went up by the ascent of the Mount of Olives and wept as he went up And he had his head covered, and he went barefoot, and all the people who were with him covered their heads and went up, weeping as they went up. Samuel 15. David felt that terror that Jonah felt cast into the sea. And like Jonah, David yearned for relief. Look at verse six. So I said, Oh, that I had wings like a dove, I would fly away and be at rest. Indeed, I would wander far off and remain in the wilderness. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest. You ever feel like just running away? You want to escape? You want to hide? Elijah said, It is enough now, Lord, take my life That's evidently how he felt. Jonah was so miserable in his anger that he wanted to die. The temptation to flee from our trials or from the pass of duty is very real. But God exhorts us not to succumb to it. Be steadfast, he says, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. It's no more noble to succumb to that temptation, the temptation to flee than any other temptation in life. Rather than give up, as David was tempted to do, he went back to his well of faith. As a tree planted by the rivers of water, his leaf did not wither. He didn't give in to feelings of despair, but rather he prayed that God would intervene for him. Verse 9. Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues. For I've seen violence and strife at the city. Day and night they go around it on its walls. Iniquity and trouble are also in the midst of it. Destruction is in its midst. Oppression and deceit do not depart from its streets. He's asking God to take up arms against his foes, against his troubles. Divide their tongues. That is, confuse their council, turn their war council into a babble of confusion. Lord, I need your intervention because there's violence and strife in the city, oppression and deceit. her streets. He speaks of iniquity, trouble, destruction. It sounds like he's describing a breakdown of civil authority , as we see so often in countries That are undergoing civil war. Countries such as Syria today. But the worst thing for David was not the betrayal of the faceless crowd, but the betrayal of one who was dear to him. Look at verse twelve. For it's not an enemy who reproaches me, then I could bear it. Nor is it one who hates me who has exalted himself against me, then I could hide from him. But it was you He addresses his betrayer, but it was you, a man, my equal, my companion, and my acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together and walked to the house of God in the throng If this psalm does indeed describe that insurrection recorded for us in 2 Samuel 15, David could be referring here to his own son, his own beloved son, Absalom. Or he could be referring to his trusted friend and counselor, Ahithophel. 2 Samuel 15, 31 says, then someone told David, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said, O Lord, I pray, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. And so here he prays, destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues. The most severe trials that you're going to face in life will probably not be car problems, house problems. Health problems. Your most severe trials will probably be people problems. Anger, misunderstanding, envy , Patience, jealousy, insensitivity, indifference, betrayal, hatred, bitterness, etc. And those who have the greatest capacity to hurt you are the people who are closest to you. Your close friends. Family members. As David left Jerusalem in disgrace, he was cursed by Shimei, a man from the family of King Saul, David's predecessor on the throne. But the cursing of that stranger was much easier for David to bear than the betrayal of his own dear friends. It was you, a man, my equal, my companion and acquaintance We took sweet counsel together and walked to the house of God in the throng. David had a spiritual bond with his betrayer. This was no mere business relationship. He was no casual acquaintance. He was a dear friend. There was an intimate relationship here. And by the way, this is what makes the sin of adultery so heinous in the So Hainas said it was among the crimes to be punished with death according to the civil law of ancient Israel. It's a betrayal of the deepest of human bonds. The very uniting of two people as one Look at verse 15. Let death seize them, let them go down alive into hell, into Sheol, for wickedness is in their dwellings and among them. Here David speaks, I think, as a king justly angered by the wickedness of those rebelling against God's constituted authority. And he gives full vent to his indignation here. May they be destroyed as rebellious Korah and his accomplices. He's pleading for justice. May righteousness triumph. May evil be punished. Yet what did he desire for his rebellious son Absalom? Mercy. He desired mercy. He said to his captain, Joab, deal gently for my sake. with the young man Absalom and all the people heard when the king gave all the captains orders concerning Absalom 2 Samuel 18 Not even David's desire for justice on rebels could overcome his natural love for his son. Look at verse 16. As for me, I will call upon God, and the Lord shall save me. Evening and morning, and at noon I will pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, for there were many against me. God will hear and afflict them, even he who abides from of old, because they do not change Therefore, they do not fear God. David expresses here his ultimate trust in God. His prospects looked rather grim as he walked barefoot and weeping. up the Mount of Olives, leaving with his faithful band of followers, leaving the the city of Jerusalem, leaving it to Absalom and his followers, but he trusted in God's deliverance. I will call upon God and the Lord shall save me. He has redeemed my soul in peace. Having cast his burden upon the Lord, he's already beginning to experience the peace that surpasses All understanding. There was a time when he was restless, moaning in great agony of soul, but he waited on the Lord, and his strength is here being renewed. Verse 19 is interesting where it says, God will hear and afflict them Even he who abides from of old, because they do not change, therefore they do not fear God I think this verse is saying, because everything is going along fine for the ungodly, because they're prosperous and successful without any thought of God, they don't think they need him, they don't fear him. Because they do not change, therefore they do not fear God. I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones, said the rich fool in Jesus' paradise. Their inner thought is that their houses will continue forever, their dwelling places to all generations. They call their lands after their own names. See, they think of Well, it's all going to continue as it's going now. Everything's going hunky-dory. Because they do not change, therefore they do not fear God. So that suggests to me that when we pray for someone, for God to bring someone to faith in Christ, When we pray for someone's sanctification, what we may be asking for is in effect change. For God to change their circumstances. Uh and and that's not uh always pleasant for them. They may not see that change as change for the better. Look at verse 20. He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him. He has broken his covenant. Here he's talking about the one who betrayed him He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him. He's broken his covenant. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter. But war was in his heart. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. Ahithophel said to Absalom, Now let me choose twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue David tonight. I will come upon him while he is weary and weak, and make him afraid. And all the people who are with him will flee. And I will strike only the king. Then I will bring back all the people to you When all return except the man whom you seek, all the people will be at peace. And the saying pleased Absalom and all the elders of Israel Can you imagine? What treachery, what villainy. I'll bring back the man whom you seek. Wait a minute. That's his own father That's God's anointed king of Israel. That's the one you're talking about here. I'll bring back the man whom you seek. And the saying The idea that he would kill just David and all the other people once David was dead would come back to Absalom. And the saying pleased Absalom and all the elders of Israel How depraved their hearts, how depraved their judgment that they could listen to the counsel of a man who would betray his own friend and king, Ahithophel, would be betray his own friend and king and recommend killing him. This was , you were his trusted counselor, Ahitha. How depraved must their hearts be that they would follow a son who is so wicked that he would not only seek to dethrone the king But kill him, the king, who is his own father. He has broken his covenant. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, softer than oil, but war was David ends Psalm 55 by calling upon others to cast their burdens on the Lord. Verse 22. As Peter put it, casting all your cares upon him, because he cares for you He shall never permit the righteous to be moved. In other words, he'll be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, Psalm 1. Its boughs may bend in the storm, but its roots will stay deep and strong. And then he contrasts the righteous with the wicked in verse 23. But you, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in you. It reminds us of that verse in Psalm 1, the ungodly are like the chaff which the wind drives away. They that live by the sword will die by the sword. In the net they hide their own foot, will be taken. But I will trust in you. I've made my choice. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. That's the faith that David's expressing here. Job 13 and 15. Now let me attempt to drive home just a couple lessons from this psalm. First of all, Christian The fact that you have repented of your sins and trusted in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior will not preserve you from horrendous heartache. And pain and anguish and fear and horror and trouble and oppression and hatred and even the terrors of death Faith in Christ will not necessarily preserve you from such things. It won't preserve you from trials. It will rather sustain you in trials. Amen? The late Christian surgeon C. Everett Koop was instrumental in the saving of lives of countless children who were facing imminent death. And thus he brought great relief and joy to countless parents whose children were facing imminent death. But his own son, David, was killed at the age of twenty. While mountain climbing in New Hampshire, David's Bible was found open to the tiny book of Jude, which reads in verse 24 , that God is able to keep you from falling. Edith Schaefer writes, God was able to keep him from physically falling. How could he fall? Impossible. Why? If you've heard the story, you'll remember it. Joe Stoll tells it in his book, Eternity. The story of the Willis family of Chicago. He opens his book with their story. A godly homeschooling couple. They had six children still at home, three others who I think were married. and living apart. They were in, they piled into their new van on their way to visit their uh one of their older children, so they had their six kids in the van. They're traveling north on an interstate. And a large piece of metal fell from a truck in front of them. Of course, they tried to avoid it, no doubt, but it pierced the underside of their fuel tank and ignited the gas. Flames engulfed the van. Five of the six children with them died there. The sixth one in the van would die the next morning in the hospital. Such stories could be multiplied over and over. For every Christian who is remarkably delivered from accident or disease Or severe heartache. There are others like Scott and Janet Willis, whose hearts were severely pained, who have been overwhelmed with horror, and upon whom the terrors of death have fallen. If you've come to Christ because you were told that in him life would be all sweetness and light, then you've been sold a bill of goods. For Jesus himself said to his followers, In the world you shall have tribulation. But he went on to say, But be of good cheer, for I have overcome the world. David learned it. Joseph learned it. Moses learned it. Elijah learned it. Jeremiah learned it. Daniel learned it. Isaiah learned it. John the Baptist learned it. The apostles learned it. And Job certainly learned it. Faith in the Lord will not preserve you from trials. Faith in the Lord will sustain you in trials. In the case of Scott and Janet Willis, the Chicago Tribune ran a front-page story of their tragedy, burned, bandaged, and still in physical pain in a Milwaukee area hospital The couple displayed extraordinary grace and courage Wednesday as they calmly presided over a news conference that they had requested to tell of how their unquestioning belief has sustained them through the loss of six of their nine children. At the news conference, Scott said, I know God has purposes and God has reasons. God has demonstrated his love to us and our family. There is no question in our mind that God is good. And we praise him in all things. But of course, we haven't attempted to answer that The question posed by Edith Schaefer, and the question that most naturally springs to mind when we face horrendous trials, why? Why? God, you could have saved my child. Why did you not do so? You could have cured my disease. Why did you not? You could have prevented that accident, that fire, that stroke, that tumor. Why didn't you? Would a loving father treat his child this way if it were in his power to prevent it? Job lost all his possessions, all ten of his children in one day. And how did God respond to his plaintive question? Why? It was basically because I am God and you are not. I am God and you are not In other words, Job, you must trust me. You must believe that I know what I'm doing. You must believe that I have a plan. You must believe that I have a purpose. And as we've said before many times, evidently our faith, trusting God through the darkness, is of exceeding value to God. It is precious, it is priceless. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again at the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? He asked her. She said to him, Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is to come into the world. The Apostle Peter put it this way Now, for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. Why? That the genuineness of your faith, much more precious than gold that perishes Though it's tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen you love. Though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. 1 Peter 1 6 Christian, there's something more important than your health. Something of more importance than your wealth? Something of more value than your very life. And that something is the glory of God. God is glorified by his children's faith in him, regardless of their circumstances. Amen? Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us from your hand, O King. But if not Let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. Daniel 3 The demon screw tape writes to his nephew in C. S. Lewis's screw tape letters: humans, of course, do tend to regard death as the prime evil and survival as the greatest good. But that is because we have taught them to do so. Author James McConkie wrote, I stood once in the test room of a great steel mill All around me were little partitions and compartments. Steel had been tested to the limit and marked with figures that showed its breaking point. The master of the steel mill knew just what those pieces of steel would stand under the strain. He knew just what they would bear if placed in the great ship. Building or bridge. He knew because the testing room revealed it It is often so with God's children, he wrote. God does not want us to be like vases of glass or porcelain. He does not want us to be hothouse plants, but storm-beaten oaks. Not sand dunes driven with every wind, but granite rocks withstanding the fiercest storms. To make us such, he must bring us into his testing room of suffering. Some of you have been in that testing room in years past. Some of you are there now. But most, if not all, of us, will be there one day. And when and if that day comes, the Apostle Peter has some advice for you. Don't think it strange. Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you But rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory is revealed, you may be glad also with exceeding joy. Now, I'm sure I've made the point before, all of us are going to be joyful when Christ returns, right? If Jesus returns this afternoon, we're all going to be joyful. We're all going to be rejoicing. But those of you who are in deep, deep trials now, those of you in deep, deep grief and deep, deep pain. Ah, you'll be glad with exceeding joy. With exceeding joy. First Peter four. This is how God can say to us, in everything, give thanks for. This is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Secondly and lastly, this passage suggests one more uh truth that we should underscore. Did you notice the parallels between what King David experienced and what the Lord Jesus experienced. Both were rejected as king by the people they loved. We have no king but Caesar. Both were betrayed by a friend and companion. Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss? Both Judas and Ahithophel took their own lives. Both Jesus and David saw deceit and guile in the city Both endured the hatred and oppression of the wicked. Both were renounced and betrayed by the very elders of Israel. Both desired a way out. David wanted to fly away. Jesus prayed, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will. But as thou wilt. Both trusted God to save them. Be not far from me, O my strength. Hasten to help me. Psalm twenty-two. Into thy hands I commend my strength Spirit. King David in his sufferings was a picture of the future sufferings of the Lamb of God. But the great difference, of course, was that as a sinner, defiled in heart and soul, David deserved all the suffering he endured and more so. But the Lord Jesus Christ was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, the sinless, spotless Lamb of God. Why would God the Father treat his own dear son in such a way that you and I might be forgiven? God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Friend, do you see it? You are the Absalom. You are the Absalom. You are the one who has rebelled. You didn't want a king to rule over you, not even your heavenly father. You broke his laws. You rebelled against him. You violated his holy laws. You shook your fist at him. You wanted to be king of your own life. But your father loved you still. He loved you so much. He gave his only begotten son that if you would repent of your sins and put your faith in him, all your sins would be forgiven. And so he asks you to end the insurrection, to throw down your weapons, to fall on your knees, to acknowledge him as your Lord and your master. God, I'm a sinner and I can't save myself. But your word says that Jesus lived that perfect life that I couldn't live, went to the cross and died as my substitute Your word says you raised him from the dead. You accepted that sacrifice. He was declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. That's what your word says. Lord, I want you as my God. I acknowledge Jesus as my Savior. Lord, forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible speaks of. You call upon the Lord, He will save you, He will redeem your soul in peace from the battle that is against you. Cast your burden on the Lord, and He will sustain you. Let's pray. Lord We're reminded as we read this psalm. We're reminded as we consider it that we have rebelled against you. That we 're all like Absalom in that sense. And Lord, we're reminded that we're forgiven only by your grace and your mercy. And so, Father, I pray for those of us who are your children. Lord, remind us afresh that Even in trials, you will be with us. Remind us that the Christian life does not mean we have no troubles. The Christian life means you will sustain us in those troubles And the Christian life means that all things work together for good to them that love you, to them who are the called according to your purpose. Give us faith. to believe that Lord. And Father, all of us who are your children, lift up now, right now, those who may be here outside of Christ, dead in their sins. Lord Lord, we ask that this might be the day of salvation for them. Father, it was all of your grace that you saved us. We pray for that grace to be poured out upon them. We pray for our precious children, Lord. Let them not leave this earth without Jesus. Lord, may they acknowledge their sins and ask for your forgiveness and place their faith in the only one who lived that perfect life. We pray that for each one here, we pray we would all be together with you one day in glory. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to you Your mercy. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.