Morning. A local pastor used to describe church this way. We don't come to church on Sunday morning. We are the church. And we come to corporate worship. It's an important distinction that helps us understand God's word before us today. Before I get going, I do want to invite children. There is children's Uh wonders of worship downstairs, or you're also welcome to stay up here too. I will be talking to you directly. Before I'm going to give you some context for those of you who want to take notes, I'm going to give you some context, then I'm going to tell you about what doesn't belong in worship. Then about what does belong in worship, and then about who does belong in worship. Let me give you some context before we get to our scripture. Before Jesus ascended to his throne, God's dwelling place amongst men was in the temple or in the tabernacle. But after the ascension, the New Testament calls God's people the temple of the Lord. 1 Corinthians 3, 16 and 17, do you all not know that you all are God's temple, and that God's Spirit dwells in you all? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you all are that temple. In the Old Testament, it was a physical building. At the time of Jesus, it was a man. It was Jesus himself who was the dwelling place of God with man. And in the new covenant, God's people are the temple, the dwelling place of the Lord by the power of the Holy Spirit in you. We're about to read the story of Jesus cleansing the temple in Matthew 21, 12 through 17. So you can turn there, Matthew 21, 12 through 17. And um We may be tempted to think that, as we read this story, that the way that it applies to us is to view the church building as the temple and we ourselves as the cleansers. But that would misunderstand two things. First, the church building is not the temple of the Lord. And secondly, we are not the Lord Himself. Christians themselves are the temple, and we are being cleansed by the Lord. The way that this passage would be properly applied in our life is to watch for things that Jesus doesn't allow in his temple that are in our personal life or are in our corporate life as the body of Christ. And once we see those attitudes or habits that the Lord hates, allow the Lord Himself to cleanse us from those things. In other words, as we hear about Jesus overturning the way that God's people worshiped in the temple, let him overturn any pride that you bring to worship. Let me pray before we read God's word. Oh Lord, I thank you for your word. I thank you for the perfection of it. I thank you for the usefulness of it. And I thank you for your calling to us to maintain it and to read it and to preach it. And we thank you, Lord, that when you walk this earth, the word was proclaimed through a person. And this morning it's proclaimed through a person. Lord, when you walked, it was it was perfect. And through a sinless man. And this morning that is not the case. And so, Lord, I pray for special grace upon the preaching of your word and upon the hearing of your word. that it would perfect your saints, that it would sanctify them and present them holy and blameless to you, Lord Christ. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Matthew twenty one verses twelve through seventeen And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple. And he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. And he said to them, It is written, my house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it a den of robbers. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, Hosannah to the son of David! They were indignant. And they said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read? Out of the mouths of infants and nursing babes, you have prepared praise. And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there. Kids, imagine you are gonna have a party at your house. And it was a very special day, and all sorts of family were coming over to your house for a party. And it was going to have all your favorite things. You're going to turn the living room into a dance floor, and you're going to have delicious food in the kitchen. games in the dining room and uh bocce ball outside and video games downstairs and it's gonna be awesome And you invited all your favorite people. But before the party, you need to go out and get a couple last things for the party. So you go out and you come back. And when you come back, your younger brother meets you at the door and says, um, I know that our house is the designated party place, but um I have my toys out everywhere, so you can't have your party here. You'd be like, what? Well why why can't can't we just use the the the the living room? No, no, I've got my my bionicles set up all over the living room. Well what about the dining room? We can set up food there. No, no, I've got my Lego castle there on the dining room table. You you can't use that. Oh what about you know video games downstairs? No, I've got all my pieces laid out down there that I'm working with. You can't do it down there. Well what about outside? We can have it outside. No, no, I've got my G. I. Joe's setup. They're having a battle and the lawn. Uh, you can't do it there. You'd be like, what? Would that make you frustrated? That would frustrate you. And Jesus had a similar feeling of frustration when he came back to his house. The story I just told was about a party, but with Jesus in our story today, he came back to the temple of the Lord, and the Jews were taking up all of the space with their stuff. The Jews were making it really hard for others to worship God. If you've ever felt excluded. If you've ever felt excluded, even from a place where you should feel at home, even in a place of worship, hear what God's Word is saying to you today. Jesus overturned the world's ideas of who gets to be close to God. Even we get to be close to God and worship him. Verse 12, and Jesus entered the temple. This is toward the end of Jesus' ministry. In fact, it's within the last week of his life. It seems that the day before Jesus had come riding into Jerusalem on uh with celebrity status on a donkey, and hundreds, maybe thousands of people had come to see him come in. And because Jewish people from all over the known world were coming to stay in Jerusalem for the Passover celebration. And so Jesus rides in on a donkey and For us that doesn't sound that impressive. We're thinking, wow, donkey that has like what 0. 5 horsepower or something? Um and it's smelly. Um but actually this donkey ride would have been impressive. It would have brought back to the Jews' minds the prophecy of Zechariah, which says, Behold, your king shall come riding on a donkey. So Jesus is entering Jerusalem like a returning war hero, like a king. And so the people, children included, catch the significance of what's happening. And they begin laying down their cloaks as if to roll out the red carpet for Jesus. And they pick up lulabs, which were a twining of palm, myrtle, and willow branches that were used in worship. In prayer in the temple. And they begin chanting, saying, or singing, Hosanna to the son of David. Hosanna to the son of David. Literally, what they're saying is: save us now, O King. So apparently, Jesus marches into Jerusalem and right into the temple. But Mark's gospel tells us that when he got there, it was late And so he took a look around at the temple and then went back out to Bethany. And then on the following day, according to Mark 11, 12, he came to the temple again and began to drive out those who sold and bought in the temple. And when it says he drove out, the Greek word is exabelen, cast out. It's the same thing that Jesus did to the demons that were oppressing people. He cast them out. So here, Jesus is casting out not demons, but people. It's very strong language. And he overturned the tables of the money changers. And this is the only time we really witness Jesus using force in the scriptures. So we must pay careful attention to the one thing that instigates Jesus to force. If you're not familiar with Jesus, or this Jesus might sound a little out of control here, but remember that God Almighty is holy, holy, holy. And he says to humanity, I'm so holy I can't even look on sin. He's holding back. He could have used angelic force. He could have opened up the ground and sent them down there. He could have brought forth lightning. He is holding back. He merely overturns their tables. And what happens when someone overturns a table? Everything on it just goes flying. It's kind of hard to do business. in that environment. And uh it says he um he overturns the seats of those who sold pigeons. And I I kind of wonder, are the people who sold the pigeons still on the seats when he overturned them? Uh it doesn't say, but uh regardless, it's it's uncomfortable to continue selling in this in this place. And Jesus makes it so. Why It's not because Jesus was against sacrifices. No, Jesus was for obeying the whole law. Sin must be atoned for with a blood sacrifice. And these sacrifices would point toward his sacrifice on the cross. And it's not because Jesus is against money or profit. They were these people folks were engaging in a legitimate business practice that was a benefit to the community who couldn't bring their animals many miles on foot. So what was Jesus so passionate about that he used force for the first time in his earthly ministry? Jesus gives us his answer in the next line. He said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer. The buying and selling is not prayer, and is not conducive to prayer. And prayer there can be taken to mean worship. The temple was set up in this way. Innermost court was for God alone. And once a year the chief priest would come in and offer a sacrifice. And then after the inner court, then there was the temple that was just for the Levites. And then there was an area that was just for the Levites and the Purified Men. And then there was a court of the women. And then there was a court for the Gentiles and the non-purified Jews. And it was this outer court that our passage before us takes place. And instead of having a welcoming area for the blind and the lame and the foreigner to worship, the Jews had designated it as a place to buy and sell things. Jesus is being forceful because in his own house, the worship of non-Jews and outsiders is not being considered. They can't worship in this market environment. Have you ever been to a real market? It's loud They want to tell you how great their product is and what a great sale it's on and act now. And in this market there were animals. And animals are not always quiet. And animals do not always smell good. And animals are not always careful about where they put their droppings. This court would have been loud and smelly. Two things that don't seem conducive to prayer. So why would the priests allow a market and a place that was supposed to be for foreigners to worship? The text doesn't say, but it was arrogantly inhospitable. Jesus is angry because God had chosen the Jews to be his people. He had blessed them. And then they in turn mistreat all other peoples that want to worship the Lord too. It doesn't make sense. It's highly offensive to Jesus. He had spent so much of his earthly ministry caring for the lame, the outsider, even the foreigner, healing them, caring for them, dying with them. They were dear to his heart. And when he comes to his own house, the building made to worship him, the scribes and priests are making it very hard for the people near to God's heart to worship. And this rouses the wrath of God Which brings us to our first point. What doesn't belong in the place of worship? Number one, worldly engagements Worldly engagements don't belong in the place of worship. Listen, if buying and selling, even for the very act of sacrificing, don't belong in the place of worship. Then worldly talk, worldly texting, worldly reading, worldly teasing, worldly writing, playing games, and even worldly thinking don't belong in worship. Because it inhibits you and it inhibits others from worshiping the King of heaven. For the ancient Israelites, the place of worship was more a matter of where, but for us it's more a matter of when. On the Lord's Day, when your session has called you to corporate worship, this is the place of worship. This building is not holy, this room is not holy, but the Lord's day is holy. And the Lord's presence is holy. And it said he inhabits the praises of his people. And wherever two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am with them, says the Lord. If he's with us, it makes sense to pay him more attention than whatever worldly matter tempts us to be distracted from him. What else doesn't belong in worship? Pride. Pride doesn't belong in worship. National pride. When you think of your country as better than all the others, that doesn't belong in worship. The Jews regarded the temple as a place of national pride. In Jeremiah's time, it was a talisman, a good luck charm. They thought Jerusalem would never be taken militarily because they had God's temple there. But Jesus is quoting Jeremiah, and Jeremiah was saying, don't trust in this building when you don't trust in me. Listen to what else Jeremiah says in the passage that Jesus quoted when he mentions that his house had become a den of robbers. Jeremiah 7, 2 through 7. And just see how Jesus lives this out. Stand in the gate of the Lord's house and proclaim there his word and say, Hear the word of the Lord, all you men of Judah who enter these gates to worship the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, amend your ways and your deeds, and I will let you dwell in this place. Do not trust in these deceptive words. This is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice with one another, if you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm, Then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever. See, there was this superstitious nationalistic pride in Jeremiah's time and in Jesus' time and later And it detracts from the Lord's worship. It's one thing to love your country, but if in so doing you look down on other peoples, you misunderstand God's grace. Even if you're the chosen people of God, as the Jews were. In 70 AD, because of their pride, the Jews rebelled against the Romans and then holed up in the temple. They used the temple as their fortress. So God used the Romans to destroy it. They were trusting in the thing and not in the Lord Himself. They were trusting in their nation and not in the Lord. They were trusting in the symbol and not in the things signified. So the one thing that must be purged from our corporate worship is superstitious national pride and trust in symbols instead of a savior. It's a blessing to love your country. But corporate worship of the King of Kings is not just for one country. Corporate worship is not just for one language group. Corporate worship is not just a place for one political party. We misunderstand the people of God, the nation of God, and citizenship in heaven when we mix our religion with national pride. What Jesus is saying to the Jews is, worship is for all people, all nations. Matthew leaves it out in the full quote, but the full quote is a house of prayer for the nations. And I wonder how Jesus would have responded if his house was to be a house of prayer for the nations and there was only one nation's flag there. So what really inhibits worship? It can't be mere noise, for the noises of animals dying was a regular part of temple worship. It can't be travel distance because the ancient Israelites would travel days on foot to get to the temple. It can't be the comfort of the seating or the quality of the roof because there were neither. Nay, what most inhibited Israelites' worship and what most endangers our worship today is pride. And for some of us, we're most tempted to pride in worship. We're tempted to take pride that we came to Christ and left our sinful ways behind. We're tempted to take pride Because of our distinctiveness from liberals or Catholics or Mormons or evangelicals, we're tempted to take pride in our knowledge of theology and our endurance of long exegetical sermons. We're tempted to take pride that we're in a small church or a local church or a form church. But it's only by your grace, O Lord, that we are found here this morning today. Thank you, Jesus, for saving us and bringing us here. We can have no pride in our worship. Pride makes us think of ourselves before others. Do we leave visitor parking spots open for visitors? Do we make sure there's seating for visitors in our worship? Do we approach or welcome new people that we see? Do we explain why we're we're doing what we're doing to newcomers? Do we leave seats for them or do we try to take up our space with our stuff? If we're truly considering God as we worship, we will evidence His heart for the outsider by being considerate of their worship. So, in one sense, worship of the covenant Lord, even in Old Testament times, was set up to be seeker-sensitive Outsiders were welcomed, expected, provided for, and prayed for. Jesus takes facilitating their worship very seriously. But in another sense, worship of the covenant Lord has never been or ever will be seeker sensitive. Outsiders, then and now, are outsiders. They were and there are dividing walls. And certainly, the seeker does not determine what belongs in worship and what doesn't. He does not have the final say. The Lord does. So what does the Lord say belongs in corporate worship? What does belong in the place of worship? Our text draws our attention to four things: teaching. Healing, crying out, and praying. Teaching, healing, crying out and praying Teaching, verse 13. He said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of robbers. Jesus is teaching the people what the scripture says and what the scripture means. Matthew is very brief here, but we can take it to mean that Jesus explained his reasons for cleansing the temple by pointing to Scripture. He was teaching people what the scripture says, what it means to, and how to apply it in current life. Mark 11, 17 and 18 bear this out. speaking of the same uh time. And he was teaching them and saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations, but you have made it a den of robbers. And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and were seeking a way to destroy him For they feared him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching. In Luke, he was teaching daily in the temple, and the people were hanging on his words. So teaching from God's word is something that belongs in God's house. If you come to God's house, he's going to feed you. Adult children, um, have you ever gone back, gone over to your father's house, and uh perhaps you uh share with him the burden of what's going on in your life or what what's going on with you right now. And uh, does your earthly father ever teach you saying, Nick, remember how I told you this? Here's how that still applies today. In the same way, when you come to your father's house, expect him to say something to you. Expect him to teach you. Expect him to remind you of something that he's already talked to you about, that still applies today. Because the word of the Lord endures forever. Liberty Church PCA. Y'all love exegetical preaching. Some of you prepared for Teaching by searching the scriptures this week or before worship, you expected to hear from the Lord this morning. I see some of you brought your Bibles and read along or take notes, either mentally or written. You pay attention when the word is being preached. And you care to teach covenant children. You even will encourage one another with scripture during the week in private conversation. That's great. Do so more and more What belongs in the place of worship? Healing. Verse 14. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. Verse 15 says, He did wonders. This is again referring to miraculous healings. Healing is something that belongs in God's house. Healing is an appropriate part of corporate worship. Prayers for the sick may sometimes seem to crowd out all other types of prayer on our prayer list or our pastoral prayer. But prayers for the sick are entirely appropriate for worship because of the God that we serve. When Jesus walked the earth, he was a healer. He coupled healing and teaching so that people could understand that his teaching was healing and that his healing taught about who he was. Lord of all, healer, and maker of many things. In Jesus' time, the lame and the blind, the broken, they were only allowed to enter into the outer court. And this requirement was intended to point to God's holiness and our need for healing. Physical problems pictured are spiritual problems. But now that Jesus has ushered in the new covenant, the old has passed away. We deal no longer in shadows, in pictures, but the reality is now here. The real problem, the real thing that keeps people from God's holiness, the real thing that God can't stand is not sickness, but sinfulness. And sinfulness has been overturned by the cross. Hallelujah. Therefore, it's fitting that sickness be overturned in worship as well. But healing in our worship service sounds like a charismatic televangelist But prayers for healing, anointing with oil, elders, laying hands on the sick, these are all biblical and entirely appropriate for God's house, for corporate worship. Now, we should not do it with emotional manipulation. We should not do it as a replacement for the gospel. We should not lie and say we are healing when we are not. Or lie and say we've been healed when we have not. We should simply pray for the sick, laying hands, anointing them as your session so determines, and then when healing comes from the Lord, give him all the glory. And we shouldn't merely pray for the sick in our corporate worship. We should also give thanks when he miraculously answers our prayers for healing. Wonder and amazement at his great goodness to us and his kindness and majesty. What does belong in worship? Crying out. The word in Greek is chrysantis. It's a loud, sometimes wordless utterance. And it's the children who are doing it here. When do children usually cry out loudly when they want something? When they're hungry? When they're playing? Basically anytime? What about when they're exalting Jesus louder than anyone else? The children are crying out, even when we have no record of the adults crying out. In our passage, children have the courage to praise Jesus loudly when other people don't think it's right. No, I think they were all saying, Hosanna to the son of David, Hosanna to the son of David. They're all saying that as they come in, and they're like, they come all the way into the temple. Hosanna to the son of. Oh, it's the priests Don't say that. But the the children don't care. They just keep going, you know. They keep saying it One of the beautiful and hilarious things about children is that they don't know what other people think is right. You don't look good. Maybe you should wear a sweatshirt When when when I was a child I would wear I kid you not Turquoise vans, turquoise high-top vans, that I use the term vans loosely because they're really just from Kmart, but turquoise high-top vans knee length, knee high, yellow striped socks, a polo shirt And jams that my grandma had made. And if you don't know what jams are, my grandma just took some fabric that you might see on wallpaper in some old person's house. And she like basically made little shorts out of it. And that's what I would wear on Picture Day. I had no understanding of what other people thought was right. And neither do the kids in our story today. The Jews were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared him, because all the crowds were astonished at his teaching. These children don't know what other people think is right. They don't know that people don't think it's right to call Jesus the long-awaited king to his face. In the temple, so loudly that other people can hear. Other people look at them and think, that is inappropriate behavior. That's not good. People frown at them for doing that. But the kids either don't know or they don't care. And they just continue to shout out what everyone had been shouting at Jesus just the other day. So don't worry about what other people think is right. Cry out your praises to God in corporate worship. So, the chief priests and the scribes notice that the children are shouting something unacceptable. They notice that the children are proclaiming Jesus king, and Jesus isn't telling them to be quiet. The priests are not going to tell the children to be quiet because they fear the crowds. So the priests hint that Jesus should tell them to be quiet. But Jesus responds by quoting a psalm. Jesus is saying, the children are correct, but not only that, I'm much more than merely the son of David. And you should know better because this is foretold in the books that you pretend to study. Psalm 8, verses 1 and 2 says, O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouths of babies and infants, you have established strength because of your foes. Jesus is saying, I'm the Lord who has established strength out of the mouths of children. And I've done it because of my foes, you priests, because you trouble me so much. So kids, if you're thinking, I don't want to loudly praise Jesus because people might not think it's right. People might think I sound funny. People might judge me or give me a bad look. Listen, Jesus loves it when you shout out your praises to him. The best time to do it is when you're singing, but you can do it in the sermon too. Kids and adults, shout it out. Jesus got strength to face his foes by the loud praises of children. So shout his praises, children of God. Amen. What does belong in the place of worship? Praying. Verse 13: My house shall be called a house of prayer. In the outer court of the temple, they didn't have chairs, didn't have pews, didn't have a pulpit, or choir loss, or kneelers, or pictures, or statues, or screens. Stone floor, open sky, and a steady stream of people going in and out of the inner courts to make their sacrifices. This was to be a place of prayer. This was a place to bring your concerns to God, to talk to God And as people prayed, they would, and they lifted their eyes to the Lord, they would see the smoke rising and drifting heavenward. It was to be a metaphor for their prayers. And just as when a sacrifice is burned, smoke arises, so also when a person undergoes trial, prayer should arise. And the priests were to bring the prayers of the people before God. The priests represented men to God. The Jews had a priesthood among them who were to present their request to God, and in turn They were to act as priests to the nations. God's people were to hear the prayer requests of the nations, of the foreigners, and bring them before the throne of God Almighty. So, do we need Jesus to overturn our view of prayer? Some of us are tempted to think that prayer is sitting down, folding your hands, closing your eyes, and being quiet. But biblical prayer is standing or laying face down, lifting your hands, raising your eyes, and crying out. Much of our prayer, I've noticed, is for sick people, and that is good. We talked about that. But what if we pray just as much for our non-Christian neighbors? And when the regular habit of asking them, I pray for you, what can I pray for you about? When Jesus quotes Isaiah, saying that his house should be a house of prayer for the nations, it's a little unclear what he means. Does he mean a house of prayer where the nations themselves can come and pray? Or does he mean a house of prayer where his people lift up prayers on the behalf of the nations? I think he means both. Jesus quotes Isaiah 56 here. In Isaiah 56, verse 3, it reads. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And then in verse 6, And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord and to be his servant, every one who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast my covenant, these will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. And then verse 8b, God says, I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered. So, not only was Israel to be praying for the other nations, The nations themselves were to be using God's house for prayer and sacrifice and serving and ministering to the Lord. The gospel, according to Isaiah, is wondrous wide. There is a wideness to God's mercy. God always intended to draw all nations to Himself, to the heart of worship. And that is what we see here before us today, Liberty Church PCA. Most of us are those nations, the Goyim, the non-Jews, the foreigners who God has brought into his very presence to minister before him in Zion, his spiritual mountain. Hallelujah. Praise be to you, covenant Lord, for bringing us here to worship you. So he talks about what doesn't belong in worship, worldly engagements and pride. What does belong in worship? Teaching, healing, crying out, prayer. Now we need to talk about who the Lord wants to bring close in the place of worship. Jesus was overturning who the Jews thought belonged in the place of worship. There are seven people groups that Jesus draws our attention to in this passage today. Number one, children. Jesus welcomes the worship from children in his house. The priests and scribes were indignant at the children's praise of Jesus. The praisers of children are welcomed here. Even the cries of infants are the sounds of the covenant. Two, the blind. The blind came to Jesus and he healed them. Three The lame. The lame came to Jesus in the temple and he healed them. Are the blind and lame welcomed into our place of worship? Or do we balk at handicap accessibility requirements? Are we on the lookout for families with special needs? Do we delight to make worship more accessible to them? They have much to teach us about our spiritual state of blindness and lameness without Christ. And Jesus seemed to think that his house was just the place for these people to get healing, both in spirit and body. Will we be a part of the healing or the hindering process for the blind and the lame? We frequently have a dog in our worship That is for the ostensible purpose of helping the blind. Are we so accommodating to the actual blind? 4. The Fatherless. Jesus draws our attention to the Fatherless by quoting the Jeremiah passage. Elders, are you attending to the worship of the fatherless? 5. Widows. Jesus draws our attention to the widows by quoting the Jeremiah passage. In Jeremiah 7, 5 The Lord says, For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice with one another, if you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place Then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land I gave of old to your fathers. If you welcome the fatherless, God will keep you in this promised land In ancient times, they were tempted to take advantage of the fatherless and the widow, or at very least ignore them. And God's people can be tempted to ignore the fatherless and widow today because they have many means. Sometimes their struggle is marked by sin, and sometimes it is not. The Lord makes no distinction. The Lord says, then I will let you dwell in this place. Our attitude towards them is quite serious. 6. Foreigners. Jesus draws our attention to the foreigners and the sojourners by quoting Isaiah. Do we make foreigners feel welcome or foreign in our worship? Imagine if you walked into worship and were surrounded by people speaking different languages. That's how it was intended to be in the temple. That's how it will be in heaven. And we can make it how it is now by including different languages in our place of worship. It acknowledges, when we do that, it acknowledges that we're all foreigners that God has let in. 7. The barren. The childless. Jesus draws our attention to barren men and women by quoting Isaiah, which says in chapter 56, verse 3. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I'm a dry tree. A eunuch is a man who can't have any children. Verse 4. For thus says the Lord, To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Eunuchs weren't allowed into the inner temple, inner courts of the temple, and so they were looked down upon. Especially in that culture, as useless and abandoned by God. And God speaks to their deep fear with personal words. I will give you an everlasting name that will not be cut off. Are those who are barren and childless given a better name here? Do we honor our single folk at our church? Or do they sometimes feel worthless and lonely in our midst, like a dry tree? Single folks, childless folks, you are dear to the Lord There is a place for you here with God's people. God has not abandoned you. You will have a lasting legacy, and you will bear much fruit as you thrive in the midst of God's people. The barren, the foreign, the widow, the orphan, the blind, the lame, and the young are not the only ones who can feel excluded. You may not fit any of these categories, and yet you may feel far from God, cut off from the joy of his presence. In Jesus' time, women felt excluded sometimes. The poor, the Samaritan, the Galilean, the sick felt excluded sometimes If you're here today and you're feeling excluded, unwelcome in God's presence , you could feel that way for two reasons. Either you have been accepted into God's presence through the sacrifice of our great high priest Jesus, and yet the accuser would have you think you're far off. It may be that you're being lied to, confused, deluded by the father of lies. If you're in Christ, you are indeed near and dear to God no matter what. Your outward state, no matter what people say to you. Do not listen to the accuser who is willing to tell you that God doesn't want you Rebuke Satan in Jesus' name and enter into the joy of God's presence. Or, number two, you could feel excluded from God's presence. Because you're set in your sin and unwilling to let it go. Unwilling to turn your life over to Jesus That attitude rightly causes people to feel excluded from God's presence. You could feel excluded from God's presence because you're despising God. Running from him, hiding from him. That attitude of lack of submission or arrogance bolts them from a pride that God will not abide in his house for long. Judgment is coming. So repent this day, and by the powerful priestly work of Jesus' atoning death on the cross, God will welcome you into his presence. Just as Jesus overturned the tables of the money changers in the temple, so also he's overturned the values of the world. He has valued the meek and the lowly, the outcast. and the sinner, the immigrant and the child. These he has brought near to himself. Let Jesus overturn your pride. Let him overturn unbiblical ideas about who or what you think belongs in worship. And finally, Christian, know that you belong in God's house. And you will dwell in God's house forever if your life has experienced Jesus overturning power. Amen. We pray. Oh Jesus, thank you for overturning the rule in my life. For setting yourself as king over my life, I pray for those that feel far from you. Either that you would rebuke Satan and he would flee, or else you would Bring them to yourself. Stop their running from you and draw them to yourself. We lift up to you our worship. We pray that it might be pleasing in your sight. and that we might welcome those who you welcome, those who you love. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.