Amen. Thank you, Ron and Sue. How many of you were with us for the concert we had, the Christmas concert with St. Abraham's Church? Raise your hand. Yeah. Quite a few. Uh well uh Lisa Bryson is with us today, right? Uh from uh St. Abraham you may remember Lisa from uh that uh concert and from St. Abraham's good to have you with us. That's your husband with you there. Good, good to have you with us this morning. If you have your Bible, would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 10? And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. We return to our study in the Gospel of Mark this morning, Mark chapter 10. And let's read the first twelve verses. Then he arose from there and came to the region of Judea by the other side of the Jordan, and multitudes gathered to him again. And as he was accustomed, he taught them again. The Pharisees came and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Testing him. And he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you? They said, Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her. Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then, they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. In the house, his disciples also asked him again about the same matter, so he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. May God bless this portion of his inerrant word to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, we pray for your Holy Spirit to guide us now as we open up your truth. Jesus said, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. And we pray that this word of God, which is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, Would pierce hearts and minds even here this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Very few words stir up more emotion in human hearts than the word marriage and the word divorce. The Lord Jesus dealt with them both in the passage that we considered this morning. As we resume our preaching through Mark's Gospel, we find Jesus continuing his journey to Jerusalem. A journey that would result in his arrest, his trial, his crucifixion. Jesus had left Galilee in the towns where he had done so much of his preaching and teaching. The towns and villages where he had healed the lame, the blind, the lepers, and those who were sick with various diseases, where he had cast out demons, where he had raised the dead. He had begun his final southern journey, this time to offer himself as the Passover lamb. Look at chapter 10 and verse 1. Then he arose from there and came to the region of Judea by the other side of the Jordan, and multitudes gathered to him again, as he was accustomed. Gathered him again, and as he was accustomed, he taught them again. As you can imagine, Christ's fame had spread far and wide. And wherever he went, the word went out that he was there, and multitudes gathered to him. And of course, when multitudes gathered to Jesus, Jesus had compassion upon them, his heart went out to them, and he began to teach them. This was, let me remind you, a time of great spiritual ignorance. The common people, by and large, were dependent upon the scribes and the Pharisees, the men who studied God's law and expounded it and expanded upon it. For their knowledge of God. And much of that teaching could be described as mere legalism and religious traditionalism, with very little genuine spirituality To make matters worse, the scribes and Pharisees resented all this attention that Jesus was receiving. They envied him The fact that the people loved him and went out in mass to hear him. They didn't do that for them. They resented the attention Jesus was receiving. They envied him and sought to correct what they assumed was a misapprehension of him. among the common people. The scribes and Pharisees did not acknowledge Jesus as a legitimate prophet or man of God, and they made it their mission To reveal him before the masses to be this charlatan and the deceiver that they assumed him to be. They determined to use whatever means were necessary to denigrate Jesus before the people. And one of those means was to attempt to trap him in his words. Now, I suppose we're most familiar with the question of the Pharisees and Herodians about taxes. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not? Well, that's a pretty good one. That should trick him up because uh it was apparently intended to get him in hot water, either with the masses who hated the Romans and hated the Roman taxes. Or with the Romans themselves, with the government. But we'll see that incident later in Mark. Here As Jesus approaches Jerusalem, the Pharisees initiate a preliminary skirmish, a preemptory strike. Look at verse 2. The Pharisees came and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Testing him. Now, in order to understand why Mark says the Pharisees by asking this question publicly were testing Jesus, we have to know a bit about the understanding of divorce in first century Israel. Historians tell us that at this time there were two opposing views on the subject, one that might be called conservative and one that might be called liberal. R. C. Sproull writes, the Shamiai school, the school of thought, the conservatives, argued that the only thing that would justify a divorce was a shameful act of sexual infidelity. The Hillel school, the liberals, took a much broader view. They said that anything a woman did that embarrassed or disgraced or merely displeased her husband was grounds for divorce By Jesus' time, we're told, the prevailing view was that of the Hillel school, the liberal view, which was why Herod Antipas was able to get away with his illegitimate divorce. So the trap, says Dr. Stroll, was that if Jesus sided with the liberal school, suddenly the Pharisees would become conservatives and say Jesus was going against the law of Moses If he sided with the conservatives, then they would say he's going against public opinion, and he's making it very difficult to divorce. It's also possible, Sproul points out, that it was the intention of the Pharisees to get Jesus in trouble with Herod, who had already arrested and reluctantly executed John the Baptist for declaring that it was not lawful for him to have his brother Philip's Jesus directs the questioners not to the writings of any particular rabbi, that's probably what the Pharisees would have done, but back to God's word. Verse 3, and he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you? They responded, verse 4, Well, Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her. Their reference is evidently back to Deuteronomy 24, where Moses speaks of a husband whose wife finds no favor in his eyes because, quote, because he has found some uncleanness in her. Moses permitted the writing of a certificate of divorce in that case. The question hinged on the words, he has found some uncleanness in her, right? The most straightforward understanding of this passage, the one that would best agree with what the Scripture says about marriage and divorce ever everywhere else, would be, we would think, that this uncleanness that the husband finds in his wife is some form of sexual sin. That the husband discovered that his bride had not kept herself pure before their marriage, or he had discovered that she had been unfaithful after marriage. The best example of that that comes to mind is Joseph of Nazareth, who quite naturally concluded when he discovered that Mary, his betrothed, was with child, that she had been unfaithful. Of course she had not been unfaithful. She was with child of the Holy Spirit, but Joseph didn't know that at first, and he determined to privately divorce her. To put her away privately, to write her a certificate of divorce. He had found some uncleanness in her, it was pretty obvious, and he wrote her a certificate of divorce to have her put away. But I want you to notice that when Jesus said to the Pharisees who were questioning him, What did Moses command you? I believe he was evidently pointing them back to Genesis. To the creation ordinance. Let's get back to the basics. What does God say about marriage? They respond not with what Moses commanded in Genesis, but with what the civil law permitted divorce. Look at verse 5. And Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. They said to him, Well, Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her, verse 4. Jesus said, It's because of the hardness of your heart that he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. He said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother shall cleave unto his wife, the two shall become one flesh, and what God has joined together, let not man put asunder. That's God's design, Jesus said. He's saying in effect, don't you get it? Don't you see? Divorce is not God's desire for married couples? His desire, his intention for us is that we would remain married, faithful to one another, until parted by death. That was God's plan in creating man and woman. That was God's plan in instituting marriage. Well the obvious question then was, well, if God's desire is that we remain married until parted by death, if his intention is that we should become one flesh, then why would Moses in the law Refer to a certificate of divorce, obviously inspired by God. Why would God permit or direct Moses, however you want to put it, to write That that if the husband finds some uncleanness in his wife, he can write her a bill of divorce, a certificate of divorce Well, verse 5. Jesus answered and said to them, Here's the answer, because of the hardness of your hearts. That's why he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning it wasn't so See, we might just as well ask, wait a minute, if God says, Thou shalt not murder, and he does, why does he also tell us what to do when someone is found to have murdered? Why would he institute capital punishment? I thought he he told us not to murder. Why does he tell us what to do when people do murder? Does he want us to murder or does he not want us to murder? If we're not to steal, why does he stipulate that one who does steal must make restitution? If he wants us to stay married, why did Moses in the Old Testament law, inspired by God, permit divorce? That's the argument. This sort of argument reminds me of the sign I saw in a gift shop. If you're not supposed to have midnight snacks, why is there a light on in the fridge? Jesus said it's because of the hardness of your hearts that Moses permitted this. Not because that's what God desires for you. God's already made it crystal clear what He desires for you. The two shall become one flesh. And what God has joined together, let not man put asunder. That's God's desire. Jesus says because of the hardness of your hearts. In other words, it was not in order to give you a way out of marriage, a marriage that you no longer want to continue. That's not God's desire. That's not God's design. He wants you to rejoice with the wife of thy youth. Proverbs 5:18 He makes it crystal clear in Malachi, let none deal treacherously with the wife of his youth. For the Lord God of Israel says that he hates divorce. For it covers one's garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. Therefore, take heed to your spirit, that you do not deal treacherously. That's what it is. It's treachery. Take heed that you do not deal treacherously, a husband with his wife, wife with her husband. Malachi chapter 2 Instead of imbibing the Spirit of God's word, the Pharisees were just looking for loopholes. So why this business of a certificate of divorce? Because of the hardness of your hearts. For the same reason, God says, He who sheds man's blood by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God made he man. Genesis 9, 6. God knew that despite his crystal clear command that we are not to murder, some of us would in fact commit murder. And he specified very clearly what should be done for the good of society and for the satisfaction of justice when there is sufficient evidence that someone has murdered. As an aside, we are not, as a society, doing a very good job fulfilling God's word in that respect. For example, in most recent statistics I could get my hands on, there were close to 15,000 documented murders in the U. S. in the year 2012. You know how many executions there were for murder that year? Forty-three. In other words, there were approximately 350 murders committed in 2012 for every person who, in 2012, was executed for murder, a murder that no doubt was committed uh ten or twenty or thirty years before. In the same way, God knew that despite his crystal clear command that we are to remain faithful to our spouse and to our marriage vows, Some of us would not obey. Now, what do you think might have become of the wife of an unrighteous Israelite? whose eyes were full of adultery, if the Lord had not, due to the hardness of our hearts, provided a legal way for the husband to put away his wife. Think about it. What might have become of the wife of an unrighteous Israelite whose eyes were full of adultery if the Lord had not, because of the hardness of our hearts, Provided a legal way for the husband to put away his wife. How many wives would have simply been abandoned to poverty? By their husbands? How many wives would have met with some sudden, unfortunate, unexplained accident had God not, through the law of Moses, because of the hardness of our hearts granted provisions for divorce. You see? But the Lord makes it crystal clear in this passage and throughout Scripture. that his intention for marriage is a permanent bond formed by God not to be broken by men. When I meet with young people preparing for marriage, use the illustration of gluing two sheets of paper together. You glue two sheets of paper together and then you come a day or two later and try to separate them, what happens? Both sheets get torn. That's what divorce does. The two have become one flesh. You can't just tear that apart without causing irreparable harm. The Lord makes it crystal clear that his intention is that this bond not be broken by men. The correct question then raised by the Pharisees concerned the circumstances under which a man could put away his wife. Let me count the ways. How many ways? How many opportunities do we have to put away our wife? You know, can we do it for any reason at all? Jesus brought them back from looking for loopholes to looking at marriage as God intended it. What did Moses say? Look at verses 10 to 12. In the house, his disciples also asked him again about the same matter. So he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. You see, this whole idea of trying to find a legitimate reason to divorce your husband or wife is a complete misunderstanding of the oneness of marriage. You're totally missing the boat. Marriage is the union of two people. They're no longer two, they're one. And the Apostle Paul gave us insight into this relationship, revealing something that had not been obvious before. when he wrote his letter to the Ephesians. Quoting Genesis 2, for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh, Paul went on to say, This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Ephesians 5. In other words, this is something Paul was revealing we didn't see before, the relationship of the husband and the wife, their unity, their commitment, their affection, their fellowship. That is a picture of the relationship between Jesus Christ and his church, his bride, us believers. And why would you even consider destroying such a relationship? Since the husband and wife are one flesh, not to be separated by man, then the man who puts away his wife and marries another commits adultery against her, and a woman who divorces her husband and marries another commits adultery against him. Now, you might say, wait a minute, how can someone who was divorced be described by Jesus as committing adultery? Don't you have to be married to commit adultery? If you're divorced, you're not married, so how can he call it adultery? Well the clear implication of Jesus' words is that in the eyes of God There is a sense in which you are viewed as still married to that spouse that you have rejected. You see? You're committing adultery. You put her away, you marry another, you're committing adultery. You already have a wife. Whatever it may say on that legal certificate in your filing cabinet. Now, as many of you are no doubt aware, the Lord Jesus cited an exception in the parallel passage in Matthew's Gospel, Matthew 19. And it's the one that we might almost take for granted. As it appears that Mark may have done. In other words, it's obvious. And the exception Jesus uses there is except for sexual immorality A husband who puts away his wife and goes and marries another is committing adultery against her, unless, of course, there's sexual immorality, in which case the adultery has already taken place. In that case, she has already egregiously violated the unity, the commitment, the affection, the fellowship, the exclusivity of the marriage by being joined to another. She has severed the tie that binds. So the husband who puts her away is not causing her to commit adultery. She has already committed adultery. And of course, the same is true for the wife whose husband has committed adultery. The contract has been violated. But suppose, in the case of an unfaithful husband, That husband repents and returns to his wife and asks her forgiveness for his adultery. The scripture is crystal clear. The wife who has been sinned against by her husband's unfaithfulness, should he repent, is bound by the word of God to forgive him. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. And if he repents, forgive him. And Jesus went on to say, and if he sins against you seven times in a day, And returns, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him. Luke 17, verses 3 and 4. Now, I don't know about you, but if someone sins against me, Several times in the same day, after each offense, he returns He or she returns and asks my forgiveness about the third or fourth time, I'm beginning to doubt the sincerity of the repentance. Right? And my temptation would be to say, I can't forgive you because I don't think you're really repentant. If you were really repentant, you wouldn't keep doing this. This is the fourth time today. I can't forgive you unless I'm convinced you're sincere. Now, suppose the Lord dealt with us that way. This is the fourth time today that you have repented of swearing, or lustful thoughts, or anger, or unkindness I'm sorry. I can't forgive you. You've exceeded the limits of my grace. Is that what God says? Jesus is very clear on this point. If your brother sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day he returns, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him. Now those are Jesus' words. So wise, let me make this as plain as I possibly can. If your husband sins against you and he subsequently repents and asks your forgiveness, you are obligated to forgive him. As God has forgiven you. If you will not forgive your brother, God's not going to forgive you. That's what God's Word says. Even if he has committed adultery, even if he has violated your most sacred trust and his marriage vows, you are obligated to forgive him if he repents. But you are not obligated to ever trust him again. You are not obligated to remain married to him In effect, he tore up that marriage certificate when he entered the bed of another woman. Do you hear me? Now R. C. Sproul agrees with me here as he often does. He says, if the husband repents, the wife is obligated to receive him as a brother in Christ, but not as a husband. Because God gave the provision for ending a marriage if the trust that is at the very heart and foundation of the marital union is violated. A locomotive engineer who has so little concern for the passengers placed in his care That he rounds a 50 mile per hour curve at over a hundred miles an hour, may repent of his carelessness and seek forgiveness, but he cannot presume that he will remain a locomotive engineer. He lost that privilege when he acted so recklessly. And the husband who has so little concern for his wife and or children That he enters the bed of another woman, he may repent, he probably will, if in fact he's a believer, he may repent of his carelessness and his foolishness, and seek forgiveness, but he cannot presume that he will remain a husband. He lost that privilege when he acted so recklessly. Now, is it possible for such a trained wreck of a marriage with mangled bodies laying everywhere? Is it possible for that marriage to be restored? Yes, it's possible. Is the wife obligated to attempt it? Absolutely not. Now consider something else. When Jesus says, whoever divorces his wife, except it be for sexual immorality, it's Matthew 19, the parallel passage. The Greek word that is translated sexual immorality is pornea. Porneia. It's the word from which we get our word pornography. And it can encompass numerous sexual sins. Outside of adultery. Some would conclude, therefore, that the actual physical act of adultery is not the only way a husband or wife can be viewed by God as violating the marriage vow. This should certainly at least give pause to the husband who thinks that indulging His indulging in pornography is not a violation of his wife or a violation of his vows. It is certainly a violation of the woman who is the object of his lust on his computer screen or in the magazine or whatever Interestingly, when the disciples understood from Jesus' words that the marriage relationship was to be one that could not be broken, as the prevailing view argue Could not be laid aside at will. Here's what they said to Jesus. Matthew 19, verse 10. If such is the case of the man with his wife, it's better not to marry. That's what they said. If I can't put away my wife when I'm displeased with her, something she did or said, or or I find someone I like better, then it's better not to marry. And Jesus responded, all cannot accept this saying, that it's better not to marry. It was, of course, the choice that Jesus made for good and wise reasons. It would have been very difficult for him to faithfully care for a wife in light of his itinerant ministry, and of course he knew his time on earth would be brief. Had he taken a wife, she would have been left an early widow. And of course, there may well have been other reasons in the providence of God why Jesus chose not to take a wife. But he said in answer to the disciples, There are eunuchs who were born thus from their mother's womb. Now, a eunuch is one who was not born with the usual physical equipment which would result later in life in an attraction, in an attraction to the opposite sex, and with the capability of fathering children. Some, Jesus said, are born eunuchs, some are made eunuchs by men. That's a rather unpleasant prospect which a tyrant might require of a servant who was an attendant to the tyrant's wife, and some make themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. In other words, there are those who, like the Lord Jesus, like the Apostle Paul, choose to remain unmarried because they believe that the rigors of their particular service do not fit well with the responsibilities of marriage. But I gather from the disciples' interjection, if such is the case, it's better not to marry that even they had adopted the prevailing view that a husband could end his marriage for a variety of reasons. Now, let's underscore a few things before we leave this passage. First of all, as this section deals with divorce, it's appropriate to note that the Apostle Paul later addressed a situation that had not yet been addressed. And that Jesus did not address. And that is this situation. Suppose a believing husband or wife has a spouse who is not a believer, And that unbelieving spouse does not want to remain married to the Christian. In other words, he says, this is not what I bargain for. When we married, you were a party girl. And now you're the church lady. We have nothing in common anymore. And I'm uncomfortable just being around you now. Paul says, if the unbeliever depart, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under obligation in such cases, not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. Just as a wife is not bound to a husband if the husband dies, even so she is not bound to a husband if the husband abandons her. Secondly, even the disciples, it seems, the men who appeared to be intent on doing those things that please God. Had evidently bought into the idea that a husband could divorce his wife for numerous reasons apart from sexual immorality. Otherwise, it's very difficult to explain their reaction to Jesus' teaching. If such are the case, it's better not to marry. Jesus had to bring them back to the original institution of marriage Now, as you know, this is not a surprise to you, our culture, like that of first century Israel, has come up with all sorts of reasons to permit divorce. Including incompatibility or what we term irreconcilable differences, or no reason at all. But from the beginning it was not so Today in America, nearly half of all marriages end in divorce. Nearly half of all children are born outside of wedlock. The consequences to a society are devastating. Dr. Lewis Wilson is the new pastor at the PCA Church in Santown , New Song Community Church He said at our Presbytery meeting in May, when he asks the women in Santawn what they need most Their answer is not good stores or good jobs or good schools or good policing. Their answer is what we need most here , good men. Good men. Good husbands. Good fathers. Thirdly, one would think it would not be necessary to say this in a Christian church, but it is in America today. It should be evident from this passage and all else that the Bible says about marriage that God's intention for marriage is that a man should marry a woman and a woman should marry a man. A pagan culture may come up with all sorts of other combinations, but from the beginning it was not so. Finally, the blessings of marriage, the mutual support, the mutual comfort, the mutual encouragement, the affection, the edification, the companionship. They are a tremendous blessing, as I have found through over four decades of experience. Which is why the scripture says, he who finds a wife finds a good thing. It's why the scripture says that the value of a virtuous wife is far above rubies. Far above rubies. Rubies are valuable, but the value of a virtuous wife is far above that. I would imagine that a virtuous husband has some value. Maybe not far above rubies, but more than quartz. More than a lump of coal. If you've been blessed with a husband or a wife, remember that he or she was granted to you by the wise providence of God. By the wise providence of Providence of God. Now he or she is certainly not perfect, and given enough time, you could probably think of one or two minor improvements I can't, but But you probably could that you would make in your spouse if you had the power to do so. But you don't Whether you're married or not, there is one who is perfect, one who calls the believer his bride. Christ loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing but that she should be holy and without blemish. If you have not entered into a relationship with him If you do not know him as an intimate friend and brother or husband, then my prayer for you is that this may be the day. The the wedding day, the day of salvation for you, August ninth 2015. Do you recognize yourself as a sinner? As one who has violated God's holy laws? One who has rebelled against his maker. Do you see your sin as vile? Do you see that you deserve God's wrath? Have you come to the place in your life Where you see that your sin is disgusting and you would, if you could rid yourself of it altogether. Have you come to God and said, God, be merciful to me a sinner? God, be merciful. Merciful to me a sinner. Forgive me. Save me. I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life and then went to the cross and died as my substitute. God, I want Him as my savior. Take me into your family. Make me a part of your body. Have you come to God that way? Young people, have you come to God that way? I know your parents have, many of them Have you? Have you asked him to forgive you and save you? Have you said, God, I know that I disobey mommy and daddy and sometimes I do mean things. Sometimes I don't know what's wrong inside of me. I'll tell you what's wrong inside of you. It's called sin. And it's inside of every single one of us. You need a savior. You need someone to take that sin upon himself. That's what Jesus did upon the cross You come to him as a little child, not proud and puffed up, humble, crying out to him, God forgive me and save me. And God promises in his word, he will forgive and save you. The good news is if you come to Christ, if you embrace Him as your spiritual bridegroom, you will never be put away. You will never be divorced. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out. John 6. 37. Let's pray Oh Lord, we cry out for our nation. We know that we as a people Have spurned what your word says about this holy bond of matrimony. We have found all sorts of reasons for ending it. Forgive us for this, Lord. And many times these marriages are ended by sexual immorality. We're living in a culture where that happens too much, far too much. There are temptations all around us, and there's lust in our hearts. Our eyes many times are full of adultery. Lord, forgive us for that. And Lord, there are some here who may have ended marriages Without true biblical grounds. Forgive us for that. And Lord. We pray for those whose marriages are in difficulty. It's not easy sometimes, Lord, to uh love others and sacrifice for others and get along with others. So we need your help. We need your grace. We need your power to obey your word. Lord, I pray, especially for those who may be here outside of Christ. Lord, that's the most important thing. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul, Jesus said? What shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Lord, so we, all of us here who are believers, pray for those who are not. Draw them to yourself by your spirit. Only you can do this. You're the one who opens eyes. You're the one who breathes upon the dry bones that they might live You are the one who opened Lydia's heart so that she attended unto the things that were spoken of Paul. We pray you will do that. That even this day in someone's heart here. All of this we ask in Christ's glorious name. Amen.