Hey ma'am, thank you, choir. Revelation chapter I'm sorry, uh John chapter seventeen this morning. John chapter seventeen Let's begin at verse one. But just to uh clarify, uh we gave Paul a message very uh hastily, and I guess we didn't make it clear, a little uh Little Lydia Trock was taken to the hospital last night, but they checked her out. She seemed to have suffered a mild concussion. They sent her home and uh and they've been checking her out through the night. She is at home, though. So just so you know John 17, verse 1. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself. With the glory which I had with you before the world was. I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have known that all things which you have given me are from you For I have given to them the words which you have given me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours, and all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father Keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me, I have kept. And none of them is lost, except the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. Let's pray. Almighty God, this is your inspired word. It is God breathed. And now, Father, we pray that you will breathe it into our hearts. That you will shine your light upon it, that your Holy Spirit will impart your truth to our souls, that eternal things might be accomplished right now, this day, in this place. By the power of your holy word. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. The hour had come for the Lord Jesus. The hour long anticipated. The hour that had been foreshadowed from the beginning of time. When the Father would make his soul an offering for sin, when the iniquity of us all would be laid upon the sacrificial lamb Having perfectly fulfilled the law's demands, having loved God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength, having loved his neighbor as himself every single day. Having called and equipped his apostles, having manifested the Father to the world, having revealed himself to be the anointed one, the Messiah who had been promised. It was time now for the father to bind his son and place him upon the altar, as Abraham bound his dear son Isaac. Only this time there would be no ram caught in a thicket. No divine intervention in the nick of time. For he was the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But before his sacrifice, Jesus gave these final words of counsel to his apostles. And then, in their very presence, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and interceded for his own. In what the church has long recognized as his great high priestly prayer. Well, last week we began to walk through this remarkable prayer of our Savior, and we saw that In his very first few words, he asked his father to glorify his son. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. First, through the cross itself, and secondly, through the glory that was awaiting him beyond the cross, the Father was glorified, and the Son was glorified. We were reminded that the Son glorified the Father at the cross by manifesting the justice of God, God's hatred of sin. That's crystal clear at the cross And he manifested there God's immeasurable love for us. He went on to pray, as you've given him the Son. Authority over all flesh that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. If you have eternal life today, it's because you have been given to the Son by the Father. You have given me authority over all flesh to give eternal life to as many as you have given to me or to him, your son. And this is eternal life, he goes on to say. This is eternal life, verse three, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. We noted last week eternal life is not just continued existence. It's not a mere eternal existence. It would not satisfy the deep longing of a soul to know God. Jesus said, I am come that you might have life and might have it more abundantly. And so here before his passion he prays, this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Now let's move a bit further through the prayer this morning. I've glorified you on the earth, he says in verse 4. I have finished the work which you've given me to do. I have glorified you on the earth. Think for a few moments. How did Jesus glorify his Father on the earth? In what ways did the life of Jesus Christ glorify his Father while he was on the earth? Well, for one thing, he permitted us to see his father 's compassion. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those who are with young. Isaiah 40. Jesus' life was characterized by compassion. I have compassion upon the multitude, he said. Matthew 15, 32. Matthew 20 says he saw two blind men, and he had compassion on them, and he touched their eyes, and immediately they received sight and followed him. We read in Mark's gospel, Jesus, when he came out, saw much people and was moved with compassion for them because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. Mark 6:34. And you remember when he came upon a funeral procession at a town called Nain, the only son of a widow had died. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her. And he said to her, Do not weep. And then he came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried the body stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. And so he who was dead sat up and began to speak. And he, Jesus, presented him to his mother, Luke 7. How can we be sure that the infinite, invisible God really has compassion upon his children? When Jesus has glorified his Father by revealing his compassion to us. Jesus glorified his Father by manifesting his power, healing the deaf, the mute, the blind, the lame, stilling the raging sea, walking upon the water, casting out demons, curing lepers, raising the dead. My father has been working until now and I have been working, he said. John 5. 17. And then of course he glorified his father on earth by manifesting his father's holiness. His life demonstrated the Father's holiness and the Father's love of holiness. Remember, Gabriel said to Mary, that holy one which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. It was said of Jesus, never man spake like this man. He offered himself without spot to God, the scripture says He was a lamb without blemish and without spot. John, who spent three years with him, declared, in him is no sin. 1 John 3. 5. And even the Jeek demons knew. I know who you are, the Holy One of God, Luke 4. Marcus Rainsford was a contemporary of C. H. Spurgeon. He was a pastor in London about the same time as Spurgeon He wrote a wonderful book on John 17 that he called Our Lord Praise for His Own. Listen to what he said about Jesus' words, I have glorified thee on the earth. I conceived that these were the greatest words ever spoken here below, even by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And I am sure if we could enter into all their fullness, we should be convinced that this is true. Who can express them in their height and depth and length and breadth? I have glorified thee on the earth, my Father I have, according to the good pleasure of thy will, according to the riches of the glory of thy grace, and according to the covenant engagements between me and thee, performed all that was in thine heart And all that thou didst require of me for the accomplishing of the salvation of thy people given to me. I have opened all thine heart, I have expressed thine eternal and everlasting love to poor sinners. I have manifested thy faithfulness to thy promises. I have displayed the riches of thy grace that you did bestow on a lost world I have come down from heaven to make known the holiness of thy nature and thine unspeakable gift. I have magnified the perfection of thy law by descending from heaven to obey it. I have demonstrated thy justice and thine abhorrence of sin to the uttermost, for I am about to lay down my life upon the cross to expiate it. I have revealed and displayed thine infinite love, for thou didst so love the world that thou didst give thine only begotten Son, that thou mightest be just and the justifier of him that believes in Jesus. This I have done, and all that remains to be done, I am prepared to do and to fulfill to the uttermost. Jesus went on to say to his father, I have finished the work which you have given me to do. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. What was that work? Well, Jesus himself gives us a good summary of it. Remember, after his baptism and his temptation in the wilderness, he returned to Nazareth, where he was known, of course, as the carpenter Joseph's son. The son of Mary and the brother of James and Joseph and Simon and at least two sisters. So he was one of six or more children, Mark 6 tells us And there in Nazareth he made the astounding claim that Isaiah's messianic prophecies referred to him. Look at Luke chapter 4. If you have your Bible or listen, Luke chapter 4 and verse 16. So he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind. To set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. Then he closed the book, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. And the eyes of all those who were in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today, this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. Jesus said, I finished the work which you've given me to do. He's preached the gospel to the poor. He's healed the brokenhearted He's proclaimed liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind. He's set at liberty the oppressed, and he's proclaimed the acceptable year of the Lord, or the year of the Lord's favor. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. Now, this may strike you as odd, inasmuch as the most formidable work, the heavy lifting of the cross, if you will, the greatest challenge of his earthly life. The gargantuan task toward which his whole life had relentlessly proceeded, the great work of our redemption, had yet to be completely accomplished. Marcus Rainsford saw it this way. He speaks of it as done. And it was as good as done. He speaks of himself as passed out of the world at this time. Look at verse 11. Well we're back in John 17. In verse 11, he says And now I'm no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you, Holy Father. I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me. He speaks of himself as no longer in the world. Now I'm no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. I think Pastor Rainsford saw it clearly. Jesus was envisioning the great work of redemption as accomplished. So completely was he laid upon the altar. Rainsford said, his whole self was there, his whole heart and thought and soul was there Jesus was envisioning that work of redemption as accomplished. He was now looking beyond it. He was praying for his own who were going to be left in this world now that he's departing from it. He saw his work as finished, as complete. Now let me remind you, that work involved the paying of a ransom. The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. Matthew 20, 28. His great life's work was to redeem slaves, slaves to sin. To make a full and complete payment for them. And so remember, he cried out upon the cross, Tetalestai, it is finished, it is done, the payment's been made, the books are closed. The account has been paid for. Nothing else was required for our redemption. There is no work remaining for God's people to do toward their salvation. The work has been done. It's finished. I have finished the work you've given me to do. Something Jesus merely made redemption possible. Now, if we'll do our part, we can be saved. Thank you, Jesus, for doing your part. Now, if I'll do my part, I'll be saved. It's as if they view it this way: that man has fallen into a pit, and Jesus comes along and lowers a rope. And he says, climb up and you'll be saved. And with that rope and your effort, you're able to climb out of the pit. But the scripture views the situation like this. I'm in the bottom of a pit , my neck is broken, and I'm paralyzed. I can do nothing to save myself I am utterly dependent upon someone coming to save me. Someone to come down into the pit, hoist me on his shoulders, or put me on a pallet, and somehow get me out of there. He brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. He set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. Psalm 40, verse 2. There's nothing you can do in this life or the next that can assist in any way in your redemption. The Bible describes us as having no hope apart from Christ, totally unable to do anything to save ourselves. Our situation is much like that of the rebellious, ungrateful, murmuring Jews on the exodus from Egypt. Who brought God's wrath upon themselves because of their constant murmuring and complaining and wishing they were back in slavery, where at least they had a decent meal every day. So God 's wrath was poured out upon them. They were bitten by poisonous snakes, the scripture says. Their death was imminent. But God in his compassion told Moses to lift up a serpent of brass upon a pole. And he said, Everyone who is bitten when he sees it shall live. Numbers 21. Anyone who sees it, anyone who's bitten when he sees it shall live. Now, can you imagine a man or woman who had been dying of a viper's venom? But was graciously saved by looking toward that serpent of brass. Can you imagine any man or woman thinking that somehow he had a part in his redemption? Well, thanks to the miracle of the serpent of brass and my good sense to look at it I would say, who would have the audacity to say such a thing? And who would be so foolish as to believe it? Look to Christ and live. There's nothing you can do either in this life or the next to assist in your redemption. Look at the one God has provided. Now, some churches deny this truth. A rather prominent one declares that, quote, if anyone says that after the grace of justification has been received, To every penitent sinner, the guilt is remitted, paid for, and the debt of eternal punishment is blotted out. In such wise, in such a way that there remains not any debt of temporal punishment to be discharged, either in this world or in the next, in purgatory, before he can enter the kingdom of heaven. If anybody says that Let him be accursed. Now that's a long sentence, hard to follow, but basically it pronounces a curse upon anyone who says, That a sinner forgiven and justified by Jesus Christ has no more debt to discharge for his salvation either in this life or the next. In other words, it pronounces a curse on me. And I hope it pronounces a curse upon you. Because I hope you declare this truth Is that all men and women need to do, all boys and girls need to do, all young people need to do to be saved? Is to look to the Lord Jesus Christ, repent of their sins, and lay hold upon Him. There remains no work for us to do, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Amen. What is the gospel? The gospel is good news. What's the good news? It's not that I have some ongoing debt to pay, a continuing heavy burden to care to carry or to bear all my life A punishment to be discharged in this life or the next before I could possibly enter the kingdom of God. That's not the good news. The good news is whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The good news is he who believes in me has everlasting life. John 6. 47 What must we do that we might work the works of God? The people asked Jesus. What did he say? This is the work of God. That you believe on him whom he hath sent. That's the only work God asks of you, and that's not a work at all, is it? It is believe. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. Everything necessary for the salvation of Christ's sheep was accomplished in Jesus' sinless life and sacrificial death. We can't add to a sacrifice. It's simply a matter of his calling us to himself at a certain point in time. Other sheep I have who are not of this fold, them also I must bring. It happened to me in 1971. It happened to you, no doubt, and probably in some other year, but it happens to us, God's sheep, God's flock, God's own, at a certain point in time. By his grace, the great work for which Christ had come to save his people from their sins was being completed there in Jerusalem within the next few hours. But it appears from Jesus' perspective that it was as good as done. Look at verse 5. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself with the glory which I had with you before the world was. It's as if he were saying, Father, you know this understanding between us. You know the covenant that I have uh that we have made with one another. The covenant we made from the beginning of time. I have fulfilled my part of the covenant. I have glorified you on the earth. I have done always those things that please you. I've lived a life untainted by sin, and now I lay it down as a sin offering, as a ransom for sinners, as a whole burnt offering, and I now claim the glory that I laid aside. The glory that I had with you before the world was. This was the glory which remained mostly hidden. From us on earth, mostly hidden from the apostles. Peter, James, and John got to get a little glimpse of it there on the Mount of Transfiguration. And every now and then the veil was removed and people could hear God's voice, this is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. Hear ye him But by and large, Christ's glory had been veiled. And so he says, Father, glorify me together with yourself with the glory which I had with you before the world was. He's looking forward to that homecoming. Verse 6, I've manifested your name to the men whom you've given me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now this is an interesting phrase. I have manifested your name to the men whom you've given me. Remember, God's name had great meaning. God is our provider. God is our peace. God is righteousness. And so Jesus says, I've manifested your name to the men you gave me. God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 4:6. Of course, the great prologue to the Gospel of John tells us that the Word, the revelation of God, the Word is what reveals God to us. The Word became flesh. God the Father is revealed in the Son. Jesus is called the express image of the Father. That is the exact imprint of his nature. Imagine for a moment that there were there was uh an invisible visitor to our planet. Uh perhaps this is the invisible visitor that goes into your garage when you're not around and and uh disturbs everything Puts everything out of order, goes into your sock drawer, you know, and messes it all up. And you know he's there, you know there's there's such a being, but you've never seen him, no one's ever been able to see it, or him, or whatever it is Now, suppose that uh someone developed a photographic process that could capture the image of this invisible visitor to our planet. And somehow his image is captured on this film. Jesus is the image of the invisible God, the scripture says. Colossians 1. He's the image of the invisible God. We can't see God. He's invisible. But Jesus, in Jesus, the image of the invisible God has been captured for us. We can see God when we see Jesus. Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How sayest thou then, show us the Father? But of course the Lord Jesus when he was with us was much more than an image on paper. He said, I and the Father are one. I have manifested your name, Lord, to whom? To the men whom you have given me out of the world. Clearly, he's speaking of the apostles here. Look at verse 12. While I was with them in the world, them, the ones you gave me, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I've kept, and none of them is lost except the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. He's speaking of Judas, of course. So they have kept your word. They've retained it. They've given heed to it with that notable A sad exception. Look at verse 7. Now they have known that all things which you've given me are from you Now this is this is quite interesting when you think about it. Jesus is saying to his father, Father, they, the ones you gave me, know that all the things that I gave to them are from you. It's been noted that if Christ was not in fact deity, think about this, if Jesus were not deity, if he were not God in the flesh, then God by sending him to be our Savior would have been setting up an idol in our hearts. It's the exact thing he said he would never do. I am the Lord thy God who brought thee out of the house of Egypt. Out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Isaiah 43, I even I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Savior. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Isaiah 43, the Lord, your Redeemer. Why would God, our Redeemer, the only Savior, send someone else to be our Savior? Unless that one he sent was God in the flesh. The very second person of the Trinity is who he is. You see, there would have been a rivalry set up in our affections. But there was no rivalry here. Jesus diligently, faithfully, consistently taught that everything he taught the apostles, everything he did. was expressing the Father's love for lost mankind. It was in response to the Father's love for sinners I do the works that please him. I do all that the Father has asked me to do, you see. Had he not done so, we might have become, or he might have become in our hearts the one that We above the Father, the one that we adore. The one we hold in God, the Father, we'd hold in reverence and awe, but the one we'd really love would be the one who came and gave his life for us. A story comes down to us from ancient history that helps to illustrate this. King Cyrus of the Persians, that was my father's people, as some of you know, had conquered and taken captive a prince With his wife and children. Cyrus asked the prince, What will you give me if I set you at liberty? I will give you my kingdom, the prince said And what ransom can you give then for your wife and your children? Quickly came the answer, I will give my life for them. Well, said Cyrus, I will restore your kingdom, your wife, and your children. You may have all. We Persians are a generous people And merciful. We let you buy our oil. I'm not getting any profits on that, come to think of it The husband, the prince, of course, thanked the king, probably fell to his knees, profusely thanked King Cyrus for sparing his kingdom, sparing his wife and children, sparing his life. And the prince noticed his wife was not thanking the king. And he said to her, Why do you not thank the king? And she answered, I am thinking only of the man who said he would give his life. For my liberty. I'm thinking only of the man who said he would give his life for my liberty. All repeat All her thanksgiving, all her gratitude was focused upon her husband who was willing to lay down his life for her. You see. And even so, those of us who've been redeemed through the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ We might be thinking only of the man who gave his life for our liberty had Jesus not made it crystal clear that all things that he taught and did were of the Father. This is the Father's will who has sent me, that of all whom He has given me, I should lose nothing but should raise it up at the last day. John 6:39. I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Look at verse 8. For I have given to them the words which you've given me, and they've received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. I think it's striking that there's no condemnation of the apostles in this prayer. Or uh in what we've read thus far or anywhere in the prayer. Their understanding was limited, their devotion was very uncertain, their uh faithfulness was of course questionable, but Jesus speaks so highly of them. And here we see the difference between our standing in Christ, we are complete in him, positionally, and our personal experience. In which we struggle with his body of death, right? Oh wretched man that I am, who should live me deliver me from the this body of death And the things we want to do, we don't do, the good things we know we should do, we don't do, and the things we know we shouldn't do, we end up doing, and we have this constant struggle in this life. But Jesus is looking at us positionally here. And when he talks to his father about his disciples here in John 17, it's remarkable he doesn't have one bad thing to say about them. Although, as you know, they were a motley crew. He presents them as though they were unblameable, unreprovable in his sight. Again, with the exception of Judas. There is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Romans 8:1. You were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 1 Corinthians 6. 11. Christians rejoice in that. You were roved in Christ's righteousness. God doesn't see you as a vile creature. You know, sometimes we say to ourselves, man, how in the world? Why? How could I do such a thing? How could I think such a thing? What's wrong inside of my heart? But God looks at you and he sees you as spotless. and clean and righteous because he sees the righteousness of Christ clothing you, robing you Verse 9, and we'll close with this verse. I pray for them. He says, I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you've given me, for they are yours. They're the ones I'm praying for, the ones you gave me. I'm not praying now for the world indiscriminately. And what was he praying for the ones? That God gave them. That the Father would keep them, verse 11. That he would keep them from the evil one, verse 15. That he would sanctify them, verse 17. That he would unite them, verse 21. That they would behold his glory, verse 24. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It's God who justifies. Who is he who condemns It's Christ who died, and furthermore, is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us. Romans 8 And this is a perfect picture of that. Here's the Lord Jesus, our great high priest, interceding with God for us. Not only did he enter into God's presence with the sacrifice, as the high priest did on the annual day of atonement, he was the sacrifice. For Christ has not entered into the holy place, places made with hands, which are copies of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Hebrews 9:24 By his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. One time, but eternal redemption. Hebrews 9:12. He doesn't need to be offered again and again and again. He remains our advocate with the Father today. First John 2. 1. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ the righteous He is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Hebrews 7. 25. His is an unchangeable priesthood, Hebrews 7. 24. In the tabernacle there was perpetual incense offered before the Lord. It was unseen by the people. And here is the Lord Jesus in the very presence of his Father offering perpetual incense for us. When you sin, Christian, you have an advocate with the Father. And it may well be, it probably is, that this very weak past, your selfishness, your pride, your worldliness, fleshly indulgence Your unfaithfulness, your insensitivity, manifested itself in some way. And this would have incited the anger of a righteous God and might have moved him to pronounce judgment. Were it not that according to the Father's good pleasure, your advocate is pleading your cause. Your priest is offering incense. Now let's drive home a few points before we close. First of all, Jesus could say, I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you gave me to do. You know the obvious application, Christian. Have you glorified him on the earth? Are you right now doing the work he has given you to do? What have you done to glorify him on the earth? If your life were to be snatched away this very week, would you be able to look back upon time that was invested for Christ's glory? Lives that have been blessed by your presence here? What about the work he's given you to do? Now you may think, well, maybe God gave Christ work to do, but he didn't give me any work to do. Well, Ephesians 2 says, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. He's got good works prepared beforehand for you to walk in. Your job is to discern what they are. What are my gifts? Where is God using me? Whom can I help? How can I be a blessing to somebody? Help me to reach the laws. Help me to build up the saints. Help me to invest my gifts in the brief time I have here for your kingdom, for your glory. I don't know when you're going to take me home. God has prepared good works for you to do. You know, here at Liberty we urge our members to do three things. We try to make it simple. Other churches have adopted very similar methods to try to keep it simple. We say, well, we want you to praise God. All right, that's public worship and private worship, studying God's Word, being involved in a Bible study, that sort of thing. We want you to connect with God's people in a small group, in twos or threes, or getting together with other ladies or with other men or with these young people. We want you to connect with God's people. We don't want you to be operating out there like a little satellite in orbit. But connect it to the body. And then we want you to advance his kingdom. We want you to find some way to serve him. Some way to minister for him. Of course we we'd love to have you do that right here. I pray for the church family course during the weekend as I pray for individual families. It struck me this week that virtually everybody I was praying for is serving in our church in some capacity, in some way. Virtually everybody I prayed for was uh as I thought about, you know, they're serving in some capacity. It's in the sound booth or it's it's with music or it's as an usher, it's teaching a class or Working with the wonders of our worship wonders of worship. It's it's stuff like that. Wonders of worship. I didn't dismiss those kids, did I? Some somebody needs to serve in the capacity of reminding me to do that. I'm sure they figured it out. But it struck me again this week how how much everybody's involved. And then and then of course there there are people who may not be involved here at Liberty, but they're involved in doing a Bible study at work or Or some other ministry, some behind-the-scenes thing. I don't know everything that everybody does, obviously. But how about you? Are you serving Christ in some way here or elsewhere? What are you doing? What what's the work God has given you to do? And and young people, how about you? Those of you who you're not adults yet. You don't have a job. You're not you haven't finished school. If you were to die before reaching adulthood, have you glorified God on the earth? Even a child is known by his doings. Have you glorified God by being obedient and helpful at home? By living for him at school or with your friends. In your work, in your sports , in your text messages and posts, in your attitude, in your prayers, in your worship, are you glorifying God? And then secondly, to underscore things, let me underscore this. Jesus said, I have manifested your name to the men you've given me. Christian, I just want to leave you with this thought. You realize that you are the Father's gift to the Son? Jesus said, Lord, I've manifested your name to the men you've given to me. You are the Father's gift to the Son. You 're precious in his sight. The joy and rejoicing of his heart. Thirdly, this passage shows us Jesus interceding for his own. And I want to underscore that. He ever lives to make intercession for us. Listen, it's not necessary for us to imagine him constantly verbally interceding for us. Let me clarify that. Father, forgive them for their pride, forgive them for their laziness, forgive them for their impatience, forgive them for their inattention to their pastor. It doesn't necessarily mean he's constantly verbally interceding for us. His very presence in the throne room of heaven is intercession for us. His wounds intercede for us. These are those for whom I died. When the chief prosecutor from the firm of Beelzebub, Belial, and Apollyon accuses one of us before the father. The living Christ is there to intercede I died for that sin too And our judge can declare, whatever the charge, whatever the evidence, I find the defendant not guilty by reason of substitution. Those sins were paid for in full by my son. He has already suffered the punishment. for those sins. Christian, do you have a love in your heart for the one who who gave himself for you? That's a silly question. Of course you do, if you're a believer. You love the one who was willing to die for you. But, friend, do you know the joy of sins forgiven? It's possible there's someone here outside of Christ. It's entirely possible. Do you know the joy of sins forgiven? Do you know the joy of having your sins laid upon another? Have you placed your faith in the great high priest, the one whoever lives to make intercession for you? What a horrible thing. What a horrible thing to sit in a church where the gospel is preached and then to perish. Without accepting Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. God forbid that it should happen to anyone here. When all you need to do is cry out, God be merciful to me, a sinner. God forgive me. And save me. I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life, that He rose again from the dead. I want Him as my Savior. God, come into my heart and save me. You come to God that way, you pray that prayer, mean it in your heart You don't have to have great understanding. You don't have to have great wisdom. You come as a little child. God forgive me. God save me. Won't you cry out to God? And then you'll have a an advocate. Whoever lives to make intercession for you Let's pray. Oh Lord, please, if there's someone here this day still dead in sins , Lord, have mercy upon that one. As you opened our hearts, open his heart, open her heart, draw that soul to simple faith. And may you get all the glory. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Would you stand with me and let's sing that uh glorious hymn, Arise, my soul, arise. The uh praise hymn's gonna help lead us. Arise, my soul, arise. You'll find it printed in your bulletin