Amen. Thank you, Nick. You have your Bible, turn please to John seventeen. And let's read the entire chapter this morning, John seventeen, verse one. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself. With the glory which I had with you before the world was. I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have known that all things which you have given me are from you. For I've given to them the words which you have given me. And they have received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours, and all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I have kept, and none of them is lost except the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified by the truth I do not pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they all may be one, as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us. That the world may believe that you sent me. And the glory which you gave me I have given them, that they may be one just as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that you have sent me, and have loved them as you have loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you've given me. For you have loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world has not known you, but I have known you, and these have known that you sent me. And I have declared to them your name and will declare it, that the love with which you love me may be in them, and I in them. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, speak to us now from your holy word. Lord, touch hearts. Accomplish eternal things. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. This morning we conclude our look at the Lord's intercession for his people on the night before his crucifixion. Few passages of God's word are more precious to the believer than this one, where we're permitted to enter with our Savior, the Holy of Holies. where our great high priest is preparing to offer the ultimate sacrifice for his people. This was, of course, the sacrifice that was pictured when animals were slain in the Garden of Eden to cover the nakedness of our rebellious parents. The sacrifice foreshadowed by every offering in the long history of God's chosen people. Before we leave this hallowed ground, I'd like us to underscore, I'd like to underscore several of the truths. From this chapter, that hopefully they might remain with us. First of all, I want you to notice what this prayer makes clear concerning the person of our Lord Jesus Christ. What this prayer makes clear concerning the person of our Lord Jesus Christ. Some professing Christians have doubts about the pre-existence and deity of Christ They have read articles and heard arguments from modernist theologians who say that Jesus never claimed to be anything more than a wise teacher, a man who patterned moral principles They say he only referred to himself as the Son of God in the sense that we are all sons of God. It doesn't help when popular television preachers say that, as one said, Jesus said to him Don't be disturbed when people put you down and speak harshly and roughly of you. They crucified me for claiming that I was God. But I didn't claim I was God. I just claimed I walked with him and that he was in me. Hallelujah, that's what you are saying. I hope you're discerning enough to recognize heresy when you hear it, in this case from uh Kenneth Copeland. This passage and many others makes it clear that Jesus was much more than a man who claimed to walk with God, a man indwelt by God, as every other believer is indwelt by God. He speaks of himself as God's Son. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, verse 1, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son also may glorify you. He speaks of the power to grant eternal life, verse 2, as you've given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. He speaks as the one who had glory with the Father before the creation of the world. Verse 5: And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. He speaks as one who had been given a specific number of men out of the world. Verse 6: I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. Men who were convinced that Jesus was sent by his Father. Verse 8. For I have given to them the words which you have given me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. Isaiah said the promised child who would be born, the son who would be given would be called wonderful, counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Isaiah 9:6. The psalmist said of him, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever. Psalm 45, 6. Malachi said, The Lord whom you seek shall suddenly come to his temple. John said, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, John 1. The Apostle Paul said, we are looking for the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Titus 2, 13. Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory. Jesus demonstrated the attributes of deity, omnipotence, all power, omniscience, all knowledge, preexistence, holiness, perfection, sovereignty. The authority to forgive sin. And to clear up any doubt, he said things like before Abraham was, I am. He who has seen me has seen the Father. I and the Father are one. And this is only a small fraction of the evidence to Christ's deity in Scripture. The only explanation to account for a man or woman who can read Scripture and not see Christ's deity there is that Satan has blinded his or her mind. There is sufficient evidence of Christ's deity in this one prayer in John 17 to convince the fair-minded man that the Bible affirms that Jesus is God in the flesh. The problem is, of course, since the fall, there are no fair-binded men. So what is needed is a supernatural work of God bringing light to our darkness Satan hath blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine under them. We need someone to open our eyes, to bring us up out of that dark pit. To breathe upon these dry bones that they might live. Secondly, note what this prayer makes clear concerning the nature of eternal life. Verse 3. And this is life. This is eternal life, Jesus prayed, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. This is eternal life that they might know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. What is eternal life? It's not just living forever. It's not just eternal consciousness. Jesus said, This is life eternal, the knowledge that brings life eternal, and that of which eternal life consists. That they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Truly knowing God, the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, that is to be in the state of eternal life. Unending consciousness without Christ is to be in the state of eternal death. Thirdly, the third great truth I want to underscore here is to remember from this prayer what it teaches concerning the Father's gift of the believers to the Son. The Father's gift of believers to his son, as Pastor Nick spoke of a few moments ago. Look at verse 6. I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Verse 2, that he, the Son, should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Verse 9, I pray for those whom you have given me. Verse 11, keep through your name those whom you have given me. Verse 12, those whom you gave me I have kept. Verse 14, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am. Now, when you read these verses, you might get the impression that Jesus believed that his sheep, his flock, his disciples, had been given to him by the Father. The truth is, I don't see how it's possible to draw any other conclusion. If you are a Christian today, from Jesus' view of the matter, it was ultimately not because you saw him. It was not because you chose him. It was not because you were more humble, more sensitive, more spiritual, more holy, more open-minded, more whatever you want to call it than anyone else. And then those who don't come to him. If you're a Christian today, it is from Jesus' point of view, because the Father has given you to the Son. The Son has given you eternal life. Glorify your Son, that your Son also may glorify you, as you have given him authority over all flesh that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Ultimately, from the Lord's perspective, it is not of him that wills I want to be born again. I want to be born again. Nor of him that runs as if he's running to catch the train bound for glory. But of God who shows mercy. Romans 9. 16. From God's perspective, he knew you before you knew him. You were foreknown. He knew you. You were foreknown. He set his love upon you. He predestined you to be conformed to the image of his son. And at a certain point in time, he called you to himself. You were drawn by his spirit. You were born again, born from above. The lights came on. You saw immediately you saw your sins as vile, and you repented of them, you turned away from them in disgust, and you laid hold upon Jesus Christ by faith. You saw him in all his beauty. You were justified. And ultimately you'll be glorified. Whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, whom he justified, these he also glorified. Romans 8. 30 You see, the father did not say to the son, lay down your life as a sacrifice, and after I have raised you from the dead. We'll have this good news proclaimed to spiritually dead sinners, and it just may be that some of them will be spiritually resurrected, just as you will be physically resurrected. Nor did the father say to the son, After you die, you must go and find some sinners, and by exerting your power, bring them into my kingdom. That's not what he said. He said, I have given you some. Look upon them. Know them. Love them. They're your sheep, your flock, your bride. For these you will lay down your life. And so we read, and with his stripes we are healed. Our iniquity was laid upon him. He bore our sins in his own body upon the cross. He gave his life a ransom for many. He didn't die for sin in the abstract. He died, Christian, for your sins and for mine. The Good Shepherd gave his life not indiscriminately, but rather for his sheep. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd gives his life for his sheep. And other sheep I have who are not of this fold, they're not Jews specifically. Them also I must bring. There shall be one flock, one shepherd. Shepherds, the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. Acts chapter twenty. Fourthly, one of the most precious insights we receive from contemplating this prayer Is what we learn of Christ's love for his bride, for his church, for his own. He prayed for those whom the Father gave him that they might not be lost. Keep through your name those whom you've given me, he said. Christian, you're safe in Christ because Jesus has asked the Father that you might be kept. As Peter put it, you are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. He prayed that they might be kept from evil, from the evil one. Verse 15. Marcus Rainsford was an Irish pastor, a contemporary of Moody and Spurgeon. who ministered for many years at Belgrave Chapel in London's West End in the late 19th century. The sermons on John 17 have been preserved and they're a rich treasury of devotional thought Here's some of what he says on this verse about uh about keeping us from evil. Keep them from the evil is the burden of his entire prayer. Keep them from the evil is the boon which he pleads for with his father, urging every possible consideration in order that it may be surely granted. Glorify your son in keeping them. I've given them your word. Keep them. I pray for them. Keep them. I'm glorified in them. Keep them. Holy Father, I plead thy name, I plead the gift of them to me, I plead thy word. The world hates them. They're not of the world, even as I'm not of the world. Keep them, Father. I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil. I leave them here in the world to learn their own great need, their indescribable weakness and emptiness. I leave them here to learn the strength of the foes with which they have to battle. And from which I have pledged myself to deliver them, I leave them here that they may learn their father's loving, tender, holy keeping. We may not doubt, he goes on to say, indeed, we dare not doubt that our Lord's prayer for his disciples has been heard and answered. And not for his disciples only, neither pray I for these alone, but for them also whom Whom shall believe on me through their word, or which shall believe on me through their word. Now, if this prayer has been heard, he asks, how has it been answered? Well, we're not saved, we're not secured, we're not kept from all outward tribulations, are we? Distresses, persecutions, violent assaults from the world. Paul said the apostles were weak, dishonored, they hungered, they thirsted, they were poorly clothed, beaten, homeless, reviled, defamed. We're not secured from all spiritual conflicts. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil, Ephesians 6, or not saved or secured from temptations which arise from various sources. The malice of Satan, the weakness of self, contact with this evil world. Yet the Lord prayed, Father, keep them from the evil. We're not secured from humiliating failures in our service. Peter denied the Lord. Other apostles fled from him. Yet the Lord prayed, Keep them from the evil. We're not secured from grievous bodily suffering, are we? And crushing bereavements. Loss of health, loss of substance. We're not saved from death itself in the physical sense. Yet the Lord prayed, the Father answered the prayer. Keep them from evil. We're not secured from the burden of self, the coldness, hardness, deadness of our own corrupt hearts. Finally, we're not secured from actual sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. So what then is this blessing which the Lord Jesus prayed for? What have we been preserved from? What are we secure from? From all spiritual hurt, from all spiritual harm. Psalm 121, 7, the Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. Note the Hebrew parallelism: He shall preserve thee from all evil, he shall preserve thy soul. The preserving from all evil is in effect the preserving of our souls. That only is evil to us which can hurt the soul. All the other things we may think of as evil, we may call evil, shall ultimately work together for our good. Temptations can only manifest us to ourselves Again, quoting from Rainsford, failures can only empty us of self. They cannot deprive us of our Christ. Difficulties can only humble us. And we cannot be humbled too much. Disappointments can only loosen the bonds of the world around us and disentangle us from its attractions. Bodily pains and bereavements can only chasten us. Death itself can only deliver us. For where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Romans 5. He prayed for you. Father, keep them from evil. Keep them from evil. The fifth great truth to carry from this passage, Jesus prayed for his people's holiness. He prayed for your sanctification. Look at verse 17. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. Father, sanctify them. Purify them. Set them apart. Cause them to become more holy. Jesus said in verse thirteen, or rather, I guess it's uh verse nineteen. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified. Jesus sanctified himself. He must be speaking of the term in the sense of being set apart. He was set apart For them, for us. But he calls upon us to be set apart for him. Now, how does that sanctification process work? How does it come? Primarily through the word. Sanctify them through your truth. Your word is truth. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your minds. How can a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word? In Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, Christian and Hopeful find themselves in Doubting Castle, which was kept by giant despair. Well, on Saturday about midnight, they began to pray, and continued in prayer till almost break of day. Now, a little before it was day, good Christian, as one half amazed. uh break out in this passionate speech. What a fool, quoth he, am I , thus to lie in a stinking dungeon when I may as well walk at liberty I have a key in my chest called Promise, that will, I am persuaded, open any lock in Doubting Castle. Then said Hopeful, That's good news, good brother. Pluck it out of thy chest and try. What is that? That's the scripture in his heart that he's memorized. So when uh uh the giant uh despair or doubting when he finds himself in doubting castle Or attacked by doubts and despair or depressed. He's got those promises inside his own heart. I've had the key in my chest the whole time. You see And a Sunday on which we've had the joy of baptizing a covenant child is an appropriate time to underscore the role of godly parenting in the sanctification process in the heart of a child. Many of you will recall the name John Payton, also called Patton, P-A-T-O-N, the Scottish Presbyterian, 19th-century missionary who brought the gospel to the cannibals of the New Hebrides. The chain of islands, if uh I read if you draw a line from Honolulu to Sydney, Australia, and go about two-thirds of the way, you'll come to the New Hebrides. Now today they're called Vanatu, I think it is. Uh cannibals in the New Hebrides uh had not been reached with the gospel. Some had attempted it and uh and didn't last very long. But John Payton Brought the gospel to them. In a lecture on the life of Peyton, John Piper describes the influence of Peyton's godly father, citing Peyton's own autobiography. Peyton said there was a closet in their home in Scotland to which his father would retreat after every meal. There he would intercede for the family and for others His eleven children knew how to keep that time sacred and quiet. Those prayer sessions of his father, as well as the family devotions each day, had a tremendous influence upon young John Payton. He wrote Though everything else in religion were by some unthinkable catastrophe to be swept out of my memory or blotted from my understanding. My soul would wander back to those early scenes and shut itself up once again in that sanctuary closet. And hearing still the echoes of those cries to God , Would hurl back all doubt with the victorious appeal, he walked with God, why may not I? How much my father's prayers at this time impressed me, I can never explain, nor could any stranger understand. When on his knees and all of us kneeling around him in family worship, He poured out his whole soul with tears for the conversion of the heathen world to the service of Jesus and for every personal domestic need. We felt as if in the presence of the living Savior and learned to know and love him as our own divine friend One of the most poignant segments of Peyton's autobiography is when he, as an old man, is reflecting upon his departure from his little village in Scotland. He was in his early twenties. He was on his way to Glasgow where he was going for uh theological training. He felt a call to missions. His parents had no reason to think they would ever see him again. It was a 40-mile walk to the train station that would take him to Glasgow. He said, My dear father, walk with me the first six miles of the way. His counsels and tears and heavenly conversation on that parting journey are fresh in my mind, are as fresh in my mind as if they had been yesterday Tears are on my cheeks as freely now as then, whenever memory steals me away to that scene. For the last half mile or so we walked together in almost unbroken silence. My father, as was often his custom, carrying hat in hand. His lips kept moving in silent prayers for for me. And his tears fell fast when our eyes met each each other in looks for which all speech was vain. We halted on reaching the appointed parting place. He grasped my hand firmly for a minute in silence, and then And then solemnly and affectionately said, God bless you, my son. Your father's God prosper you and keep you from all evil. Unable to say more, his lips kept moving in silent prayer. In tears we embraced and parted. Baton said he ran off as fast as he could until he rounded the corner where he knew his father couldn't see him. And then he he fell into a heap and and wept. After a time he looked back to see his father would remain where he left him, peering in his direction, evidently trying to catch a sight of him. And then he said he saw his father finally turn for home. I watched through blinding tears till his form faded from my gaze. Then hastening on my way, I vowed deeply and often by the help of God. To live and act so as never to grieve or dishonor such a father. Fathers, will your children carry with them? The memory and example of a godly father. Do you pray for their sanctification as the Lord Jesus Christ pray for yours? Sanctify them by your truth, your word, his truth. And then quickly In verses 20 to 21, Jesus prayed for our unity. We devoted a whole message to this petition a few weeks ago. True Christians are stones of different shapes and different sizes gathered from different quarries. But we're cemented together by love. And Christ Himself the chief cornerstone. Holds us as one. We're different branches of the same tree, but we're all united in him. Jesus prayed for unity, not uniformity And unity is what true believers have with one another, wherever they may live, whatever they may call themselves. And then in verse 24, Jesus prayed that we might be with him where he is. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory. Christian, does it not bless your soul to think that just a few hours before he went to the cross, Jesus was praying to his father that you might be with him in glory. His desire was that you would be there. We have every reason to think, knowing what we know about uh Christ's love for his sheep. that if every believer were in heaven but one, Jesus would not be content until he found that one and brought him home. Father, I desire that those whom you gave me may be with me where I am. Jesus is complete, he is sufficient, but he has voluntarily set his love upon you, and he does not wish to be without you. A man may live contentedly alone, but when he finds a wife and sets his love upon her, he can no longer be content to live without her. So, Christian, take comfort in this. You are the bride of Christ. You're the bride of Christ. He will not be content without you. Closing thoughts on this prayer. What a blessing to know that He's interceding for us. Keep them from falling. Protect them from evil. Sanctify them. Unify them. Glorify them. This should give us joy. And no doubt this is the reason Jesus prayed these things in the very hearing of his apostles. Verse 13, I these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. It should give us joy to know that we have an advocate with the Father. And it's it's a blessing to think that he was concerned for his flock. So much so that the bulk of this prayer before his crucifixion concerned us. Keep them, I pray for them, sanctify them, protect them. It said that Daniel Webster, going home one day from the law court, stopped to see his adult daughter who was dying As he entered the room, she looked up and said, Father, why are you out on this cold day without your coat? The great lawyer left the room with a sob, exclaiming , dying, yet she thinks of me. Christian, your Savior was about to endure the greatest trial ever faced, and yet he thought of you and prayed for you. Indeed, the trial itself was undertaken for you and for millions like you. What wonderful love is this, O my son soul. What wondrous love is this? Glory be to Jesus who in bitter pains poured for me the lifeblood from his sacred veins. Grace and life eternal in that blood I find, Blessed be his compassion, infinitely kind. Blessed through endless ages be the precious stream, Which from endless torments did the church redeem. Abel's blood for vengeance pleaded to the skies, but the blood of Jesus for our pardon cries. Finally, as we leave this holy ground where Jesus interceded with his Father on behalf of his church, let me say a word to those of you who may still be outside of the fold. I can't think of anything sadder than to hear these words of Jesus interceding for his church, for his pride, for his flock. And then to perish without being a member of that flock. To get a glimpse of the unfathomable love that he has for a sheep, and then to spurn his offer of salvation and perish in your unbelief. God's word could not be more clear. The invitation is offered to all. Why will you die? Come and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come and drink the wine, come and eat the bread, come Take of the milk of the word. Come to me. He asks you to come. There's nothing keeping you from Christ. Nothing keeping you from Christ but your own sinful heart. Your own pride, your own wicked unbelief. Throw down your weapons. Fall down before your Creator. Make peace with God. Forgive me, God. I've broken your holy laws. I've spurned the offer of your son. God have mercy upon me. I see my pride. I see my selfishness. I see my sin. I see it. It's vile. I know what's in my heart and I don't like it. God forgive me. Save me. Make me this new creation the Bible speaks of. Adopt me into your family. God forgive me and save me. You come to God that way, like a little child, not all proud and puffed up because of what you've done, but depending solely upon what He has done. And you'll be forgiven. You'll be received. To as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God. God forgive me and save me. You say that and mean that in your heart, and then you will know You are one of his sheep. Because it's only his sheep who hear his voice and come to him. Let's pray. Almighty God, what a glorious thing it was for the Lord Jesus Christ to intercede for his flock, for his bride, for his church. The ones you gave to him before he left this world. Thank you, Father, for preserving this prayer for us. And Lord, I pray for those who may be here outside of Christ. Father, please Do a mighty work of grace in those hearts. We pray that they might be drawn by your Spirit to cry out. My God, save me. Forgive me. Give me eternal life. And Father, keep these lessons in our hearts as your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.