Hey man. Praise God for that. If you brought your Bible with you, would you turn please to Genesis chapter 39? And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. with a fur. Genesis chapter thirty-nine let's actually pick it up in verse nineteen. So it was when his master heard the words which his wife spoke to him, saying, Your servant did to me after this manner. That his anger was aroused. Then Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were confined. And he was there in the prison. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy, and he gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever they did there, it was his doing. The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph's authority because the Lord was with him, and whatever he did, the Lord made it prosper. It came to pass after these things that the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their lord the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief butler and the chief baker. So he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison, the place where Joseph was confined. And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them, so they were in custody for a while. Then the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, had a dream, both of them, each man's dream in one night, and each Each man's dream with its own interpretation. And Joseph came into them in the morning and looked at them and saw that they were sad. So he asked Pharaoh's officers who were with him in the custody of his Lord's house, saying, Why do you look so sad today? And they said to him, We each have had a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. So Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell them to me, please. Then the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, Behold, in my dream a vine was before me, and in the vine were three branches. It was as though it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and its clusters brought forth ripe grapes. Then Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. And Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Now within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your place, and you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand according to the former manner when you were his butler. But remember me when it is well with you, and please show kindness to me. Make mention of me to Pharaoh and get me out of this house. For indeed I was stolen away from the land of the Hebrews, and also I've done nothing here that they should put me into the dungeon. When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, I also was in my dream, and And there were three white baskets on my head. In the uppermost basket were all kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh, and the birds ate them out of the basket on my head. So Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation of it. The three baskets are three days. Within three days, Pharaoh will lift off your head from you and hang you on On a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh from you. Now it came to pass on the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast for all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants Then he restored the chief butler to his butlership again, and he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. But he hanged the chief acre, as Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet the chief butler did not remember Joseph, but forgot it. May God bless this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Speak to us now, Father. Remove from us anything that would hinder the working of your word in each of our hearts, believer and unbeliever alike. We ask you In Christ's name. Amen. Joseph, as you know, was the favorite son of Jacob Jacob, to whom God gave the name Prince with God, Israel. Joseph's brothers envied and hated Joseph because he was his father's favorite. as Jacob evidenced by that unique and colorful tunic that he gave Joseph. And they hated him even more because he had dreams that seemed to clearly picture through the symbols of eleven sheaves of grain. as well as the sun, the moon, and eleven stars, that one day his brothers and even his parents would bow down before him. When Jacob, rather unwisely, I think, sent Joseph to check on his older brothers, who were tending their father's flocks, the brothers conspired to kill Joseph. We shall see what will become of his dreams. But Reuben intervened, shed no blood, but cast him into this pit. He said that, the scripture says, that he might deliver Joseph out of their hands. Come back later, Sereptimid. And get him out. They stripped Joseph of his hated tunic, cast him into a pit, and hardening their ears to Joseph's pitiable cries, they sat down to eat a meal Chapter 37, verse 25. Judah suggested that they sell Joseph to a company of Ishmaelites passing by, which they did, returning to their father with twenty silver shekels. One bloody tunic, and ten defiled consciences. So Joseph, at the age of seventeen, found himself the prisoner of a caravan headed for Egypt. And the captive was sold to a captain, an officer of Pharaoh's guard. However, the scripture says God was with Joseph, and he made all that he did to prosper His master, Potiphar, seeing this, made Joseph overseer of his entire household. But there was a problem. Joseph was handsome, and his master's wife was not faithful to her husband. She attempted to seduce Joseph, who resisted her advances. How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God, he said. Day by day she tried to wear down Joseph, and day by day he resisted, until the day that dramatically changed his life once again. I 'm sure that knowing that his master's wife had designs upon him, Joseph probably made a point of not being alone with her in the house, but on this day, whether she ordered all the other male servants out of the house, we don't know. She certainly would have had Authority over them. In any event, Joseph entered the house to do his work, and all the other men of the house were gone. His master's wife caught him by his garments, saying, Lie with me. Joseph fled, leaving his cloak or his tunic in her hand. The woman, seeing that she could not lie with Joseph, determined to lie about him. She told her husband that Joseph attempted to force himself on her. And she showed him Joseph's garment that she still had as evidence of that. Potiphar was justifiably angry at this great breach of trust, but unfortunately he vented his anger on the wrong party. He put Joseph into the prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined. It's described as a dungeon in chapter 40 Even there, the Lord was with Joseph. And he showed him mercy, the scripture says, and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison who committed the handling of the prison to Joseph. This morning I want us to think about the providence of God in Joseph's life, as well as the severe affliction that he bore. But first of all, I want us to spend a few minutes, as we did last week, thinking about Joseph's integrity. His moral courage, if you will. Let me remind you, he was a young man, we don't know how old at this point. He was 17 when he was was sensed to be a slave. He's far from the influences of his father, far from the practices of family worship. A slave in a foreign land, longing no doubt for human comfort, for friendship, for affection, he had lost his mother, Rachel, during the birth of his younger brother Benjamin His older brothers had betrayed him. He had reason to think he might never see Benjamin or his father again. It was no small thing for Joseph, day by day, to faithfully serve his Egyptian master. To serve with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength, to be faithful, to be diligent, even as a slave It was no small thing for him to resist the allure of this Egyptian woman. Such daily moral victories Woven together by God's Holy Spirit, form the tapestry of a life of integrity. Maria Garriott writes of This in her book, A Thousand Resurrections. Maria, as many of you know, is the wife of Craig Garriott, the pastor of Faith Christian Fellowship. PCA Church ministering to the Pen Lucy section of Inner City Baltimore, where half the residents live at or below the poverty level. Half the households are led by single women, and half of the residents who are over 25 years old did not graduate from high school. It's a neighborhood where she writes, the drug trade seduced and enslaved their young, terrorized their elderly, and proved fatal to scores. Pen Lucy, like many other urban neighborhoods, offers an array of bad choices. Dealing, drinking, getting high, promise instant gratification. Negative role models shout from drug corners, luring lonely, insecure, or unemployed boys with quick cash and brotherhood. The pool of industries ready to absorb able-bodied but under-educated men continues to shrink in cities like Baltimore Positive role models exist, though with less technicolor hue. Men who quietly labor day after day at service jobs. or trades or in offices, men who love their wives and invest in their children, men who shovel the sidewalks of their elderly neighbors, men who stand up to the drug dealers, men of quiet faithfulness, like my neighbor, a longtime member of Faith Fellowship. Her poem, No Small Thing, was inspired by this neighbor. It is no small thing to decide every morning to walk past the men on the corner who call to you. Remembering that their vials can in an instant send you where there is no more pain or sorrow or weeping. It is no small things that when your own son was grown, you seated three nephews at your table, hoping they might not follow their parents into that white powder whirlwind. Knowing they would chafe at your bridle, knowing it might already be too late. It is no small thing not to give up. It is no small thing to have to hide your wallet in your own home. It is no small thing that you welcomed your brother when other doors were shut against his disease. No small thing to grieve with him over wasted years. To change his sheets, to guide his slow shuffle, and finally to pay the mortician. It is no small thing to lie down every night with the same woman For twenty years, it is no small thing. Joseph's character was formed over years, link by link, day by day, one faithful act upon another. One truthful statement after another. The decision to avoid sexual immorality had been made, no doubt, long before he ever encountered Potiphar's wife. How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? How can I betray my master's trust, who has kept back nothing from me but you? And how can I betray my ultimate master, my creator, my sustainer? The idea appeared to be incomprehensible to Joseph. The matter required no soul searching. His character had been forged by God through hundreds of moral choices. which may have seemed minor at the time, but which in the eyes of God were no small things. Your life may never be written about, as was Joseph's or even the subject of poems or songs. But if you out of love for your Lord endeavor day by day, hour by hour, by God's grace, because that's the only way you can do it To lovingly, faithfully, earnestly attempt to serve him , to serve your family, to serve your neighbors, To serve your church family, to serve your community, to serve the loss of this world, that's no small thing We spoke a bit last week about the wonder of God's providence in Joseph's life. I want to underscore that Joseph's father chose of his own accord to give Joseph a colorful tunic, a sign of his special affection. Joseph chose to tell his brothers about his dreams. Joseph's brothers, consumed with envy and hatred, chose To sell Joseph into slavery. A company of Ishmaelites chose a route to Egypt, which took them near Dothan, and they chose to accept this offer and purchase a Hebrew slave boy. To later sell, presumably at a profit. They chose to travel to Pharaoh's city and offer the lat for sale there Potiphar chose to purchase Joseph, and eventually, acknowledging that the Lord was with him, he chose to put him in authority over his servants and his possessions. Potiphar's wife chose to tempt Joseph, and she chose to lie about him to her husband. Potiphar chose not to kill Joseph, which he might have Have done, or to sell Joseph, which he might have done, but he chose to put him, evidently without the formality of a trial, into prison, the very prison where Pharaoh's prisoners were kept. Joseph found favor with the keeper of the prison who chose to place Joseph in a position in which he would be able to interact with the other prisoners. Pharaoh, angry with his chief butler and baker, chose to confine them to prison. The butler and baker each had dreams, and they chose to reveal those dreams to Joseph. What I want you to see is that all these individuals made free choices according to their own desires. There is no indication that any of them were under any constraint That uh it was not as if uh Joseph's brothers didn't want to sell him as a slave, but some unseen power forced them to do so against their will. They envied him, they resented him, they hated him, the scripture says, and they wanted to rid themselves of him, and they did what they did in accordance with their own desires, as did Potiphar, as did Potiphar 's wife As did the jailer, as did the butler, as did the baker. But from another perspective, from a divine perspective, all these free choices of responsible human agents. were made because God had a plan. He was bringing something to pass that he had determined to do long before. The scripture says in Genesis 15, God told Abram, Joseph's great grandfather, that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs. and will serve them, and they will afflict them four hundred years. And also the nation whom they serve I will judge. Egypt. Afterward they shall come out with great possession. But Abram might have wondered, why 400 years? Why the 400-year delay? If your intention is to bring your people into Canaan. And settle them there, why send them first to Egypt? Well, God goes on to say in Genesis 15, In the fourth generation they shall return here. Because the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. What? In other words, at least one reason why God determined to bring his children into Egypt where they would remain for 400 years was that the inhabitants of Canaan, who would be dispossessed by the Israelites, were not as wicked as they would yet become. The iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. Not yet full. God's judgment was delayed. He changes the times and the seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings, Daniel 2, 21. Now, it's somewhat easy for us to believe that God is in control of the big events of life, right? The hurricanes, the revolutions, presidential elections. But many Christians find it hard to believe that God is in control of the little things that happen. But the Bible declares he works all things after the counsel of his own will. Ephesians 1. 111. In Amos 4. 7, the Lord says, I made it rain on one city, and I withheld rain from another city. What could be a smaller matter in the whole course of world events than the casting of lots? What we would say today, the rolling of dice. And yet we read, the lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the Lord. Proverbs 16, 33. Jesus said, are not two sparrows sold for a farthing, a copper coin, and not one of them falls to the ground apart from your father's will. Not one of those little sparrows falls to the ground apart from your father's will. Now that's just mind-blowing when you think about it. Even what we would commonly call chance events do not happen apart from God's control. God said that Ahab would die in a particular battle, and even though he disguised himself, so he would not be dressed as a king, and even though the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots to fight only with the king of Israel. In other words, look for the guy who looks like a king. We read that, quote, a certain man drew a bow at random at a venture. And wicked Ahab was struck between the joints of his armor, and the wound was mortal. 2 Chronicles 18 Now think about this. The man who drew his bow at random and ventured a shot in the general direction of the battle. I I've never been a soldier, but I wouldn't think that's exactly what the way you want to do it. You know, it could land anywhere anywhere on anybody. But he he drew it, I guess he shot into the into the enemy's camp. So he didn't uh he didn't know that in the providence of God that arrow would find King Ahab. The man acted freely according to his own desires. He had no idea that he was an instrument in the hand of God. It's quite likely he was not a believer in Jesus. Jehovah. It may not have been. In the same way, Joseph's brothers had only evil intentions in his betrayal. Their first thought was to murder him. Selling him to a caravan of traders was Plan B or Plan C. It was, in their minds, a way to rid themselves of Daddy's boy forever, without actually having, as they saw it, his blood upon their hands. I'll tell you what they were not thinking. They were not thinking, I have an idea, let's sell Joseph to this band of Ishmaelites. They'll carry him down to Egypt, and then through a series of peculiar events, Joseph will become prime minister. And ultimately, he'll bring our whole family to Egypt to spare us in a time of famine. All to the glory of God. God and his providence We're not in their thoughts. And yet, Joseph was able to say to them years later, God sent me before you to preserve a posterity for you in the earth. and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. Genesis 4. forty five and then the passage you know well you meant it for evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring it about as it is this day to save many people. Genesis 50 verse 20. It's just amazing. As William Cowper put it, God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. God 's providence is at work in your life. Jesus said, even the very hairs of your head are numbered. Now you may say, Pastor, I can't see his providence at work in my life. I know he provides for me, I believe it, but as I look at my journey, it seems so convoluted, so erratic. It's so toxy turvy. Let me suggest that's probably exactly what Joseph thought about his journey as he languished for years in In an Egyptian prison. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a Smiling face. There's a a one-word question that invariably comes to our minds when we are afflicted, and I don't doubt that it came to Joseph's mind when he He was afflicted. What is that one word? Why? Why? The big question is, if God is in control, why are we afflicted? Why did this affliction come upon me? Why is this happening to me? Sometimes it's to correct us when we're sinning. Despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither be weary of his correction, for whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as the Father, the Son, in whom he delights. 11 and 12. In their affliction they will seek me early. Hosea 5 15. Perhaps your affliction is for your correction. If there's unconfessed sin in your life that comes to mind in the midst of affliction, it probably will , Then that may be why you're afflicted. God's a loving father who wants to correct his children. Sometimes we're afflicted to develop our patience We glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces patience. Romans 5. 3. Perhaps you, right now, are being afflicted to develop your patience. Sometimes we're afflicted to humble us. Paul said, lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations. A thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me. Now, this was a thorn. This is some painful affliction. It was a messenger of Satan. Satan had his own intention. What was his intention? Probably to bring discouragement. and doubt into Paul's life to incapacitate him, to hinder his work as a servant of God, to perhaps devolve him into self-pity. But even though Satan meant it for evil, God meant it for good. Satan had no interest in keeping Paul humble. God took Satan's dart, and instead of simply intercepting it and diverting it, he permitted it to strike, but for a purpose unforeseen by Satan, to keep Paul from pride. You think about it. This man wrote what? Half the books of the New Testament was used of God to plant churches everywhere. How easy would it have been for him to fall into pride. Perhaps you're being afflicted right now by a loving Heavenly Father for purposes of your humbling. We're afflicted sometimes to make simply to make us more like Christ. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 11. Now no chastening, no discipline seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Your kids never enjoy being disciplined to have chastening. You have to spank them, they don't enjoy it. No, no chastening, no discipline seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. It is that we may be partakers of His holiness. Hebrews 12, 10. So you may be undergoing affliction in your life right now to help you be a partaker of Christ's holiness. to make you, in effect, more like him. And then sometimes we're afflicted simply to help us to be a better comforter. God comforts us in all our tribulation that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. The purpose of your affliction Maybe to make you a more genuine comforter of others. Maybe at least one reason for it. And then to bring glory to God and accomplish his purposes. Purposes of which we may well be unaware. Purposes of which we are no doubt unaware, I should say. Say, the afflictions of Job had to do on one level, remember, with a matter between God and Satan. Satan says, Oh, Job just loves you because you're good to him. You give him all these good things. Take away the good things, he won't love you anymore. Job didn't know that was going on. Job was completely oblivious of this matter between God and Satan. But God's purposes were accomplished in Job's life. God was glorified. Job was ultimately comforted, vindicated, and honored. These are just some of the purposes of affliction in our lives. Now, what about Joseph? What purpose did the affliction have in his life? Well, perhaps all of those we mentioned. Correction, give him more wisdom, more discretion. You don't run off and tell your brothers every dream you have. Uh you know, a little discretion, a little wisdom to perhaps to give him to teach him patience. Perhaps humility, perhaps holiness, Christ-likeness, to help him to be sympathetic to others? Certainly to bring glory to God and to accomplish his purposes, which we see as we continue in the story. Now, did Joseph know what God was going to do? Well, he had reason to believe if he was in fact interpreting his dreams correctly, and if they were indeed intended by God to portend. the future, he had reason to believe that he would live to see his brothers again, and that they and his father and mother, presumably stepmother Leah, his His own birth mother had died, would bow down before him one day. But there's no reason to think that he knew the why or the how or the when. Put yourself in his place. You've done your brothers no real harm. You certainly haven't intended to. You've been obedient to your father, you've trusted in God, and you're sold as a slave. Now you live with this officer of Pharaoh 's And what do you do? Do you despair? Do you give up? No, you try to be the best servant you can be. You're honest. You're trustworthy. You're hardworking. Whether he's watching you or not, you do your job, you do it well, you do it so well that he puts you in authority over the whole household. God blesses your work. Potiphar shows you favor. Imagine Joseph's prayer when he was first enslaved. Lord God of my fathers, you know I meant my brothers no harm. Deliver me from this bondage. Send me back to my family. Let me see my father again. He must be sorrowing for me. His heart must be broken. Please, Lord. I trust you. Help me. Deliver me. And then you begin to receive favor from your master. I don't know about you, but I would begin to think, well, this may be God's answer to my prayer. Bhadavat is going to have mercy upon me. He's going to one day release me. I'll be able to go back to my family. He's going to set me free. Confronted with temptation, you resist it. You do the right thing. But what happens? You're thrown into a dungeon. Now what do you do? Do you give up? No, even there. If I'm a prisoner, I'm gonna be the best prisoner I can be. I'm gonna be faithful in the prison. I'm going to get some of those Bible studies that Russ Bevan offers, and I'm going to work on those. I'm going to be the best prisoner I can be. And he was so diligent. So faithful that he gets authority in the prison. But then when he has this opportunity with the butler, he says, Remember me when you stand before Pharaoh again. Tell Pharaoh about my situation. Pharaoh, there's a Hebrew slave. He's been thrown in the prison. He doesn't really deserve to be there. He he's a godly man. Uh I think we should hear his story. Something to that effect. Well what happens? The butler's released, the butler's uh restored to his position, and he forgets Joe. How do you forget that? How do you forget the guy that interpreted your dream and But he forgot him. And two years go by. Remember me, he said, when it's well with you. And I'm sure he must have thought when when the butler was restored, oh Lord, thank you. This must be the way out. This is what's going to happen. The butler's going to tell Pharaoh, I'm going to be released. A month goes by, two months go by, six months go by, a year goes by, two years go by. The butler forgot me. Am I going to be in this dungeon forever? I would have thought, you know, God, why are you afflicting me this way? Are you not hearing me? Have you forgotten me? Are you playing some horrible trick upon me? Are you even there at all? All these doubts would have gone through Joseph's mind. But he persevered. Perhaps his faith shook, but it didn't shatter. God was his refuge and strength, a very present help and trouble. And Joseph didn't fear, even though the earth was removed and the mountains carried into the midst of the sea. That's much what it must have felt like for him. You may have prayed for years without some positive answer. Do you have the faith of Joseph? Will you let God be God? Will you let God be God and do what God does and trust Him? Deep in unfathomable minds of never-failing skill, he treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will. You notice how Joseph was thrust in the fire and then pulled out again? Thrust in the fire and then pulled out again. It's exactly the way gold I understand it, not that I have a lot of gold. It's exactly what gold is purified. They burn off the dross, thrust it in the fire, pull it out again, thrust it in. And that's what God does for us. It's what He does with our faith. He uh he tries it, tests it, and he gives us a little respite, and then he tests it again Apostle Peter spoke of the genuine genuineness of your faith as being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it be tested by fire. Peter 1 7. Gold is precious, but even gold is tested by fire. The fire burns off the impurities. Your faith is much more precious than that, Peter said. And notice something else about the trial of your faith, and that is remember the principle that God knows what you can bear. God knew what Joseph. Joseph could bear. No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common demand. You're not the first one to face it. But God is faithful, who he will not allow you to be tempted above that which you are able, but he will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it. There's a way out. There's a way to trust God through this. There's a way to keep your eyes focused upon Him through this. You can get through it. God deals with us according to our faith and according to our knowledge. And you might have noticed that as a young believer, your prayer request might have been answered immediately. Said, wow, I prayed for this and here it happened. And I prayed for this and then the Lord provided it. But then as you get older, it may be that God God's answers are delayed a bit longer. You've matured, and it may seem his answers are longer in coming. God doesn't deal with infant baby believers in the same way in which he deals with with mature believers. When our granddaughter Phoebe, who's now uh twelve, was about two and a half years old, uh I think it was last week Phoebe was with us. I don't know if you any any of you that could meet her, but she uh she had already been in the pediatrician's office numerous times and she didn't enjoy the visits. Two and a half years old now. On one visit, the doctor who was treating her for a strep infection wanted to check a rash on her back that he had also been treating. Phoebe, however, who would become wise to what can happen when you're face down in a doctor's office, our daughter told us later, Phoebe began to blurt out, don't hurt Phoebe, don't hurt Phoebe And her desperate plea caused the doctor to relent and he let her leave without any further trauma. I guess if you're well this this little girl's been through enough. We'll look at her rash some other time. I'll give her a mother's some ointment and whatever. But uh now a couple weeks ago when I was in my doctor's office He said something about, you know, you haven't had a tetanus shot in a while. I saw him take this hypodermic eel and I blurted out, don't hurt Rusty, don't hurt Rusty And he d of course he just slapped me and said he just slapped me and said, uh pull yourself together, man. But God doesn't deal with his mature children in the same way he deals with his infant children. That's the point. He didn't ask Abraham to demonstrate the faith required to present Isaac as a sacrifice until Abraham's faith had matured. When God tries our faith, he's dealing with us not as an infant, but as a mature believer. So when those answers seem long and coming, take heart in that. Well, God's treating me as a mature believer now and not as a baby anymore. Notice something else. Joseph's affliction was severe. He languished in prison, well, both in prison and as a slave, for thirteen years. Thirteen long years. But other afflictions are no less severe, although they're different. Living uh in constant physical pain, that's a different affliction. Living with a life-dominating handicap. That's a different one. Watching the mind of a loved one slowly deteriorate, that's an affliction. We have to learn to weep with those that weep, even though compared to your burden, another's burden may appear like to you. Uh if you're struggling with some physical affliction that keeps you in near constant pain, as some of you are, you may find it hard to sympathize with someone who's in perfect health whose only major problem is that her husband seems cold and distant. Maybe that friend's burden would be light for you, but that doesn't mean it's not heavy for him or her. Uh the burdens come to us in different ways, and we have to be sensitive to the different burdens that people carry. Sometimes it's not uh enough to walk a mile in someone's shoes. You have to try to walk in those shoes with his or her mind. With his or her heart, with his or her temperament. And how did Joseph respond to his affliction? Well, the way you and I should respond to ours. Without complaint. Why should a living man complain? Lamentations 3. 39. He let God be his refuge. The Lord will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble. He continued to trust God just as Job did. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him, Job said And not only did he refuse to deny God, he refused to complain, but he bloomed where he was planted. He bloomed where he was planted. plan. And Paul said, were you called while a slave, do not be concerned about it, but if you can be made free, rather use it. First Corinthians seven twenty-one. Joseph had learned what the Apostle Paul learned to be confident, uh sorry, to be content in whatever state in which he found himself. I've learned in whatever state therewith to be Content. Finally, you may be thinking, I don't get it. How can anybody have such peace in the midst of such a trial? How can anyone count a joy when he falls into diverse trials? And of course the answer is faith. It's that little word faith. It's that little word that saves us, or the reality that the word saves us represents faith. It not only saves us, it gives us life, it allows us to survive whatever affliction may come our way. Joseph knew that God's promised Messiah was coming He knew that from what he had heard, from what he had heard from his fathers. But he didn't know his name would be Jesus. He didn't know that Jesus would be rejected and sold. like an animal or a slave falsely accused and imprisoned. He didn't know that Jesus would be offered up as the ultimate sacrificial lamb He didn't know that his sins and my sins and the sins of all throughout history who would repent of their sins and put their faith in Christ would be paid for once and for all on Calvary. But that's the message of God's word. How can you have peace in affliction? By knowing the God of all peace, who providentially directs your path as he did Joseph's. How do you know? Him, you repent of your sins. God forgive me. You put your faith in Christ. I believe that he lived that sinless life and died and rose again. I want him as my Savior. You come to God with that kind of faith, simple faith The faith of a child. He says he'll forgive all your sins and give you everlasting life. Let's pray. Lord, what an example of faith we see here in Joseph. Lord, how we desire to have that kind of faith ourselves. Forgive us, Father, when we complain, when we murmur. When we're dissatisfied with your providence in our lives, when we question, Are you even there? Do you even care? Help us, Father. Give us strength. Thank you for this reminder of the life of Joseph. Lord, may it help us even in this week. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Please stand and listen , It is Well with My Son.