Would you turn please to Genesis chapter forty-one? How do you agree with the case? Continuing our brief study of the life of Joseph, Genesis chapter 41. Let's read the first forty-six verses. Then it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream. And behold, he stood by the river. Suddenly there came up out of the river seven cows, fine-looking and fat, and they fed in the meadow. Then behold, seven other cows came up after them out of the river, ugly and Gaunt and stood by the other cows on the bank of the river. And the ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven fine-looking and fat cows. So Pharaoh awoke. He slept and dreamed a second time, and suddenly seven heads of grain came up on one stalk, plump and good, and then behold, seven thin heads, blighted by the east wind, sprang up after them And the seven thin heads devoured the seven plump and full heads. So Pharaoh awoke, and indeed it was a dream. Now it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. And Pharaoh told them his dreams, but there was no one who could interpret them for Pharaoh. And then the chief butler spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I remember my faults this day. When Pharaoh was angry with his servants and put me in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker. We each had a dream, and one night, he and I, each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his own dream. Now, there was a young Hebrew man with us there, a servant of the captain of the guard. And we told him, and he interpreted our dreams for us. To each man he interpreted according to his own dream. And it came to pass, just as he interpreted for us, so it happened. He restored me to my office, and he hanged him. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him quickly out of the dungeon, and he shaved, changed his clothing, and came to Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have had a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it. But I have heard it said of you that you can understand a dream to interpret it. So Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It's not in me. God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Behold, in my dream I stood on the bank of the river, and suddenly seven cows came up out of the river, fine-looking and fat, and they fed in the meadow. And then behold, seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and gaunt. Such ugliness as I have never seen in all the land of Egypt. And the gaunt and ugly cows ate up the first seven, the fat cows. When they had eaten them up, no one would have known that they had eaten them, for they were just as ugly as at the beginning. So I awoke. I also saw in my dream, and suddenly seven heads came up on one stalk, full and good. Then behold, seven heads, withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind, sprang up after them And the thin heads devoured the seven good heads. So I told this to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me. Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, The dreams of Pharaoh are one. God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good heads are seven years. The dreams are one And the seven thin and ugly cows which came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty heads blighted by the east wind are seven years of famine. This is the thing which I've spoken to Pharaoh. God has shown Pharaoh what he's about to do. Indeed, seven years of great plenty will come throughout all the land of Egypt, but after them seven years of famine will arise, and all the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt. And the famine will deplete the land. So the plenty will not be known in the land because of the famine following, for it will be very severe. And the dream was repeated to Pharaoh twice because the thing is established by God and God will shortly bring it to pass. Now, therefore, let Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land to collect one-fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt in the seven plentiful years. And let them gather all the food of those good years that are coming, and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. Then that food shall be as a reserve for the land for the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt, that the land may not perish during The famine. So the advice was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants. And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom is the Spirit of God? Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Inasmuch as God has shown you all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as you, you shall be over my house, and all my people shall be ruled according to your word. Only in regard to the throne will I be greater than you. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh took his signet ring off his hand and put it on Joseph's hand, and he clothed him in garments of fine linen, and put a gold chain around his neck, and he had him ride in the second chariot which he had, and they cried out before him, Bow the knee So he set him over all the land of Egypt. Pharaoh also said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without your consent, no man may lift his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnath Paniah, and he gave him as a wife Azenath, the daughter of Potipharah, the priest of An. So Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his His holy word. Let's pray. We do ask for that blessing. Lord, speak to us now from your holy word. Remove from us anything that would distract us. Help us to focus on your truth. And may your spirit apply it to each one of our hearts. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. This morning I want you to imagine yourself in Joseph's place. You are the most beloved son of Jacob, a man of wealth and a man of prominence. You are the grandson of Isaac, the child of promise, and of course the great grandson of Abraham, the man God called out of heathenism to know and follow the one true God. Abraham, whose faith was accounted for righteousness. You, Joseph, are enjoying the blessings of the covenant that God established with Abraham and with his descendants. But one day in your 17th year, you were sent by your father to check on your older brothers. Who are tending your family's flocks. But when you find them, not in the place they originally were, but nearby, you discover that your brother's resentment of you. A resentment that was based upon their correct perception that you are their father's favorite son, you find that that resentment has morphed into hatred. That hatred leads them to conspire to kill you when they see you coming, dressed in that special cloak your father gave you. They decide to cast your body, to kill you, and cast your body into a pit, and then tell your father that you must have been devoured by a wild beast. However , your oldest brother, Reuben, intervenes. He suggests that rather than kill you, they cast uh and and cast your body into that pit. They just put you alive into the pit. So that they would only be indirectly responsible for your impending death. Now you wouldn't have any way of knowing it at the time, but Rubin's intention in making the suggestion was to find a way without the knowledge of the other brothers to later release you from the pit and return you safely to your father. As you cry out for your brothers to have compassion on you from down within this pit. Presumably a cistern that was dug to hold water, but is now dry, those brothers sit above you and callously share a meal together. But in the providence of God, some Midianite traitors on their way to Egypt pass by, and your brother Judah suggests that, well, here's a way for us to rid ourselves of Joseph once and for all. But without having Joseph's blood on our hands, to actually make a few shekels in the process. So you soon find yourself in a caravan headed south in the midst of strange men with Unfamiliar language, unfamiliar customs. You are sold to a prominent Egyptian, a captain in Pharaoh's army. But instead of moping and resisting and grumbling about your circumstances and undermining your new slave master at every opportunity , Rather, you serve with honesty and integrity and diligence, and God prospers your labors. Your master sees that God is with you And he eventually gives you authority over all his property and all his servants. Surely, uh I don't know about you, but if I had been in Joseph's shoes, I suppose This is the same with you, you would have seen God's hand in all this, and you would have thought, no doubt, well perhaps this is how I'll be delivered. Potifar, who has now granted me such favor , may eventually grant me my freedom. As I tell him my story, and he realizes that I was betrayed by my brothers and I had done no evil to cause me to be in this position, etc. And I'll be set free by my master. Then I can return to the house of my father. But uh Uh Joseph has a problem, one from which many of us have been graciously spared. He was handsome, and his master's wife Yes, thank you We don't have to underscore it. And his his master's wife had a wandering eye, and she attempted to break down his resistance. To urge him to lie with her. But Joseph resisted her advances. And one day, let's put it back in your imagination now. One day you, Joseph Find yourself in the house with her with no other male servants inside. She grabs you and entices you, but you do the right thing. The God-honoring thing, you flee temptation. You resist temptation, you run, and you tell her you cannot do such a wicked thing, violating your master's trust and sinning against God. You run from her clutches, but she holds on to your cloak, and with the fury of a woman's scorn, she uses that cloak to convince her servants Calling them, screaming, calling them back into the house and declaring to them, and later to her husband, that you, Joseph, tried to force yourself upon her. So just when things began to look up for you, you find yourself thrown into a dungeon with no prospect of ever being released, for jealousy is a husband's fury. But what do you do? Do you give up? Do you despair? Do you turn your back upon the God of your fathers, whose providence in your life seems so unjust and cruel? No. You persevere. You serve God just as diligently when unjustly imprisoned as you did when unjustly enslaved You have a good spirit. And the Lord gives you favor in the eyes of the keeper of the prison. And he probably asked you over those time over those years, uh how a Hebrew from Palestine ended up in entering Egyptian dungeon. He begins to trust you, and he asks you to help him in caring for the other prisoners, eventually giving you authority over the entire prison. As part of your new responsibilities, you interact with two servants of Pharaoh, servants who had in some way displeased their master and who found themselves in prison. You interpret their dreams by God's grace, and you ask the butler to remember you and intercede for you when he is restored to Pharaoh's good graces. You would think, no doubt, now, ah, perhaps this is how God's going to deliver me. The butler will tell Pharaoh my story, Pharaoh will realize I don't deserve to be in this prison. And he'll commute my sentence or pardon me, he'll let me go, and I can return to my family. But a month goes by, no word from Pharaoh. Two months, six months, a year goes by. Eighteen months go by, and surely you think the butler has either forgotten me or Pharaoh is unwilling to lift a finger to help some Hebrew slave in the dungeon. It's now been thirteen years since Joseph was betrayed by his brothers. He's 30 years old and he He's been a slave or a prisoner in Egypt for almost as long as he lived with his family in Palestine. In our last message on Joseph, we considered his affliction. We saw that sometimes God afflicts his children for correction. Sometimes he afflicts us to humble us, sometimes to help us to be a comfort to others, sometimes just to make us more like Christ. Sometimes to bring glory to himself in ways that we don't see or know. We noted that God has a reason for all our afflictions. His method is to thrust us into the fire of affliction and then to pull us out again. Just as a uh one might a refiner might thrust gold into the fire and pull it out, consuming the gross, the impurities. First Peter 1 7, that the trial of your faith, which is much more precious than gold that perishes might be found under praise and honor and glory, the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ. So he thrusts us into affliction, he leaves us there for a time and then he pulls us out. And then, strangely enough, we're stronger to face the next affliction as he takes away some of those impurities. He purifies us. He afflicts us according to our ability to bear it. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man, but God is faithful. He will not allow you to be tempted above that which you are able. Cling to that promise, Christian. He will not allow you to be tempted above that which you are able, but he will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it. There's a way out, there's a way of trust, there's a way of faith. There's a path of godliness through whatever the trial. Your affliction may be much different than Joseph's, but it may be nonetheless severe. Some of you are undergoing afflictions right now that don't seem at all like Joseph's. You're not a slave, you're not in prison, you haven't been separated from family, but they're nonetheless severe. And so we need to remember, with our different personalities and temperaments, a burden that may be very heavy to one of us. Brother or sister, that burden may seem light to you as you consider it, but we have to learn to weep with those who weep without sitting in judgment on the severity of the trial. We saw that our response to affliction should be to refuse to complain when we're in it. The Lord gives, the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord. That's what Job said. Let God be our refuge, secondly. He is the God of all comfort who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any Tribulation or any trouble. And then we're to continue to trust him, even in the darkness. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? You're Joseph, you're in the dungeon, but you're trusting God. You can't see what he's doing. You don't know what his plan is. But you're trusting. You have faith. You believe he's in control. Joseph's afflictions may have served all those different purposes in his life, to correct him, perhaps for indiscretion in the telling of his dream. to his brothers, his parents, to humble him. That is to keep him God-centered even in his exaltation. Yeah, I I'm a big shot now, but I wasn't such a big shot a few years ago. To remind him, to humble him. Kind of like Paul's thorn in the flesh. Messenger of Satan to buffet him, but a messenger from God to keep him humble, lest he should be exalted above measure because of the abundance of the revelations that were committed to him. And then to make Joseph more like Christ, who was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And it also maybe helped him to become a comforter to others. Surely he would have many. uh who would need his comfort during those years of uh famine. And uh and then simply to bring glory to God in ways that Joseph couldn't at the time uh recognize. Uh The patient way he endured those afflictions surely brought glory to God. Joseph is an example of how to respond to affliction. according to the record God has preserved for us, he didn't complain. He turned to God as his refuge in trouble. He continued to trust in God. Although this hardship was long and it was pro uh pronounced. It was a difficult hardship and it was a prolonged one. So as we consider Joseph's affliction, we're reminded of the fact that God is sovereign even in our afflictions. And that should be, of course, an encouragement in our trials. But what I want to get to today is that there's a better encouragement yet. Now again, uh Exercising your imagination this morning. Put yourself back in Joseph's shoes. You're in the dungeon, that black, bleak dungeon. And it's now two years since you interpreted that dream of the butler, and you have probably lost any faith that the butler remembered you or anything's going to come of that. Now, suppose, just suppose, after 13 years of the slave war in a dungeon, Suppose that the Lord spoke to you in your cell, and he told you that very soon you were going to be released from prison. Your severe trial was going to be over. Maybe he told you within a week or two weeks. Not only that, you were going to be exalted, God told you. You were going to be clothed with the finest raiment, you would be able to sit in the very presence of the king, Pharaoh. And all the wealth of the kingdom would be at your disposal. And you, Joseph, the Hebrew slave, would have all the honor of a prince of Egypt Now, do you think that if you were languishing in prison, having that information about your impending exaltation would make a difference? In how you endured your trial. Now, let's put that in today's terms. Imagine you go home this afternoon to find that your neighborhood's in turmoil. Your house and several other homes have been destroyed by fire. All your possessions are gone. And to make matters worse, when you're staying with a friend tonight, you're watching the local news to find out, to see about the fire, to watch about the fire in your neighborhood. And the live local late-breaking lead story is not the fire, but it's that the company that you worked for for 30 years just announced that it's closing its operations in Maryland and in the States and is moving to Bangladesh and you're now out of work. Whoa I lost my home, I lost everything there, and now I I have no job. And you st you keep watching the news because you want to see the news about the fire. And when the fire is reported, the spokesperson for the fire department says, Arson is in sp is suspected. And about that time the police arrive. at your friend's home looking for you. You're charged with a crime. The TV news crews are there as you're let in handcuffs out of your friend's house. And the presumption of your guilt is so strong that the arresting officers, as they place you in the back of the vehicle, don't even bother to put their hand on the top of your head to prevent you from bumping your head on the door. That's how bad it is. How would you feel? Shocked, humiliated, frightened, confused, depressed, certainly wondering, God, how where's your hand in all this? Now, suppose God revealed to you that very night in your cell that next week at that time be released from jail on bail, let's say. Next week, uh at that time you by that time you'd receive three telephone calls. One from your attorney declaring that the real arsonist had confessed on all charges against you. One from the folks at the publisher's clearinghouse sweepstakes saying they went to you they went to your address and uh and they saw that your house had burned down and uh it was was uh contrary to their normal normal practice, but they decided to track you down anyway and give you the ten million dollars. And then one from the White House saying that the uh vice president was resigning for health reasons And the President has chosen you to finish out his term. Now, how would your knowledge of your impending exaltation affect your state of mind during your time of humiliation? Don't you think it might make it easier for you to handle the bad times, knowing that the good times were coming? You say, all right, okay, Pastor, I get it, but you have to admit that the exaltation of Joseph was a one in a million, maybe a one in a hundred million kind of blessing of God. Let's face it, that's never gonna happen to me. Well, on the contrary, Christian, the exaltation of Joseph was only a picture of a much greater exaltation that is awaiting you. Was Joseph honored before the people of Egypt? John 12, 26, if any man serves me, if anyone serves me, him will my Father honor, Jesus said. You're going to be honored by God. Was Joseph given the wealth of Pharaoh? The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God. And joy heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him that we may also be glorified together. All things are yours, the world or life, or death, or things present, or things to come. All are yours. First Corinthians 3. 22 You are heirs of the wealth of God. What is his will be yours. And what makes this inheritance different from all others is that it is bestowed by the benefactor upon the death of the beneficiary. Was Joseph made like unto Pharaoh? For our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body. That it may be conformed to his glorious body. Philippians 3, 20, 21. Paul says to the Thessalonians, God from the beginning chose you for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. to which your salvation he called you by our gospel for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 2, for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. We know that when he appears, we shall be like him. 1 John 3, verse 2. God is going to exalt you. He's going to give you a glorious body. Sown in corruption, raised in incorruption. Sown in dishonor, raised in glory. Sown in weakness, raised in power. Sown a natural body raised a spiritual body. First Corinthians 15 It was, I believe, over nine years ago now that Mike and Linda Anderson 's child Angel went home to be with the Lord. Just a few days before she did, Linda told me that Angel had been talking about heaven and the new body that she would have there. and uh a a a a body she knew that would be that would work so much better than the original one she had been given. And she was looking forward to climbing trees and one day dancing with her sisters Melissa and Roseanne. Christian, Christ is going to transform your lowly body. It's a lowly body. And it's getting lower all the time, frankly. And and uh and in a very real sense you're going to be like him. You're gonna be like him Was Joseph made a ruler over a great nation? To him who overcomes, I will grant to sit with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat down with my father on his throne. Revelation 321. Did Pharaoh give Joseph a city for his family to dwell in? Hebrews 11:16, God has prepared for them, for his people, a city. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Revelation 21, 2 You're going to be reunited with your family members. Did Pharaoh permit Joseph to dwell with him? And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. Revelation 21, 3. You're going to dwell with the one who is greater than all earthly kings. That is what's awaiting you. Did Pharaoh's treatment of Joseph help alleviate Joseph's anguish and sorrow? God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death nor sorrow. nor crying, there shall be no more pain for the former things have passed away. Revelation 21, 4. But Joseph's Earthly exaltation was temporary, right? As all earthly things are. Your heavenly exaltation is permanent. It's eternal. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again unto a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away. Reserved in heaven for you, you who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. What's awaiting you is permanent. The exaltation of Joseph was temporary. And notice this, not only does the Lord promise you joy in his presence, but he promises you bonuses. Luke 6. 35, but love your enemies and do good and lend, hoping for nothing again, and your reward shall be great. What? Your reward shall be love your enemies, and your reward shall be great. Isn't it interesting? God promises rewards to those who love their enemies, while Satan promises rewards to those who hate and murder their enemies. I read a segment of an interview broadcast on Palestinian television. A young girl was being interviewed and she said, Shahada, martyrdom, is a very, very beautiful thing. Everyone yearns for shahada. What could be better than going to paradise? The host said, Yes, what is better? Peace and full rights? The girl, I will achieve my rights after becoming a saheed, a holy martyr, hero We won't say children forever. Host, do you actually love death? Girl, every Palestinian child, say someone age 12, says, Oh Lord, I would like to become a Shaheed. Unfortunately for many, Satan has perverted the meaning of martyrdom from someone being put to death on account of his faith or her faith to someone who kills others because of his or her faith. And dies in the process. But God promises rewards to those who love their enemies. God promises rewards for those who sacrifice earthly comforts for his sake And everyone who has forsaken houses or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. 29. God promises rewards for those who are slandered or mocked or persecuted because they're Christians. Blessed are you, he said. When men revile you or persecute you or say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake, rejoice! Be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. Man , that is so counterintuitive. What? I'm supposed to rejoice? When I'm persecuted and slandered? For your sake? Yeah, rejoice because great is your reward in heaven. God promises rewards for those who are faithful in using the gifts He's given them. Parable of the talents, Matthew 25. You've been faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. God promises rewards to those who show love and extend hospitality to his servants and to all Christians He that receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. And he that receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. Now that's a good verse to mention when you're traveling back and forth from Virginia looking for someone to host you at their dinner table. If that ever happens to any of you. Now, also, God promises rewards to those who serve Him in even the smallest capacity. I don't know what could be smaller than this. Whoever gives to one of these little ones a cup of cold water only. I guess you could give them hot water. Whoever gives to one of these little ones a cup of cold water only In the name of a disciple, he shall not lose his reward. What? So God promises all these things, and then he promises bonuses, rewards on top of the glories that are awaiting you. Christian. So to summarize, the Lord promises his children in unmistakable terms a measure of that which his own son has power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, blessing. We are sons and daughters of the great king of the universe. Problem is we've not yet reached the age of maturity Right? When that inheritance will become fully accessible to us. However, we know it is coming because God, who cannot lie, told us it is coming, right? Amen? I didn't hear any amen from over here. Amen. All right. That's why we call you ghost. We know it's coming because God who cannot lie tells us it's coming. So my question is, does it not dishonor him when I act as if I don't believe it by obsessing about my present trial? Does it not dishonor the Lord when you act as if you don't really believe what he told you here because you're obsessing over your present trials? The scripture describes those trials as our light affliction, which is but for a moment. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, works for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. While we do not look at the things which are seen, and here's the key, we don't look at the things that which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. Because the things which are seen, all this stuff, the things which are seen are temporary, the things which are not seen are eternal. 2 Corinthians 4. It's just the opposite of the way we tend to think about things. The Apostle Paul, who had the distinct advantage of spending some time in heaven before he had to endure all the trials he had to face here as an apostle. That is a distinct advantage. He had that glimpse of heaven. He said, I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed to me in us. It's not even worthy to be compared to it, he said. It's so much more glorious. You can endure your trials, however severe they may be, just as Joseph endured his. First of all, by remembering that God is in control, God is sovereign. You've heard that You know that, and he has a purpose and a plan, Romans 8. 28. But secondly, God wants you to look beyond those trials to the joys that are awaiting you. Very soon, you're going to be exalted. As Joseph was exalted. But even in a more greater way, in a permanent way. So how about you? Are you walking by faith or are you walking by sight? Are you living as a citizen of heaven? Are you behaving as a child of God, or are you behaving as a spoiled child? Complaining, murmuring, pouting. Doubting when is Christmas going to get here? Demanding your own way. God has graciously revealed to us something of the glory awaiting his children. As a way of encouraging us through this pilgrimage. But if you're a believer, you know that the best thing about heaven is not the wealth and honor and beauty and peace and joy. The best thing about heaven is that the Lord Jesus is there. And we'll be with him. Johnny Erickson Tata wrote uh in the early days of my paralysis when I first learned about heaven, I zeroed in on it because it was the place where I would receive new hands and feet. She's paraplegic, can't use her hands and feet. Heaven was the place I'd be free freed from the pain, and so it became an escape from reality for me. A psychological crutch. At times heaven was so me-centered that I felt as though the whole point of it was to get back all of all it owed me. All I had lost. And so heaven became a death wish. Time passed, and with it I gained a little more spiritual maturity. It gradually dawned on me that the day of Christ would be just that. The day of Christ, not the day of Johnny. Glorified hands and feet, as well as reunions with loved ones, began to look more like fringe benefits. to the honor of simply being on the invitation list to the coronation party. You'll agree. The privilege of casting your crowns at the feet of Jesus will be enough of an honor. Ruling the earth and reigning over angels, becoming pillars in God's temple, co-heirs of heaven and earth are almost incidental. What we become, receive, and do in heaven won't be the highlight of heaven. To be there and be in the presence of the praise, to be to the praise of his glory, will be enough. It will be Jesus Day. So friend, will you be there at Christ's coronation party? Now you may be thinking, Well, I I hope so, 'cause you know I've tried hard to keep those Ten Commandments. I haven't done it perfectly. I've really tried hard to keep that golden rule. I I hope I've lived in such a way that I'll get to heaven. Well, consider this. The scripture says, by the deeds of the law, or by the works of the law, no flesh shall be justified. That includes you. Galatians 2. 16 Paul went on to say, if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. There was no reason for God the Father to send his son to die upon the cross if you could have been saved by keeping the Ten Commandments or trying to keep the Golden Rule. No one was ever saved that way. For all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. All we like chief have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. The Lord has laid upon him the iniquity of us all. The only way to heaven is to fall down on your knees and cry out to God, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Do what the thief on the cross did. Lord, I believe. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He put his faith in Christ. He trusted that he was indeed the Son of God, the promised Messiah. You need to stop trusting in yourself and transfer that trust to Jesus alone. When you do that, all your sins are forgiven. forgiven. You'll have everlasting life, and you'll be with him in heaven one day. Let's pray. Oh Lord, thank you for Joseph. Thank you for the example that he is, the testimony that his life is, the The reminder of the exaltation awaiting us. And now, Lord, prepare our hearts as we get a little foretaste of heaven, communing with one another and with our Lord Jesus around his table. In his name we pray, amen.