Continuing our brief foray into the life of Joseph, Genesis chapter thirty-nine. As we turn there, uh I have a couple things to mention. Uh I see that Mr. and Mrs. Thomas are with us back from their honeymoon. Yes , and Mr. and Mrs. Yes and Here we are. And uh Jan Duty is back with us after her uh time in the in the hospital. Could have you with us, Jan. And uh my uh my daughter, our daughter and her uh children are with us today. Would you you you people want to stand there? Anyone else here with us of import? What did I see in the back there? Who you got? No, no, I I mean the sheep. Anybody here? Good to have uh some with us who aren't normally here. All right, would you uh uh you've already done that. You turn to Genesis chapter thirty-nine and now we'll dismiss the the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. Genesis thirty nine, let's begin at verse one. Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had taken him down there. The Lord was with Joseph, and he was a successful man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. And his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all he did to prosper in his hand. So Joseph found favor in his sight and served him. Then he made him overseer of his house, and all that he had he put under his authority. So it was from the time that he had made him overseer of his house and all that he had, that the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was on all that he had in the house and in the field. Thus he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he did not know what he had, except for the bread which he ate. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast longing eyes on Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. But he refused, and said to his master's wife, Look, my master does not know what is with me in the house, and he has committed all that he has to my hand. There is no one greater in this house than I, nor has he kept back anything from me but you. Because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? So it was, and she spoke to Joseph day by day. that he did not heed her, to lie with her, or to be with her. But it happened about this time when Joseph went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house were inside, none was inside that she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. But he left his garment in her hand and fled and ran outside. And so it was when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and fled outside, that she called to the men of her house and spoke to them, saying, See, he has brought into us a Hebrew to mock us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice. And it happened when he heard that I lifted my voice and cried out that he left his garment with me and fled and went outside. And so she kept his garment with her until his master came home. Then she spoke to him with words like these, saying, The Hebrew servants whom you brought to us came in to me to mock me. And so it happened as I lifted my voice and cried out that he left his garment with me and fled outside. So it was when his master heard the words which his wife spoke to him, saying your servant did to me after this manner, that his anger was aroused. Then Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were confined And he was there in the prison. Let's stop there this morning. Let's pray. Lord, this is your holy word. We ask that you will use it now in our hearts. Teach us from it. Forgive us our sins as we approach you. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. What a picture of the sordid state of the human heart we saw last week as we began to consider the experiences of Joseph. The child of Jacob's beloved wife Rachel, Joseph was Jacob's favorite son. And as that became clear to Joseph's older brothers, they envied him and hated him. Joseph didn't help matters any when at the age of 17 he told his brothers about two dreams that he had, which suggested that they, and even his parents, would one day bow down before him. When Jacob rather unwisely sent Joseph robed in his colorful tunic, a token of his father's favor, to check on his brothers who were tending their father's flocks in a secluded place. Joseph's brothers, filled with envy and hatred, conspired to kill him, but decided instead, at Judah's prompting, to sell Joseph to a company of Ishmaelites journeying to Egypt. The brothers then sought to cover their crime. They took Joseph's tunic, dipped it in the blood of a young goat, and brought it to their father. Do you know whether it is your son's tunic or not? Well the ruse worked. Jacob recognized the coat and assumed that his son had been killed by some wild beast. In his anguish and his grief, Jacob tore his clothes, a sign of anguish and grief, put on sackcloth, and mourned for his son for many days. He refused to be comforted by the efforts of all his remaining children, declaring through his tears that he would go down into the grave to his son in mourning. What's so sad is that his anguish of soul did not melt the hearts of his deceitful sons. And knowing what we know of human nature, it uh wouldn't surprise us to learn that it actually uh verified to them That Jacob's love for Joseph was what they would call inordinate. Dad can't seem to get over Joseph's death. You know, he's got all of us, but still he walks around mourning all day long about Joseph. Meanwhile, at the age of 17, Joseph finds himself going from being the favored son of a very wealthy man, and remember , Jacob was indeed wealthy. Remember the gifts that he gave to his brother Esau, recorded for us in chapter thirty-two. Two hundred female goats, twenty male goats, two hundred ewes, twenty rams, thirty camels with colts, forty uh cows, bulls, etc. He went from being the son of a wealthy man and living a life of some measure of privilege to being a slave in a foreign land Let's read again chapter 39, those first few verses. Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt, and Potipar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had taken him down there. But the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a successful man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him. That the Lord made all he did to prosper in his hand. So Joseph found favor in his sight and served him. And he made him overseer of his house, and all that he had he put under his authority. Note that, first of all, the Lord prospered Joseph. Joseph had no control over where he would be taken or to whom he would be sold. But he finds himself a servant to this Egyptian, this idolater , presumably captain of Pharaoh's guard, this man named Potiphar. And once he's in Potiphar's service, Instead of moping around and doing the least bit possible , Joseph began to distinguish himself as a faithful servant. And the Lord was with him, and he was successful. If he tended cattle, those cattle were healthy and prolific. If he oversaw farming, the crops were abundant. His recommendations were wise. He was able to deal well with the other servants. And Potiphar saw that the Lord was with Joseph, that the Lord prospered his way, and so he made him overseer of his house. He left all things in his hands, his servants, his investments. major and minor decisions in the household. The scripture says he only knew that there was bread on the table. He trusted Joseph with all the other matters. And the Lord blessed Potiphar's house for Joseph's sake, verse 5, and all his possessions, all in the house and all in the field, prospered. Now, surely God may have used special means, direct intervention to cause Joseph to bring prosperity to Potiphar. But it's also true, of course, that God generally rewards diligence, zeal, wisdom, honesty, etc. And Joseph demonstrated those traits. He who has a slack hand becomes poor, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. Proverbs 10:4. The hand of the diligent will rule, but the slothful shall be put to forced labor. Proverbs 12, 24. Do you see a man who is diligent in his work, that is who is prompt in his business? He shall stand before kings He will not stand before obscure men. Proverbs 22, 29. The principle is God tends to reward Hard work. In all labor there is profit, the scripture says. Joseph was diligent. He evidently did his best at whatever he did. Whatever your hand finds to do, the scripture says, do it with all your might. Ecclesiastes 9. 10. Whether it's at work or at school or in our homes. I wonder how often we live up to our full potential. Let me speak directly to our young people for a moment. Don't squander the gifts and opportunities that God gives you. Whether you're studying history or science, whether you're writing for the school paper or running on the track team, do it with all your might. Do it with all your might. Whatever you do, do it all to the glory of God. Give it all you've got, in other words. Some time ago I read about famed heart surgeon Denton Cooley. He and his associates have been agents of healing for over 100,000 people with heart problems. He's the founder of the Texas Heart Institute at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston. What was interesting is that fellow workers described his skills as awesome. quote, more beautiful than the most perfectly executed movements in ballet or gymnastics. It was said of him, such God given potential could only have been developed through much personal cost and sacrifice. and many years of intensive study and disciplined practice. So it makes me wonder what would have happened had he squandered his high school biology class by goofing off. clowning around. What if instead of studying anatomy and reading all the medical literature that he could read on the human heart He wasted his evenings in front of the television and his weekends partying with friends. Are you giving your best to the master? It's not always the case, but often if you give your best, it will be noted and appreciated, as in the case of Joseph. In my pastorate in East Tennessee, I asked Mike, one of our members, how his job at the bank was going. He said it was interesting. He had just uh recently been called into the office of the bank president and his supervisor was there and they said to him, as I'm sure your boss has said to you, we think we have been underpaying you. How much do you think you should be making? So Mike said, of course, well how much money does the bank have? No, he he gave them a figure. And the bank president said that was the very same figure that he had in mind. Faithfulness and diligence is often rewarded in this life. Not only was Joseph hardworking and diligent, he was honest. He was so trustworthy, in fact, that Potiphar could entrust everything to him. He was trustworthy in matters great and small. The story is told of an orphan in the 19th century who made a bit of money by catching fish. One day he caught a beautiful bass, and a gentleman offered him a dollar for it. No, he said, Mr. Jones has agreed to take all my fish at fifty cents. He has taken a great number of small ones. I think he should have this larger one. The boy grew to become a military officer , Thomas J. Jackson. He was so fearless and resolute in battle that his troops gave him the nickname Stonewall. Are you honest and trustworthy and faithful even in little things? During the uh era of streetcars, which I can actually remember, raise your hand if you can remember the era of streetcars. There you go. That's some honest people here. Uh a boy a boy came home and showed his father a ticket that the streetcar conductor had neglected to take. The boy said that he was that much ahead because he could use the ticket again, maybe the next day. The boy said in later life he would never forget. That his father at that point looked at him and said, Son, you have sold your honor for a nickel. You sold your honor for a nickel. At what price would you sell your honor? Thousand dollars? Ten thousand dollars? $100,000? A million? Ten million? Joseph was honest and trustworthy in big things and small. And Joseph's honesty and diligence, his faithfulness and earnest service to his master Was a testimony to his master. His master saw that Jehovah was with him. His master saw that Jehovah was with him. This Egyptian master. was quite probably uh uh an idolater. And this may have been Potiphar's very first experience with one who declared his faith in one true God, Jehovah, the creator and sustainer of all life. And you notice something here, Joseph was evidently not ashamed to declare his faith in the one true God. in front of his master, again, presumably immersed in the polytheistic worship of Egypt. Even though Joseph's circumstances were not at all favorable, were they? Perhaps you've heard believers say, or maybe you've said yourself, You know, my life is in such shambles. My road has been so convoluted that I'm reluctant to let it be known that I'm a Christian. Because the obvious question is, if you have a personal relationship with a loving God, how did you end up here? Where was God when you went through those years of unemployment? Where was God when you went through those years of rehab? Where was God when you went through that bankruptcy or that divorce? And Joseph might well have reasoned, this is not the time to let it be known that I'm a follower of Jehovah. This guy Potiphar is going to say, if your God is so mighty, what are you doing here? Far from home, enslaved to one that you think of as an idolater. But Joseph's faith was evidently so strong that he was confident that God was still in control. He wasn't ashamed to proclaim himself a follower of Jehovah. And his master saw that Jehovah was with him. In my first pastorate near Buffalo, there was a large church near ours. I think I mentioned this before. They proclaimed the prosperity gospel. And I was told, I think, by someone who wants to worship there, that the pastor asked the congregation, if you drive an old car, please park it. behind the church where it can't be seen by people driving by. We want the community to see that we are all prosperous. So they wanted the nice cars parked out front where people that was a major road, uh Route 20, I believe it was, and uh and they wanted people to see it, see their nice cars when they drove by Now that might work in a prosperous place like that, but uh not in a a poor village in a third world country. Joseph was a slave. His circumstances couldn't have been much worse. But he evidently let it be known to his master that he was a believer in Jehovah. And when his honesty and his industry and his faithfulness were honored by God and Potiphar prospered, Potiphar recognized that God was at work in Joseph's life. Well how about you? Is your honesty, your diligence, your obedience, boys and girls, is that recognized by other people? Even a child is known by his doings, the Bible says. Even in minor matters, you can be a testimony to God. A widow signed a a note alone for a so-called friend who skipped out without paying. That's the danger of co-signing for people. The money was owed to an attorney who happened to be Jewish. She went to see him and she promised to pay him each week, telling him she had placed her faith in Christ and she wanted her life to shine for him. When the last installment was paid, the attorney said, quote, I have had much dealing with people who said they were followers of Christ. Until now, I have never been much impressed. Potiphar left all he had in Joseph's hands. There were a great many ways that Joseph could have devised to defraud his master. There are a number of arguments he could have used in his mind to justify it. I was honest with my father. I was honest with my brothers. I've been faithful to Jehovah, and where has it brought me? I'm a slave in a foreign land through no fault of my own. This man's an idolater. He's prospering through my diligence. He thinks he can own me as if I were a beast of burden. Why should I be honest with him? A slave boy was for sale in the early days of our nation, a potential master who wished to spare the boy from a cruel owner, went up to him and said, Son, if I buy you, will you be honest? And the boy replied, I will be honest whether you buy me or not The Lord was with Joseph and his master saw it. Can it be said of you, by your family, by your friends, by your associates, the Lord is with him. The Lord is with her. We've considered Joseph's honesty and his diligence and faithfulness. We must speak for a few minutes about his purity. He was a handsome young man. We know he was approximately seventeen when he he was seventeen when he was sold as a slave. We don't know how much time has now elapsed But Potiphar 's wife saw him, took notice of him, and sought to seduce him. Over and over again, day after day, she sought to get Joseph to lie with her. To commit adultery with her. All sin is evil in the eyes of a holy God, but some sins are so vile and they have such a devastating impact upon families and upon societies That when God gave his law to his chosen people, and he set them up as a city upon a hill to reflect his character to the nations, he commanded that those who committed those sins should be put to death. One of those sins was adultery. The man who commits adultery with another man's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress, shall surely be put to death. Leviticus 20, verse 10. You'll remember that the giving of the law through Moses was not until hundreds of years after this point, this point in the history of mankind. But Joseph knew enough from his God-given conscience and from no doubt the stories that he had heard from his father Jacob and others, he knew enough that to steal another man's wife was a serious offense. Against her husband, and more importantly, a serious offense against God. Listen to Proverbs chapter 6 and verse 32. I had a marker here. Here it is. Proverbs 6, verse 32. Whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding. He who does so destroys his own soul. Wounds and dishonor he will get, and his reproach will not be wiped away. For jealousy is a husband's fury, therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will accept no recompense, nor will he be appeased, though you give many gifts. Now, suppose it had been not Potiphar's wife, but his unmarried daughter who tempted Joseph. Suppose the acts contemplated had been not adultery, but what the New Testament calls pornea, or pornea, translated as fornication or sexual immorality. A term which includes all manner of sexual offenses. Do you think that Joseph would have deemed it acceptable before a holy God to lie with Phanaphar's daughter? The same God who condemns adultery condemns fornication. Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery. Fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath. selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like. Galatians 5 Sounds like Paul is describing much of America's television programming. Paul goes on to say, of which I tell you beforehand, just as I told you in time past. that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Here's the way Paul puts it in his letter to the Ephesians, for this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the kingdom of God, kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words. Oh, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. Those are just empty words if you're not actually a follower of Jesus Christ. The sexual relationship was designed by God as an expression of oneness and intimacy. As a source of joy and of new life. Marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. Hebrews 13, 4. Sexual sin, and as a result, sexually transmitted diseases are at epidemic levels in our society. And so, young people, if you wonder why your parents always want to know where you are and who you're with, and why they don't want you to be alone with a member of the opposite sex, it's not necessarily because they don't trust you Although they may not, it's because they know the power of these natural desires. And they want you to be protected from temptation Here's Joseph going about his business as the steward or overseer of Potiphar's home, and he found himself in a position of temptation. His master's wife was tempting him to sin. And how did he respond to it? He fled. He did exactly what the Bible tells us to do. He fled. Flee, sexual immorality. He who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. 1 Corinthians 6, 18. He resisted the temptation. Resist the devil and he will flee from you, the scripture says. Christian, you need to do everything in your power not to put yourself in a position of temptation. Your physical drives are not sufficient excuses for violating God's law and dishonoring your Savior. God created those drives and he told you how they are to be channeled for his glory and for your good However, if you find yourself in a position of temptation, as much as you pray to avoid it, Lord lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, if you find yourself in a position of temptation Then do what Joseph did. Flee, run, get out of there. Jesus said, if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. In other words, take drastic action If necessary. If that means you have to quit your job, you quit your job. If that means you have to move, you move. Means you have to uh find another secretary, you find another secretary. Whatever it takes. You do it. You flee. Now remember Joseph was a young man far from home. Seventeen when when he was sent into slavery, maybe 18, 19, 20, early twenties, find out, we don't know. We don't know exactly how much time has gone by. But we know he was a long way from his father's influence. No one in his family would presumably ever know. What he chose to do with this Egyptian woman during his lonely exile. But Joseph would know, Potiphar's wife would know, and God would know How then can I do this great wickedness, he said, and sin against God? Now remember, no portion of the Bible had yet been written. No papyrus, no or stone tablet, nothing. What was written was what was written on Joseph's heart, with the conscience that God gave him, and what he had heard from his father and his father's people. Joseph demonstrated here true courage. This is true courage. Now it takes courage for a firefighter to run into a rush into a burning building. and and seek to bring out those who are still trapped inside. Takes courage for a police officer to approach a house where uh He doesn't know the people who are inside. He doesn't know the situation precisely, but he's been called to come to help. You might call that physical courage, but there's there's another kind of courage You might call it moral courage, the courage to say no when a friend asks you to let him uh see your paper during a test. The courage to leave a party when there's drunkenness or drug use there. The courage to turn off the computer or the TV when you're tempted to lust. The courage to tell your friends about Christ, even though you think your friends may mock you. The courage to admit to your children that you were wrong and that you overreacted. When you punish them without finding out all the facts. Are you a man or a woman, a boy or girl, of true courage? Well, you know, of course, Joseph did the right thing and he suffered for it. Potiphar's wife demonstrating the fury of one scorned. Potiphar's wife, who tried over and over again to seduce Joseph and was unsuccessful, holds on to his garment and shows it to her husband when he returns home, telling him that Joseph attempted to force himself upon her. She screamed and he fled, leaving his garment. So for the second time, Joseph's clothing is used to deceive by those who sought him harm. Potiphar's anger was aroused. Joseph was thrown into prison. So Joseph did the right thing, and he suffered for it. If you suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. 1 Peter 3. 14 Joseph might have been thinking, I can't handle too many more blessings like this. For what credit is it if when you are beaten for your faults, you take it patiently? But when you do good and suffer for it, if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. 1 Peter 2. 20 I knew a man who worked for a tree service company, and he was asked to falsify some records. How many hours he worked, how many trees were removed. He refused to do so, and his refusal cost him his job. The loss of his job put his family behind on their mortgage. The loss of their health insurance left them with huge medical expenses. Sometimes honesty pays, and sometimes honesty charges. One test of our character is how we will react when we do well and suffer for it. Joseph is faithfully obeying his father's command to check out his brothers, and he's thrown into a pit and sold as a slave. He's faithfully serving his new Egyptian master. He resists the advances of his master's wife, and he's thrown into a prison. If ever a young man had cause to turn his back on the faith of his father, it was Joseph. But once again we read the Lord was with Joseph. Even when he was in the prison, if we read on a little further we'd see the Lord was with him in the prison. He caused him to be viewed with favor by the keeper of the prison. The Lord sustained him and encouraged him, and Joseph remained faithful. He maintained his integrity. Now, a few things to underscore before we leave this chapter. First of all, who would have thought seeing this young man from Canaan being dragged along behind an Ishmaelite caravan destined to be sold into Egyptian slavery, who would have thought that he was to become Prime Minister of all of Egypt one day. One of the most powerful men in the ancient world. Truly, God's thoughts are not our thoughts, and his ways are not our ways. Had we seen this 17-year-old boy traveling with a group of traitors, we probably wouldn't have given him a second thought. But he was to be an integral part in the sovereign plan of God for his people. It may be that one of the children in your Sunday school class is going to be greatly used by God one day. You have no way of knowing that. Jesus said, Take heed that you despise not one of these little ones. Matthew 18, 10. It may be that the young man or young woman to whom you bring the good news of Christ, it could even be that That waitress that you hand to whom your hands attract, or that college student with whom you share the gospel It may be that young man or woman to whom you bring the good news will be instrumental in bringing many others. The year was 1957, it was September, on the campus of Westminster College, a small liberal arts school in Pennsylvania, affiliated with the main line Presbyterian Church The quarterback of the football team presumably had many demands upon his time. It was September after all. I remember how busy I was as the quarterback of my football team in September. University of Florida, I think it was. But on this uh particular evening, no, that was Steve Spurrier, sorry. But on this particular evening, he took the time, the quarterback took the time to visit an incoming freshman named Robert In his dorm. And he engaged them in a conversation about Christ. That night, this young man Robert, the freshman, repented of his sins and placed his faith in Jesus Christ. He went on. To have a powerful impact upon the Church of Christ, an impact that's continuing today. We know him not as Robert or as Robert Charles, but as R. C. Sproll. I would remind you, secondly, that the real test of Joseph's faith was not how he acted in the presence of his father, Jacob. But how he acted when he was hundreds of miles from all who knew him. That's where the real test was. It's one thing to pray beside your bunk at Camp Agape or Camp Shiloh. Quite another to pray beside your bunk at Camp Pendleton or Paris Island. One thing to read your Bible at church or in your bedroom, it's another thing to read it in study hall or on your lunch break at work Young person, the greatest test of your faith is how you will live when you are on your own, when you are perhaps hundreds of miles from home, and nobody there knows you. Nobody there sees you but God. What a tremendous example of faith we see in the life of Joseph. What an example of faith. If he can continue to trust God despite the horrendous circumstances, the multiple betrayals, without the benefit of God's written word. Then surely you and I have no excuse with God's holy word to guide us. No excuse for denying God in our circumstances. Remember, Joseph said to Potiphar's wife, how can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? The God who made me, the God who sustains me, the God who loves me. David confessed his sin to God in Psalm 51, Against you, and you only have I sinned and done this evil in your sight. The iniquity of sinning against God Eclipsed in David's mind all the others against whom he had sinned. May this be your response and mine when we're tempted. How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? The God who sent his son to die for me. And then we have to say a word here about the camel in the tent, that which is so obvious that we might just ignore it. That is the wonderful providence of God in all these circumstances. And we'll see it throughout Joseph's story. His father happens To favor Joseph, causing envy and hatred in his brothers. He happens to send Joseph to check on his brothers when they're feeding their father's flocks. They happen to have moved their father's flocks several miles away near a trade route. That's where Joseph found them. Having determined to kill Joseph, Reuben happens to talk them out of it. Judah happens to suggest that they sell him to this Ishmaelite traders, these Ismailite traders, who happened to be going by. They happened to be headed not home to Midian, but south to Egypt. They happened to sell Joseph to a captain of Pharaoh's guard. And his wife happens to covet Joseph and then falsely accuse him. Joseph happens to be thrown into the very prison where the king's prisoners will be or were confined. Why did all these things that happened happen? Because God had a plan A plan to exalt Joseph, a plan to bring Joseph's people, the Jews, into Egypt. They were going to become slaves there, and then God was going to deliver them. And give them his law and settle them in the promised land. God had a bigger and broader plan than even that. The Jews' slavery in Egypt was to be a picture of mankind's slavery to sin. Their deliverance through Moses was to be a picture of the ultimate deliverance that would come through Christ. Moses brought them to the earthly Canaan, but Jesus brings us to the heavenly Canaan. Christ, the ultimate Passover lamb, has already been offered now. And you must apply his blood to the doorposts of your heart. How do you do that? You acknowledge yourself to be a sinner. God, I have sinned against you. I've broken your holy law. I see it and I know it. The hatred I have, the envy I have, the pride I have, the selfishness I have, I see it, Lord. And I can't get rid of it. I can't just pluck off these fruits and stick other fruits on the tree. There's something wrong inside of me. It's in my heart. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperate. Wicked. Who can know it? It's my heart, Lord. But I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life, that he kept the law that I broke, that he went to the cross and died as my substitute, that he rose again from the dead. Lord, I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart. Forgive my sins. Give me this eternal life that you offer so freely. I cry out to you, Father, for mercy. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer. Something like it. Mean it in your heart. God says all your sins will be forgiven. You'll be with him in heaven. He'll adopt you into his forever family. Won't you come to him today? God, be merciful to me a sinner. Give me this eternal life. Give me this faith that Joseph had. I ask it in Jesus' name for his sake and for his glory. Let's pray.