Hey then, thank you for I've been thinking of how many uh Hershey's kisses I've eaten over the years. Indiscriminately. That was funny. That's why we don't have these children's sermons all that often. Uh yeah, was it Art Link Letter, I remember. He used to do those things. It's a long time ago. John chapter uh twenty is our focus this morning, but I want to start with a few verses from John chapter 19. So if you'll open your Bibles to the Gospel of John, chapter nineteen , let's begin at verse thirty-eight and then read through chapter twenty as well. And speaking of uh after the crucifixion, after this Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. And so he came and took the body of Jesus. And Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes about a hundred pounds Then they took the body of Jesus and bound it in strips of linen with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. Now, in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. So there they laid Jesus because of the Jews' preparation day. For the tomb was nearby. Now, on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early while it was still dark. And saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. And then she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter, therefore, went out and the other disciple and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first, and he stooping down and looking in, saw the linen cloths lying there, yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen cloths lying there and the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you've carried him away, tell me where you've laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him, Rabbonai, which is to say, teacher. Jesus said to her, do not cling to me. For I have not yet ascended to my father. But go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, When the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them again, peace to you. As the Father has sent me, I also send you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained. Now, Thomas, called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said to him, We've seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails And put my finger into the Prince of the Nails and put my hand into his side, I will not , believe. And after eight days, his disciples were again inside and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace to you. And then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here, and look at my hands, and reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen. And yet have believed. And truly, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. May God bless this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Lord, as we come to this precious passage today, we pray for your help, for your wisdom. Most of all, we pray for your Holy Spirit to open the eyes of the blind, to breathe upon the dry bones. To draw souls to Christ and to build up your saints. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it all comes down to this. After a horrendous public execution Either Jesus literally, physically, bodily, rose from the dead, or he did not. If Christ did not rise from the dead, wrote the late Christian apologist Paul Little. Christianity is an interesting museum piece. Nothing more. It has no objective validity or reality. Though it's a nice wishful thought, it certainly isn't worth uh getting steamed up about. The martyrs who went singing to the lions and contemporary missionaries who have given their lives in Ecuador and Congo while taking the message to others have been poor deluded fools. The Apostle John, one of the men who left his fishing nets to follow Jesus of Nazareth for three years, was fully convinced that Jesus did in fact rise from the dead. And the 20th chapter of his gospel helps us to understand why. Now, if you've been worshiping with us during our present series in the Gospel of Mark. You know that our typical practice is to take a passage of Scripture and proceed through it in a slow, deliberate way, verse by verse, covering only a portion of a chapter. on a typical Sunday. But this morning I'd like us to step back a bit and look at this chapter as a whole and make some general observations as we do. First of all, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early on what we would call Sunday morning, while it was still dark. Now John focuses only on her here, but the other gospel writers make it clear that she wasn't alone. Other women who had come with Jesus from Galilee south to Jerusalem. were with her, including one named Joanna, another Mary, the mother of James, and a woman named Salome. The scripture says they brought spices intending to anoint Jesus' body, perhaps unaware that Nicodemus had already done so on the very day of the crucifixion. It was not until the women were on their way to the garden tomb that they gave any thought to a major hindrance, a major obstacle to their plan. They said among themselves, Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us? Mark 16, verse 3. Mark describes this stone as very large. Verse 4 of Mark 16. You also had the problem that the tomb was guarded with a Roman guard and sealed with a Roman seal, meaning anyone who broke that seal would face Roman justice. But their love for Christ and their evident desire to serve him were not dissuaded by such obstacles. Luke tells us that as they arrived at the tomb, they found that the stone had been rolled away, and they saw two men in shining garments who told them that Christ had risen. And the soldiers guarding the tomb had already run away. They had already fled. The women ran to tell the apostles what they had heard and seen, and Mary Magdalene, in particular, went to tell Peter and John. But even as she did, she seemed to struggle between faith and despair. They taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him, she said to them. Peter and John ran together to the tomb. John, who calls himself in the gospel the disciple whom Jesus loved John outran Peter. John was the younger of the two. John outran Peter, but he hesitated at the opening of the tomb. Peter, who is revealed in the Gospels as bold, assertive, headstrong, a man of action, he gets to the tomb after John, but rushes right in. brushes past John, who was just peering into the tomb. The first thing John mentions is the linen cloths. There was clearly something striking about them. John tells us in that previous chapter, and we read a portion of it, that Nicodemus brought with him about a hundred pounds of a mixture of myrrh and aloes. And he and Joseph of Arimacea bound the body of Jesus in strips of linen with the spices. Now the best way to picture that I think is what we do today when we wrap a wound uh with a a long roll of sterile gauze bandage. You might have one in your uh bathroom somewhere, a roll of bandage that you only need if you cut yourself a severe cut and you'd wrap it up and presumably get to an emergency room. So picture that, a a a large roll of gauze, and wrapping the body of Jesus with this long linen cloth and adding spices as you do so. So the end result would be w would look to us something like an Egyptian mummy, as we picture an Egyptian mummy, all wrapped up with gauze or cloth. John Stott said, Now supposing we had been present in the sepulchre when the resurrection of Jesus actually took place, what should we have seen? We should suddenly have noticed that the body had disappeared. The body cloths under the weight of a hundred pounds of spices, once the support of the body had been removed, would have subsided or collapsed, and would now be lying flat. No wonder it says they saw and believed. A glance at these grave clothes proved the reality and indicated the nature of the resurrection, he writes They had neither been touched nor folded nor manipulated by any human being. They were like a discarded chrysalis from which the butterfly has emerged. This is what Peter saw, and then John entered and saw and believed. The scripture says, for as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Now, every time we face this in the Word of God, we have to remark upon it. Given the many times that Jesus declared he would rise from the dead, it's very hard for us to understand how the disciples could possibly have missed it. For example, Jesus said, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles. And they will mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him. And the third day he will rise again. Mark 10, verses 33-34. Now, as we suggested when we approached this passage in Mark , Must have been uh last year at some point. Uh perhaps they thought he was speaking cryptically as in a parable. He he did teach in parables, right? So what does he mean? He'll rise. He's going to rise in the esteem of the people. He's going to rise in the eyes of the scribes Whatever they thought, clearly they were not expecting a literal bodily resurrection. Peter and John left, and Mary remained there at the tomb weeping. I don't know if you've ever been in deep, deep sorrow. I know some of you have. To the point that you seem to be in a stupor. If so, the knowledge that Christ lives and that God is on the throne would presumably be enough over time to cheer you and with the Holy Spirit's assistance you would claw your way out of that pit of depression But imagine that your distress was caused by the fact that the one you had embraced and trusted as God in the flesh, as your Savior, Master, and Lord. With, as you thought, power over life and death as the devil. This one to whom you had committed your life, imagine that he himself was dead and you had witnessed his death Now, what would pull you out of that pit? You had watched him crucified, hoping, expecting, praying that he would be miraculously delivered. Surely this is the time he'll show himself to Israel. And to Pilate and all the others, he would be revealed to both Romans and Jews as the Son of God, the King of Israel, the promised Messiah, the one who would sit upon David's throne. Imagine you'd followed him to the cross expecting something to happen and then you watched him die. And then you watched him be care his body be carried away. And put into a tomb. Imagine you'd been in that funeral procession. And now you've come at your very first opportunity to do what you can to honor the Lord Jesus to anoint his body with spices and fragrant oils and what do you find? His body is gone His body is gone. On top of everything else, now you discover that presumably the powers that be have removed the Lord's body. Did they think the tomb too grand for one executed as a criminal? And they tossed his body into the valley of Gehenna, where it would burn with the refuse of the city. Look at verse 11. Chapter 20. But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tom. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Even seeing two angels didn't seem to bring her out of her despondency. And she turns away in her sorrow. And verse 14, now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her woman, Why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? And she, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you carried him away, tell me where you've laid him and I will take him away. She turned and saw a man, presumably at some distance in this early dawn light, and he asked her why she was crying. She said, Sir, if you've carried him away, She supposes he's the gardener. If you've carried him away, tell me where you've laid him, and I will go, I will bring him. There it is again. Amor Vincent Omnia. Love conquers all. Mary thought somehow Some way she would carry that body away. Just tell me where he is. I'll carry the body somehow. Verse 16: Jesus said to her, Mary. Mary She turned and said to him, Rabodai, which is to say, teacher. And Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my father. But go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things unto her. Jesus said, Don't cling to me. I still have things to accomplish. I've not yet ascended to my father, but I want you to go to my brethren. And Mary, as if finally awakened from her depression-induced stupor, returns to the disciples to tell them that she's seen the risen Lord. And he has spoken to her. I think Mary was in a in a despondency not unlike that of Thomas. We'll look at it in a minute. It was very hard to bring her out of it. And until she actually saw Jesus, she seemed to have no hope. Now look at verse 19. Then the same day at evening, when being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews. Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. The doors were shut. They half expected that the Sanhedrin, the seventy chief religious leaders of Israel, having now tasted blood, would uh take their revenge upon all of Jesus' followers, would wipe them out so they wouldn't have any future uh problems with him And so the disciples were fearful, and their doors were locked wherever they were staying at this point. And Jesus suddenly appeared in their midst. John points out the doors being shut. It made an impression upon him, as it would upon us, if our doors of the church were all locked, and then someone suddenly appeared here in our midst. uh having no way to get in. This clearly made an impression upon John, the risen Christ you might say materialized in their very presence. Now John doesn't mention what we must assume would be their shock and awe, but Jesus' very first words were words of peace. So that sort of gives you a little indication. Be a peace. He immediately sought to convince them that he was not some sort of ghost, the spirit of Christ now past. He showed them his hands and his side, hands pierced with the nails, side pierced from the spear. that the soldier thrust into a side to assure himself that he was dead. Look, it's really me. I'm not a spirit. And then John, in what may be among the greatest understatements ever written, says, Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Yeah, I I guess they were. Jesus then imparted the Holy Spirit to his disciples. Now this would have been a special filling, I would imagine, for comfort and peace, right? That was their biggest need at that point. They were You know, oh, they couldn't understand what was going on. But he gave them uh he imparted his spirit to them. That spirit would later come to them, the Holy Spirit would later come to them in power, you'll remember, on the day of Pentecost. equipping them, indwelling them. And the apostles would go forth with this message able to declare. that Christ was risen. And here he says to them, you're going to be able to go out and declare to people that their sins are forgiven. Or that their sins are retained. This was the declarative authority that Christ was giving to his apostles, and we have it today. And so if you come to me and you say, I repent of my sins and I lay hold upon Christ alone for saving faith, I can say to you on the authority of Christ, Your sins are forgiven you. Amen? And yet if you say to me, No, I I refuse. I can't believe it. I don't embrace Christ. There's so many religions. I can't believe in Jesus. As the Son of God, I don't believe what the Bible says, then I would have to say to you, then your sins are retained. Someone is going to have to pay for those sins. If you reject Christ, then your sins are retained. You will pay for them yourself. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? But of course, one of the apostles, Thomas, was not with the others that resurrection evening. Verse 25. I believe Thomas was under that same cloud that had previously settled over Mary. The one he had trusted in as as his Lord and Master, the one he believed would sit on David's throne, had been executed. And all his hopes had been dashed. And he had descended into what we would call today a deep depression. Look at verse 25, the other disciple therefore said to the other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, unless I see in his hands the print of the nails. put my finger into the print of the nails and put my hand into a side I I will not believe. He just couldn't. He just couldn't Build up that faith, having watched what he had already watched. And after eight days, his disciples were again inside, verse 26, and Thomas with them, and Jesus came, there it is again, the doors being shut And stood in the midst and said, Peace to you. And then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here. Look at my hands. Reach your hand here. Put it into my sight. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. Once again Jesus appears, the door is being shut. He goes right to Thomas and he asks him to believe Now you've seen me. Now believe. Thomas needed no more convincing. There's no indication that he actually had to reach reach forward and touch his hand And thrust his hand into that hole in his side. He didn't necessarily have to do that. He saw Jesus. He was right there in front of him. And Thomas said to him, My Lord and my God. My Lord and my God. My kurios, my sayos. And Jesus did not say to Thomas, Thomas, did you just call me God? Can you be so deceived? Do you not know there is only one God, our Father in heaven? I am but a man like you? Yes, a prophet. Yes, called a holy man, but only a man. I only point the way to God. Is that what Jesus said to him? He said, Thomas, because you've seen me you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen. Those like you. Blessed are those who have not seen. And yet happily. John concludes this glorious chapter with verses 30 -31. And truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. He says later, there are many other things which Jesus did, which if they were written every one, I suppose that the world itself should not contain the books that should be written. We're only giving you a little bit of what Jesus did in those three years of his ministry. Now, perhaps you're in the Cant of Thomas this morning. You find the account of the resurrection just a little too difficult to believe without seeing it for yourself. It's just a bit too far-fetched. We all know that dead people just don't, in our experience, rise again. That's Not what happens to dead people in our experience. And that's quite right. They don't Not in our experience. Skeptical philosopher David Hume made a good point when he said, even if historians uniformly agreed that the Queen of England died and then reappeared alive a month later He would be inclined to accept any explanation other than God having performed a miracle. The witnesses were confused. The witnesses were deceived. It wasn't the Queen. It was an imposter. Whatever. But the last thing he would believe is that a miracle had taken place, and the Queen of England, who had died, was seen alive again a month later. Dr. William Lane Craig, research professor at the Talbot School of Theology, responded to David Hume 's point. I would agree that a miracle without context is inherently ambiguous. The context of a miracle can help us determine if it's from God or not. For instance, the Queen's re-vivification or return to life Would lack any religious context and would basically be a bald and unexplained anomaly. But that's not the case with Jesus, he said. His supernatural feats took place in a context charged with religious significance because he performed his miracles and exorcisms as signs of the in-breaking of the kingdom of God into human history. And they served as an authentication of his ministry. Authentication, I guess, is the word of his ministry and of his message. And his resurrection comes as the climax. to his own unparalleled life and ministry, and his radical claims to divine authority, which got him crucified This is why the resurrection gives us pause, he writes, while the queen's return would only perplex us. In other words, to summarize what Dr. Lane Craig was saying, knowing what we know from eyewitness accounts of Christ's wondrous birth, life, and death. His miracles, his teaching, his exalted claims to be the resurrection and the life, the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep The light of the world, the bread of life, the Alpha and the Omega, the door unto salvation, the one who has authority over death and life. The one who declared before Abraham was, I am , the one who has the power to forgive sins, the one who would give his life a ransom for many Given all that we know of the ministry of Christ, given the evidence that Jesus was no mere man Given the eyewitness testimony that he gave sight to the blind, stilled the raging seas with his word, raised the dead, John 11, healed the sick, cleansed lepers, Matthew 10, cast out demons, Mark 1 Given the numerous prophecies that foretold hundreds of years before he came, his wondrous birth, his life, his sacrificial death. Isaiah 9, Psalm 22, Psalm 110, Micah 5, Isaiah 53, Jeremiah 23, Isaiah 7, Psalm 2, Zechariah 9, etc. etc. etc. Given all of that, the testimony of Mary of Magdala and of John and Peter and James and Thomas and the Apostle Paul that Jesus was in fact risen from the dead cannot be simply shrugged off as foolish talk. Had Jesus not in fact risen from the dead, the discouraged, defeated disciples would have returned to their former lives. Sadder, but wiser. The Christian church would have been snuffed out, as one scholar put it, like a damp firecracker. The renowned Harvard professor of law, Dr. Simon Greenleaf, said of the disciples, it was impossible that they could have persisted. In affirming the truths they have narrated, had not Jesus actually risen from the dead? And had they not known this fact as certainly as they knew any other fact. The annals of military warfare afford scarcely an example of the like heroic constancy, patience, and unflinching courage. They had every possible motive to review carefully the grounds of their faith and the evidences of the great facts and truths which they asserted. In other words, these men laid down their lives, maintaining that Jesus Christ had risen from the grave. that they had seen him, that they had spoken to him. They had nothing to gain from this. No uh no money. uh certainly not the uh pleasure of the of the people to whom they were talking. Many times they were stoned or chased from city to city, put to death Now we we know that it's possible for people to lie. We uh Pastor Dick talked about it this morning. We we'll all lie on occasion if if the the motivation is there and our our uh resistance is weak. Who broke that lamp? I don't know. We weren't even in the room. It just fell. Uh you know, we we all we all know That there are occasions when people will lie to shave their own necks or to gain something, right? The apostles had no reason to do this. They laid down their lives maintaining that Christ was alive, even though it meant the loss of everything. But ultimately, even if your intellectual resistance to the resurrection is overcome , You've got a bigger problem. In your natural state, you simply don't want it to be true. Why not? Because as Jesus said, men love darkness rather than light, because our deeds are evil. If Jesus really rose from the dead, that means he is indeed the Son of God, who came to earth to live the perfect life that we failed to live. And then to die is our substitute to satisfy divine justice and reconcile us to God. If Jesus really rose from the dead, it means the Bible is speaking the truth when it says we are created beings who rebelled against our Maker. It means you're not the master of your fate. You're not the captain of your soul Who answers to no higher power, who can justify any lust, who can justify any indiscretion, any theft, any rebellion against any supposed moral precept because you are seated upon the high throne of your own life. If Jesus Really rose from the dead, that means you cannot continue to act as your own legislative, judicial, executive branch. Writing your own laws, determining if and when they are violated, and if and when they are to be enforced. What you need, what I need, what every sinner needs desperately, is salvation through Jesus Christ. Amen? Jesus Christ, who loved his heavenly Father with all his soul, with all his heart, with all his mind with all his strength, who loved his neighbor as himself every day of his life. Jesus Christ who perfectly obeyed his Father. And then, though blameless before his father, he went to the cross, dying in the place of sinners. The innocent Passover lamb, holy, harmless, undefiled. Enduring his father's just punishment for sin, in order that sinners, like us, might be forgiven, might be reconciled to God. The resurrection means if you will see your sins as vile and turn from them in disgust. Laying hold upon Christ by faith. If you'll cry out, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I've broken your laws and I know it. God forgive me and save me. God have mercy on my soul If you'll come to God that way and pray that prayer, a resurrection will take place in your own life. Life. You'll be born anew. You'll have a new life. You'll be regenerated. You'll be justified. You'll be declared righteous by holy God. You'll be on your way to glory. You'll be adopted into God's family. Not because of any good thing you've ever done. Because Jesus Christ lived the perfect life, died as your substitute, and he says, Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Friend, this can be the day of resurrection for you. You can cry out to him today. You can be born anew. God, save me. Give me this new life. The Bible talks about. Let's pray. Lord, what a glorious day it was when Christ broke the bonds of death. When he walked out of that tomb alive forevermore. Lord, we pray for the men and women, for the young people, for the boys and girls here today Please, Father, may no one in this place leave this earth without Jesus Christ. Draw souls to yourself. Bring us to our knees. Remove from us any hindrance to the power of your gospel. Remove those stones from our hearts Breathe upon these bones that they might live. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.