Open your Bible to 2 Corinthians eleven, verse 16. The Apostle Paul is writing, I say again, let no one think me a fool, if otherwise, at least receive me as a fool, that I also may boast a little. What I speak, I speak not according to the Lord, but as it were, foolishly in this confidence of boasting. Seeing that many boast according to the flesh, I also will boast. For you put up with fools gladly, since you yourselves are wise. For you put up with it if one brings you into bondage, if one devours you, if one takes from you, if one exalts himself, if one strikes you on the face. To our shame, I say that we were too weak for that. But in whatever anyone is bold, I speak foolishly, I am bold also. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. I am more, in labors more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, in deaths often. From the Jews, five times I received forty stripes, minus one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I have been in the deep. In journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, and perils of the Gentiles, in perils in the city, and perils in the wilderness. In perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren, in weariness and toil, in sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness Besides the other things, what comes upon me daily, my deep concern for all the churches. Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is made to stumble and I do not burn with indignation? If I must boast, I will boast in the things which concern my infirmity. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. In Damascus, the governor, under Eratus, the king, was guarding the city of the Damascenes with a garrison desiring to arrest me. But I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped from his hands. Let's pray. Father, help us now as we approach your word. Speak to us through it. Lord, please. Heaven and earth shall pass away, Jesus said, but my words shall not pass away. Use your word in our hearts now. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Well, if you've been with us in our study through 2 Corinthians, you realize that Paul has been thrust into a very difficult position. He's been put there by the events that have taken place in the Church of Corinth, which was a church in southern Greece, a church that he himself had founded. After founding the church and departing on further missionary endeavors, Paul had been unfairly criticized by some teachers who had come into Corinth after his departure. And under other circumstances, he might have let the false charges go unanswered. After all, Paul knew who his judge was, and it wasn't anyone at Corinth But by turning the Corinthians against Paul and prompting them to question his apostleship, to doubt his calling and and to disregard his teaching. The false apostles were interfering with the advancement of the gospel of salvation by grace through faith. They were interfering with the advancement of the gospel there at Corinth, and they were interfering with the advancement advancement of the gospel in other towns. That Paul had hoped the Corinthians would help to reach. If the false teachers could succeed in persuading the Corinthians that Paul was not a true apostle, Then everything that had been accomplished through his efforts in Corinth would be undermined, and the progress of the gospel would be undermined beyond Corinth. So Paul was thrust quite unwillingly into a role in which he was terribly uncomfortable, that of personally defending his own calling and apostleship For the sake of the church and the gospel, he had to engage in the sort of foolish self-aggrandizing, self-promotion, self-defense that we generally find so distasteful when we see it in other people. Look at uh verses sixteen and following. I say again, let no one think me a fool, if otherwise, at least receive me as a fool, that I also may boast a little. What I speak, I speak not according to the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting. Seeing that many boast according to the flesh, I will boast also. For you put up with fools gladly, since you yourselves are wise. Notice he says, I speak not according to the Lord. That's an odd way of putting it. That is, the counsel of Scripture is: let another man praise you and not your own mouth, a stranger and not your own lips, right? That's the counsel of Scripture, and of course it's inspired and wise counsel, Proverbs 27, 2. And that was certainly Paul's normal practice. And it is, as I said, the course of wisdom. But under these unusual circumstances, Paul was willing to be considered foolish for blowing his own horn, you might say. And he says, look, you Corinthians, you should be able to tolerate that little bit of uh indiscretion. After all, you've been willing to put up with the false apostles. Look at verses 20 and 21. For you put up with it if one brings you into bondage, if one devours you, if one takes from you, if one exalts himself, if one strikes you on the face. To our shame, I say that we were too weak for that. You can read his sarcasm here. But in whatever anyone is bold, I speak foolishly, I am bold also. Here we are given some insight into the behavior of these false apostles in Corinth. And it's not a pretty picture. You put up with it, Paul says, if one brings you into bondage. Well, that's what these uh false apostles were doing. They were bringing the Corinthians into bondage. They were telling them, look, it's not enough that you believe in Jesus as Lord and Savior. That's wonderful, that's great, you need to do that But you also have to keep all the ceremonies, all the rules, all the laws, all the Old Testament, ceremonial rites. You have to be circumcised. You Gentiles have to be circumcised and keep the Jewish laws and rules. Because it's what Jesus did and what you do together, that's what saves you. That's quite simply a false gospel. That's a heresy. That's an abomination in the eyes of God. So they're bringing you into bondage. The Corinthians were forfeiting the liberty in Christ that they had. They were trading it in for Jewish bondage. In Galatians 2, Paul speaks of pseudo-Christians who wormed their way into our meetings to spy on the liberty that we enjoy in Christ Jesus. The Judaizers were bringing these new Gentile converts into bondage to laws and rules and traditions. They were exploiting them. Paul says you put up with it if one devours you, squeezing money out of the Corinthians for their own profit. Jude speaks of those who run greedily in the error of Balaam for profit. Jesus spoke of the scribes who devour widows' houses. Devour widows' houses. Paul says, we're not, as so many, peddling the Word of God. You put up with it, Paul says, if they devour you. You put up with it if if one exalts himself. The Lord Jesus said uh he who humbles himself shall be exalted. But these Judaizers came to Corinth exalting themselves, talking about all the wonderful deeds they'd done, and and how they were much more true apostles than this apostle Paul. John wrote in his third epistle of Diotrophes, who loves to have the preeminence among the church, who prayed it against us with malicious words. The Lord Jesus came not to be served, but to serve, to give his life a ransom for many. And it's self-evident that one is not following in his footsteps when he seeks great things for himself. And to top it all off, Paul says, you put up with it when one strikes you in the face. Can you imagine? To crown it all Their new masters evidently even resorted to physical violence, no doubt under the pretext of divine zeal, right? Look how zealous we are, look how bold we are, whack. They humiliated the Corinthians, throwing their weight around, acting like authorities, but without the meekness and gentleness of Christ Remember the false apostles charged that Paul didn't exercise the authority that an apostle ought to exercise. That was one of the charges they brought against him. His letters, yeah, they're weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is contemptible. He seems so strong in his letters, but in presence he's very weak among you. Maybe to contrast themselves with him, they went overboard and actually struck some of the Corinthians. They wanted us to portray themselves as authoritative and bold, and they flaunted their authority. Paul says, you put up with that! Surely you can put up with my uncharacteristic boasting. Now let's look at them boasting here verses 22 and following. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. Look how hard it is for him to talk this way. I am more, in labors more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, in deaths. Often. Alrighty, he says, let's look at the facts. These men who've come to you, they're Hebrews. Well, so am I Paul's opponents were probably Jews from Palestine who boasted in the purity of their line. They were Hebrews, perhaps simply referring to their nationality, but not only that, they were Israelites. They were not converts. They were descendants of Israel, descendants of Jacob, of the seed of Abraham, recipients of the promises that God made to Abraham concerning his descendants. His seed. Whatever they declare about themselves, Paul says, I could also proclaim about myself. Are they ministers of Christ? I'm more of a minister, more of a servant of Christ than they are. Again, he says I speak as a fool, forgive me, but I have to do this. In other words, as one commentator put it, to glory about so sacred a matter as the service of Christ is downright madness. To glory about so sacred a matter as service of Christ is downright madness. I'm speaking as a fool, Paul says. But if they want to boast in their labors, let's see if they can match their record with mine. In stripes above measured, lashings that is whippings to be lashed, whipped as punishment Uh with the the the Jews were whipped with uh used a scourge that had the three uh protrusions, so you're really getting whipped with each stripe. You're getting whipped three times, you might say. And the this whipping would take place in the synagogue, or it would take place by order of the highest Jewish tribunal, the Sanhedrin. uh this uh whipping for uh for punishment for some crime. Paul says, I've had more than my share of whippings In prisons more frequently. You know, I could write a a missionary's guide to the prisons of Europe and Asia. In death, more often, Paul found himself in deadly peril over and over again, to the point that it seemed to him that he had experienced death numerous times Certainly faced it down numerous times. We stand in jeopardy every hour, and he said, 1 Corinthians 15. We're always delivered to death for Jesus' sake, is the way he put it. In 2 Corinthians 4, always carrying about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus. 2 Corinthians 4. 10. Death is working in us. We despaired even of life, he says. And then it gets more specific, verse 24. From the Jews, five times I received 40 stripes minus one, 39 stripes. Deuteronomy 25 says, in legal matters where the judges have determined that a man should be beaten as a punishment for a crime, he may be beaten with no more than forty strikes. That's what the law says. Well, the Jews were evidently not reluctant to beat a fellow Jew who had actually broken none of their laws, but they were very careful not to beat him more than the law said that they should. So they would stop at thirty-nine. You can miscount these things, so let's we'll just stop at 39 to be to play it safe. Paul says uh uh he was beaten with stripes. What did he say? Five times. And then three times, verse 25, three times I was beaten with rods. A rod could be as simple as the branch of a tree. Paul endured three such beatings. We read of one of them in Acts 16 when he and Silas were in Philippi in northern Greece. You remember after they cast a spirit of divination out of a young slave girl who was following around with them, these men are servants of the Most High God, blah, blah, blah. Well, that was true, but they didn't want her declaring it because of this evil spirit that was in her. And so they cast out of this slave girl the spirit of divination. Her masters, angry at their loss of income from her fortune telling, dragged Paul and Silas to the authorities. The magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods, the scripture says. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they threw them into prison. Acts 16, 22, 23. Paul said he endured such a beating three times. On at least one occasion he faced execution. Once he faced stoning, he says. We read of this in Acts 14, on his first missionary journey. Paul and Barnabas visited Lystra, this town in the Roman province of Galatia. And there he healed a man who had been crippled from birth. The people assumed that Paul and Barnabas were the gods who come down to earth because of the miracle that they witnessed. And so they they assumed that Paul, as the chief speaker, must be the god Hermes or Mercury, and that the messenger of the gods, and they called Barnabas Zeus, or Jupiter. But then, remember, Jews from other towns came and persuaded the multitudes that Paul and Barnabas were not good men or not gods, they were evil men. And the people turned on them and they stoned Paul, dragging him out of the city, supposing him to be dead. But of course, the Lord wasn't finished with him yet. He goes on to say, Three times I was shipwrecked. He had another one coming he wasn't aware of yet. Remember on the island of Malta, on his very final journey, the journey that would take him to Rome. We read of it in Acts 27-28. A night and a day I've been in the deep. Night and a day, as you figure approximately 24 hours, I think, is what he's trying to communicate, treading water or uh clinging to a little bit of flotsum, you know, a little bit of floating wreckage. Verse 26, in journeys often in perils of waters, and perils of robbers, and perils of my own countrymen, and perils of the Gentiles. And perils in the city, in the wilderness, in the sea, among false brethren. Journeys often, perils of waters, perhaps river crossings. Apparels of robbers. Paul traveled either alone or in small groups. So you're always fearful of robbers often in heathen countries, in perils of my own countrymen, the Jews, who were half the time chasing them down, in perils of the Gentiles, who didn't want these people coming teaching some strange doctrine and interfering with their idol worship. And perils in the city, imperils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea, storms and other dangers of sea travel. And perils among false brethren. He have deceivers arise up from his own midst. Demas have forsaken me, having loved this present age. And then there were the physical deprivations, verse 27, and weariness and toil, sleeplessness often, hunger, thirst, fastings often, cold, nakedness. And what an accounting of a life that we would call pretty miserable , pretty painful, full of trial. And on top of all that, he says, verse twenty-eight, twenty-nine, besides the other things, what comes upon me daily, my deep concern for all the churches. Who is weak and I am not weak? Who's made to stumble and I do not burn with indignation? There was a mental and emotional strain that his deep concern for all the churches, primarily I'm sure the churches that he himself had planted That that all the s all the trials that those churches were going through, that also weighed heavily upon him. He'd get a message from this church, he'd hear from the churches in Galatia, and uh-oh, there's trouble in Ephesus. And something's going on here in Thessalonica. And so he he was carrying all these burdens as well. As theologian Charles Hodge put it, it was not a matter of indifference when any of the brethren by the force of evil example or by the seductions of false teachers, were led to depart from the truth or to act inconsistently with their profession. Such events filled him with not only grief at the fall of the week, but with indignation at the authors of their fall. Look at verse 30. If I must boast, I will boast in the things which concern my infirmity. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. Paul was boasting, right, in a sense, but not about his accomplishments, really. Think about it. He was boasting of how much he had suffered. For Jesus' sake, it's a strange sort of boasting. You know, this is not uh you know what you might expect them to say, I put to flight a whole band of radical uh Jewish legalists who laid in wait for me. Or I was attacked by a band of robbers and I struck them all blind and I slipped away. Or even I planted two dozen churches and I won several hundred people to Jesus Christ. You know, that's boasting. Instead, Paul was recounting his humiliations, his heartaches, his agonizing trials. Oh yeah, and then one more thing I forgot to mention, it's it almost comes it seems to come as an afterthought, in Damascus the governor under Eratus the King was guarding the city of the Damascenes with a garrison. trying to arrest me and I I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped from his hands. It sounds very much like what he records for us. What Luke records for us in Acts, Acts 9, I guess it is, where Paul's conversion is described. He's on the road to Damascus. Remember the Lord speaks to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Who art thou, Lord? I am Jesus whom thou art persecuting. It's hard for you to kick against the goads. And then uh and then he tells him to go to Damascus and and there uh he's instructed in the things of God and he he comes to true saving faith And he stays there for a while, and he's learning and he's growing and the other disciples are teaching him and and then uh he's uh the the Jews are seeking to kill him, and so to get him out of the city, because they're watching the gates. uh the the the other believers put him in a large basket and lower him over the wall. There was a window on the wall, a house that that evidently adjoined the the wall of the city, and they let him down in a basket to escape. Here he was, uh if it this is the incident to which he was referring. He's a brand new follower of Jesus Christ, and he's already fleeing for his life. I wonder if he realized at that time how fitting a beginning that was for his ministry. It was a bit of a foretaste of what was in store for him for the rest of his brief time on this earth. Now, let's try to drive home some lessons from this passage. First of all, the actions of the false apostles are a clear lesson to us. Because they contrast so sharply with the behavior that we should expect from genuine ministers of the gospel. What did these men do? They brought people into bondage They required obedience to the rules and standards that they imposed upon the church. Touch not, taste not, handle not. But the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, the Bible says, but righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Romans 14, 17. Jesus corrected the same mistake when he saw it in the Pharisees. It's not that which goes into the mouth that defiles a man, it's what comes out of the mouth that defiles a man. I was at this uh Banner of Truth conference uh a month or two ago now in Pennsylvania. I was talking to a pastor from a Baptist church uh probably forty, fifty miles from us. And he was saying that he hasn't been at the church very long, but when he arrived, he he realized that there was a the church had a covenant that everybody, every member of the church had to sign. And one of the items in the covenant promises that they will drink no alcoholic beverage at at any time. And uh and he reasoned with the leadership there and said, well, where do we get this in the scriptures? You know, the scripture warns us against drunkenness, but it it never tells us that we can't ever drink an alcoholic beverage. And uh It it it warns us against uh it it urges moderation in that as in all things. And they uh they said, well, uh it's just something we have and and it's our covenant and everybody has to agree to it And and he reasoned with them and and encouraged them to remove that from the the covenant as it was a legalistic addition to what the scripture says. And he said that it caused no end of uh uh of You can imagine, you see Chuck laughing over there. You know, you can imagine how this turned out. There were folks in the church who who just couldn't bear seeing that removed from the covenant. And he sat and reasoned with some of them, and talk one family in particular, he was telling me, uh they told him that they didn't They didn't abide by the covenant. They they drink, you know, an occasional glass of wine or an occasional beer or whatever. Nonetheless, they wanted that covenant there and and were really upset when it was removed, upset enough to leave the church and go find another one. And you know, he was scratching his head and I said, Well, you know, welcome to the ministry. That's the that's the way it goes. You can't always figure it But here these people, these false apostles, were adding rules and regulations to uh to to the to to what the scripture uh to what the the apostles were teaching the these uh new believers uh which was simply to uh exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only did the false apostles labor to bring the Corinthians into subjection to their understanding of the law, but they sought to dominate them in other ways. They devoured them, they took from them, they exalted themselves, they struck them in the face. In contrast, Paul said in chapter 1 verse 24, not that we have dominion over your faith, but our fellow workers for your joy. Fellow workers for your joy, we're not dominating your faith. So what am I saying? I'm saying this. If a pastor or another church leader attempts to dominate a congregation, establishing rules that go beyond scripture, Imposing his own will, ordering people to do as he says, intermeddling in private matters, attempting to supersede, for example, a husband's authority in his own household. Telling people what job they should take or where they should live or whom they should marry or when they should attempt to have children and how many, where the children should be educated, what service a Christian should render in the church, etc. etc. If a religious leader begins to throw his weight around like that, he's moving far from the spirit of Jesus Christ and the example of the Apostle Paul in following Christ's example. Who said to the Thessalonians, We were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her children So affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us. First Thessalonians 2. For we do not preach ourselves, Paul said, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves your bondservants for Jesus' sake. Think about that. I'm your bondservant, Paul says, for Jesus' sake. Paul viewed himself as a servant of the church. The false apostles viewed themselves as the masters of the church. They viewed the flock as their servants. So what I'm saying is if you find yourself someday in a place where a spiritual leader starts throwing his weight around and making demands like that, attempting to dominate your faith, you must stand up against him. Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made you free, and be not entangled again in the yoke of bondage. Amen. We learn something from this passage about Paul's trials and deprivations. One of the prevalent teachings of deceitful workers, as you know, is that it's God's will for his servants, who are, after all, children of the king, it's God's will for his servants to go through life first class. in the first class section to have the best of everything. Now this should be true of every Christian, but it should start with us ministers. That's the teaching. Well, let me remind you that first class for the Apostle Paul meant a hunk of bread tossed into his cell. A dungeon fully equipped with a blanket. The man who's giving him a lashing tires after thirty or so. And doesn't lay into him too hard on the final nine. First class travel for the Apostle Paul meant a night on the road without being robbed, a week on the sea without a shipwreck, crossing a river without being swept off his feet. First class travel for Paul meant falling asleep one night with something inside his stomach. Thirdly, we learned something else from Paul's trials. Very important point, by the way. The degree of hardship that you encounter is not necessarily an indication that you are on the wrong road. The degree of hardship that you encounter is not necessarily an indication that you're out of the Lord's will, as we like to say, or on the wrong road. You know, I tried to start a Bible study at a nursing home, but the management, the activities director, she's not very cooperative, and I guess it's just not the right time. I started teaching a Sunday school class, but the kids don't seem very engaged and responsive. I guess it's not my gift. You know, I tried to explain the gospel to my uncle, but he just got angry. I guess I did something wrong. Listen, if the trials of the Apostle Paul teach us anything, they teach us that obstacles Or reversals or misfortunes are not necessarily God's way of showing us that we're on the wrong path. Right? I mean if if Paul saw providence that way, if he swallowed that lie of the adversary, he would have chucked the whole idea of serving Christ when he found himself in a basket being lowered over a wall. Here's a passage that we don't find in the book of Acts. Verse 16, chapter 16. Well, Silas, here we are, chained up in the innermost dungeon. I told you to just ignore the slave girl. Me? You're the one who got so annoyed with her following us around that you had to cast a demon out of her. How'd you think your masters were going to react to that, Paul? If we just stuck to the plan, you and I'd be at Lydia's house eating baklava off those nice purple placemats. This is another fine mess you've got me into. Is that how they reacted to their trials? No, on the contrary, we read at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the other prisoners heard them Wait a minute. They hadn't done anything wrong. They cast the demon out of a girl. That's a good thing. They got beaten. They got thrust in a dungeon. And how did they react? God, why did you do this to us? We're trying to serve you. Every time I try to do anything for you, this is what happens. Is that how they reacted? You see, uh trials, tribulations, uh reversals, misfortunes, no indication. That's no indication that you're on the wrong road. Don't give up because of opposition. Jesus said, In the world you shall have tribulation. They persecuted me, they're going to persecute my followers. Finally, the most obvious lesson from this passage, maybe the hardest one to consider, Paul endured all this hardship for Jesus' sake. And the question is. What am I enduring? What hardship am I enduring? That's what we need to ask. Where are my abundant labors? What persecution have I faced? What comforts and pleasures have I declined in order to advance Christ's kingdom? Paul was hungry, thirsty, cold, sleepless. He spent hours clinging to a broken mast or a somebody's whole trunk. He crossed oceans and rivers to bring the gospel to those who needed to hear it. And here we are in a land of absolute freedom to proclaim the gospel. And some of us haven't even walking across, walked across the office floor to talk to a fellow worker about Jesus, to invite him to lunch so we could explain the gospel to Some of us haven't even crossed the street to invite a child and her parents to come to church in Sunday school I mean, uh it is hard to explain. I think Apostle Paul, if I have to stand before him one day, I mean it's going to be kind of embarrassing for I think a lot of us. Uh so that's what you did? That's what you that's all that's all you did you did Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize and sail through bloody seas? Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize and sailed through bloody seas? May God empower us by his Spirit to be bold as the Apostle Paul was , not fearful, willing to endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And it may be that you're here without Jesus Christ today. That's entirely possible. We can't tell. You can't tell by looking at somebody whether the Holy Spirit's indwelling that person. And let me just say this, if you're here without Christ, you can come to Him. Recognize yourself as a sinner. Look at your sin for what it is, vile. Onerous in the eyes of a holy God. Displeasing to him. Confess it to him. God forgive me. God forgive me for my sin. I know I've broken your laws and thought, word, and deed. I haven't loved you with all my heart. I haven't loved my neighbor as myself. God forgive me. But I believe that Jesus Christ came and lived a sinless life. I believe that he kept the law that I broke, and then he went to the cross and he paid the debt that I owe. God, I want to miss my Savior. God forgive me and save me for Jesus' sake. I'm transferring my trust for myself to Him. Take me to heaven because of who Jesus is and what he did, not me. God forgive me and save me. Make me a new creation. You come to God that way, you pray a prayer like that, you mean it in your heart. You transfer your trust from yourself to Jesus. He says in his word, All your sins will be forgiven. He'll give you this precious gift of everlasting life You'll be with him in heaven. And right here, right now, he'll indwell you. He'll help you. He'll guide you. He'll feed you from his word. He'll he'll uh give you good Christian fellowship He'll deepen your love for him. He'll help you to overcome sin. He'll do all these things in your life right here, right now. Won't you come to him today? Let's pray. Lord, uh, it is embarrassing for us at times as we compare our lives to the life of Men like the Apostle Paul , men like James, John, Apostle Peter. And of course, Lord, we cannot possibly compare our lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. We fall short in every respect. Lord, forgive us. But we thank you for the wonderful gospel. We thank you for your mercy and grace. We thank you that if we trust in Christ, our sins are forgiven. We have everlasting life. Lord, I pray for that life to be abundantly poured in upon hearts here this day. As you had mercy on many of us, have mercy upon those who are here outside of Christ. Draw them to Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen.