If you have your Bibles, go ahead and open them to First Corinthians chapter six. And let's stand in honor of the reading of God's holy word this morning. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 1 through 8, as we make our way through the regular exposition of God's Word in 1 Corinthians. Let's pay careful attention to this. Beginning in verse 1, when one of you has a grievance against another Does he dare to go to law before the unrighteous instead of the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases? Do you not know that we are to judge the angels? How much more then matters pertaining to this life? So if you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church? I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between the brothers? But brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers? To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? But you yourselves wrong and defraud, even your own brothers. This is the reading of God's holy word. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a quick word of prayer and ask God's blessing on the preaching of His Word. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you once again, as we do week after week, to sit at your feet, O Lord, to learn from your word, to hear from you. Oh Lord, we do pray that you would take your word. And Lord, for some of us in this room, we need conviction of our sin and our attitudes. For others, Lord, we need comfort. From your word this morning. Lord, it's impossible for me as a pastor to know where the hearts of each person in this room is, but Lord, we praise you because you are a sovereign God. Who knows each and every one of your sheep. You call us each by name. And Lord, we hear the voice of the shepherd, and we respond to his voice And so, Lord, we pray that you would help us to respond to your voice this morning from your word. Bring the gospel out and bring it so clearly before us in how we are to respond to the issue in the passage before us. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, I was just a kid growing up in the Chicagoland area when I remember, as probably many of you do, as far as I know, the first court case that was nationally televised across America. In I think it was the early nineties, and that would have been the murder trial that O. J. Simpson went under. Um, and that was televised. I remember sometimes turning on the TV as a kid looking for cartoons or something to watch and that was all I can find on TV was the O. J. Simpson trial. And many of you probably remember better than I do the details of that as I was just a kid, but what is it about historical or legal dramas on television or film or real -life court cases that are so intriguing to us. We've all seen where somebody enters the witness stand and they tell the person in in the dock, okay, raise your left hand. Put your right hand on the Bible? Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth? So help you, God? I do And then what follows from that moment on? It's usually a series of well-crafted questions. Now let's face the facts in modern jurisprudence. Each you have a someone who's a plaintiff and someone who's a Defendant and each person has the task to present their case the way they want it presented. And so those questions, which are often key to the case, are designed to paint a picture in a certain way to sway the um the people who are going to to judge the case Usually the jury, or the judge in some cases, to sway the judgment so that the verdict goes one way The facts are all established by cross-examination of the story of each side, the plaintiff and the defendant. But it is all in the questions, isn't it? In that cross-examination. It seems to be how the legal process works once the evidence is accrued. Our passage before us this morning is loaded with eight questions in the space of eight verses. Which tells you something. By the way, those eight questions and those eight verses all have to do with Paul dealing with the problem among the Corinthians of lawsuits among believers. Boy, this is a church that has had problem after problem after problem, hasn't it? And here we come to lawsuits among believers. Our main idea this morning in this passage is this. Lawsuits between believers bring shame to the church by subjecting her to the judgment of unbelievers rather than being willing to suffer wrong as Christ did. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning, you'll see on page 5 in your bulletin right at the end of the liturgy, you'll see that sermon idea printed there for you. So you can remember what this is all about and the idea that we're unpacking this morning. There are two main sub-points here as we unpack this idea together. And our first goes from verses the verse 1 all the way to the beginning of verse 5. And our first point is lawsuits and judgment from unbelievers. Now, this passage marks a turning point in Paul's letter before he was dealing with the issue of sexual immorality in the church, particularly a Young man having an affair with his stepmother and then church discipline, and we talked a little bit more about that last week. Now we're looking at lawsuits among believers. Now I'm trying to organize this section a little thematically rather than just woodenly verse by verse, but let's look at three things in verses 1 and verse 4 that I think paint the picture of this idea of judgment from unbelievers. So I'm looking at verses 1 and then verse 4. Let's look at the nature of the cases. Actually, just kidding. I'm going to add verse 2 in there as well. But there are three words that Paul uses to describe these legal cases among the Corinthians. It's going to help us understand what is going on in this passage. We need to see the nature of these cases. He uses the word grievance in verse 1. He uses the words trivial cases in verse 2. Which I just added into there. And then verse 4, such cases. Now each of these adds a little bit of a different flavor to the problem that the Corinthians are having. The word for grievance can very generically mean having like a matter or an issue with somebody, but the verbal form of that in the original Greek actually can be translated to carry on commerce, to do business, to do trade among people. It's not a word that often d always has a negative connotation. Sometimes it can have a positive connotation. But what this tells you is that in Paul's mind is he's using all of these words to paint the picture of what is going on in the Corinthian church among these believers having lawsuits against each other. It is possible that it deals with Some cases might deal with issues that might be really important, having to do with disagreements in business where money might be involved. In fact, you see later on at the end of the passage when he talks about defrauding in verses 7 and 8, he mentions it twice there. that these might be legal cases that do have some um financial ramification between two believers So that's one word. The other word is trivial cases. That's kind of the other end of the spectrum. You might think of things like, you know, uh cases dealing with maybe fraud or some kind of money involved being very important. But he also mentions trivial cases in verse 2. Which tells you that this is the other end of the spectrum. We're talking about problems of just maybe personal difference between two people. They're not quite getting along. And then verse 4, such cases, very general, again, very broad , the word cases there being criteria in Greek, which is where we get our English word criteria. When you talk about a criteria, there is a standard that is being applied there. And it's a legal term as well. What's interesting here is we're not talking about situations where one believer has a problem with another. These are with two believers who are each making their case. in court. And that leads to the second thing I want to just kind of illustrate for you and draw your attention to. The context makes it very clear that they are going to a secular court with things that are issues between them as believers. Right? What does it mean to go to law, as Paul says here in this passage? The idea of going to law has the idea of seeking a judgment against one another. I don't know about you, but when you think of seeking judgment in a legal context, judgment was always punitive of some sort. What could that punitive judgment what could that have been in the ancient world? Well, maybe it had something to do with being held by the authorities until you could post bond to the magistrate. You see an example of that in Acts 17. 9 in Thessalonica when there was a massive Riot in the city over the preaching of the gospel. It was the believers who were held by the magistrate until they could post bond or bail. That's punitive. But it could also be something like all the way up to being punishable by death We look at the example of the Apostle Paul, as history tells us, as he stood trial before Emperor and Emperor Emperor Nero. and ended up losing his life by being beheaded. That was a civil punishment there. It was the punishment of death. But we're talking about secular law courts here. And we see in Acts chapter 18 when the Corinthian church was planted, they had some legal troubles of their own. There was a riot in that city as well. And we know who the proconsul was or the judge of that city. We know from Acts 18 it was his name was Gallio. And if you look at the example of Gallio and how he acted, it doesn't seem like he was a very just man. They brought one guy in front, I think it was Sosthenes, and he gets beaten in front of the proconsul 's court, and he acts like he doesn't care and drives them away. And so that tells you the character of the judges, thirdly, in verses 1 through 4 as well. Paul calls them in verse 1 the unrighteous. I mean that that's what he says. When one of you has a grievance against one another, does he dare to go to law before the unrighteous? Look at verse 4. Kind of gives a different descriptor there. Why do you lay them, your cases? before those who have no standing in the church. That could be translated, those who have no authority in the church, no responsibility in the church. Now we need to be very clear. It doesn't mean that Paul is calling every single civil magistrate unrighteous in terms of their character or their personality. There may have been some guys who by God's uh common grace would give a just judgment, but he's speaking about people uh who are not justified By faith in Christ. They are not in right standing with God, and therefore he calls them unrighteous. They have not received the righteousness of Christ. by grace through faith. And that by definition is going to affect the nature of their judgment over all. And so the first thing that's important to mention is because justice and judgment by definition must be righteous, how can those who are not righteous give righteous judgment? Or to put it another way, how can righteous judgment come from unrighteous judges? By definition, it cannot. And that's Paul's argument here. And so that leads us to the statement about those who have no standing in the church, and that pointing us to our second sub-point. in verses 2 through 3, which is the judgment of the saints. That stands in contrast to this unrighteous judgment that he's talking about. Look at verses 2 through 3 again. Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? Question mark. And if the world is judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases? Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more than matters pertaining to this life? You see what Paul is doing here? He's creating an argument that goes from the lesser to the greater. In other words, he uses a lesser example, and then he gives a greater example to make a larger point. That's what he's doing. He says in verse 2, the saints will judge the world. See, the first reason that it makes no sense for believers to go to a secular court against one another for trivial cases against other believers is because there's going to come a time When we, corporately, as the saints will judge the world, and that judgment of the world includes the judgment upon those who stand as judges in this world system. That's what Paul is getting at. Why would we seek the legal judgment of those who come under our judgment in a greater sense? Why would we go to judges in this world who are under the judgment of God and will stand under our judgment And why would we bring trivial cases to them when they are under a greater, more eternal, substantive judgment? You see the logic of what Paul is saying here, it makes no sense. Christians will judge the world. That's a very weighty truth. And actually, I said this last week anticipating this week. Let me say this looking back at last week. In chapter 5, at the end, in verses 12 and 13, look at the way verse 12 begins and then the way verse 13 begins. Paul asks another question and then he answers it. For what have I do with judging outsiders? In other words, judging the world. The rhetorical question begs a negative answer. I have nothing to do with judging the world. Why? Because look at the beginning of verse 13. God judges those outside. God judges the world. So then what is he talking about here? in chapter six that believers, the church, one day will judge the world. Well in chapter five he's talking about the process of ch of church discipline. It is not the church's job to try to discipline within the church those who are outside of the church in the here and now. What is he getting at here in chapter 6 verse 2? There's going to come a day when Christ returns and the saints will judge the world. And by the way, if that's not a large enough truth for you, that's the lesser. He goes to the greater in verse 3 in his argument, he says that the saints will even judge the angels. Take a look at that. In verse 3. Do you not know that we are to judge angels? Again, question mark. Now, who are these angels? This is kind of an interesting question, I think. Who are these angels? Are they all angels? Are they fallen angels? I tend to think personally, and you can don't have to take my opinion to the bank if you don't want to, but I've thought this through this week And I've looked at some of the commentaries, so I'm not alone in this. I tend to think that Paul is talking about fallen angels or demons more specifically. Because those are really the ones who will come under judgment, won't they? They will come under the judgment of God. Uh Apostle Jude in his short letter talks about this. The Apostle Peter in 2 Peter chapter 2 talks about this how the you know the angels who have sinned before are being held. in chains awaiting the judgment as they sit in gloomy darkness. However, you look at this, the point is very clear. If Christians are going to have such a great and weighty uh matters placed into their hands as they deliver the verdict of the Lord in his judgment on judgment day. How much more should we be able to work through trivial issues? between believers without having to resort to those we will one day judge. That's what he's getting at here. His point in saying and arguing all this is to say that the action of believers going to a secular court against other believers is inconsistent with the truth of the gospel, with redemption, and with our status as God's people and all the implications that that brings with it. And so how did he summarize this problem that they're having in verse 5? Notice what he says in verse 5. I say this to your shame. It's interesting. I remember Tim Keller once saying in an interview, at least I think it was an interview, it might have been a sermon, but he seems fond of saying, shame is a poor motivator for Christians. To change. And I think in most cases he's probably right. I mean we look at uh back at chapter four of our book here in First Corinthians, chapter four, fourteen If you remember that, he says, I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children. Right? I didn't write this to your shame. Now he's saying I write this to your shame. What's the difference? Why is he saying two different things in two different parts of the letter? Well, because one, he's dealing with a private matter within the church in chapter four of the arrogant attitude that these Christians had and their attitude towards him as an apostle and even um people like Apollos. But that was an attitude that could be changed internally, and it could be changed internally if they had more spiritual fathers. That's what he was getting at. It wasn't necessarily their fault because of something they were doing wrong that they didn't have spiritual fathers, but they could grow into that But here he's dealing with something that was publicly known, that was publicly notorious. These people are having problems and they're airing their dirty laundry out for the world to see. And for the world to judge. And that's what he's saying. I say this to your shame. That what you're doing is not living up to the status that you have as God's people. It's interesting here he's in dealing with something that is known and evident to all He's dealing with the issue that when people go to court to uphold their case against someone, typically they're looking for the honor that comes with the verdict in their favor. That's why people go to court. But Paul's arguing here, the opposite is the case. Going to secular court against brothers leads to their shame. Think about what the Apostle James said in James 2, verse 6 In that uh context, he's talking about believers going to court against one another, but he's contrasting the rich and the poor. This is what he says. But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called? And in the context there, he's saying, look, don't show partiality to the rich over the poor in the church. Why would you do that? This is what the rich do. It is possible that something like that was going on here in Corinth. But one way or another, Paul is saying it's bringing shame upon the name of Christ among the unbelievers. It's really kind of sad. It reminds you of some of the statements throughout the Old Testament when God's judgment had to fall on his people for their unrepentant. And they had to go into exile among the nations. And God tells them, it is because of you that my name is blasphemed among the nations. It's the same dynamic here. Shame on them for what they're doing So how does the gospel and redemption shape the way we think of lawsuits and litigation and conflicts among fellow Christians today? As we think about application, the gospel and redemption highlight our status as those who will administer the Lord's justice when Christ returns. And therefore we should not go to those who are under judgment for judgment against one another. That's the principle. We need to think, brothers and sisters, about the litigious world in which we live. One of the things historically that was so unique about the Roman Empire is they were political and they were legal geniuses. I mean, we have records today that have been preserved, 2,000 years, of the politics and the legal codes in the Roman Empire, and it was extensive. But living today in the modern 21st century United States, we live in a Western culture and society that has inherited the legal tradition of the Roman Empire. In other words, what I'm saying is we live in a very similar situation as those in Corinth, and we live in a day and age where people are very litigious. I remember when I lived in Illinois, I remember seeing so sitting at a light and someone in front of me in the light had a bumper sticker on their car and it said, hit me, I need the money. What's the point? Drive right into the back of my car. I'd love to sue you for all you're worth. That's the idea of a lot of people today. And sadly, this kind of mentality of tabulating wrongs against one another easily influences the immature and the unsanctified believers in the church today. But I think what Paul is saying here is so clear for us that Paul is concerned that the things that the leaders of a local church should have the wisdom among them to work through between two parties that have some matter between them should be kept in the church as much as possible instead of dragging it out into the world, much to our shame. And I want to just say the judgment of the saints should convict us in how we handle conflict as believers today. Paul's verdict of the shame of lawsuits among believers should drive us to see that when these things happen , When we go to court and sue one another litigiously. We surrender our testimony to a lost and dying world that in and of itself stands under judgment. Think about this. It does this because it leads unbelievers in the world into thinking that they have ultimate authority to judge believers and their affairs. And it blinds them to the fact that they are the ones under judgment, ultimately. And the blindness to that judgment that will ultimately come blinds them to the need that they have for the the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior who will rescue them from the judgment of God through the gospel. And so this morning, if you're here this morning and you are contemplating some kind of lawsuit against another believer over something trivial, I believe this passage is calling you to repent. of the shame that it will cause to the name of Christ among the lost around us. And that leads us to our second point this morning in the second part of verse 5, all the way to verse 8. Lawsuits in the pattern of the gospel. This is setting it a little differently. We see in the beginning or the end of verse 5, in the beginning of verse 6, the gospel and this idea of settling disputes. This is where we we kind of take a little bit of a turn and we move from just dealing with the situation of legal lawsuits that the the Corinthians had to Paul really driving deep into the heart of the issue, the heart of where describing where the heart of these believers are as they do this to one another. Look at what he says here at the end of verse 5 and verse 6. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between the brothers? But brother goes to law against brother and that before the unbelievers? Notice again, as we talk about judging and settling disputes, I want to draw your attention to those words that are translated there to settle a dispute. In verse 5. And then in verse 6, he says, and they that you go to law or goes to law. What you may not know is that those words in the original Greek are related to one another, but they are not the same exact word. They have a little bit of a different nuance. Now the c uh the commentate the Lutheran commentator R. C. H. Lensky gets at this difference and how it speaks to the issues of the heart of these believers when he writes this. Listen to this quote. It's very insightful. Paul is very careful to write in quotes, to adjudicate between or to decide between, which is how the ESV translated that first one, settle a dispute. And he wrote that and not to judge in verse 5. For when a Christian brother or several Christian brethren act in a case of dispute between their brethren, they do not function as legal judges in a secular court. But they render a Christian decision which involved much more. Now listen carefully to what he's saying here. Their chief difficulty will also usually be with the complaint. who comes with charges against a brother and demands, and he puts this in quotes, his rights, or insists on admissions on the part of his brother. or demands that the brother be expelled. Wow. That's not what you would expect. But he's driving home what Paul's getting at in verse 5. And so settling a dispute has much more to do with getting at the heart of the issue. uh between two brothers than simply dealing with the letter of the law. This is the difference between how church courts work and how secular courts work. The secular court deals with the letter of the law. A church court, if they're doing their job, goes much deeper to the heart of the individuals in the case And let's face it, brothers and sisters, when our hearts are dealt with, it's not always very comfortable, is it? The idea of settling uh disputes Or as Lensky says here, adjudicating between believers has the restoration of relationship, the reconciliation between brothers. and the redemption of the situation and conflict as its final goal and aim Going to law, and I'm talking about secular courts here in context, or to judge to the judge, is rather punitive in nature. It is often devoid of any redemptive motive or conduct. This is what Paul is getting at here as he's talking about lawsuits among believers in the secular court. One deals with the letter of the law and really never settles the dispute between two believers, which has issues of heart that stand at the root of things. But the leadership of the church, church courts, church discipline, all these things are aimed to get at the heart of the issue so that you can actually work towards gospel redemption between believers. The other thing I want to draw your attention to in verse six is the fact that he's talking about disputes between between brothers here. And that may sound like a very trivial observation to make, but I want to highlight it because the word brother occurs four times. showing that these relationships between believers are the relationships like that of siblings, brothers, and sisters in the Lord. That relationship should be the contextual frame that should define our attitudes as we deal with conflicts and differences with one another. Later in 2 Corinthians 5, verses 11 through 21, Paul makes the argument that all believers have this thing called a ministry of reconciliation. And what he means by that in the context of 2 Corinthians chapter 5 is he's talking about how we are called to share the gospel with the lost who are at enmity with God, but they can be reconciled to God through the death of Jesus Christ. This is why he says in 2 Corinthians 5 21, which is really a tremendous summary of the gospel , he made him who knew no sin to be sin, so that we might become the righteous. That is, the cross is the heart of the gospel message of reconciliation between sinful man and a righteous God. And if we have been brought into fellowship with God through being reconciled to Him, through having our sin dealt with at the cross, then how much more should we be able to be reconciled to one another? Amen. Thank you. Someone had to say it. It was by the cross that God was reconciling reconciling the world to himself. And if we share this message with unbelievers, how much more should this apply to us? We need to put into practice and walk the walk that we talk with unbelievers. And that leads us to verses 7 and 8, the gospel attitude about being wronged. And this is one of the hardest parts to deal with in this passage, because it deals with our own hearts. I love how Phil, when he prayed earlier, said, you know, Lord, help us to deal with our own hearts before we deal with other people. Right? Jesus said the same thing in Matthew 7. Look, don't judge others lest you be judged. Look, take out the log in your own eye before you try to remove the speck in someone else's eye. Look at verses 7 and 8 and how this rounds out our passage. He says very clearly, to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? But you yourselves wrong and defraud, even your own brothers. Notice the contrast there. He's saying the same thing, but in contrast. In verse 7, he very clearly is dealing with um Well, the attitude towards believers and what they should have. By the way, this is really hard today, I think, for many. We think tend to think in terms culturally of things like justice or social justice, right? That permeates our discussion culturally. But Paul's saying lawsuits are a defeat for believers when they sue one another. That's the overarching principle. Again, listen to what Lensky writes here. It's very helpful. He comments on this passage. This is exactly what Christians so often forget, particularly in verse 7. Shouldn't shouldn't you rather suffer wrong and endure it? He goes on to say, when a fancied or real wrong has been done to them, they think that they must demand or secure redress. They at least feel that the brother who supposedly wronged them, or actually did them wrong, must be humbled and made to ask their pardon. Or, to take a more specific case, he writes, this is also true when one is defrauded or thinks he is. Simply to suffer wrong, the injustice, or the injury does not occur to many Christians The least that they do is to set up a loud complaint and then continue complaining and ill will. I don't know about you, but that's kind of convicting. The defeat comes in the fact that the heart is not addressed or redeemed through legal litigation before unbelievers. Rather, it only fuels an attitude that one is owed something by other the other person until the debt is paid and there can be no reconciliation. Where's the defeat? Because the debt's already been paid at the cross. For believers. I think of what Paul wrote in Colossians chapter two at the end of that chapter. Talking about, you know, the debt that was against us was nailed to the cross. It was done away with. The debt's canceled. And yet who are we? To hold a debt against somebody who's a believer, who's been forgiven by Christ. We assume that something has to happen now and we ignore the fact that, well, maybe the work of the Lord in their heart to see what they've done is going to take some time. But we demand it now. And we take people to court. You see, it's a defeat. The defeat is that the pattern of the gospel is not worked in. And then out of the heart of those who demand or secure redress. It seeks healing for the heart through the letter of the secular law, and that is not how the gospel works. Another way to say that, you can't legislate morality, right? And yet people try to do it. No, we're called to have an attitude that's consistent with the gospel. And the questions he asks are very, very probing in verse 7. I'll just read them again. He writes, why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? But you yourselves wrong and defraud, even your own brothers Something's wrong with the attitude of these Corinthians. Is something wrong with our attitude today? We have to ask, as we think about this, for our application, our attitude to being wronged in the body of Christ should rather reflect the forbearance and the grace that Christ exhibited. when he was willing to be wronged by taking our sin on himself at the cross. Listen to that application point. Let me say it again. Our attitudes to being wronged in the body of Christ should reflect the forbearance and the grace that Christ exhibited when he was willing to be wronged by taking our sin on himself at the cross. That is the answer to the questions that Paul is raising in verse 7. Because that asks, well, why should I suffer the wrong? Why should I rather be defrauded? That's why. You see, the gospel calls us to deal with more than just the letter of the law. It calls us to deal with our own hearts first and foremost when we have conflict with another believer or when they wrong us in some way. Why do we have to deal with our own hearts? Well, let me give you this quote from the 16th century reformer John Calvin. He said this in his commentary about this passage. He said, if therefore a Christian man wishes to prosecute his rights at law, So as not to offend God, he must, above all things, take heed that he does not bring into any court or into court any desire of revenge. any corrupt affection of the mind, or anger, or in fine any other poison. In this matter, love will be the best regulator. Wow, that's what the gospel's all about, isn't it? We had enmity with God, and God had every legal right to prosecute us and judge us. And yet that's not what he did. He sent his son. Why? What does John three sixteen say? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever shall believe in him shall not perish but have everlasting life. What's the basis of that? Love. Why was God willing to forbear sinners all through history? Why was God willing to allow you, some of you have walked in some very dark moments of your life before the Lord got a hold of you? Why did God not just squash you like a bug when he could have? Because of love. He was willing to forbear with you until that moment you came to Christ and your sins were canceled. And so we have to ask ourselves, do we have the gospel attitude of Christ, which is love? This is where we find the power for redemptive change in our hearts through the gospel as we think about those who've wronged us. We need to look to Jesus Christ, who was falsely accused and was judged. He was reviled. He was threatened. And if anyone had a legal claim for justice against those who did wrong to him unjustly, it was Jesus Christ. And yet, listen to what the Apostle Peter tells us in 1 Peter 2, verses 22 through 24, he committed no sin. Neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. What is he telling us there? Well, let's plug in the words from verse 7. Was Jesus wronged? Yeah. Did he suffer it? Yeah In a sense, was he defrauded, maybe not financially, but from his life? Yeah And yet he didn't press his rights. Instead, if you remember what he said, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. He says that even as they're crucifying him. Go back to 1 Peter 4, verse 8. Let's come back to that love thing. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly. Why? Since love covers a multitude of sins. As we look at the offense of others, we have to ask whether or not we really have love for them. Because 1 Corinthians 13, 5, and we're going to get there eventually as we work through this book, it says this. That love does not count up wrongdoings. Doesn't keep score. Yet how many of us do this? I say this to my I ask myself that first before I ask you. We have to remember that the Lord Jesus Christ has forgiven us for so much more Than any perceived wrong or real wrong that a brother or sister in Christ might do to us And so the question again by way of application is, does your heart reflect the heart of Christ this morning when it comes to conflict and lawsuits and litigation? I can't answer that for you But I can only encourage you to look to the Lord Jesus Christ. And if your heart needs to be changed, ask him to change it. Or maybe you're in the position where you've been wronged and you need comfort because you really want justice. Again, ask the Lord to give you the love that Christ has and ask the Lord to help you to see the one who's wronged you the way that Christ sees them. Brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? Lawsuits between believers bring shame to the church by subjecting her to the judgment of unbelievers rather than being willing to suffer wrong as Christ did in the church. In the gospel. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father So it's not an easy passage, Lord, because of how it requires us to do our own heart surgery on our own hearts under the microscope of your word. But we pray, O Lord, that your Holy Spirit would be working in us Lord, there are people here that have been wronged. There are in one way or another, there are people, oh Lord, who are doing the wronging and the defraction. As I prayed from the beginning, Lord, I pray that you would convict those that need to be convicted and lead them to repentance. Help them not to be left in a state of constant guilt and shame. But redeem that, Lord, bring them to repentance, that they may know the joy of Christ, knowing that He is He has taken care of all things at the cross. Lord, there are those here who need comfort. Because they have been wronged. I pray, Lord, that you would comfort them with the gospel and remind them that Christ has set all things right. by the cross and his resurrection. As Jesus told a group of women going to the cross, behold, I make all things new I pray that you would give them that comfort and confidence. And we pray, O Lord, that you would help us above all else to remember the grace that we have received from you. And to let that inform the love that we are called to have for others. Do this in us, Lord. We can't change our own hearts. We ask this in the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Amen.