Please let's stand together to hear the Lord's scripture read to us this morning. Luke chapter twelve verses thirteen through twenty-one Someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man, who made me a judge or arbiter over you? And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. And he told them a parable, saying, The land of a rich man produced plentifully. And he thought to himself, What shall I do? For I have nowhere to store my crops. And he said, I'll do this. I will tear down my barns and build larger ones. And there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul is required of you. And the things you have prepared, whose will they be? So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity we have to come to sing your word, pray your word, and to see your word in the lives of your saints here. gather together and we pray that as uh I bring forth your word it would be a word that would penetrate hearts and minds Mine especially. And that we would go from these doors into the new week as new people. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Anybody else called this morning? Good, because you know I don't want to be sufferance by myself. So we can all be miserable together because misery loves company We're saving I know I'm sure we're saving the electric bill, but that's neither here nor there. But yeah, it's a little nippy today In nineteen seventy-four, the Department of Transportation rejected a regulation to install bars at the rear of trucks. To prevent passenger cars from sliding underneath them in a collision. The reasoning? It would not have been cost effective Meaning, the cost of the mandated installation would have exceeded the value of the lives it would have saved. Your life, for instance. However, 24 years later in 1998, the bars were required when the Department of Transportation's value of a human life reached $2. 5 million. They factored in the cost of regulatory changes or the necessary equipment changes versus the cost of what they calculated our lives were worth. In 2020, your VSL, your value of statistical life, was $7. 5 million. Man, we're getting richer all the time As of twenty twenty-four, the going rate for a human life is thirteen million dollars Which means right now in this room, if we take a round number of 125, we have more than 1. 6 billion dollars of beating hearts and breathing souls. Inflation, it seems, affects everything in life, even your soul's worth, your life's worth. What value have you placed on your soul? Never mind the government or the insurance agencies or the manufacturers. What do you think you are worth? Why am I asking you to place a value, as it were, on your life or your soul? But none of you should actually be surprised that I would ask that question, what you might value your life to be, because most of the adults sitting here, you've done this multiple times in the past. When was the last time you signed up for a life insurance policy? Through an independent agent or through the workforce? What value did you place on your life? 100,000? 500,000? And if you signed up to work, did you choose three times your annual salary? Or five? And when you got home, did your spouse agree with you that that was enough? Or too much? It's a gruesome thought, but as Mr. Potter says to George Bailey in a wonderful life, George, you're worth more dead than you are alive. It's not true, but do we in fact live our lives at times as if that was true? So take a moment. Think about your soul's personal worth in an eternal way. In our passage before us this morning, Jesus illustrates the sin of covetousness. By picturing a farmer that has worked hard probably all his life, But now in the twilight of his career thinks it's time to kick back, store up his resources for himself And live out the rest of his life in relative ease. Today, we call that retirement. So I can think of at least one or two people sitting here who've retired who probably could say, I don't know how I had time to go to work because they're so busy in retirement. In those days, it was not uncommon to take unsettled disputes to respected rabbis. Today, disputes are often taken to attorneys or mediators. If that does not resolve them, they then are taken to the law firm of Smith and Weston. I'm glad some of you got that one. However, Jesus refused to take up that request to arbitrate over property rights. But with the request came an opportunity to address The topic of wealth and possessions with eternal perspectives in mind. One such perspective being the need to exercise caution and vigilance With regard to our possessions and their intended use. Hence, various translations have the words: take heed, watch out, and beware. Beware of the dog. We are all familiar with that sign. You see that sign, you become vigilant, you become cautious. You've been warned. You do not proceed forward. Maybe you turn around and go the other way. Such signs are meant to protect us. So Jesus cautions us in the same way about our attitude and handling of our possessions. Beware. A stern word, a protecting word, a necessary word, a life-changing word. When I read this, where he says to the man, Behold, this night your soul is required of you. When I read that, I thought of another passage in Scripture. In chapter 20 of Genesis, verse 3, where you might remember, God comes to Abimelech after he's taken Abraham's wife. Remember, he says, Behold, you are a dead man. For that woman you have taken is already married. You know, sometimes God doesn't mince words in the Bible. He just gets to the point. You are a deaden man, or tonight your word is required of you. Imagine if you're the recipient of that message. During World War II, and especially the Vietnam War, young men would receive a letter in the mail. Referred to as the greetings letter. I don't know if some of you may not hear received it or not. It was their summons, their induction letter to report to their respective military camp. Many young men and parents thought this letter was akin to, Your soul is required of you. Both these men, Abimelech and the rich ruler, the rich fool, both these men, they've been warned, both men are in danger. Abel Malek, just in time, hears the warning. The rich man has run out of time for his warning. And then Jesus then closes out the parable with the exhortation that we ought to live our lives rich towards God rather than rich. to ourselves. So let's ask the question, what does it mean to be rich toward God? I have John Piper to thank for this brief explanation. He gives a very good explanation, I believe, about what it means to be rich toward God. Being rich toward God is the opposite of treating the self as though it were made for things and not for God. Being rich toward God is the opposite of acting as if life consists in the abundance of possessions, not in the abundance of knowing God. Rich toward God means moving toward God as are riches. Rich toward God means counting God greater riches than anything on the earth. Rich toward God means using earthly riches to show how much you value God. This is what the prosperous farmer failed to do. And the result was that he was a fool and lost his soul. The rich man, who in some ways may not be totally unlike us, allowed his possessions to possess him So in the end, outwardly rich, he's inwardly poor, materially set for life, spiritually dead to life. This night your soul is required of you. It's not a question. It's a statement of fact. It's a done deal. It's called a fate accompli, which is French for a thing accomplished, already decided, irreversible. The man 's pronouns dominate and tell the whole story. I, my, and myself. Around 11 times or so it's used in those few verses. The man lived in a little world bounded on the north, south, east, and west by himself. Self-assurance, self-reliance, self-absorbed, self-destructive. You notice there is not one word of thanksgiving from his lips, in view of the abundance that God had granted him. There is no bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. We just sang a hymn about that, didn't we? And I also was just looking through the Psalter as the rest of you were kind of singing. Um, Psalter 103, A, B, and C All three of them have about the soul, so it's like the Trinity of the Soul in this altar, but all mentions blessing the Lord with our soul. Not on this man's lips. He's singing alone, but he's singing his own tune. I'll do it my way. This passage does not prohibit wealth, nor does it squelch a person's desire to work hard to achieve success or prosperity. But Jesus does warn his hearers, us , concerning the dangerous eternal implications of the misuse of wealth. With a seductive tendency towards selfishness, self-sufficiency, and covetousness. And here is the real tragedy as I read this story. The real tragedy and a subtle but real trap that we can all fall into. This man imagines that he still has many years left before him Years of comfort, years of ease, and when reality it is all about to come to a screeching halt. God calls him a fool, for this man thinks and he acts like he has no need for God, that he is in control of his life. He is the master of his fate and the captain of his soul, which are helpful words that I found in a poem called Invictus by William Henley. master of his fate and captive of his soul. I read that and I think, take a minute, and let's ask ourselves. Am I too imagining and just assuming I'll have X amount of years and days in my life left to come? You know, we can pray to God for good and many prosperous, healthy years. We can prepare and plan for a long and prosperous life. We should never assume or take it for granted. Only he who numbers the hair on our heads knows our number of days. Psalm 90, verse 12. So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. Each day of our lives is numbered, as was that man's. A fact I think we often forget. Sad but true, are we not always thinking in terms of the next day? The next project, the next game , the next meal, the next event that we'll be going to Rather, wouldn't it be wiser to live our lives backwards? In other words, to live in light of the end as we approach each day. Many of us here in this room have been at the bedside of an elderly parent or friend or relative. And the end seems to be approaching, but it's still always in the future. And yet when that final minute comes, it's still unexpected, isn't it? It still comes as a surprise. It always does. And then there are those other times when we have been confronted with the unexpected call after a car accident. The unexpected trip in the ambulance. The unexpected death of a loved one in the line of duty or on the battlefield. Or in the sinful, senseless random shootings in the streets or in our schools. They're all unexpected. They're all unplanned by us. However, through it all, in spite of it all, the one who is Lord over the day is also the Lord over the soul, the true captain of our soul, and he knows each and every one of our days. You know, in Matthew 16, Jesus again touches on the theme of the soul and possessions. He says, For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? Sometimes that's translated being, life, or person, depending on your translation. But I like souls. You notice whenever you hear the news of a plane crash, they always talk about how many souls were lost. Same with maritime accidents, how many souls were lost? I think it's unique that they do that. And if indeed our souls are precious in God's sight, and if they're priceless to us, then it's worth holding on to, protecting, and nourishing. I ask the question again, what is your soul worth to you? What's it worth to me? How about the souls of your spouse, siblings, or your children? What are they worth to you? They're souls. Could you ask the person sitting next to you, is anything worth more to you than your soul? And if our hearts answer no , nothing worth more than I soul, do we then in invest in our souls as we ought? Do we nourish our souls as we ought to we protect our soul as much as we invest in our and protect our bodies soul? or our finances or our homes or our reputations or our careers or our hobbies or our pleasures. And there's nothing wrong or bad about any of those things, right? But honestly, what place should they occupy in our time, energy, and our lives when compared to our souls? There's no comparison between the value of the things of this world and the value of your soul. I think all of you know that. Deep inside, we know that. Especially if we know that one day we will hear that tonight your soul is required of you Someday while you're sitting at the computer doing work or obsessing over your iPhone, who me, um, Google what we value in life. Just put in there, Google what we value in life. The lists you find there are all similar in what they tell you, and they're all similar in what they don't tell you. Family, relationships, financial security, belonging, community are all important to us. We value them. Fine and dandy. Loyalty, religion, employment, leisure, intimacy, politics, confidence. Those are all fine too. I found one list with 51 different answers. And they all have a lot of these the same. But not one list that I found has your soul mentioned, your life mentioned. Which if I was the devil, would be just the way I would have planned it to be. That that would never have been mentioned. And yet we know people chasing all these other things, as as we do from time to time, to gain the whole world, to receive all the world has to offer, money, fame. Pleasure, power, prestige. May God protect each and every one of us from seeking to gain the whole world and forfeit our souls. The next time you find yourself strolling through a local graveyard, and pity you people who don't go through graveyards, read the names and the dates. It really is a reality check, seeing as our name and our date will probably be in one Sunday, right? William Justice, he's born in 1814, he died in 1887. Who is William Justice? I have no clue. Except he was born the last year of the War of 1812. And he died in 1887. And then there's Rebecca Rutterer. She's born in seventeen seventy-nine. I don't know, Rebecca, but she's born during the Revolutionary War. She dies in eighteen fifty-seven, right before the Civil War. Very key parts in our history, right? But I don't know these people, but their names on a tombstone. And then think to yourself, where are the souls of these departed folks? During their lives, were they seeking to gain the whole world or were they actively engaged in seeking the kingdom of God? We don't know, but they were doing one or the either. The question that Jesus raises with us is no different from 2,000 years ago, no different than the question William and Rebecca had to answer. It's the question that we have to answer as well Did they count the cost? Did we count the cost? And were they ready when their soul was required of them? You think of the Bible, different stories in the Bible. Esau despised his birthright and chose stew instead. Judas chose silver over the Savior. There are many others. Achan, Gehazi, Ananias and Sapphira. Men and women who chose to enrich themselves rather than be rich towards God. They all thought they were making a a good deal. But actually, they lost everything. And you're sitting there and thinking, well, I can't identify with with Judas or Gehazi or Esau, maybe. But we certainly can identify with Demas. Who Paul says Demas loved this present world and deserted me. A warning and a reminder that we too must daily fight the temptation to love this world and the things of this world because our soul is worth it. You know, and these biblical characters were given a chance, they offered to make a deal. They chose poorly. Esau chose poorly. Achan chose poorly after the Battle of Jericho. They placed no value on their eternal souls, only on the present possession. So your soul is the most valuable part of what makes you you. Genesis 2. 7 says our souls are created by God. And you can write these verses down if you want. There are not many. Our souls are created by God. Genesis 2. 7. Ezekiel 18. 4. Our souls belong to God. All souls are mine, he says. But also in the same verse he says, The soul that sins is the soul that dies, which means we're responsible for our own souls. Mark 837, a reminder, our souls are precious to God as they should be to us. Matthew 10, 28, another reminder that our souls are eternal. It will outlast your body, your career, your reputation, and everything you accumulate. And yet people exchange it every day for things that do not last. Jesus told us that the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. And few find it Because the broad road is filled with distractions that feel good to the flesh. I have a little challenge and a couple points I want to have here in closing with you. You know, the broad road, as Jesus talks about, does promise satisfaction, but it delivers emptiness. And at the end of that road is death, spiritual death, eternal separation from God. And there's a news flash. I'm not sure you're aware of this, but the world does not care about your soul. No, they don't. Sometimes we don't, and they're our souls. But the world definitely doesn't. Not care if you destroy yourself with the process of chasing status or pleasure. The day will come when everything you build here fades away. Our stuff will no longer matter. We will stand before a holy God and we'll stand there alone. On that day it will not matter how many people knew your name. All that will matter is whether your name is written in the Lamb's book of life. Count the cost of following Christ and then pay it. There's no other deal worth making, no other path worth walking, no other life worth living. As a believer, you need to understand that your true wealth and treasure and riches are in Christ Jesus And not in the corruptible material things of this world. Your soul matters more than anything, and so live in the light of that. We are to be rich towards God and His kingdom. If you're not a believer here this morning, beware. You are in the same state of unpreparedness as the rich fool. Is that a deal you are willing to make? Well, your soul matters as well, as they all do. And you too need to understand where your true wealth lies in your soul and not your stuff. Jesus Christ is the only true foundation for life. Everything else will ultimately be taken and shaken and destroyed and taken away and given to others. Only what is built on Jesus will stand for eternity. He is the pearl of great price and the treasure found hidden in a field. Give up all, give up everything to possess them. And I think it's true to say that our souls are pearls of great price. and treasures that are in heaven. When the time comes and our souls are required, may we hear Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. Let us pray. Lord God, Heavenly Father, we thank you for all your benefits. You have given us body and soul, and have graciously sustained us to this day Preserve us from greed, that we may serve you only, love you, and abide in you, and not defile ourselves by idolatrous love of wealth or goods But hope and trust only in your grace, through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one true God, now and forever.