Well, if you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Let's stand together. for the reading of God's holy word in 1 Corinthians chapter 8 verses 1 to 13, which is the entirety of that chapter. We looked in Numbers 25 about Israel or part of them partaking sinfully. At the table of an idol. Paul addresses a similar issue in the New Testament. Beginning in verse 1 Now, concerning food to idols, we know that all of us possess knowledge This knowledge puffs up, but love builds up. If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know But if anyone loves God, he is known by God. Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that an idol has no real existence, and that there is no God but one. For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, Yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and for whom we exist, and one Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom are all things, and through whom we exist. However, not all possess this knowledge But some, through former association with idols, eat food as really offered to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. Food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, and no better off if we do. But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, Will he not be encouraged if his conscience is weak? And so by your knowledge, this weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died. Thus, sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God indeed. You may be seated. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and Lord, we thank you for the freedom that you give us in the gospel. Lord, as we come to this passage, there are several twists and turns of Paul's argument that can be difficult to follow Lord, I think about what the Apostle Peter said in 2 Peter 3, verse 16, when he talks about how there are things in Paul's writings that are difficult to understand. Lord, this passage before us might be one of those, and we pray and ask that you would give us clarity this morning as we think about Christian freedom. And how to use it. For your glory, Lord, we pray that you would work in our hearts to understand the freedom that you give us. To understand how it relates to how we live in community and fellowship together. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, historically as Americans, we tend to pride ourselves in the fact that our country has been seen as the leader of the free world. America, after all, is the land of the free and the home of the brave. We have rights in this country that others do not have in other parts of the world. And we've been willing to fight for those rights. The his the history of our country bears out the fact that there have been men and sometimes women who have laid down their lives for the cost of freedom. And that's that's an interesting pattern, isn't it? It takes the sacrifice and the laying down of some to secure the freedom for the rest. And because of the cost of this freedom, and the cost of our liberty and the cost of our rights, we tend to be entitled in some ways regarding The concept of freedom and rights. And often this has produced in us an attitude that we say, no one can tell me what to do. That tends to be the byproduct of this. It leads to our main idea this morning. Our freedom as Christians is grounded in love. and seeks the edification of other believers as its goal. Now if you're visiting with us this morning or you're unfamiliar with How our bulletin is laid out. You'll see that sermonic idea laid out for you at the end of the morning liturgy. Let me just reiterate that our freedom as Christians is grounded in love and seeks the edification of other believers. as its goal. Now if you listen to that idea very carefully, it breaks down into two components. And the first part is our first point in verses one through six this morning. Christian freedom and knowledge versus love. I want to look here in verses one through three first at the contrast between knowledge and love. Now, the situation that that Paul is dealing with in question here relates to something the Corinthians wrote Paul about. We see this if you go back and look at the beginning of chapter 7, verse 1, he writes, now concerning the matters about which you wrote, verse one of chapter eight begins very similarly now concerning and then it gives a situational issue And the situation Paul is dealing with that the Corinthians wrote to him about, seeking clarity, was whether or not true Christians can eat meat that was sacrificed to pagan idols in pagan temples. Some of these Christians in Corinth were arguing yes. Christians certainly have the freedom and the gospel to eat such meat because the food restrictions from the law of Moses have been done away with. And God declared all foods clean. Other Christians were arguing that Christians do not have this freedom in the gospel. Because after all, when we talk about meat that was sacrificed to idols, it is meat that is, by definition, polluted by idolatry. And therefore, we shouldn't eat these things. and pollute ourselves. And so so they're asking for clarity on this kind of question. It's a question that is unique to their context, unique to their time. And I'm just going to put this right up front. I'm not really sure that any of us in this room are asking the question, should we be eating meat sacrificed to idols? There's a principle we're going to draw out by looking at the details of their situation, and we'll seek to apply that principle to ourselves today, because our context is quite different. But the question is, what should they do? And Paul begins to answer this question, beginning here in chapter 8, verse 1, and he goes all the way to chapter 11, verse 1, just to answer this one. questions. So what we look at this morning is really the beginning of his answer. And we begin in verses 1 and 2 by looking at the end and the danger of knowledge. It tells us a little bit about how the Corinthians were approaching this issue. Look with me at verses 1 and 2. And he writes, Now concerning food offered to idols, we know that all of us possess knowledge. Let's cut that off right there for a minute. Now I want to be selective in what I'm saying here because I want to break this into two different categories. I want to break this into knowledge, and then I want to look at love. So let's look at the knowledge part first. Verse 1, we all know that all of us possess knowledge. Now he goes on to say in verse 1, this knowledge puffs up. I want to stop there and jump to verse 2 really quick. Because he mentions knowledge again in verse 2. If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know. Now again, we'll look at the part on love in just a second. Focus on knowledge and what he says here. Notice when I say the end and danger of knowledge in verses 1 and 2. What is the end of the result of knowledge? He says it right here. Knowledge has the potential to puff people up. That word in Greek for puff up or puff people up is the same root word that is used in other places for pride. For pride. Now it's interesting that that pride theme comes up. If you were in Sunday school this morning, we looked at Esther chapter 8 and pride was the major issue. Knowledge has the potential to make people prideful. Why is that? Because knowledge by definition is turned inward on oneself Knowledge is concerned with what one knows themselves. By the way, I just want to say it doesn't mean that knowledge is bad. Paul doesn't say that. In fact, in other places, when we get to 1 Corinthians 12, knowledge will be listed as one of the spiritual gifts. Knowledge is a good thing. Knowledge is something that is necessary for the Christian life. But Regarding what Paul says in verse 2 about the nature of knowledge, if anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know. What is he getting at there? Well, one commentator says this. Because the acquisition of knowledge about spiritual things should ultimately lead to the benefit of other believers. Paul goes on to question whether the Corinthians really do have the knowledge that they ought to have. Because certain Christians in Corinth are using their knowledge to vaunt themselves up rather than to build up other believers in love, they really do not have the knowledge that they ought to have. True knowledge involves not merely knowing certain bits of data, but living in a way that pleases God. And so what some of these Corinthians were doing is they're using knowledge, they're using what they believe about God and about Christ and things that they truly know that as we'll see in this passage are true. They're using those things to justify certain courses of action that are not loving towards other believers, towards weaker believers, as Paul will call them. Or we could say newer believers. They're using that knowledge to do things that in the gospel they might, I'm saying might have freedom to do But it becomes just it becomes like saying just because we could does not always mean we should, and that's what Paul is going to get at in this passage. So knowledge can puff people up and it can lead to not knowing as we really ought to know. Let's look at verses 1 and then verse 3. Let's contrast that by looking at the end or the result and the nature of love. Now again, he contrasts knowledge with love in verse 1 saying, this knowledge puffs up, but love builds up. And again, Paul's point here is that knowledge can be used selfishly, like the Corinthians were doing, to justify certain courses of action. But love always, by definition, looks outward. Think about it. When you talk about love, there's somebody who loves and then there's someone receiving love. There's a lover and a beloved. By definition. So by definition, when Paul says that love builds up, it's because love looks outward, not inward, at the self. It's not selfish, it seeks the benefit of others. And again, contrasting what he says about not knowing as they should, verse 3 says, but if anyone loves God, he is known by God. Now that's really interesting. There's two results to love. And I'm going to kind of put them logically, not the way Paul. says them in the order he writes it. The first is that those who love God are known by God. And the the beautiful thing about that is the way Paul words that is notice he says, those who love are known by God. He's been talking about knowledge all this time. But in the context, that word love known by God has the nuance or the connotation of being loved by God. Those who love God open themselves up to receiving love from God. And the result of that is they love other people and they build other people up. So let me put that in kind of more of a linear logical statement here for you. When we love God, we are known by God by receiving his love for us, which then allows us to turn around and love other people in the way that we make decisions and how we use our Christian liberty and our Christian freedom. Now we need to take a step back because Paul does moving forward. He actually takes a step back and he looks at how the Corinthians use their knowledge to justify eating meat. sacrifice to idols. Now as I read this passage, I'm inclined to think that probably the majority of the Corinthian believers are those that are basing their ethics on knowledge rather than love, which is the problem. And that it's the majority of the Christians that are using that knowledge to justify eating meat to idols. And we see this in ch in uh verses four through six. He takes their argument, he examines it, and he works through it. And he's going to show how that argument will fall short of the mark of love. Let's look at verses 1 through 4 again. We see the situation that requires knowledge in Corinth. Again, we're talking about eating food offered to idols. That's what he says in verse 1. Now concerning food offered to idols, verse 4. Now therefore, as to eating of food offered to idols, that's the common situation. In Corinth at that time, that would not have been an uncommon thing. Corinth was a major city in the Roman Empire. It was known for its sexual morality, as we've seen, but it was also known for many different temples. uh that of idolatry. And in those temples it was common for meat to be sacrificed to a pagan god, then to be made available for sale in the marketplace or at a dining venue. where social events in the community would have occurred. And some of the Corinthians, again, I'm thinking maybe the majority of them had no problem eating the meat offered to an idol. because of the knowledge, let's just say theological knowledge that they had. Let's break that down here. Let's see, we see in verses 5 and 6 the knowledgeable contrast between God's and Lords. This is how they argue their position. And by the way, before we jump into that, I want you to notice Paul does not refute their line of reasoning. Paul is not going to tell them in this passage, your thinking is wrong. He's not going to tell them your theology is wrong. What he's going to do is tell them how they're applying their correct theology is wrong. Let's look at what they say. Verse 4. They argue for the real existence of only one God. We know that an idol has no real existence, and that there is no God but one. Now I want to translate that first part of that phrase. There's a part that the ESV doesn't really translate very well, but it should say, an idol is nothing in the world. That phrase in the world is important. And what that means, what Paul is saying here, is that, look, while there are in fact idols that people set up in the world, I mean, the pagans had their idols, they had temples. The gods behind those various idols do not actually exist in reality as people imagine. They have idols to Zeus, they have idols to Apollo, they have idols to Hera, and so on and so forth. Those idols, those gods don't really exist. Zeus is not real. And that's the point that the Corinthians are arguing. Those idols do not correspond to reality. And by the way, that is true. I mean we can remember when Elijah in 1 Kings chapter 18 is mocking Baal as the prophets of Baal are crying out for him to throw down fire from heaven and Elijah mocks them. You remember what he said? Cry aloud, for he is a God. Either he is musing or he's relieving himself, in other words, going to the bathroom. That's really kind of nasty, but or he is on a journey or perhaps he is asleep or must be awakened. He could say that because Baal never really existed. Their belief doesn't correspond to reality. And by the way, so far this argument is sound. It is true what the Corinthians are saying here. You know, there's there is no God but one. The idols don't have real existence. The second part of their argument in verse 5 uh looks to the fact that there are many gods and lords among the pagans. And it just simply acknowledges the situation. For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth, Indeed, there are many gods and many lords. I mean, in the pagan mindset, the gods were in heaven, Zeus, all these other gods. Lords, such as maybe Achilles or Hercules or even Caesar in that context were on the earth. But again, pay attention to that language of gods and lords. Paul picks it up. And he contrasts it in verse 6. But again, so far the argument is sound. That's true. Pagans do acknowledge many gods and many lords in heaven and on the earth. Verse six Yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom all things exist. for whom we exist, and one Lord Jesus Christ, to whom are all things, and through whom we exist. Again, notice the God's and Lord's language is taken up again The God is applied to God the Father. He's the one God who exists truly and the one Lord Jesus Christ, respectively. I think that's fascinating because he just said there's many gods in heaven and many lords on the earth. God the Father is in heaven. The Lord Jesus Christ came down in the incarnation and walked the earth. Interesting how he parallels that, but look at what he says here. God the Father is the one from whom all things exist and for whom we exist. Think about how that would relate to this idea of eating food sacrificed to idols. These Corinthians could read the Old Testament, they could read Psalm 50. Verses 10 and 11 and read that that God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. And then by the fact that he's the creator, he created all these animals. They come from him that have been killed. And so they could argue that since the meat that comes from the animals ultimately comes from God and is owned by him, therefore we should be able to eat meat that is sacrificed to idols. Why not? By the way, when you take a step back and you look at this argument, there's nothing false about what they're saying theologically They are using their knowledge to try to make an ethical decision as to whether or not they should eat meat sacrificed to idols. And yet, despite the fact that this makes a lot of sense, there's a spoiler alert for our second point. Paul is not going to agree with them in the end. Isn't it interesting? But something might make sense here. But it's not going to make sense here There is such thing as a cognitive dissonance between the head and the heart, and that's what Paul is going to get at here. The main point of application here, when we think about what basis our free Christian freedom is built on and rests on, our application point is that love rather than knowledge is the basis on which our freedom as Christians is built upon. That might come as a shock to many of us here. But love, if you go back to what he says about love. Builds up other people while knowledge puffs up. That's what Paul is doing here. He's basing the Christian ethic on love, not on knowledge And I think that if we actually look at this and we look at the context of what Paul is getting at here, as he talks about Christian freedom, it Christian freedom, brothers and sisters, reveals that life contains gray areas. Where maybe the right course of action is not something that is as obvious as we'd like it to be Now I'll kind of throw myself under the bus here and say when I was younger, I was a very black and white type of individual. Something was either right or it was wrong. Intellectually. Morally, it was either good or bad, and that was it. In my mind, there was not a lot of gray areas And I remember one of my pastoral mentors pulling me aside one week after a conversation I was having with someone that he wasn't pleased with. And I remember him telling me that, look, One of the things you're going to have to acknowledge if you want to go into ministry is not everything is black and white. And I remember him telling me, I know that you want to be a young man of principle. And that's good. You should have your principles. But you have to understand how to apply those principles in gray areas and gray situations. Because people are not as cut and dry as you think that they should be. That was quite a conversation for me to have. And this is what Paul is doing here, brothers and sisters. He's trying to navigate the complexities of things that Christians will have to decide on in life. And he's trying to do so in a situation that's relevant to his time. Now, again, most of us are not worried about whether or not we're going to eat meat sacrificed to idols living here in Baltimore and Carroll County. But it's the principle that he's after. Some of you are going to have to navigate questions such as like, for example, where you want to send your kids to school or how you're going to educate them or what kinds of medical services you will allow yourselves yourselves to take such as vaccines I believe COVID kind of opened up a lot of those gray areas for us to have to wrestle with. And people came down as Christians on different sides of different positions. Those are just examples of gray areas that we have to understand Christians under the gospel have the freedom to make their own decisions. And it doesn't mean one person is more spiritual or less spiritual. There are gray areas to the Christian life. There are nuances to reality that we as Christians have to wrestle with. Think of it like this. In the Old Testament, God's people had received a law that told them cut and dry, black and white, what to do. Paul argues in Galatians chapter 3 that they were like children under a schoolmaster who needed very strict laws to show them what to do. But it came a point redemptive historically where God's people had matured now that Christ had come. They'd been given freedom They are not under the schoolmaster anymore that leaves things cut and dry. Maturity requires careful thinking through nuanced things in the Christian life. And as we do that, yes, principle and theology and knowledge is important, but Christian freedom, brothers and sisters, is ultimately built on love. Now one of the things I think that this is so hard for us in the reformed part of the Christian church to wrestle with is um One of our strengths is our commitment to theological truth and being biblically faithful. And that's a good thing, by the way. That 's the strength. But one of the dangers we might run into is prioritizing knowledge, head knowledge over love, like the Corinthians were doing in this particular passage. And again, it's not an issue of don't pursue knowledge. We're called to have knowledge, but we're called to apply it in a framework and in a context. of love that seeks to bless and build up others around us C. S. Lewis kind of gets at this dynamic in his book, The Abolition of Man. If you haven't read that, you really should read that. It's a really short read of maybe 75 pages. It's not a 300-page book, but he makes some really important observations there talking about education. And he's talking in the 1950s, I believe. He wrote it, I think it was in the early 50s. He's talking about education in England at that time, and he's talking about how one of the things we have done in modern education is we've stripped education of any concern of the heart. The idea is we just fill people's heads and their brain with knowledge and facts and data, and yet because we don't develop the conscience, we don't develop the character, we don't develop the affections, we miss the heart. What we end up with as a result is people who have swelled heads, to use Paul's analogy, puffed up, and we have little chests. We haven't connected the knowledge to ethics and what is morally right and wrong and how that hits the heart. And you know one i one illustration of this, this becoming very problematic in our society, that makes that point very clearly, look at the rapid spread and development of technology. We are living in a technological revolution. in our day and age. You know, think of how computers work, the internet. Let's think about how AI has has is developing now. And there's all kinds of applications for AI. Think about how reproductive technology has worked and then all of the moral questions that people have had to wrestle with with that. My point is there there's been this explosion of knowledge that is increased in our day and age, and it is outpacing the ability to think through how does this hit the heart and the conscience And how do we use this technology in moral ways? Brothers and sisters, the Christian life is becoming very complex in our day and age because of some of these things. And what Paul is urging us to say is, look, don't base your sense of what you should do with your Christian freedom based on what you know and that's it. Base it on what is going to be conducive to building up, edifying, and blessing those around you. There are things that you may be able to do with your Christian freedom that in certain moments or contexts may not be the wisest thing to do because it might tear another brother or sister down. And that's what he's getting at in his second point here, Christian freedom and edification in verses 7 through 13. And what he does here is really interesting. He just built up this argument in verses 4 through 6 that makes perfect logical sense Now he's going to interact with how that hits the heart. Look at verses 7 through 9. We see the stumbling block of knowledge to edification. He shows that what it must look like to take other believers and building them up into account. When we fail to do this , The way we apply knowledge can become a stumbling block for those around us, brothers and sisters whom we are called to love. Look at verse 7. This is he hits at what's what stumbling that happens when knowledge has not touched the conscience. Look at verse 7. However , He just made this argument. However, not all possess this knowledge. But some through former association with idols eat food as really offered to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. What is he getting at there? When he says that not everyone has this knowledge, what he's essentially saying is there are new believers in the Church of Corinth who perhaps Came out of this idle worship and this idle practice and going to this temples and eating these meats sacrificed to idols And for them, they may know it up here, but what they know up here has not filtered down into their heart and reshaped their conscience, making this okay for them. So that for them, when they see somebody eating meat to an idol, they're thinking to themselves, well, that is what God just saved me out of. Why would I want to go back to that? And then they might see other Christians who have knowledge and have a mature conscience eating meat, sacrificed to idols, and having no qualms about it, they might struggle with that. They're like, well, wait a minute. I just came out of that. Why is this other Christian doing what God has just saved me from? You see, the knowledge has not shaped and redeemed their conscience just yet. They're saved. But they're just not as spiritually mature. And so that argument from knowledge has not penetrated their heart. They are not free in their conscience to partake of such meat. And Paul gives a warning in verses 8 and 9, the warning of how we apply our knowledge to Christian freedom. Now look at verse 8. This again is kind of like the Corinthians giving a rebuttal to Paul's argument. It says, food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, and we're no better off if we do eat. Is that true? Yeah. And after all What does Paul say in Romans 14, 17? The kingdom of God is not about eating and drinking, but it's about righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. It seems like these Corinthians have been listening to Paul. They're trying to take seriously what he says. I mean, after all, again, the food laws have been abrogated from the Old Testament. So what's the big deal? Is kind of what they're asking in verse 8. Paul answers in verse 9, but take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block for the weak. By the way, I think verse 9 is the key. This is the application of love, is the basis of decision regarding Christian freedom. You may have a right to something in the gospel, such as food or drink. But it will be a stumbling block for a brother with a weaker conscience, it may be a stumbling block for a brother with a weaker conscience. Or maybe you're trying to reach out to somebody evangelistically. I'll give a modern-day example. Let's say you have a Muslim friend at work. And you're getting to know them and you've got a good friendship going and you want to share Christ with them. Well, if you invite them over to your house for pizza and a movie. And you order like a cheese and sausage pizza, and Muslims aren't supposed to eat pork, that might kill your witness. You might have the right to eat a cheese and sausage pizza because in you know in the New Testament we thank God we can have pork. You know, having a nice BLT is a good thing. But for a Muslim it might kill your witness. You have the freedom to do it. But just because you have the freedom to do it doesn't mean you should. That's what Paul gets at in verses 10 to 13. The gospel needs to be our center focus as the means of edification. This is how we apply love. Look what he does in verses 10 through 12. Christ didn't demand his rights and his freedom in redeeming us. Take a look at that. For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will he not be encouraged if his conscience is weak to eat food offered to idols? By the way, when you look at verse 10, that basically what Paul is saying is, monkey see, monkey do. If a weak Christian sees a stronger Christian with a stronger conscience able to eat meat in an idol temple, he's going to think, look, this is what mature Christians do, and if I want to be a mature Christian, I need to go do that. And then he does it. But the problem is his conscience isn't ready for it. He's not mature enough for that. And so what does he do? He ends up walking away feeling guilty and his conscience is defiled. And so your freedom then turned into something that was injurious to a brother or sister. And then he says, and so verse 11, by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed. Notice what he says here. The brother for whom Christ died. The love that we should have towards a brother or sister in Christ should should really trump anything else in our consideration. What is going to be best for them? Why because Christ died for them? Think about how that points back to the gospel. Think about how how that relates to Christ. Do you remember in the Garden of Gethsemane what Jesus said when he was praying? Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, but not what I will, what you will. And then what did he do? He submitted to his father. Did Christ have to go to the cross? And pay the penalty of sin? The answer is really no. He was not the sinner. And yet look what he did. Christ laid down his right. For the benefit of others and the salvation of others whom he loved. That should be the attitude. And Paul illustrates that in verse thirteen by saying, he's saying, This gospel attitude of sacrificing our rights For the benefit of others is something I am willing to do. Look what he says in verse 13. He makes it very clear. Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble. Paul is willing to lay down his rights. And so that leaves us with the question: what is the goal for how we utilize our freedom as Christians? The goal for how we utilize our freedom as Christians is to reflect the reality of the gospel and seeking the building up of other believers. What does this mean by the way we use freedom? And we don't ask this question very often of ourselves, if we're honest. The gospel calls us to live sacrificially for others in how we use our Christian freedom. It is interesting to me that we live in an age, a day and age, in which everyone these days seems to be demanding their rights in the civil sphere and making arguments to that end. What's interesting to me is when I watch Christians do this, they're arguing for demanding their rights. Now, I'm not, there is a place for the civil sphere and justice in that sphere, but I'm speaking as a Christian, as part of the body of Christ this morning. Gordon Fee in his commentary says this, the real concern of the passage, of this passage, needs a regular hearing in the church. Personal behavior is not dictated by knowledge, freedom, or law, but by love for those within the community of faith. Everything one does that affects relationships within the body of Christ should have care for brothers and sisters as its primary motivation. And so the gospel pattern of love demonstrated by Christ is to lay down our rights when it means loving and building up brothers and sisters in the faith. What this should do for us, each of us, this morning, is cause us to take a step back and ask ourselves, what is it that I might have a right to today as a Christian that I might need to lay down? the right of for the sake of loving those around me and building them up Husbands, what might you need to lay down for the blessing of your wife and your children this morning? Wives, what might you need to lay down that you might have a right to in the gospel in order to be a blessing to your husband and your children? Single people, what might you have a right to that you might need to lay down for the sake of being a blessing to your families or your church family here at Liberty? Look, we can multiply these kinds of questions Right. And I'm going to be very honest with you. This is maybe where my shortcoming as a preacher comes in. It is very difficult to get more specific than that. this morning when the nature of Christian freedom is so broad. But it should ask us about how we love one another's one another first and foremost. And this is the hard part about the gospel. Or what some theologians call bear cruciformity, bearing your cross. The gospel calls us to lay down our rights at times for the sake of blessing others, for the sake of refreshing them, or building them up. And I'm going to be asking myself this week, and I hope you do as well, what might that look like for me this week? We've all heard the statement before, you can win the argument and lose the person. This is what happens when we use our Christian freedom merely from a position of knowledge and being right rather than a position of love and care for other people. If we're honest, when that happens, people can feel manipulated, they can feel used, or they can even feel ignored or sidelined. And that's what we want to avoid as Christians who have a tremendous amount of freedom that also comes with responsibility. Because our freedom, brothers and sisters, as Christians, is grounded in love and seeks the edification of other believers as its God. Let's pray. Holy Father, we do thank you this morning for the tremendous amount of freedom that we have as Christians. Lord, we are we're free from the yoke of sin. We're free from its bondage. We're free from the sentence of death. Because of Jesus Christ, who laid down his rights so that we might be saved. Lord, when it comes to Christian freedom, this is a doctrine and a reality of Christian life. That can be so multifaceted, at times maybe complex. Lord, I pray for our church family this morning That you would give each and every one of us, yes, knowledge and maturity through knowledge and truth. But that you would give us a maturity that is characterized, O Lord, by Christian love. So that when people come into our church, Lord, they would sense That these people love each other and they have been shaped by the love of Jesus. Father, we ask that you would continue the work of transforming us. Into the image of your precious Son Jesus. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.