Luke chapter 5. We're going to be looking at verses twelve through twenty-six. At this point in the gospel of Luke, Jesus has been calling his disciples. And rather than take them to a school or a seminary, which is what I had to do, he teaches them in the real world of ministry. And Jesus leaves the countryside briefly, and he enters into the big city, so to speak. And uh it's an unnamed city. It's probably in the region of Galilee. The identification of the city is not important to Luke. It's what Jesus does in the city, and it's who comes to Jesus. In the city as Jesus is walking in the streets, a leper approaches him. And not just mild case of leprosy, this is advanced stage leprosy As Luke puts it, he is full of leprosy. Now we think of leprosy, at least I did, as an ancient disease. That's no longer here. Actually, there's uh about two hundred and fifty thousand cases of leprosy annually worldwide. There's about one hundred and fifty in America. It's known as Hansen's disease. And a strange fact, uh armadillos apparently carry it. I had no idea, so avoid those things And it's caused by uh bacterium. It's easily treatable with modern medicine, but unfortunately in Jesus' day no such medicine existed and left untreated It could cause terrible lesions on your skin. It could cause even paralysis. It is a type of disease that's mind-boggling. to fathom. And I'll spare you the details. But suffice it to say, if someone had advanced leprosy, they would be uh ostracized in the ancient world. For fear of themselves contracting such a terrible disease. And isn't it interesting that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ would perform one of his first miracles of healing? On a leper. Why? Because of all the ailments in the ancient world, none were perhaps as socially stigmatizing as leprosy. Not only would you suffer from using terrible lesions and perhaps even paralysis, but everyone wanted you quarantined. And this is not normal with other ailments, with paralysis or blindness or deafness. Everyone knew in the ancient world that you can't catch blindness from someone who is blind, but that's not the case with leprosy. And for those who were inflicted with leprosy, there was very little care for them. Instead, they were relegated to the outskirts of society, never allowed to integrate or intermingle with the rest of humanity. So this disease had both serious physical, social, and psychological ramifications. The people who suffered from leprosy were hurting physically, and they were hurting. Socially, they were friendless. And it 's this type of outcast who comes to Jesus to be healed. It says here in Luke that the leper sees Jesus and he falls on his face and he begins to beg Jesus, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. Now there are a few things that I want you to notice here. First, he probably sees Jesus from a distance. Probably hears of Jesus coming. And uh he probably, this is all happening uh at least at some distance, since normally those with leprosy and certainly advanced stages of leprosy would be confined to certain areas. Or at least they they certainly wouldn't be in the midst of a crowd of people. So Jesus was passing by and this leper runs up to Jesus and falls on his face And asks to be healed. And in doing so, the leper most certainly had to disregard the multiple gasps and shrieks and rebukes that came from the crowd. And it came from normal normally from a leper running into a crowded area. But the leper didn't care. And the leper says Lord, he immediately realizes that Jesus is no ordinary man. He doesn't come to Jesus as teacher or good sir. Or Dr. Jesus. He says Lord. He realizes that Jesus has complete authority and sovereignty over the sickness. The leper understands that it's merely of the will of Jesus, the desire of Jesus. And this disease could be gone. If you will If you will. What a challenging statement for us to say today. If you will. If you will is submitting ourselves and our supposed sovereignty to the true King The true sovereign. If you will is surrendering our plans or our ambitions to the one who is in charge. And those three simple words, if you will, convey more truth in so many of the books, theological books written by learned theologians. It's a simple and profound faith. And it's a wonderful example to us, Liberty Church. When we are faced with trials of various kinds, Some of them severe, probably most of them not like incurable leprosy. We must never lose sight of the fact that our God is completely sovereign He sits in the throne of heaven, the earth is his footstool. He causes the rain to fall, the sun to shine, he holds the stars in his hand and calls them each by name and not a single bird lands on earth without his expressed and purposed intention of it doing so. He is in control. He is the God of the cosmos. Should we not approach him with these three simple words as well? If you will? How often do we not? How often do we not approach God in that posture? It's amazing to me at uh how such an early age children can believe that they're the sovereign rulers of the household. I don't know if you experience that. I don't think Evelina truly believes that, but it it's what I call temporary insanity in a moment of that. When all of a sudden she is in her mind crowned queen of Moretto land. And uh somehow a a hand raises to her hips when she begins talking. And at times it it's actually quite amusing. Except for the sobering truth in the back of my mind that I see grown men and women who never forget Who think that that is who they are, that they are actually the king and queen of their own land. And they're delusional. Rather than saying to God, if you will , these people stuck in their own reality have this false impression that they're the Lord of their own lives. And they say, If I will. And during our men's Bible study on Saturday morning, we've been studying the book of Daniel, and we've been looking at men like Nebuchadnezzar. and Belshazzar, and we see this delusion playing out in them. And for a time, God may allow it. It may even be amusing, like it is with my daughter. But there will be a reckoning And God will call to account. And he will reveal to every man and every woman who the true king is. As Philippians says, every knee will bow. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And brothers and sisters, our opportunity is not to wait, but to do that now. To acknowledge that God is the sovereign over our lives. We're not the Lord. It's not if I will, it's if He wills, if you will If you will, he says. And then he affirms Jesus' sovereign power by saying this, you can make me clean. It's not, if you will, you can try to make me clean. There's no sense of doubt here. And there's this sovereign will That kisses in heaven the sovereign power, and it results in this beautiful act of mercy, grace, and kindness towards the leper. Those two things are important, the sovereign will, the sovereign desire, and the sovereign power. If someone wants to do something good, but they can't They're helpless. They're powerless. If someone doesn't want to do something good, yet does it anyway, they're resentful. But God wants to do good, and he does do good. His hand is not forced. No one twists God's arm behind his back. No No one forces him to do anything. He longs to pour out blessing upon his children. And no one with strains God. No one says to God, that's too much. He lavishly lavishly pours out blessing on all of his creation and especially on his children. And Jesus, in his wonderful mercy, conveys this eternal, timeless truth of God to the leper by saying this, I will. Be clean. I will be clean. The sovereign will combine with the sovereign power. But then all of a sudden Jesus says something very strange, doesn't he? And he often does this. You think that things are going in a certain way, a certain trajectory, and all of a sudden Jesus throws a curved ball. Look what he says here. Tell no one, but go show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing as Moses commanded for a proof to them. Why did Jesus do this? Tell no one. I thought Jesus wanted the world to know that he has come, yes. He does want the world to know, but again, in his sovereign timing, in his sovereign way. But what about this part, this offering that Moses commanded? What is this all about? Well there's a key word. There's one word that the leper uses. Clean. The leprechaun could have just said, if you will, you can make me healed In fact, that is actually the more common phrase. The word for healed is different than the word for clean. The word for healed is used much more frequently, especially with physical ailments. Right before this in Luke 4, Jesus quotes the proverb, physician, heal yourself. That's this word for healing. It's different than the word for clean. Again in Luke 4 it says that Jesus laid hands on every one of them and healed them. And this is the normal word for healing. Someone with a physical disease or infirmity. In fact, after this, Luke will never again in the gospel use clean to describe a physical condition. This is the last time. But the leper comes to him and says, If you will, you can make me clean. What does being clean have to do with being healed? Being clean has to do with being healed spiritually. Being clean has to do with being right before God. Being clean means you are presentable to God Almighty. Being unclean means that you cannot In your unclean state, provide the kind of worship that God requires. We often think that we can approach God any way we want, but God requires holiness. He is holy, holy, holy. And he requires his people to worship him in a certain way, in a certain holiness. He is set apart from the rest of the world. And God established this dichotomy way back in the Old Testament between clean and unclean. And it's to foreshadow a greater dichotomy. The dichotomy of clean and unclean hearts. The dichotomy of a spiritual uncleanliness. And perhaps the leper saw this by faith. He saw this deeper, greater spiritual issue, even greater than his leprosy. But this is not just the lepers' problem. It's our problem as well. We all stand before God as unclean. All of our best deeds, Isaiah says, are filthy rags. We are not presentable to God. We cannot provide the kind of worship that God requires. Our wicked, vile hearts have spoiled us. Spoiled us in a sense of made us rotten. Our hearts are raised against God. We cannot approach him. He is so holy. He's in inapproachable light, and we are in darkness. And on top of this, our uncleanliness is deceptive. You know, for a leper who's walking around, it's very clear to everybody. It's very clear to himself that he's a leper, that he has a disease, that he has problems. And we often look at outward appearances and to us The church in the 21st century, it's not readily apparent that we're unclean. We don't have any skin lesions. We don't have any major stains on our clothes. We're in church. And we think to ourselves, I must be clean. What are you basing your cleanliness on before God? What are you basing your cleanliness on? Because there's a whole group of people in the Bible that Jesus condemns as thinking that they're clean when they're really not. And my prayer is that that would never be said about Liberty Church. There's a whole group of people that are here in this story and that are going to be present throughout the Gospel of Luke. Called Pharisees, scribes, teachers of the law. And a place in Matthew 23, Jesus says, woe to you Cursed be you, Pharisees and teachers of the law, hypocrites. You clean the outside of the cup, but inside you're filthy. The question that we all must ask, is Jesus talking about us? Is Jesus talking about you specifically? Are you one who washes yourself, the outside of yourself, very well by performing Religious duties exceptionally, but on the inside you're full of dirt We need to be clean. But if you are trusting in anything other than the shed blood of Jesus Christ, you're filthy. Jesus' blood is the only thing that can turn the darkest sin, the deepest stain, whitest snow. And see, when the leper says, make me clean, what Jesus really hears him saying Isn't make me clean. He's hearing him say, make me right before God. Make me so that I can stand before my creator. And that is exactly what Jesus has come to do, and he has the power to do it instantly. Now, that's fascinating because Something that you have to understand about leprosy in the Old Testament is that there was a lot to do to make someone ceremonially clean. In the Old Testament. There's a whole book of the Old Testament for the priests. And it's a priestly code. It's called Leviticus. And it's a book that tells people how to have proper worship. Levi is a priest, was the first priest, and so it's the Leviticus, Leviticus is the book that contains all these regulations and rules. And cleanliness is a big deal in Leviticus. Of the 120 or so instances of the word clean in the Old Testament, over a third of them occur in one book, the book of Leviticus. And in Leviticus, there's an entire chapter devoted to helping a leper or ensuring that a leper becomes clean when they were formerly unclean. This is Leviticus fourteen. And this chapter has to do with the priests examining them. They have to be washed, they have to sacrifice various animals. Priest will sprinkle the leper seven times. I mean, it's just on and on and on. It's an extensive procedure that can span over the course of many days. But the important point is this: the priests never heal the leprosy. They can only wait for it to pass. That's their whole role. So when it's gone, then we'll take you through this process. But what does Christ do? Be clean like that. instantaneously and the leprosy leaves the man it says Christ forgoes all the rigmarole he skips all the rituals and he pronounces In a heartbeat, in an instant, you are both healed and clean. He did it both. And Jesus knew that the ceremonies involved in worship reflected this deeper truth. How can I be clean before my God? How can I be clean before my Creator? And Jesus solves this dilemma by declaring clean or presentable or approachable. So all those who come by faith to Christ, all those who look to Christ by faith, he declares clean in the sight of God. And all the Pharisees. And all the scribes are seeing this scene play out, and they must have been saying to themselves, Who does this guy think he is? Some kind of special priest? It's exactly what Jesus is. He is the Levite of all Levites, the priest of all priests. He is the great high priest who with a single word makes the leper clean, who with a single word declares, I have come to save sinners, who with a single word declares, as he was dying upon the cross, it is finished. And with a single word declares to all those Who are now clean to go and tell the good news of what I've done for you. That is our high priest. And this is the point of why Jesus tells the leper to go back to the temple, to be a witness To the priests. Go tell them what just happened. You became clean instantly. You're healed of your leprosy. The former leper was to show them that being unclean is a matter of the heart, not of the skin. But no surprise, the priest would not listen. So Jesus Needs to anti up. The next healing is about to do just that. He's going to heal a paralytic And these scenes are placed together for theological purposes. We talked about that last week, not for chronological. There's a reason. It's building up. The paralytic here is not unclean per se, but he is unable. He's unable To move on his own. He's unable to come to Christ on his own. And the scene here is ripe with tension. Jesus is in town, but we don't know how long. Jesus is healing people, but we don't know how long. And our friend here is paralyzed. And so we're going to bring him to Jesus. And they come to Jesus, and it's a packed house. And they can't get in. And lesser friends, lesser friends would say, Johnny, sorry, let's just try again next time. But not these friends. They begin to tear a hole in the roof. We need friends like that. Are you that type of friend? And Jesus sees their faith as he's teaching and the roof is starting to cave in above him, and he sees their faith, all of their faith, and he says to them , You are healed. Now, it's not just the faith of the friends. I've heard this said before. Some people have used this as an allegory to say this is kind of like me bringing my lost friends. To Jesus. That's not true. That's not right. Jesus doesn't heal the paralytic based upon the faith of his friends. It's the faith of the paralyzed man, along with his friends, who believes. And Jesus looks up at these men repelling down the hole in the roof, and he says, Man, your sins are forgiven you. Jesus goes straight to the uncleanliness of the heart. He doesn't even bother stopping at the legs. It's like Jesus has this vision, like this, you know, it's not this, but it's like a medical contraption, like some type of imaging device where he can see broken bones and he can see lesions. on the skin, but what really stands out in the x-ray is a sinful heart. And Jesus says, that's your problem. We are all in the same predicament. We attribute our problems in life to so many things, our circumstances, our health, our jobs, our security, our finances. And what Jesus attributes our problem to, first and foremost, primarily, is this a wicked and deceitful heart. Our sins must be forgiven. Our heart must be changed. Not only the sins that we committed yesterday, which are countless, but the sins that you've committed today and the sins that you're going to commit tomorrow, which are countless. And the Pharisees and scribes realized what Jesus had done in addressing this larger problem, and again they say, Who do you think you are? And now they don't say some kind of special priest, no, they say, who do you think you are? God? Yes. He is God. And to show his sovereign power and will over the entire cosmos, he says to the paralytic, pick up your bed and walk. Now to the scribes and Pharisees, the lesser was actually greater. They thought it was easier to say your sins are forgiven. Than to say to someone paralyzed, pick up your bed and walk home. But Jesus did that just as a proof for them. He knew which one was truly greater. Which one was truly greater to say, pick up your bed and walk, or to say, your sins are forgiven? He knew that to say your sins are forgiven, and to mean it was the greatest miracle and the greatest act of all. For in order for that to happen Christ, the Son of God, had to stand in the place of the sinner. The Son of God had to make payment. For the sins of the leper and the sins of the paralytic, and for our sins as well. You see, the Son of God was no leper Actually, the Bible makes it very clear over and over again that he was perfect. He was spotless, the spotless Lamb of God. He was no leper. But in the Old Testament, when you touched a leper, what happens? You became unclean. And when Jesus reaches out his hand and touches the leper, immediately the man is healed, but Jesus becomes unclean. Jesus took the leprosy of the man upon himself. He became unclean in the place of the leper. He took the leper's place as the one that cannot be presentable to God, the one that cannot approach God. Jesus Christ is the one that stood in his place and said, I will be the unclean one. And Jesus Christ is no paralytic, but by his sovereign will, he allowed his body to be crushed. To be broken on our behalf, his hands and feet nailed to a cross. He was no paralytic, but he became a paralytic On your behalf. He stood in our place. Jesus entered into our misery. He entered into our pain in order that we may find life. In his forgiveness. And everyone here, anyone here who has never placed your faith in Jesus Christ, who has never had Jesus Christ stand in your place. Today is the day of salvation. Repent and believe in the good news that Jesus Christ has come for the leper, for the paralytic, for the sinner. Trust in him. He has done it. He has paid all of your sins on the cross. And if Jesus has made you clean. Let us be men and women who respond just like this paralyticus when he is healed. Immediately rose up. Picks up his mat, goes home, glorifying God. Let us be a people like that, Liberty Church, who healed by Lord Jesus, of our greatest disease, the disease of sin and death, we now pick up our mat, glorifying God and telling all of the good news of what Christ has done for you. Let us pray. Father, we come before you not as righteous, but as sinners. And we come asking for mercy and grace. We ask that you would heal us, O God, cleanse us of all our unrighteousness. And this only can happen through the shed blood of your Son Jesus Christ. Those of us who are in you, O God, I pray that we would come afresh. And that we would realize that we are in desperate need, not just years ago, but today and tomorrow. I do pray, I pray, O God, that if there is anyone here who does not know the salvation that's found in you, Who has not had you stand in their place as the guilty sinner. And I pray that today they would repent of their sins and put their faith in you and pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.