If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter 6 , A Passage. We have Jesus continuing his rebuke of the Pharisees. For those who don't know, the Pharisees were a group of men in ancient Israel who were experts of the law. And of whom the Apostle Paul was one of before his conversion. These were not priests, so they didn't control the temple. But they were greatly concerned with the interpretation of the Torah or the Old Testament. And last week, if you recall, Jesus confronted the Pharisees' interpretation of laws of ceremonial cleanliness, what it means to be clean and what it means to be unclean. In our passage this morning, Jesus sets his sights on the Pharisees' interpretation of the Sabbath. What you can do on the Sabbath and what you cannot do on the Sabbath. Now let me just start off by saying the Sabbath is a very confusing topic in the church. And I'm talking about the church at large, but I would guess even here at Liberty, if I polled a hundred people and asked, what do you think is the Sabbath? What does the Sabbath mean to you? I'd get a lot of different answers. Some may even say, is not the Sabbath an Old Testament law? Something that Christ has fulfilled and we no longer have to abide by it? And still others, maybe even in this church, would apply strict sabbatarian rules and regulations to this day and to God's people, just as the Pharisees did. Don't do this. Don't do that. You can do this and you can do that. What is the Sabbath? If you've grown up in church for any length of time, you've heard that word often. What is the Sabbath? My contention is that as a whole, the church does not Sabbath well, partly because we don't understand Sabbath well. And the consequences, in my opinion, are dire. For the most part, we've lost a sense of what it means to rest in God. We understand what it means to sleep. We understand what it means to be idle. We understand what it means to do nothing. But we've lost a sense of what it means to rest, to spiritually rest in the Lord. And we've lost with that the peace that comes from giving God One day out of seven. And this morning, I'm going to just give a a primer on Sabbath. I actually considered making this a two-part. series because there is much that I want to say about Sabbath. I'm not going to do that. My hope is that all of us this morning will find better rest. for our souls, a more deeper connection to God, to the God who made us, the God who calls us to rest in Him. To set aside our labor, the toil of the work week, and to offer to God our lives. So let's look to see what Jesus says about the Sabbath Luke chapter 6 verse 1 it starts off saying on a Sabbath and on the Sabbath Jesus was walking through some grain fields Now in Israelite law, it was allowed to glean the edges of another person's grain fields. So Jesus and his disciples are not stealing. They're not stealing someone else's grain. We see this in the story of Ruth and Naomi, where it's allowed to take, but you're not allowed, you were not allowed to take a sickle to someone else's grain. to gather all of it, you could though walk along the edges and gather some grain. But apparently the Pharisees were walking close behind Jesus and his disciples, and they were spying on Jesus' actions. Why? Why were they so interested? Why were they spying on Jesus? Because Jesus had already broken their pharisaical laws about cleanliness, about ceremonial cleanliness. And we saw this last week. And then they are sure, absolutely positive, that Jesus is going to break another law. And the prime candidate The prime candidate of the law to be broken were the laws that they made, that they established about the Sabbath, because there were a lot of them. Hundreds of laws about the Sabbath. And Jesus and his disciples did not disappoint the Pharisees. The disciples took some heads of the grain into their hands and they rubbed it and they ate it. And this was against the Pharisaical interpretation of the Sabbath, because grabbing the grain would be like gathering grain And then crushing it in their hands would be like thrusting the grain, and perhaps even like uh winnowing the grain would be just letting the chaff just fall out of their hands. This was harvesting to the Pharisees, which is work, which was not permitted on the Sabbath. But it was the Pharisees' interpretation that what the disciples were doing constituted its work. So they questioned the disciples. Why do you do what is not lawful, according to their interpretation, on the Sabbath? And just as we saw last week, Jesus is the one who answers for them. I love this. So have the same thing happen. The Pharisees are questioning the disciples. And you can just imagine if the disciples had to answer for themselves, they would have just been bumbling around. I don't know. And Jesus just doesn't even allow it to get to that point. He speaks up. And he defends his actions by stating that the Pharisees don't actually know their own Bible. He defends his actions by pointing the Pharisees to a passage in the Old Testament about King David, and that passage is found in 1 Samuel chapter 21. And in this story, which has so many parallels to what Jesus and his disciples are currently doing, and in this story, David is on the run from the leader of Israel. He's hunted. By the leader of Israel, Saul, who's seeking to kill him. Just as Jesus is being hunted by the Pharisees, and he's going to be persecuted by the Pharisees, the leaders of Israel. And David flees to Nob , city of Nob. He enters a temple, he asks the priest for bread, for himself and for the men who were with him. They were hungry. just as Jesus and his disciples were hungry. There were twelve loaves of bread in the tabernacle, 1 Samuel says, just like there were 12 disciples and 12 uh tribes of Israel. And these these twelve loaves of bread were replaced each week. And they were for the priests to eat It's given to them. Now, rabbinic tradition states that when David entered the temple, it was on a Sabbath because the bread, 1 Samuel says, was just recently changed. So it 's changed for the Sabbath, many, many presume. And this is a story. that Jesus uses to defend his actions on the Sabbath. David takes the bread, he eats it, which is only lawful for the priests to eat. And Jesus points to this story. He says, look , this is my defense. And Jesus did not even address the Pharisees' concern about the minute detail of whether or not you can take a kernel of grain, rub it in your hand, and eat it. He goes way further than that. Jesus declares that David broke the law and was found guiltless. And certainly, if the greater David does the same, if the greater David comes and breaks the law, he should be found guiltless as well. And the point is this. The law of the Sabbath does not take precedence when one arrives who is greater than the law. And that one is Jesus Christ. David, in the Old Testament, he had a need. He was hungry. He fulfilled that need by breaking Sabbath law. And Jesus did not even break the law, actually. He just broke the Pharisees' interpretation of the law. He certainly didn't break the law like David broke the law. But even if he had broken the law, He is greater than the Sabbath. And this is why Jesus declares, the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. And to drive this point home, Luke places another scene. About the Sabbath, right next to this one. I've talked about this a lot, that Luke places these scenes next to each other for very important reasons. And again he does it here. On another Sabbath, it says, verse 6. Jesus goes into the synagogue to teach. Another indicator that he is the interpreter of the law. And in the synagogue there was a man with a crippled hand. And again Again, we have the Pharisees just spying on Jesus, just waiting, waiting to see if he's going to do work. Earlier they were waiting to see if he was going to do the work of harvest, of harvesting, and now they're waiting to see if he's going to do the work of healing. And rather than waiting for the Pharisees to question him or to question his disciples, Jesus just goes right in. No no innuendos, no beating around the bush. He knows their hearts that says And he confronts them. And he has this man with a crippled hand stand in front of everyone. He asks Asks the Pharisees, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm? To save life or destroy it? In other words, Pharisees, how do you define Sabbath? Of course, this is a rhetorical question. No Pharisee would say, yeah, I think it's lawful to destroy life on the Sabbath. No, of course. They would all say it's good to do good. It's good to save life. But Jesus is interpreting the law of the Sabbath for them. And he breaks the Pharisaical law in order to promote the purity of God's law And to show the Pharisees how far they've gone, how far they've gone astray from God's intention of the law of Sabbath. And none of the Pharisees answer, it says. They're all silent, because they know that they've been caught in this hypocritical conundrum. So Jesus continues, he tells the man with the crippled hand, stretch out your hand, and his hand is completely healed. And this results, Luke says, in the Pharisees leaving the synagogue in fury. Jesus is now on a crash course. with the most powerful religious sect in all of Israel. And it's a course that's going to end in this crucifixion What are these scenes trying to communicate? What are they trying to say about the Sabbath? Is it just that we should allow for good to be done on the Sabbath? Is it is it just that you should allow for the healing of of somebody on the Sabbath? Is that the is that the main point? I think that is a point. Is it just that Jesus is the greater David? That he is the interpreter of the law. And that he's the Lord of the Sabbath. Well, I think this is a point as well. He is the Lord of the entire cosmos. Of course he's the Lord of the Sabbath. Is that the only point that Luke is trying to make? Jesus is the greater David. I believe Luke has already spent quite a bit of time addressing this notion that Jesus is the greater David. He actually does that uh a few times. He's just doing that again here. Making sure that we understand. I I think that's part of it. But there is another point to the story, and one that is of utmost importance. To how we fundamentally view the Sabbath. The point of the story shapes the framework. By which everybody views the Sabbath. And what I'm about to say might be a little shocking, and I'm okay with that. But what I'm about to say is probably something you haven't heard before. It's not just Jesus who is Lord of the Sabbath. We are lords of the Sabbath as well And I don't mean Lord with a capital L. Okay? That's reserved for Christ alone. He is the creator of the entire universe and the entire cosmos. He is the creator of the earth. He's the Lord of the earth. But Just like Genesis 1 tells us, he gave us dominion over what he created. He gave us dominion and authority and lordship over all the earth, over all the cosmos. We are the rulers of this earth, even though we know that Jesus Christ is the Lord. But He's given us authority. And He's given us authority over everything and every single day. The first day, second day, third day, fourth day, we have dominion as his image, as the people of God. And he's given us authority over the Sabbath as well. The Sabbath was created for us, not us for the Sabbath. It's not our master, but our servant. Why do I think this? Well, there's a number of reasons. One, the Sabbath connected to the uh creation in Genesis 1 and what I was just was saying. There's another place too. There's a parallel passage here in Mark and in Matthew. And in that Mark passage, there's a line that's taken out of Luke. And often we've seen this. Luke just just uh truncates some things and tries to make points. In the Mark passage though, it's the same line, but it says that uh that man was not made for the Sabbath, but Sabbath for man, and then it says that the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. Same line here. Most people, a lot of people, at least me, I think, that the Son of Man line In Mark and in Luke is not referring to the Son of Man as in Jesus, but to the Son of Man as in us, all of mankind. But a greater point is this. Back in that story of 1 Samuel, it was not just David who ate the bread. It was not just David who broke the Sabbath. You could argue if it was just David, okay, he's like a picture of Jesus and he had the right to do that. It was all of David's men with him who broke the Sabbath. They all desecrated it. When the Sabbath needed to be broken, all of these men broke it. And what God is trying to say is that you and I were not given over to the Sabbath. The Sabbath was given to us. And this is where it has thrown so many people for a loop. And it just has putting people all out of sorts of this idea about the Sabbath. And what does the Sabbath mean? It has confounded people for thousands of years. And it was a trap that the Jews fell in. It's the same trap that we fall in. Rule upon rule upon rule. Man-made obligations. Man-made requirements. Don't cook. Don't watch TV. Don't go do this. Don't go do that. Don't wear this. Don't say that. And the Sabbath becomes the master. We are the ones burdened by it. It's a yoke that all of us are carrying. The Jews especially, some of us have thrown that yoke off. We say No there's no rules and regulations. It's all Old Testament. It's been fulfilled in Christ. Sabbath doesn't exist anymore. We go to one side or the other, one extreme or the other. The Jews to this day constantly have the yoke of the Sabbath, the man-made rules and regulations, requirements, stipulation, all these things, just burdening, breaking their backs. With war for with all these things that should be a relief from work. This is why some people just go on the other side. I'm done with the Sabbath. Liberty Church, I want to free us. I don't want to free you so that you can go pursue your own pleasure on the Sabbath day I want to free you to receive the grace that God has in store for those who keep his Sabbath in the right way. I want to free us to enjoy the way God has intended his Sabbath to be enjoyed. I don't want to give you rules. That's what the Pharisees do. I'm not going to fall on that trap. I want to give you principles. God never intended the Sabbath to be your slave driver. He made the Sabbath to drive you to Christ. God never made the Sabbath to bind you. He gave you the Sabbath to bless you. And I believe that many in the church, and perhaps even in this church , Are not receiving the blessing that God has intended for you because you have forsaken what Sabbath really means Sabbath is here to stay. It is the day without end in Genesis 1. It's the eternal day. Sabbath was in the beginning, it will be in the end. Here's what Sabbath means. When God made the heavens and the earth, he rested on the seventh day In this way, God was telling all of mankind that rest is coming in the future. After labor, after toil, after The hard work of this life rest is on the way. Symbolically, the Old Testament saints looked forward to the rest was coming. The rest that was promised to them. They were looking forward to this rest that after this traversing this earth as exiles and work, being beaten up. Ready to rest, and that rest was ultimately fulfilled in the person and work of Jesus Christ. But when Christ rose from the dead, Sabbath was changed to Sunday. Hmm. Why was that? For Christ did the work. Christ did the work of redemption on Friday before the Sabbath. And on Sunday, he walked out of that tomb with the work of redemption completed. He rested Christ rested from his work not on Saturday, not on Friday, but on Sunday. So now we as the New Testament saints We look back, just as the Old Testament saints look forward to that day that they're going to rest. We look back to the day that Christ purchased the rest for us And we rest first, and then we do our toil and hardship and labor and our work, and then we do it again the first day of the week. We rest again. That's why the New Testament writers Over and over and over again. They don't mention Sunday. They mention the first day of the week. The Sabbath is now the first day of the week. First day of the week All the time, all throughout, is that we are looking back and we're standing on the rest that Jesus Christ has paid for. He's given it to us. It's real rest. The Sabbath centers us. It grounds us. It's rest. And as I said, many people know coming to church, and they know after church. Being idle or being whatever it is, but we often don't know real rest. What does it mean? Sabbath is not doing nothing. It's active rest. It's an acknowledgement that I can ultimately rest because of the work God has done on our behalf. And the idea of resting from our work to bless the Lord's work, the Lord's work of redemption, is vital to understanding the Sabbath. Let me repeat that. The idea of resting from our work In order to bless the Lord's work is vital to understanding Sabbath. Beautifully, in God's providence Steve in his prayer quotes Psalm 9 uses Psalm 92 as the basis of the prayer. That's funny. See, if you have not seen my sermon, I don't think. Psalm 92 here is the only psalm that talks about Sabbath. It's the Psalm for Sabbath, and it's beautiful. Read Psalm 92 at some point. It's a worship service. It describes this beautiful worship service of singing and praising. And here's what the psalmist write. I'm just going to take out a part of it. For you, O Lord, have made me glad. By your work. At the works of your hands, I sing for joy. Again, how great are your works. Oh Lord, what is Sabbath all about? Sabbath is us stopping from our work to give us time to acknowledge that Jesus Christ has done a greater work. A work of salvation in your heart. A work of salvation in the world. It's the Lord's work that we celebrate. And the greatest work of the Lord is the work that He performed upon the cross for you and I. The terrible backbreaking crushing. Work of hanging on a cross and taking upon himself the full weight of our sins and paying the penalty of our sin that you and I deserve to pay. That's a work that no other man could do. No one's strong enough to do that work. Only Christ could take the sins of the world. and suffer in the place of sinful man. And if you are in Christ, we rest now today in the finished work. of him. Our rest from work is a picture of the ultimate rest that Christ has procured for us. But listen to what the rest of the Psalm 92 says. The righteous? We're righteous how? Because of the work that Christ has done for us. The righteous flourish like a tree. They are planted where? Outside, in the wilderness, they are planted in the house of the Lord. They flourish in the courts of our God. Our rest in God's redemption finds us ultimately here in God's house. Prais, acknowledging, worshiping Him for what He has done for us. It's here with God's people. God's God's grace flows in in a special and supernatural way. I don't know how, but in a very special way, God's grace. flows into the hearts of his children and we flourish. We flourish here Now Sabbath is the entire day. I can spend an entire day talking about Sabbath, but during This time I just want to talk about this time, this gathering of God's people on the Lord's Day, on the Sabbath. All of God's people gather together to commemorate what Christ has done. This is a covenant renewal. God has made a covenant with us, and we come and we renew this covenant every single week. But moreover, more than just that. We all gather together as priests, offering our worship. offering our finances, offering our time, offering our very lives. You are not idle right here, right now during this time. You are all doing the spiritual work of priests on this day. It's not just Barry and I. We are all priests. Peter says you are a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices. Says. You do not come on the Sabbath to gather with God's people to observe what is going on. You gather on the Sabbath to participate. In what's going on. You are not here as an observer. Unless you're not a believer. If you are not a believer, in that case, you are an observer. You're observing right now. Because you are not a priest of of the Lord. the And I plead with you, if you are not in Christ, that you would repent and rest from trying to earn your own salvation. It's a futile task. It's a futile job. Rest in the completed work of Jesus Christ alone. He alone saves. Find your rest in him. It was one of the passages that I came to Christ when I was 19 after reading this passage in Matthew. I felt before so burdened by trying to be good or trying to find my way to God, and I remember turning to Matthew. And I saw there, come to me, Jesus saying this, come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. And I realized that's what I needed. I needed rest for my soul. If you're not a believer, today can be the day of that rest for you. Please find me after or one of our elders up here to talk about how you can find this rest in Jesus. Jesus Christ. But if you are in Christ, you are not being offered something today. You are the offering. You're not you're not the re you're not the recipient of of something. God is He is the one receiving our worship, our lives, our time, our praise, our songs, our offerings, our tithes. He is the recipient. Liberty Church, how do you view the Sabbath? What is your view of coming here today? We used to live in the South, and it was just kind of customary to come I guess this is the South, but I mean deep South. And it's just customary to come to church because this is where you meet people, this is where you connect, this is kind of what you've done. the tradition, this is families here, and all these things. And oftentimes I just sense that people want to come to church to receive and to observe. And over time, you know what that what happens is that becomes drudgery. If you're here as just observing. What begins to happen is you'd rather observe something else. There 's something else that you would would rather be be watching or viewing or seeing or doing. Because we're just observing and I can observe other things and just as much as I can observe this. There's there's two perspectives that I want to close us with about the Sabbath And our priestly work on the Sabbath. The first one's found in Malachi. Listen to what the Lord says in Malachi to us. A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where's my honor? If I'm a master, where is my fear? Says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests For from the rising of the sun to its setting, my name is great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name. But you say, What a weariness this is. The priests in Malachi Day viewed the Sabbath as weariness. They viewed it as drudgery because they ignored the fact that God has called them as a priest to To worship and to offer their lives as living sacrifices to the one God, the King of heaven and earth, who died on the cross for them and paid the penalty for our sins. Their eyes were lifted on the doing and the task at hand rather than resting in this completed work of Jesus Christ. They did not view this as rest. I think many of us in our fast-paced, distraction-inducing modern world feel much the same way as those in Malachi. We just find it to be wearisome. We find it wearisome to do what the Lord wants us to do. We maybe even find it weary to even come to church. It's honestly it's because we're not viewing this time as a time for us to participate. But listen to the difference in David, who says this in Psalm 27. Listen to the difference of the priests in Malachi 's time who give no honor to the Lord and then listen to David's heart. One thing have I asked of the Lord that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life To gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to meditate in his temple. Brothers and sisters, this is the view of a man who's been bought by God. He's been purchased by blood, and so have you. You owe God your life. And one day out of seven is merely a picture. Of the great debt that we are to God. Consecrate this day, Liberty Church. Besides coming to the service, I don't know. I'm not going to give you rules or regular, I'm not going to recommend what you You should do. All I know is this the entire day is for us to worship the Lord. And I believe greater Sabbath observance will bless our church. I think we will all reap a great reward. It will strengthen our hearts. It will preserve our souls. It will give us rest in the Lord, much, much needed rest. Let us pray. Father, give us rest today. Help us understand the difference between rest and idleness or rest and doing nothing. This is a a spiritual work, a spiritual activity, as we come as your priests and we offer to you Our entire lives. And one day in the seven you've you've called to consecrate and to make holy. And you've done it not to be our master and for us not to be slaves. But to worship and to receive this eternal rest that comes through knowing Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.