After taking a brief pause for our theology and worship conference this past weekend, which was really an excellent time, and uh we should have those recordings up On the website very soon. I'm already excited about next year's Theology and Worship Conference. I do want to just make a brief plug for Sunday evening. Worship. We're in the book of Genesis, preaching through that verse by verse, and we're coming to some sections in Genesis that are absolutely vital for the church. and are fundamental for our theology. We're looking at uh the creation of mankind these next few weeks. We're looking at uh the institution and sanctity of marriage, sexuality, a biblical ethic for sexuality, the fall of man, vocation, work, all these things are just uh the the foundation of uh our our biblical thoughts. And so for the next few weeks we're going to be looking at chapter uh Genesis chapter 2 and chapter 3. So I just invite you to come out at 6 o'clock tonight. In Luke 12, the section of Jesus' teaching builds on what we have been looking at Looking at in the Gospel of Luke, and uh, and that is his second coming, and the impending judgment that accompanies That second coming. Recall a few weeks ago, Pastor Barry talked about Jesus returning, that it would be imminent, it would be a surprise, it would be sudden. Like a thief in the night, and that we should all be ready. We should all be ready. And when Jesus returns, it is not peace that he will be Bring, but rather division, as he says here in our passage. It's not a a soothing balm that Jesus will administer, but rather fire. Now, this passage though is somewhat confusing. What is Jesus talking about here? What is this fire? And uh when will it be kindled? Has it already been kindled? Which is this referring to of of Jesus'? His first coming or his second coming? When will this fire be kindled? Was it already kindled when at Jesus' first advent, or will it be the second? Advent. Moreover, when will this division take place that Jesus talks about? Is it when Christ first came on the earth and then there was division? Or is he referring to The end of times when he's going to return and separate those who have faith in Christ from those who do not have faith in Christ. Which one is it? Well, it's both. And this is the point of this section, is that we are living in between two advents. Christ's first advent, 2,000 years ago, and Christ's second advent, which we do not know the date or time. And subsequently, because we're living in these two advents, we're also living between two judgments. A judgment that commenced when Christ first came to the earth, and the ultimate judgment that will take place at the end of all things. Christ commenced judgment the moment he stepped foot on earth. And it escalated to when he was on the cross. Jesus says in John 12, now is the time. For judgment on this world. Now, present tense. To when Jesus came. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. At the cross Jesus proclaimed judgment upon the ruler of this world, who is Satan, and all who follow Satan, either consciously or subconsciously, all who are of Satan's seed. There was judgment that took place immediately. But there's also a judgment to come. So we're live we're living in between these two judgments. When Paul was preaching the gospel to that great city of Athens, he said this, the times of ignorance God overlooked, the time before Christ. came. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent, because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness. by a man whom he has appointed. There is a day to come of great judgment. And we're living in between these two advents, and we're living in between these two judgments. And Christ's first judgment was a call to repent. It was a call to flee from the kingdom of this world and enter into God 's kingdom. But Christ's second advent and second judgment is not a call to repent any longer. It's a call to say that the kingdom is here, fully realized. Christ has come to cast fire upon the earth. And what is this fire? That he's talking about. Well, casting fire upon the earth seems to allude to the story of God casting fire upon Sodom and Gomorrah. You recall that story in Genesis? It could also mean when Elijah the prophet was praying and God answered his prayer by sending fire upon the sacrifice. And these certainly are plausible, but there's something else going on here that makes even more sense. When John the Baptist was introducing Jesus to the world, as a forerunner to the Christ, to the Messiah. He says this to the crowds. He says, I baptize you with water. But there is coming someone who's mightier than I. And he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. And after Christ ascended up to heaven, and his 120 disciples were gathered together in the upper room in Acts. We see this fire being cast in the form of the Holy Spirit descending upon the heads of the disciples as what? Flames of fire. They were baptized by fire, the fire being the Holy Spirit, just as every believer in Christ is also baptized by the Holy Spirit. If you have not been baptized by the Holy Spirit, you are not a believer. And what Christ is saying is that he wishes that the Holy Spirit would be here now. In this section of Luke, where we're about halfway through, and he's seeing what's to come, and he's wishing that this Holy Spirit, that this baptism of the Holy Spirit would be here. But in order for the Spirit to come and baptize you, Christ had to first be baptized. Not baptized with water, but baptized with God's wrath. Like an overwhelming flood upon his head. This is why he says, how great, how great is my distress. Because as the judge, so too was he facing judgment. Why? Because he He wants to rescue you from judgment. Christ is in anguish here. How great is my distress God in the flesh, distressed, because he was about to take the judgment of God upon himself. for you. The wrath of God was poured out upon his own son at the cross, who became a sub Substitute on our behalf. Christ stood in the way of this impending judgment, this impending wrath. He stood in the way, in your place. It's as if as if a a train were coming and and you and I were were tied up and were on the track like you see in some of those old silent movies. And you can't get out, tied up, and Christ comes, He picks you up, He puts you on safe ground, and then He gets hit by the train and killed. Upon Christ was the judgment that brought you peace. He took your death See, though Christ says elsewhere in John chapter 12 for example, he says this, I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. world. It's not a contradiction of what he's saying here. It's a matter of emphasis. Jesus wasn't coming primarily to judge. That's the Father. Even though Jesus, of course, has a part to play in that. And we see this in Revelation, which we've read many passages even today in our liturgy, about Christ's coming as judge. But he didn't come primarily as judge. He came primarily to save you from judgment. He came primarily to rescue you. All who come to Christ by faith he will rescue. And the only way he was able to rescue was for him to face wrath, of which he was absolutely destroyed. To the point where he says before the crucifixion, not because of the physical pain that he's about to face, but because of the impending wrath of his own father, which he knew very well, he asked God, My Father, if there is any To take this cup from me, please. And I have to ask: if you're not a believer in Christ , Do you share this anguish of Christ? Do you have in your heart and your soul the same anguish That's displayed in Christ. If the Son of God was so distressed about this coming judgment, How much more should you be? Christ is the Prince of Peace. He has come to deliver us from judgment. But his peace is not a peace on earth, as we often sing about. As we will see in a moment. It's a peace in heaven. It's a peace between God and man. Because before Christ came, you and I were at war with God. And now Christ has come and he's brought this ultimate ceasefire. It is a ceasefire because God had aimed his gun at you. The Bible uses swords because they didn't have guns. obviously back then. But in Christ, God has forever holstered his gun and never again will point it at you. And though there can finally now be peace between God and man, this does not mean, this does not mean that there will always be peace between man and man. Or woman and woman and man and woman. Christ's death is the major dividing point of all humanity, and this is what he's talking about. Do you think I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. And where do you go? Where does this division take place ultimately? Here it's in the family. And even families will be divided by this one event. This apex of all world history will separate families. In fact, nothing divides people more than Jesus Christ. You don't hear that very often. We think of Jesus as just a great big uniter. Well, and here he says he's a divider. And we even sense this in casual conversations about Christ. Christ, when we have a fear to bring up Jesus in a conversation with maybe a non-believer. When Christ comes to a family, he is often only received by a portion of that family. And an example of that. Blessed is the family when all the members are saved. And do not think that this is your own doing. It is a An act of unimaginable sovereign grace that you are undeserving of and that you did not contribute to In one iota. Do not think that it's up to you concerning your child's salvation. Whether you parent this way or that way. Whether you choose homeschooling or private schooling, whether you disciplined this way or that way, whether you prayed enough for your family. How would any of that make a difference if it's Christ who's the one who's dividing the family? How would that how would that stop? Jesus Christ from coming and saying, I am dividing you. It's not a matter of what you've done or didn't do. It's Christ Himself, the God of the universe, who's bringing division. Why? Why does he do this? Why does he divide even families? Even some families in here. Because when Christ divides families out of that divide, our allegiance to Christ is tested. Our life is not about parenting or marriage. It's about Jesus Christ. Our marriages are only Momentary. Our parenting is only temporary. The moment we cross over the line of eternity, you are no longer a father or a mother You're only sons and daughters of God most high, and brothers and sisters of one another in the same family. This does not mean that we are not given a great responsibility. As stewards over our families, but it's about Jesus. If your spouse decides to leave the church And to leave the faith, what are you going to do? If your child decides to adopt a lifestyle that's contrary, To the Word of God. Will you begin to second guess what the Bible actually says? Will you bend the Word of God in order to satisfy Your children's decisions in order to stay connected to your child. And this is happening all the time. Christ says to follow him no matter the cost, even at the cost to your own family. I love my daughters. I would not hesitate to die for them. But if they rejected God and turned back their backs on him, I would still die for them. But if their rejection of God somehow puts me at odds with my allegiance to Christ. If I had to if I have to choose, I choose Christ every time. Christ is King. He demands our complete allegiance. over our very lives, over our devotion to our children, over our devotion to our families. And yes, even our own children. Are given up upon the altar, not physically, obviously, spiritually, to Christ, for they are his. Do you need more evidence of this? Look no further than even the story of Abraham and Isaac, a well-known, familiar story to all of us. Where a man was called to sacrifice his own child in order to show Obedience to God. As Christ Himself says elsewhere in the gospel, whoever loves his father or mother more than me is not worthy of God. Of me. And whoever loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me Knowing that it is Christ. It's all about Christ. It's all about our allegiance to him. And knowing that Christ is the one who's dividing families by his His unknown and and unforeseeable sovereign choice and decision, his will that he's dividing families, mother against mother-in-law, daughter against daughter-in-law. This should give us rest concerning our worrying for our child's salvation. This is in the Lord's hand. He's the one bringing division, or he's the one bringing salvation. We're just called to follow Christ. In this passage, Jesus is lifting up our eyes. Off of our family even. The most intimate, the most important of all human relationships. And he's saying, even that, even how important that is, lift your eyes up. I'm more important. And when we live for Christ, we actually do become better spouses. We do become better parents, better sons and daughters. But that's not the point. That's not the end. By a long shot. We do not follow Christ so that our children become Christians We follow Christ because we're going to be judged by Jesus one day. We do not parent according to Scripture. In order that our children may become Christian, you have no control over that. We parent according to God's word because we're going to be judged by God. You and I will not rise up the last day and stand in the great heavenly throne room. And see this incredible throne, the great white throne of judgment, and be in awe of it, and everything going around us, and then all of a sudden see on the throne your kids. That's not going to happen. You're going to see the God who made you. And you will stand before Him. To give an account of your entire life, how you parented, how you were married, how you lived. How you loved your neighbor, how you loved your enemy. All of it is going to be just laid before him. And for no other end except to honor, glorify, and obey our God. It's the only end of doing all these things, is for his glory, his honor. And for our love for him. In this vein, I want to say to you, fathers and mothers, your child's rejection Rejection of God is not on you, just as your child's acceptance of God is not on. On you. Christ saw this coming. He foreshadows it right here. There will come a divide that you have no control All over. You are not to blame. You are not to blame You will stand accountable for how you parented, and you will have to give an account to the Lord of your faithfulness to him in all matters of life. Including parenting, but it is God who saves, with or without your help. Why do you obey God? Is it so that your children would know God? That's the wrong motive. Why do you want to please God? Is it so that your children will be blessed by God and God would God will save them? That's the wrong motive. We live for God. solely because he is our life. And one day we'll see him face to face. And just as p Jesus told Peter, who was so consumed, right, in John John 21 with what's going to happen to others. What's going to happen to those close to him, namely John? What's Jesus say to him? You, you, follow me. That can be said to all of us. We must be aware of Christ and His judgments. This is the theme of this this passage. We judge weather every day. We're always making judgments. We're always judges. And one small example that Christ mentions here, we judge weather. We see a cloud rising in the west, he says, a shower is coming. We wake up in the morning and we look at our phones and we look at the weather and we say, this is going to be a warm day or whatnot. I'm from the Midwest, so this is a warm day. And Christ is exhorting us to make judgments not just about weather. Of course, okay, that's fine. Make a judgment about weather, what you're going to wear. Christ is exhorting you to make judgments about what's happening right now. Your life is fleeting. It's a mist. It's here today and gone tomorrow. In light of this judgment, in light of this reality, how then should you live? And to answer that question, Jesus does not give us a list of ways to live a life pleasing to God. He just gives one. This is verse 57. He just gives one. How do you deal with your enemies? Enemy here is synonymous with accuser. Verse 58, as you go with your accuser before the magistrate. A name also given to Satan. Your enemy. Your accuser. And it's a serious offense. The potential verdict is life in prison. And you're not going to get out until the last penny is pay. This is this is rather serious. You have an enemy who is wanting to take your life. Innocence. He's willing to throw you in prison to the end of your days. And Jesus is saying here, make an effort to settle with him on the way. In other words, Jesus is saying you better make every effort to live rightly even before your enemies. You better go above and beyond to be right with everyone, because even that person accusing you, for judgment is coming. And this is what he says, because he will drag you to the judge, and the judge hands you over to the officer. It's all about judgment. This entire passage. But Jesus isn't talking primarily about an earthly judge here. He didn't switch gears that fast. He's still talking about a heavenly judge. Are you making every effort Are you making every effort to ensure that you are right with Christ today? Is your day, is your life organized around this one principle That Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians 5, we make it our aim to please the Lord. Now, what's amazing about this verse? We make it our aim, our life's purpose, our mission, our identity to please the Lord. What's amazing about this verse? Is that the verse right after this in 2 Corinthians 5, we make it our aim to please the Lord, for we will all Appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And you see here that both of these are hand in hand, living a life that's pleasing to God. In every way, in every aspect of your life, from your family, from your work, from your own relationship with God and with others. And In that contrast of that pleasing God, we also have judgment coming. We must all stand before Him. We live a life that's pleasing to God and the judgment of Christ, they go hand in hand. The latter informs and shapes and dictates the former. Knowing that judgment's coming determines how then I should live. Because you and I will stand before God. So let us always be aware. Let us always be judging how we are living in light of this reality in between the two advents of Christ. in between the two judgments. Let us be a holy people given completely to our Lord. Let's pray. Father God, everything we do should be done for you and your glory. You are the end. The purpose for which we draw our next breath. Forgive us, O God, for putting other things on the throne, putting ourselves. primarily, putting our families, putting our work. We put those on the throne as if as if when we cross over eternity, those are the things that are going to be judging us. Oh God, it's you. You are our great judge. And we're living in light of this reality. May we be a holy people, sacrificing all to have more More of you, to please you, to honor you with our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Larry, let us stand and sing to our