If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter 3, verses 15 through 20. Before we get started, it's so good to see Glenn and Diana Cody back. After months of trial, praise God that you're here. So you turn to your Bible. This morning we arrive at the final scene or the final episode of John the Baptist's ministry. And after this section He is going to be cast into prison by Herod and eventually actually executed. And this scene is a very important one, Luke 3, 15 through 20. For it contains John the Baptist's confession of the Christ, and John the Baptist's desire to see Christ exalted and he himself humbled. John 's desire to see Christ become greater and he himself become less. And in this way, this is an example for all of us. That we all should lift up the name of Jesus Christ above our own. And this scene also foreshadows the judgment of Christ. It pictures Christ as a heavenly farmer separating the wheat from the chaff. Of course, these crop components are allegorical. Christ will judge souls, not grain, and some souls will be raised to eternal life and others to eternal death. And in this way, this passage provides both a comfort and a warning to us. A comfort that those who are in Christ, that those who have been born again, Christ will save to the very end. And a warning that those who are not in Christ will face God's wrath. As Barry preached on last week, John the Baptist had some pretty harsh words for the crowds that came. out to see him, out to be uh baptized by the Jordan. John calls them a brood of vipers, snakes. Trees that are about to be cut down. So how's that for a Sunday sermon? If the crowds were coming to Jesus to John for a feel-good message, they were sorely Disappointed. John's words cut to the heart, and they conveyed a truth that the crowds were not bearing fruit of repentance. And this is where the crowds become a little confused. And understandably so. John looked the part of the Christ. He was Elijah reincarnated, some thought. He was this reincarnation of this Old Testament prophet Elijah John walked around the desert wearing coats of camel hair, eating locusts and wild honey, and preaching with power. People did not know what to think of John. He seemed to be messianic. He was at least otherworldly. No one thought of John the Baptist as normal. No one. Recall what Jesus said about his own cousin. John the Baptist came eating no bread and drinking no wine, and they say, look, he has a demon. Jesus came eating bread and drinking wine, and they say, look, a glutton, a drunkard, a friend of sinners and tax collectors. John was an ascetic. He eschewed worldly luxury. He forsook creaturely comforts. Jesus, on the other hand, attended feasts. He drank wine. He hung out with tax collectors and prostitutes. Which one would you think was the Messiah? And naturally everyone gravitated towards John. John is so unique. He must be the one. Jesus, on the other hand, is so normal. He can't be the Christ. And John at this point nips that thought immediately in the bud. Far from basking in the spotlight, John turns the spotlight immediately to Jesus Christ. I baptize with water, John says. But one is coming who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. Now John could have stopped at mightier than I, and we would have got the point. But John wants to make it crystal clear. I'm not even worthy to stoop down and untie Jesus' sandals. Why did John mention this? Why this expression of untying Jesus' sandals? He could have used a number of other expressions that were common back in the day. He could have said, I'm not worthy to breathe the same air as Jesus. Or he could have said, I'm not worthy to be in this the same Space, says Jesus, or look upon Jesus with my own eyes, as Peter himself said of Jesus later in the Gospels. But this mention of the sandal is in all the Gospels Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John all talk about this idea of untying Jesus' single. Even in the book of Acts. It's mentioned. It's kind of a rare episode that's mentioned in all four gospels and in the book of Acts when the apostles are recounting John the Baptist's ministry. They make mention of this idea. of John not being worthy of untying Jesus' sandal. It must be important. Why There is significance in the sandal. In Jesus' time, it was one of the most demeaning tasks. in Israel for a person to stoop down and untie someone's sandals. It was the task of slaves. And if you were a Hebrew, you were not allowed to untie another person's sandals, even if you were a slave. So what John the Baptist is saying is he is so unworthy that he is like a Gentile in comparison to the worthiness of Jesus Christ. John was called by Jesus the greatest man ever to be born, besides himself. And yet John's evaluation of himself was that he was the lowest of lows. He was the slave of slaves. And this is the humility that marks God 's saints. Recall later the Apostle Paul saying, I am the chief of sinners. And Chuck Mitchell is fond of saying that Paul is saying that because he hasn't yet met Chuck. And I tend to agree with him. But there there is something else, though, there is something else though significant about the sandal. In ancient Israel, the foot and that which was connected to the foot indicated power and dominion. Putting your foot upon someone was a sign that you were their master or their conqueror In the book of Joshua, Joshua has the men of Israel, the elders of Israel, step on the necks of the defeated Canaanite kings. In Psalm 8, verse 6, which is a prophecy about Christ, it says that you have given him dominion over the works of the of your hands, you have put all things under his feet. God is depicted in Isaiah 66 as resting his feet. Upon the earth. It's called God's footstool. The idea of shoes Indicating power and prestige and authority and dominion is still with us today. Perhaps more than any other article of clothing, shoes for some reason can be a source of great pride for people, displaying how significant or wealthy they are. I mean kids today still lose their minds over Air Jordans, some of which can cost thousands of dollars for a pair. I recall vividly in middle school, wanting these pair of Air Jordans every year really, and uh begging my mom and they purchased. My mom eventually gave in she She bought me some Air Jordans, not the ones that cost thousands of dollars, but she bought me an expensive pair of Air Jordans. And as we were walking out the parking lot towards the car, I said to my mother, In all seriousness, if someone were to try to rob me of these shoes, I would die for them. To which my mom replied, That is stupid. And she was exactly right, it was stupid. But these shoes were the source of my power. So I thought. They gave me prestige. In a sense, they gave me dominion over my peers, at least over their opinion of me And this is why when Moses approaches the burning bush in Exodus 3, God tells him, take off your shoes. For the place where you are standing is holy ground. There was to be no dominion there except for God's. God had dominion where Moses was. And Moses was to walk around barefoot, the epitome of humility. In fact, this is only what the priests do and what the poor do. Walk around barefoot. When we are in the presence of a holy God, we acknowledge that He is the one that has dominion, power, and authority, and not us. Now, thankfully, we don't have to take off our shoes now in church to convey that, okay? So please don't start that trend. And when G when John says about Jesus, I am not worthy. To untie his sandals, the implicit message is that Jesus' sandals do not come off. Jesus' sandals stay on. And neither John nor anyone else is untying them and taking them off. Jesus is not standing on holy ground. Jesus is the Holy One. He has authority and dominion over all creation. He is the conqueror, the victor, whose foot is upon the neck of sin and death. What a savior! Christ has come to defeat your greatest enemy, to exercise power and dominion over that which is killing you, namely your sin. Christ took upon himself the full weight of your rebellion against God, your transgression against a holy creator And he took that punishment upon himself, bearing the full weight of it, dying in your place. And now, Liberty Church, he has dominion over you. He is your Lord and your master. He has purchased you by his blood. And no one else can say this. Certainly not John the Baptist. And just as Jesus is greater than John the Baptist, so too Jesus' baptism. is greater than John's baptism. John baptized with water, he said, as a preparation to approach the King. I talked about this a few weeks ago. But Jesus baptizes with the Holy Spirit and fire. What does this mean? Well, by baptizing with the Holy Spirit, Jesus is saying that with him also comes the Spirit of God. It's like it's a package deal. The message of the kingdom, the message that Christ proclaimed, is one in which the Holy Spirit has a prominent place. When we repent of our sins, Christ gives us his Spirit. It's the Spirit of God that enables us to see Christ and his beauty and the glory of the gospel. It's the Spirit of God that changes our hearts. That enables us to actually come to Christ. It's the Spirit of God that allows us to have faith. It's the Spirit of God that makes us born again. It's the Spirit of God That transforms us more and more into the image of Jesus Christ. And the question that must arise in everyone's mind at this point is. How do I know that I've been baptized with the Holy Spirit? How do I know that I possess the Spirit of God? This is a topic we can spend much time on. But I just want to say briefly one thing about our confidence in the indwelling nature of the Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a person, not a thing. He, not it, does a specific work in your heart and soul. Among other works of the Holy Spirit, one is to testify to his presence within you. The Holy Spirit is a witness. He is a witness that you indeed are saved. Paul states this beautifully in Romans 8. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. The supernatural, mystical, and mysterious work of the Holy Spirit within you is your confidence that you are saved. Now this may seem like circular reasoning. How do we know we have the Holy Spirit? Because we know. Well, that's it's not circular reasoning. How do you know you have the Holy Spirit? It's because the Holy Spirit tells you That he is with you. That is supernatural and mysterious. The Spirit of God speaks. He is not mute. He does witness and he does testify to you and to your spirit that he actually is in you And if you do not feel confidence about that, if you don't feel confidence about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, then there is a chance that you're not a Christian. And I would strongly plead with you to speak with a pastor or an elder or a friend. And I will stay after the service to speak with anybody about the question of whether or not the Spirit of God is indwelling inside of you because this is of paramount importance. If you are not baptized by the Spirit, then you will be baptized by fire. And there is confusion about what this baptism of fire means. Many people see it as an additional work of the Holy Spirit. They point to Acts 2 and the manifestation of the Spirit upon the apostles' heads as flames. That was at Pentecost. And this could be the case, but I don't think so. And the reason why I don't think that's the case, I don't think it's in the Baptism of the spirit and fire, the fire is connected to spirit. The reason I don't think so is because of the next verse. Verse 17. And Jesus, or Luke begins to describe Jesus as a farmer with a winnowing fork in his hand, sifting the wheat from the chaff. And wheat and chaff, I believe, are parallel to the Holy Spirit and fire. Those with the Holy Spirit are saved as wheat entering Christ's barn Those without the Holy Spirit are condemned as chaff burned by fire. The fire of baptism here is not a fire of the Holy Spirit. But quite the opposite. It's a fire of judgment. And I will not sugarcoat this as many do, especially in our day and age. Those who do not repent and place their faith in Jesus Christ will receive eternal punishment in hell. And for many, that statement right there is enough to walk away from the Christian faith. Because they think that there is no way a good and just God could do something like that. Whereas in reality, it's a sign of his perfect justice. For God will deal ultimately with the evil in this world by punishing it in the next. And this is the message of the wheat in the chaff. This is the truth of God dividing those who are his and who are not his. But John's picture of Jesus with a winnowing fork in his hand is evocative on another level as well. I think this is helpful. The threshing floor that that John describes is where the wheat Would be beaten and or crushed in order to separate or loosen the kernel from the husk or straw or the chaff. The stretching floors where the sea was was crushed. And the winnowing fork, which is a large wooden shovel like instrument would then be used to grab the wheat and toss it in the air. And the denser, harder Kernel, the heavy kernel would fall to the ground, while the lighter chaff would be taken by the wind and be separated from the kernel. As you can imagine, this was quite laborious. Well, what is the point of John mentioning this aspect? He could have just said he will separate the wheat from the chaff, but instead he includes this image of the threshing floor and the winnowing fork. Why? I believe it's because of this. Every person's faith, and even so-called faith, will be tested. Your faith will be sifted. And the result of that sifting will determine whether you possess the Holy Spirit or not. If you claim to be in Christ, even today, your faith will be tested. And in that testing, you will come out either as wheat. Or you'll come out as chaff. Luke mentions later in the Gospels a scene that should really give us all pause. It's found in Luke 22. And Jesus is talking about the kingdom of God. And then all of a sudden he looks over to Peter and he says, Simon, Simon. All right there, you should know that something's about to come here because Jesus just repeated Peter's name twice. And it's an address of compassion. It's an address of Of care. And Jesus says, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to have you and to see Sift you like wheat. The devil himself had his sights on Peter, and he was going to take his faith and beat it. with the flail of temptation. He was going to crush his faith on the floor of suffering. He was to drive a fork of division into his faith and work laboriously on causing Peter to fall. Satan aimed at Peter's faith. He had it in his sights. And though we are not Peter, I am sure that Satan has demanded to have some of you. Perhaps he has demanded to have me. And your faith will be tested. You will be sifted like wheat. You will surely struggle. You will surely feel despair. You will surely feel crushed. But listen to the promise of Jesus Christ. After telling Peter that his faith was going to be cisted , Jesus immediately says to him, but I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned, strengthen your brothers. Jesus Christ, your high priest, is praying for you. What a promise. The eternal God, though he allows us to be crushed, he will not forsake us. It was a foregone conclusion that Peter would turn. strengthen his brothers. And as if to give an example of faith being sifted, Luke almost abruptly adds verses 19 -20. to this passage. It's almost just an afterthought talking about Herod. Herod the Tetrarch says he adds to the evil that he had already done by throwing John in prison. Now John was admonishing Herod for taking Herodias, who was Herod's brother's wife, their family was very confusing. But taking Philip's wife, Herodias, to be his own wife. And not only would Herod imprison John, but he would later have him executed at the behest of Herodias' daughter. But before John was murdered, his faith was sifted in prison as well. His faith was tested. Luke records a scene in which John sends two of his disciples to Jesus to ask him. He asks this, Are you the one to come? Or should we look for another? Now, Luke doesn't give us all the details of why John was thinking what he was thinking, why did he say this? But I do believe that John's faith was faltering. While languishing in prison, awaiting the kingdom to come, which seemingly wasn't, John began to doubt whether Jesus was even the Messiah. Perhaps it was because Jesus was taking so long, perhaps because the miracles that Jesus was performing weren't grand enough for well, I don't know the reason. But John 's faith was struggling. His faith is being sifted. And just as Jesus promised Peter that he would pray for him, so too Jesus assured John in order to To strengthen him. He says to John's disciples, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard. Jesus assures John with words of promise: I am with you With you, John. Remember what I have done for you. Of course, I'm the Messiah. And in the same way, Jesus says to you, See what I have done for you. Of course, I am the Messiah. I have saved you. I have baptized you with the Holy Spirit. I am your God Your master. Liberty Church, let us walk in the confidence of these words of promise, knowing that we have received from Jesus Christ a greater baptism. The baptism of the Holy Spirit of God. Let us pray. Father, we come before you and acknowledge that faith will be tested and sifted. Some may receive that challenge more strenuously than others. Father, I pray for those that are undergoing even now that trial, that you would be with them. That you would assure them of your promises, that they would realize that you would never leave nor forsake them. Father, thank you so much that your children Can have confidence in you. We can approach your throne of grace. And we believe that we will receive the comfort And the strength needed during our time of trial and our time of sifting. And Lord, I do pray that there is anyone here who has not Been baptized by the Holy Spirit, who has doubts that your spirit actually indwells in them, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. I pray that They would ask more about this glorious gospel, a gospel that saves from the wrath of a holy God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.