Good morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter 8, verses 1 through 25. We have a lot to cover this morning. Our passage is strongly connected to last week's passage, in which we saw this unnamed woman displaying her faith. In Christ as she washed Jesus' feet with her tears and and wiped them with her hair. And this face was born out of this deep love and devotion. to Christ. And and one aspect of her faith that we saw is that it was both public and private. That is It was something certainly deeply personal to her, but it was something that had to also be expressed in public. It could not just remain inside. This woman loved Jesus and she put that love to practice. In the plain sight. of everyone around her. And that's something vital for us to keep in mind, both this public and private aspect of faith. And our passage this morning continues examining this important question. What is faith? How do we get it? And once we have it, how do we put it to practice? Initially I wanted to preach just on the first part of this passage, the parable of the seeds. And uh as I dove into the text though, there it just made became obvious to me that uh it's all connected. It all has to do with faith, even before chapter 8. As we see in chapter 7, the very last uh line, your faith has saved you. And all the way through uh verses twenty-five. They all have to do with faith. Even the very last story of our passage, uh seemingly disconnected. Maybe many people would think it has nothing to do with what preceded it. story of Jesus on the boat and the calming of the wind and seas. Even that has to do with faith, as Jesus, the very end of it, ties it all together by asking his disciples, Where is your faith? And this is the question that this passage is going to ask you. It's going to ask me. Where is your faith? We recall last week Jesus says to the woman in chapter 7, verse 50, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. Now, this does not mean that faith saves. Christ saves. Faith is merely the vehicle that Christ that receives what Christ has done. Martin Luther once said that faith is the ring that holds the diamond of Jesus. The ring is what holds it fast. It's the diamond that's important. When I was a a broke 25-year-old looking for engagement rings. I was looking for the biggest diamond I could get. And I knew that was what was most important. I didn't care about the band. And I wanted the I wanted the diamond to be big. Unfortunately, my eyes were bigger than my checkbook. But another way of putting it is that faith is what receives the diamond of Christ, and faith is what receives The seed of the Word of God. And that illustration will come in handy a little later. But what is faith? What is faith? Well, faith is not something that you initiate. Faith is a gift of God to you. And it's a gift that you would trust someone. Or something. In fact, faith is the greatest form of trust that you can possibly have. It's a solemn oath to loyalty. It's a solemn oath to devotion. And when that faith is turned towards Christ, when that loyalty is placed on Jesus Christ, God promises That you will be saved. Because Christ has taken all of our sins and all of our rebellion upon himself. Taking the punishment that we deserved. And He's given us His righteousness. Faith is essential. Christ is the pie, you know, but faith is like the essential ingredient of the pie. Uh years ago, our uh we had a uh gathering that um that we were invited to and and our house decided to make apple pie for this gathering and was cutting it up and serving it and I noticed we noticed that someone was eating the apple pie and then they all sudden started pouring sugar. Like they were spooning sugar from the jar and pouring it on their their pie. And uh I was like, why are you doing that? And they just said we like this or whatever And uh we then proceeded to take a bite of the apple pie and we realized we forgot sugar. You forgot sugar in an apple pie. Faith is the essential ingredient. Now, all these analogies fall short, of course. poke holes in them and and and and whatnot. And that's why we have a lot of analogies in the Bible. That's why we have a lot of examples in the Bible. That's why we have a lot of illustrations in the Bible and stories in the Bible about faith. And that's what we have here in Luke chapter 8. And Luke mentions this woman saving faith in chapter 7. And then he goes on to mention other notable women of faith in chapter 8, verses 1 through 3. In fact, their faith was put on display in a very tangible way, Luke says. They supported the ministry of Christ. through their own means. And we have three women here that are named. Mary Magdalene, Joanna, and Susanna. Luke mentions that Mary Magdalene was a woman from whom seven demons were cast out. This is a way of saying that she was greatly possessed. She was under demonic control. And the Gospels do not record that actual uh event of exercising that demon. And Mary is only mentioned a few times in the Gospels. But there's perhaps no one else in all the Gospels except maybe Jesus. Who has more speculation concerning them about their identity than Mary Magdalene? These theories abound about her to the point of being ridiculous. Some claim that she was the sinful woman from chapter 7 that we just looked at. That's been a long tradition in the church. Others give her the title of Apostle to the Apostles. Because she was the first one to see that Christ had risen from the dead, and she goes back and tells the apostles. So she has this certain status or role. And others even insinuate that Mary and Jesus had an intimate relationship, which is obviously heretical. The scriptures say very little about Mary except that she was a faithful woman. And she was faithful throughout Christ's life. She was there with Christ from the beginning. She was there when Christ. Was crucified. They were there when Christ rose from the dead. These women displayed this solemn oath of loyalty to Christ. And Mary and the others epitomize faithfulness and the response of her faith, the response of their faith, Was to give out of their own means to support the ministry of Jesus, as verse 3 says. Now marrying other women, they certainly display their faith other ways. But this is the one way that Luke decides to mention, that they gave to the ministry of Christ, and they gave sacrificially. They were not compelled to give. I'm sure that Jesus did not demand for them to give. They gave because they loved Christ. And then not just give to Christ if they also, it says here, provided for them So these women provided for Christ and the disciples as they were traveling throughout the country preaching and teaching the gospel. This was probably a substantial amount given. To support such a large and lengthy ministry, one that lasted at least three years. So we have another woman named Joanna. She was the wife of a household servant, Cusa. Normally that would not be a big deal, not even worth mentioning, except this household servant was a servant of the house of the king of all of Israel, Herod. So Cusa was a big deal. And he had means and his wife had certainly prestige. And we do not know if Cusa was a believer. It's only his wife whose mention is following Christ. But as an aside, it it is amazing to see this, uh, that if Cusa 's wife believed in Christ, this must mean that the gospel of God's salvation had gone to even the aristocracy, the wealthy of Israel, had gone to the king's palace. Now Christ preached to the poor, but he didn't limit the gospel to the poor. The rich and powerful need Jesus' forgiveness just as desperately as the poor, even if they don't feel like they do in this present life. And the last woman mentioned is Susanna, and we have very little information about her. And the point of mentioning these women is to highlight Genuine faith. Four women in a row. The sinful, unnamed woman in chapter seven, these three women, all exhibiting a faith. That bleeds into action. It's a faith that's visible. It's a faith that's on display It's a faith that loves and cherishes Jesus Christ. And after highlighting these women To further drive home this point about faith, Luke puts this parable of Jesus next. The parable of the sower or parable of the seeds. Now, this parable is unlike the one from the previous chapter. That one was simple. It only had a few parts. We kind of knew what those parts meant and we had a clear application. Not so with this parable. This parable is complex. This parable is confusing. It has a lot of parts, sowers, seeds, soils, birds, weeds, fruit. And each of these components means something. And there's debate over what some of them mean. So let's take a look at this parable. Starts in verse 4. Great crowds gathering, and Christ tells us parable. He gives this parable, but he gives the interpretation of the parable in verse 11. So we're mostly going to look there At a basic level, there's a sower who's sowing seeds in four different places, and each place has a different germination rate. Some bear fruit, others do not. Some seeds fall on good soil, others do not. In most cases of growing seeds, as in my case, growing the plants I'm growing right now, it's all pretty much user error. I have no idea what I'm doing. But with this, there is no user error. We're given what these seeds are, and the seeds are the Word of God. The word will not return to God void or empty. There is no user heir. There is no heir. And we're given the identity of the fruit. It's salvation. If you're bearing fruit, you're saved. But one major component of this parable is not identified. It's the sower. If you look, when Jesus Explains the parable. What's he start with? The seed. The seed is the word of God, he says. Well, who's the sower? Well most people assume, most commentators assume, without even giving a second thought, that the sower is Jesus. And for the most part, I agree with that. But sowing the word of God is the equivalent of preaching. The Word of God. How does Christ preach the Word of God today? Through the church. The sower is the church of God. Immediately after the sower Parable and and connected. Like I said, all these stories are connected, and I think they're all about faith. Immediately after this parable, Jesus gives this well-known saying about this light Or lamp on a stand. Elsewhere in the other gospels, he uses the city on a hill and a lamp on a stand. And he's using this to describe the church. And in the book of Revelation, chapter 2, the lamp, a lampstand, is symbolic of the church. The point I'm making is this: the real presence of Christ is present in the preaching of God's word Just as, just as the real presence of Christ is present right there at that table. The real presence of Christ, Christ, who is the head of the body, the church, is speaking to you today through preaching. A visible act, just like the visible act of taking Jesus' real flesh and blood. Not physically real, but real nonetheless. In preaching. Christ is speaking to you directly. People often say , I just wish God Himself Will will speak to me. He is right now Right here, in this place, God, the Almighty, the Father, the creator of all the cosmos, is speaking to you. Now, this does not mean that I'm God In case anyone was wondering. As long as I, or as long as a preacher is faithful to this book, you're hearing God Himself. You're hearing Christ. He's real and he's really here. This is mysterious. And this is why Christ calls us to take care of how we hear in verse 18. There's these mysteries of the kingdom, there's mysteries of the gospel. And we're not, the church is not like some secret society with a secret handshake, and we're kind of holding all these mysteries in the in the keeping them in the dark. No, we're to declare the mysteries of the kingdom of God every single Lord's day. Now, to some, those mysteries are understood. Because God has illuminated their hearts by his grace with his Holy Spirit, and we understand. But to some To some, they're s parables, they're riddles, they're confusing Christ is preaching to his body, his bride today, and on every Lord's day, and this is why The Lord's day is so profoundly important because on this day, on this day, Christ speaks to you in a way that is different. than any other way that he can speak to you. I'm not trying to disparage reading the Bible on your own, in your own home or in Bible studies outside of church. That is obviously a very, very beneficial thing to do. To read, to grow in knowledge, to understand Christ, to hear God's word. But Christ communicates in a way wholly unique, wholly other than when you read the Bible on your own. He communicates in a way completely different. It's powerful. And this is why it's so tragic when there are churches that Do not do the very thing that God created them to do in the first place, to preach the word of God. And the preaching of God's word has profound effects on the hearers It changes eternity. It moves the hand of God This is the point of Jesus' parable. We must not overcomplicate this parable. There are whole books written about this parable, and I think people get lost in the weeds, so to speak, no pun intended. But we do. We overcomplicate it. And there are there's if you can boil it down, there are a variety of hindrances to the Word of God And we see these varieties. We're going to get into that in a second. But there are only two outcomes. That's what we have to keep in mind. There's only two responses. Either the plant bears fruit or it doesn't. Either the word of God is accepted and received, and it bears fruit, leading to salvation, or it's rejected. So the first seed is when a person hears the word preach, yet there is no response. The seed never germinates. And Jesus declares that when this happens, again in a very mysterious way, Satan is involved. And in somehow Snatching that word that this person has heard and taking it from their heart. How does Satan do that? This parable is not meant to give us that information. We don't know that. How does someone hear the word of God preached and there's no response to it? And somehow, in some way, Satan takes that word and they don't believe. And the first seed is clear. This person is not saved. And Jesus says so unambiguously in verse 12. So that they may not believe and be saved. So it's very clear. There are a lot of people who hear the Word of God Preached and other ways, but mainly this is talking about the preached word of God. And they do not respond to the word of God, and Satan just takes that word straight out of their heart. Now that one's clear. The middle two seeds are a little bit more ambiguous. Are these people saved and then they lose their salvation? What does it mean to fall away from faith? And these are difficult questions, but this is ambiguous for a reason. Because it reflects present-day reality. There are some even in this church Who by all appearances look to be a Christian. By all appearances, it seems like they have The true Word of God planted in good soil. But the reality is they have not received the Word of God by faith. And it only takes something external. It only takes something to show or to reveal that lack of faithfulness or lack of fruitfulness. With the second seed, Jesus says that it's uh testing, it's trials. It's persecution, he says, elsewhere. And when those persecutions come, this the person falls away They do not value suffering for Christ over their own skin. And this is so relevant. Thousands of years ago, especially during the time of the Roman persecution, and there was a whole controversy of called the Donatism controversy where where those who refused Christ Or rejected Christ or denied Christ in order to escape persecution, they were not allowed into the church. And so there's this big controversy during the time of Augustine to allow those people back into the church. And it's obviously true in many parts of the world today that there is persecution for the name of Christ. Many places where saying the name of Jesus could get you killed. It's not really true here Certainly there is persecution, certainly there can be ridicule, certainly there can be discomfort, certainly there can be a lot of other things, but As far as I know, no one is taking our lives for our faith. What's the seed that really is relevant to us? It's the third seed. This third seed, the external thing that presses against the seed. The the third the third seed, what is the thing that it it kind of just takes it and chokes it? What's he say? The cares and riches and pleasures of life. I can't think of a better sentence to describe our present condition here in the American Church. This is the relevant seed. That there is a response to the Word of God and it grows. It does. It grows. But because of the cares, because of the riches, and because of the pleasures that this world offers us. It never matures. It never flourishes. It gets choked out. It's a false faith. There's unfruitfulness there. And that is our present-day malady. That is the concern of this church. The concern of the church in Ancient Rome was certainly the second seed and the third seed, but today it is this third seed. And it's only the fourth and final seed that exhibits True faith. This seed lands on the soil of faith. It's received and it bears fruit. And there's an outward sign of salvation, which is fruit. How do you know you're saved? Well, you could say, I have faith. How do you know you have faith? Well, you bear fruit. It's visible. It's visible to those around you. It's visible to your elders. That fruit You begin to exhibit because the Spirit of Christ is within you. And so taking all of Scripture into account, you know, this passage with these four seeds can be confusing. with where the two the second seed and third seed are but taking all of scripture into account it's clear unequivocally that True faith comes when the Word of God is preached and it's received. And salvation is born. And God causes the seeds to grow, and genuine faith will be accompanied by external evidence. But in the world, there's things that will crush and choke our true faith. And after Jesus gives this parable, the most interesting incident follows. Somewhat it could be embarrassing, it would have been for me. Jesus' mom and brothers want to have a word with Jesus. Now what why here? Why do they want to have a word with Jesus right now? Well, presumably it's about something he had just said Presumably it's a question about perhaps their own faith. Maybe They can't get to Jesus because of the crowd, and so they send word through a messenger to tell him, Go out here, come out here and see your mother. And what does Jesus say? Well, to continue to emphasize the nature of faith, he declares, who are my mother and my brothers? My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. Do you see how this is so connected to these stories of faith And this may come across as harsh at first, but it fits perfectly with what's building up, what Luke has been doing. Those who enter the kingdom of God are those who hear the word of God. And bear fruit. And bearing fruit means that you are doing the Word of God. And not even Jesus' flesh and blood have a greater claim upon Christ than those who are of faith. Family is not denigrated here, but it is its place subservient to the family of God. It's the family of Christ that's exalted. And this family is adopted by God by faith in Christ. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Only spiritual rebirth. And just like the parable, true faith hears the word of God and does the word of God. And lastly, we have a story that is again connected And it's a story about a boating trip with uh Jesus and his disciples. And it's a somewhat comical story, uh, but it it has again to do with the nature of faith. Let's look at this, starting in verse 22. And they are boating on the Sea of Galilee. It's a very large lake. And they're going to the other side. And Jesus has been teaching and he's been preaching the gospel all day. He takes a nap in the boat. And when he does that, the storm hits. Now Sea of Galilee is below sea level, it's surrounded by hills and mountains and and storms can hit just like that, instantaneously. And they can be violent, violent storms. And this storm that came down from the mountain was severe enough that the boat was truly in danger. It was filling up with water, it says. And through it all, Jesus was asleep. And you wonder, I wonder, like, how long did the disciples wait before waking up Jesus? I mean the boat's filling with water, so it must have waited somewhat long. And eventually they realize we're going down. So we better at least wake up Jesus, the Son of God. And so the disciples decide to do that. They wake up Jesus, they say, Master, Master, we are perishing. And Christ wakes up, and what's it say? He rebukes the storm. That word rebuke is the same word that Luke uses often for when Jesus rebukes the demon-possessed man. It's also a word that he used when Jesus rebukes the illness and the infirmity that is within people. Diseases. He rebukes diseases. Jesus stands up and rebukes the wind and the raging waves. What's going on here? Why would he rebuke the wind? Is the wind demon possessed? Is it sick? No. Here's the point. Christ has been teaching about faith. Christ has been illustrating faith. Christ has displayed faith. Christ has told us how to have faith and what faith looks like. And now Christ is declaring who the object of that faith is. Why should you trust Christ? Why should you make a solemn oath of loyalty to Him? Because Christ reigns over all the cosmos. He rebukes demons just as easily as he rebukes waves and wind. He heals the blind just as easily as he tells a woman that her sins are forgiven. Over all spiritual matters, Christ reigns Over all earthly matters, Christ reigns. Over all forces of nature, over all internal despair, over all worry, anxiety, over all stress. Over all anxiety, overall sickness and death, over it all, Christ conquers it. He reigns And the great question that leaps out to us from these pages is this: if you cannot trust Christ, then whom can you trust? Where are you putting your faith? How many times does Christ have to show that He is trustworthy? That He is able He shows us with stories. He shows us with miracles. He shows us with teaching. He shows us with his resurrection. He shows us with his word of God that he is sitting right now at the right hand of God the Father. And he's declaring to you and to I, he is able and he demands it. Where is your solemn oath of loyalty? Is it in the God of the universe or is it in yourself? Is it in the God who created heaven and earth, or is it in the pleasures and cares and riches of this world? When Christ is the object of our faith, he says, All who come to me I will never cast out. He casts out demons. He rebukes winds and waves, but he receives those who come to him by faith. Salvation is found in Jesus Christ. Peace, peace with God is found in Jesus Christ. Rest. For your souls is found in Jesus Christ. We often wonder why we're tossed around so much. We often are confused by why we're so distraught by the storms of this life I don't know about you, but I can feel like I'm standing on solid ground one day and the next I'm yelling out with the disciples, I'm perishing. And what does Christ do? What does Christ do? He calms He calms the raging sea. He calms the storms. He calms the waves. He gives you peace. And if you're sitting here this morning and you're saying to yourself, I lack peace, I lack calm. Then is Christ the master and lord of the boat of your life? Have you put your faith fully and wholly and completely in him? Jesus speaks a word, and the chaos, the absolute chaos that's surrounding the disciples' life, it calmed. Do you not think that Christ can do the same for you? And so many of us think that faith is a one-and-done event. I hear that often. Do you have faith in Christ? Believe in Christ and you will be saved. And that's absolutely true. But if that's where you end, it's Sadly deficient. It's a continuous faith in Christ. It's a continuous daily, hourly faith in Christ. It's this faith in Christ that calms the storms of our life. How can it be well with my soul when sea billows roll, like we just sang? How can it be well with my soul when trials come? Because through Christ I have access to a power that created all heaven and earth. Through Christ, I have access to a peace, to a peace that calms raging seas. This is faith, Liberty Church. This is something that Christ calls every single one of us to do. If you're Not a believer in Christ, he calls you first to repent and put your faith in Jesus Christ. But if you are a believer in Christ, that faith that you exercised, that you placed in Christ years ago or months ago or whenever it was. is to continue today by holding on, never letting go of Jesus Christ. So when you're asked As Jesus asks, Where is your faith? Let us boldly proclaim that my faith is in Jesus Christ my Lord, and I will hold on to him, and through Christ I will never Be shaken. Let us pray. Father, we come before you in faith, trusting that you are here, that you are present. Lord, we come to you in faith trusting that you died on a cross for our sins. Father, we come to you in faith, believing that Your righteousness has been given to us and that we have been adopted into your family as your children. Father, we come to you in faith, even as your children, even as believers. And we ask that we would hold on to you through the storms of this life. Father, we ask that we would exhibit and show the fruit of our faith. God, I do pray for anyone here who is not in you, who are one of the three seeds that have planted on ground that is not uh ground of faith. I pray that if there is anybody in here that has done that is in that position that they would repent of their sins Lord, that they would come to you by faith, that they would make that solemn oath of loyalty to you, Jesus Christ, our God, our Lord and Savior. Father, we pray all this in the precious name of Jesus Christ. Amen.