Let's take a moment to pray. Father God, Lord, we uh thank you for your mighty word, which brings new life and changes hearts. We pray, Lord, that you would be with us now to uh see your word in uh and your grace in a in a renewed way. Bless us now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, you can almost uh take it for granted these days that any large corporation or nonprofit will have a missions statement Because missions statements are very important. They define the purpose of the organization And they zero in on what the organization plans to achieve. I was reading through some mission statements earlier this week and came across the one for JetBlue. The one for Jet Blue goes like this, to inspire humanity both in the air and on the ground. I've flown on jet blue. And I can honestly say I was not inspired Cramped, yes. Contorted in my seat, definitely, but not inspired. Maybe the passenger in front of me felt inspired as my knees pressed into the seat, giving him additional lumbar support. But I was not inspired either in the air or on the ground. I didn't even get a bag of peanuts. Well, as far as missions statements go, you win some, you'll lose some. Some mission statements just don't live up to their expectation, to their promise. But last week in our study of Luke. We saw one mission statement that was absolutely had lived up to its promise. That mission statement is found in Luke 4, verses 18 through 19. And which Jesus quotes from Isaiah 61 in the sermon which he preached in the synagogue in Nazareth, his hometown. And as Pastor Nathan said, Isaiah 61 is a prophecy concerning the mission and the ministry of the promised Messiah. who would come to preach the gospel to the poor, proclaim liberty to the oppressed, bring sight to the blind, and set free those who are enslaved. And when Jesus preached on this passage, he made it crystal clear to his Nazarene neighbors that he was indeed the promised Messiah when he said in verse 21. Today, this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. In other words, he was saying, I am the servant of the Lord, who Isaiah foretold about centuries before. So you can expect to see me live out this messianic mission statement as I preach the good news of God's kingdom. When I give sight to the blind, and when I set those free who are oppressed. Now, it's one thing to make such a fantastic claim. It's an entirely different story to actually do it When we lived in Baldasta, Georgia, which was nationally known for having the most winning high school football team in the country. The people in Valdosto would say about their star team, it ain't bragging if you can do it. And in today's passage, we see that Jesus was definitely not bragging when he claimed to be the fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy. Because Luke gives several accounts which demonstrate that Jesus did indeed fulfill the mission statement of Isaiah 61. So it's no accident that Luke dovetails Jesus' sermon in Nazareth with these events that followed in Capernaum. And Luke is doing more than just being an exacting historian, chronic, chronicling Jesus' history. No, he is like a lawyer presenting his case in the court of public opinion, in which he sets forth Exhibit A and exhibit B to testify, to prove beyond any shadow of a doubt that Jesus is indeed the long-awaited Messiah. as evidenced by the wonders he performed in fulfilling the messianic prophecy of Isaiah 61. Beloved, we have no doubt about it. Now, some may doubt that these events actually really truly occurred. But consider this. These events weren't recorded centuries after they occurred. No, Luke is writing about events that happened just a few short decades earlier. So as his gospel and the other gospels were being circulated among the Roman world , Any number of people from Capernaum would have objected and they would have said, no way, this isn't true. This never happened. Jesus didn't do these things. It's all made up. It's fake news. And yet There was no thundering objections were raised when the Gospels went out. And the testimony of the Gospels is consistent. And the early church was consistent in their belief that Jesus is the promised Messiah, even in the face of persecution. After all, if you as an apostle or witness to Christ are facing life and death over your belief that Jesus is the Messiah Why would you continue on with something that you knew to be false if it meant a certain death for you? We even have the testimony of those outside of the early church, such as the first -century Jewish historian Josephus. who gave testimony to the reality of Christ and said that Jesus was a wise teacher who performed amazing deeds and gained a faithful following. So beloved, we can sort of tuck that away in our back pocket to use as a defense for the veracity of Scripture Which attests to Jesus as the promised Messiah. What Scripture purports about Christ is indeed the gospel truth. No pun intended. Well, let's dive into the passage. Having been rejected by his own hometown, Jesus continues with his preaching tour. And he travels to Capernaum, a prosperous fishing town on the upper northwest shore of the Sea of Galilee, a few miles from where the Jordan River flows into it. And Jesus literally goes down to Capernaum from Nazareth because Capernaum was some 600 feet below sea level And Nazareth was about 1,200 feet above sea level, so you can do the math. And during Jesus' visit to Capernaum, Luke shows us that Jesus demonstrated his authority over three significant areas which gave testimony that Jesus is indeed the Messiah. Verse 32 and verse 36, they clue us in to this theme where Luke records people's reaction to what Jesus does. And how do they react? With wonder, asking, who is this man whose word has such authority? Let's briefly consider the first area of authority which we find in verse 32, where Luke records that the people were astonished at Jesus' teaching. Why? Because he spoke with authority. In other words Jesus wasn't your customary regular rabbi of the day who resuscitated and recited the passed-down traditional teachings of previous preachers. Epitomized by the saying of one ancient rabbi who said, I've never in my life said a thing which I did not hear from my teachers. Now contrast that remark to Jesus, who spoke as one with authority. We see this repeatedly throughout the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5. What did Jesus say throughout that sermon? You have heard it said of old, or you have heard it said before, but what? I say to you now, as he gave the correct interpretation of the law Now, how could Jesus be so bold as to discard previous tradition and speak with sole authority about God's word? unless he himself is the living word, the Son of God who has given us his word. Could anything be more clear that Jesus is no mere man since he preached with divine authority? He didn't speak for God. He spoke as God incarnate when he proclaimed the gospel to the poor. Well, let's move on. Jesus not only spoke with authority in preaching the word , But he had authority over the world through the power of his word. He had authority over the world through the power of his word. And in this passage, there are two areas where we see Jesus' authority in the world, which he exercises through the Word. The first area is Jesus' authority over the unseen spiritual realm, which he demonstrates in verses 33 through 36. Now just picture that scene on that Sabbath morning. You're worshiping in the synagogue. You're wide awake and not sleeping because you're enthralled by Jesus' teaching. When suddenly a man shrieks with an unearthly scream and says, let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. And you watch this scene and you are stricken and shaken and wonder, what is going on here? Well, you are witnessing an encounter of an unholy kind. As Jesus is teaching, the unseen demonic spiritual forces cannot stand it. They cannot stand God's truth, which they rebel against. And they cannot be in the presence of the Holy Son of God. So this demon who has possessed this man cries out in abject fear of Christ. As John, as James 2. 19 says, the demons believe and shudder. This demon shudders because he is an abject terror, because he knows what awaits him and all his other core hosts. Korhorts, eternal judgment in the fiery lake of hell on the final day of judgment. And this fallen angel is wondering if today is indeed that day, because Jesus is in his midst. And a few verses later, verse 41. we read of the same thing happening as Jesus casts out more evil spirits from people. And we see in the Gospels this extraordinary demonic activity that occurred in Jesus' day. And it raises for us many questions about demon possession. the influence of demons, and we can't address those questions today, but in Jesus' earthly ministry It's as if a whole army of Satan is arrayed against Jesus, seeking to thwart his ministry, seeking to disrupt and derail his messianic mission. And we may even see a glimpse of this as we look at verse 34, when the evil spirit says, I know who you are. the Holy One of God. He identifies Jesus correctly and he speaks his name And perhaps he's doing this because he thinks this is a way of gaining control over Jesus, because it was widely believed and occult practice at that time. That if you had the exact knowledge of another person's name, it brought control or mastery over that person. But if the demon was trying to control Jesus by naming him, it was certainly a losing battle, wasn't it? For all Jesus had to do was command the spirit to be quiet. Now that's interesting. Why would he Command the Spirit to be quiet, even though the Spirit actually revealed who Jesus is. Yet Jesus says, be silent. Why? Well, Jesus didn't want this evil spirit as his press agent. He didn't want his identity as the Messiah revealed by the demonic. It would be like having a crime boss testify on your behalf. It just doesn't add to your credibility. And just by the power of his word. He casts the demon out. And there's no long ritual. There's no elaborate prayer. No. One little word shall fell him. And again, in giving this account, Luke is demonstrating that the Lord is the fulfillment of Isaiah 61. By just the power of his word, Jesus sets the prisoners free, those who are in bondage to demonic forces. Jesus, the Messiah, has authority over the spiritual realm. And next we see that Jesus has authority over the physical realm. After that dramatic synagogue service, Jesus was invited to Simon Peter's house. Now Simon was so well known as an apostle that he needed no introduction. Luke in verse 38 makes clear that Peter was married because he has a mother-in-law who lived with him and his wife. And when Jesus arrives, it's discovered that his mother-in-law is ill. And good Dr. Luke describes her illness in detail as having a very high fever. She has a dangerous infection. And we see in verse 39 that Jesus heals Simon's mother-in-law by just the power of his word. He rebukes the illness. And Luke uses the same word here that Jesus used to cast out the demon in verse 35. So Jesus basically cast out the illness. And we notice two things about this miraculous healing. It's not only instantaneous, but it's complete. Simon's mother-in-law was fully restored. She was fully healed. She didn't need further time in bed to recuperate and gain her strength. No, she was made completely well. So much so that she got right up and prepared their noonday meal. Once again, Luke gives us testimony that Jesus is the fulfillment of Isaiah 61 and his healing of Simon's mother-in-law. And that he has complete authority over the physical world, which he restores by the power of his word. Now there's something here. Do you hear the echo of Genesis 1 in this account? In Genesis 1, the Lord brings the physical world into existence by the power of his word. And here the Lord is restoring the brokenness of his fallen creation, bringing healing to a diseased body by a simple command. Again, Luke is presenting us with Exhibit B to show that Jesus is the incarnate Son of God. Now this healing was private. But in the following verses, verses 40 through 41, the miracles of healing were very public. In the evening, the Sabbath had ended, so people were free to travel, to take their afflicted loved ones to see Jesus. And under a moonlit sky, with the stars providing light, people brought their sick, the lame, and their blind for Jesus to heal. Now notice what it says in those verses. Does it say that Jesus healed most of them, 70% of them? No. Jesus healed all of them. Jesus healed every single person who came to him without exception. It didn't matter who they were. It didn't matter what they looked like or what they had done in their life. He showed mercy and grace to each one. Now Luke could have simply said, and he healed all of them. And we would certainly get that. But do you notice this beautiful detail that Luke gives us in verse 40? Jesus touches them Now, Jesus could have healed them all by the power of his word, just like he did with Simon's mother-in-law. He could have done it in one fell swoop. To use a southern expression, Jesus could have stood there before the crowd and say, all y'all be healed. And in just a few words, he would be done. But no. Jesus lays his hand on each and every sick person. What an amazing picture of the tender care of our Savior. That he was willing to touch our diseased humanity When I go to visit someone in the hospital, before I leave the room, I make a headway for the hospital sanitizer on the wall, doing this as quickly as I can. But here is Jesus, a perfect, whole man, who had no soul illness, for he was without sin. And yet he doesn't shy away from touching the diseased. He doesn't cast them aside and say, get away from me, you unclean people. You disgust me. No. He touches people with oozing sores and broken bones and malignant tumors and arthritic gnarled hands. He touches the dirty and the destitute to bring them healing. Jesus is very personal, isn't he? He does not remove himself from our infirmities. What a wonderful depiction of our Savior. who does the same thing for us, who touches the mess of our lives, and brings wholeness and restoration to our sin. Sick hearts. Well, what a day it had been in Capernaum. They probably talked about that day for years to come. And we can only imagine what it was like. What that night was like. People who needed knee replacements were doing cartwheels in the street. Those who were blind were soaking in the beauty of the world, soaking in colors and light. And gazing into the faces of their loved ones, perhaps for the very first time. And parents whose children were near death were embracing them as tears of joy streamed down their faces, and the speechless were now singing arias. And there was music and laughter filling the air. And under the moonlight, people were dancing in the streets. It must have looked like a Disney movie. Jesus had brought transformation to that city. Those who were oppressed by demons were set free and lies dominated by affliction were made whole And the great physician was able to heal and restore their brokenness by just the power of his word and the touch of his hand. So it's no wonder that the next morning, when they went to look for Jesus, who had retreated to the desert And when they found him, the crowd implored him to please stay, don't leave. And if he had, what would have happened Capernaum would have become the number one tourist attraction in the ancient Roman world. For all would want to come to see the great physician who takes away diseases and who redeems people's lives from the pit But Jesus replied that he had to be true to his mission statement. He said, I must preach the kingdom of God in other cities also, because for this purpose I have been sent. And in chapter 9 in Luke, Jesus revealed to his disciples where that mission would lead him. He said to his disciples, the Son of Man must suffer many things. He must be rejected by the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and he must be killed and on the third day be raised again to life. And if Jesus was truly to fulfill the mission of Isaiah 61 , He was going to have to completely eradicate all oppression. If he was going to truly forever free those in bondage. It would mean that he would have to end what ultimately oppresses us and the source of all of our affliction. Our sin which weighs us down and holds us in bondage in our broken world. And to free us would require his own death on the cross. Why? Because the justice of a holy God demands that we face judgment for the evil within our own hearts. And that judgment is death, an eternal separation from God for all eternity, where we are in darkness, away from his love and light and life. But beloved, we know that through Christ we know that the Lord God is merciful. And that he gave us a way out of from the oppression of our own sin. That this was the only way to our freedom and the only way to wholeness. We needed a great physician to heal our sin, sick souls, by taking upon himself all the consequences that we deserved. for our own evil thoughts and desires and actions so that we could be deliberated from the eternal judgment for them. Amen. As Isaiah 53 foretold, Jesus was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, the chastening of our well-being. Fell upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We are Healed. You know, all those people in Capernaum, for a brief time They were given a reprieve from the brokenness of this world, from affliction because of what Jesus had done. But it was just a postponement of the inevitable. Eventually, they all died. But by Jesus leaving them and moving forward with his mission, he offered them and he offers us a greater deliverance. Beloved, this is what we have received by faith in Christ alone, through faith alone, freedom from God's just judgment. and liberation from the power of reigning sin. He breaks the power of canceled sin. He sets the prisoner free His blood can make the fallest clean. His blood availed for me. And we know that Jesus just didn't free us from the eternal judgment for our sin. But he frees us from the reigning power of sin in this life as well. As Paul writes in Romans 6, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that this body of sin might be brought to nothing. So that we would be what no longer enslaved to it. And then Paul goes on to write, so you also must consider yourselves what dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. And we find out that here it gets really personal for us, doesn't it? As we apply the reality of the gospel to our lives in the here and now. All over Galilee, Jesus healed the sick, and he broke the bonds of evil by the power of his word. And beloved, today he continues to bring healing to our sin -sick souls by the power of his word. which renews our minds and strengthens us as we wrestle with our old nature, so that we can flee temptation. By the power of his word, Jesus breaks down the strongholds of besetting sins which weigh us down and which bind us up. I have seen this happen in my pastoral ministry. I have seen it in the lives of Christian men who have struggled with substance abuse or pornography. And I've seen that when they avail themselves of the means of grace, meditating on God's word through and prayer and fellowship and accountability with other Christian brothers, they are able to combat these oppressive addictions and no freedom from them. So let me ask you. Where is the battlefield in your own heart? Where is your soul sickness that weighs you down? Is it bitterness? Is it envy? Is it explosive anger or seething rage? Or lust, or gossip , or a self-centered, self-righteous pride Where do you need the Lord to bring healing to you by the power of his word? Are you meditating on his word so that your mind is being renewed and your character is being shaped by it? We have seen today that Jesus the Messiah transformed the lives of those in Capernaum by the power of his word How is Jesus transforming you as the power of his word intersects with the brokenness of your heart? To bring healing by the great physician.