If you have your Bibles, turn with me to Luke 24, actually the last verse of 23. Verse 56. This morning we come to the last chapter of our study of Luke. This has been a nearly two -year journey. And somewhat sadly, we are nearing the end. We are arriving to the very close of this book. And I want to give just a very brief preview on what we are going to be studying next. Now, some of you have certainly have already guessed it, but it makes sense to me and to Barry that after studying the gospel of Luke, we should look at Luke's sequel to his gospel, which is the book of Acts. And in his introductory remarks in the book of Acts, Luke mentions the grand scope of his gospel that he had just Finished writing. And he says this in the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day when he was taken up. And that's exactly what we've been doing for the past two years, is looking at the life and ministry and teaching of Jesus Christ. And then, after that introductory remark, Luke delves into the subject of the second book, Acts, and he discusses how the disciples will receive power Through the Holy Spirit, and they will be witnesses to Christ in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth. the earth. And for the next few chapters, the book of Acts deals with that formation of the church. And I think Acts will be a very timely study for us. as we ask pertinent questions about what is church? Who are the people of God? And even how do the people of God gather together in a day like this. But before we can get to church, we must look at the conclusion of Luke's gospel and what a fitting conclusion it is, the resurrection. It's actually not quite the conclusion of Christ's redemptive work, right? He still has to ascend to heaven. If he didn't, he would not send his Holy Spirit down to us. Which is necessary for our redemption. And Christ's redemptive work continues in the form of being spiritually present every Lord's Supper, which we thankfully are celebrating this morning. But without this ending, the resurrection ending, the gospel not only doesn't make sense, it's ineffective. Without the resurrection, our faith is in vain. Our hope is shattered. Without the resurrection, we still don't get to God. We follow Christ not because he provided some good moral teaching, which he certainly did. We follow Christ because he is the resurrected king. And the resurrection vindicates Christ's death on the cross, which we looked at this past few weeks. It proclaims victory over sin and the curse that's upon all mankind. We look at this resurrection story, and it begins actually in this last verse of chapter 23. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. Now the they here is referring to the women. Who Luke explains who they are later on. In verse 10, it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and other women And these women had seen where Jesus was buried, they took note of it, and then they left and returned home to prepare spices and ointments. But they could not actually anoint Jesus' body because it was a Sabbath, and that would be breaking Jewish law. And has good law-abiding Jews, they had to stay home. Now, sometimes the chronology gets a little confusing to review just the timeline. of Jesus' death. He was arrested on Thursday evening. He was indicted on Thursday evening. He was sentenced early Friday morning. Crucified on Friday morning as well. Buried Friday evening. He remained buried Friday, Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath, and part of Sunday, early part of Sunday, and then he rose on Sunday. So thus he was buried three days. Why three days? It seems like a big deal to Jesus that he would be buried three days. He mentions it multiple times. Why three days? Well, first it's to fulfill his own prophecy. Out of his own mouth, Jesus says, just as Jonah was in the belly of a fish for three days and three nights, so too will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. Why? Why not four day? Why didn't Jesus say that? Why not have five, six day? Well there was an expectation In the Old Testament, the Jews were waiting for, in some form or fashion, the third day to be a significant event. We see this throughout the Old Testament. The third day was to be a day of redemption, a day of salvation, even a day of resurrection. Genesis chapter 22, Abraham was to go to Mount Moriah and offer up his son Isaac. And it says in verse 4, on the third day he looked up and he saw the place where God told him to be. The mount where God provides. Provides what? The redemption. Not only for Isaac, but through Isaac, all of God's people. It was on the third day that Esther stood before King Ahasuris to seek the redemption of her people. The third day. But the most striking prophecy of this third-day expectation is found in the book of Hosea. Hosea chapter 6. Come, let us return to the Lord, he says. For he has torn us that he may heal us. He has struck us down, and he will bind us up. After two days, he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up that we may live before him. That's powerful. The Jews were expecting this. It's not just for the Messiah. This resurrection promise was for all of them. The Messiah, of course, had to go first. And Jesus did not need to spend 24 hours in order to fulfill this prophecy, 24 hour days in order to fulfill this prophecy. And some people argue about that. Oh, he wasn't there for 24-hour day. We don't apply this standard to ourselves. I say when I got here, when I got my driver's license in a mayor, I spent the whole day at the MVA. complained to my wife when I got back. Why didn't literally spend the entire day. It sure felt like it. Well J Jesus was literally in the ground On three separate days. And that was sufficient to fulfill the prophecy. Well, where was Jesus during this time? I mean, where was he? His spirit? His his soul. We know where his body was. Now, though neither Luke nor any of the gospel writers discuss this, I think it would be good just to address this very, very briefly. And there are three options. that I know of. One, Jesus was asleep. And each of these options has biblical evidence. Jesus was asleep, just like Paul says we all sleep first before the uh The resurrection. So Jesus, in some way, his soul, spirit was dormant. Number two, Jesus' soul went straight to God, and we see scriptural passages that indicate that today you will be with me in in paradise and then third Jesus' soul actually went to hell. Now in short, we just do not know. And I've gone back and forth on this. But there seems to me to be more evidence pointing to this idea, though very confusing, that Jesus when Jesus down into hell. Even your pastors somewhat disagree on this point I found out today. In his sermon to the Jews at Pentecost in the book of Acts, Peter says that God did not abandon Jesus in Hades. So there seems, this seems to indicate that Jesus was at least there, that God did not abandon him there. There's also this peculiar verse in Peter. in which he says that Jesus went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison , spirits in prison, not bodies in prison. Because they formerly did not obey. Well, when was this? When God's patience waited in the days of Noah. Wait a second. So Jesus somehow preached to spirits who were in bondage thousands of years ago. The Apostles' Creed, which is from at least the fourth century, seems to agree with this, with the line that we're all familiar with. He descended into hell. Now, the Nicene Creed, which the Apostles' Creed seems to be based upon, Nicene Creed is an earlier creed, does not contain this line. It's confusing. What he did down there is also a matter of of great debate. If he did actually descend. So I do personally believe that Jesus, somehow, some way he went to hell, but not necessarily to suffer. Rather, Jesus went there to proclaim the gospel. Now Peter says this again in 1 Peter 4. For this is why the gospel is preached even to those who are dead. That though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. Summarize. Christ deemed it worthy to not only preach the gospel on earth, but also above earth Recall that the angels actually hearing this message of the gospel and are amazed by it. And he also preached the gospel below the earth. To those in prison, those in bondage, that all might hear the good news of Jesus Christ. Luke 24, 1 begins This time marker, these very important time markers of three days, and here in verse 1, the first day of the week, Luke says. And this is why we gather together on Sunday and not Saturday. This idea of the first day of the week is repeated throughout Scripture. Paul uses it often in his letters to the Corinthians. The Revelation, Apostle John says on the first day of the week now, this idea that this is the first day of the week, and that there's been a monumental shift in the Sabbath. The Sabbath still exists for Christians, but it's been moved forward one day. And this makes sense theologically. The Jewish Sabbath was the end of the week. Six days you will labor, and on the seventh day you will rest. At the end of the labor, rest was to come. And in this way, the Jewish Sabbath foresaw a coming redemption. A distant salvation. You're working and then hoping for the rest to come at the end. And this Sabbath was the eternal rest. Recall in Genesis chapter 1, that the seventh day was the day with no ending. There was no evening and morning on the seventh day. It's the eternal day, the day that we as God's people enter into God 's rest. Eternity. This hope and expectation of looking forward. But the Christian Sabbath is not at the end of the week. It's now at the beginning. In other words, we look back. And in other words, Christ has come first to save our souls and to provide redemption. And in that redemption we work. In that salvation that's first given to us, we as Christians now labor. Not for salvation, it's already been given, it's already been guaranteed. We labor. We labor in the Lord. And where now is the Jewish Sabbath? It's dead. It's buried with Christ. When he was in the ground on Saturday, so too the Jewish Sabbath was buried with them. The Christian Sabbath is a resurrected Sabbath. The Jewish Sabbath and all of its regulations Is dead. These Jewish women still abiding by the old laws of the Sabbath Finally get to the tomb. And they find the large stone rolled away. They went inside and did not find the body of Jesus Christ. No surprise there. No one's ever going to find the body of Jesus Christ until we actually see him in heaven. The body of Abraham is somewhere here on earth, so to the body of Noah, so to the body of Moses. This is interesting to think about, so to the body of Adam and Eve. If their bones have been preserved, it's somewhere here on the earth, buried by the flood, perhaps. As Peter preaches to the Jews at Pentecost, he says this, Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was buried. And his tomb is with us to this day. I. e. his body is with us to this day. But not Jesus. His body is not with us today. And the women, they stand perplexed about this missing body. But they do not think Jesus was resurrected. That doesn't cross their minds. Luke doesn't mention this, but the gospel of John, Mary doesn't see the body and she speaks to a the gardener, recall that? Who's really the resurrected Jesus? And she says to the gardener, sir, if you've carried him away, tell me where you've laid him, I will take him away. Still a dead body that she's coming to see. Resurrection was not on her mind, neither was it on the minds of any of the women who came, neither was it on the minds of any of the apostles, as we shall see. Soon see. And while these women stood there, two angels appear, two people who are reliable witnesses. To the resurrection, for according to the law of Moses, everything had to be confirmed by witnesses. And these angels are now those two witnesses. And they appear in dazzling apparel. And of course, these women are afraid, they're bowing their face to the ground. And the angels ask the most poignant question. That they could have asked at that exact moment. It's a powerful question that I believe cut to the heart of these women Why do you seek the living among the dead? This question is a little bit of a two-edged sword. Of course, the first meaning is that Jesus is alive. And being alive, he would not remain in the grave. Verse 6 declares, He is not here. He's risen But it's also a subtle rebuke directed at these women. Are you seeking the living or are you seeking the dead The women come for a dead body, not a live one. They bring ointments to anoint the dead. They're not coming with gifts to receive a risen king. I love the contrast that bookends Luke's gospel Between the wise men and the beginning of loose gospel who come to Jesus with gifts, and then these women who come to Jesus with ointments. The wise men knew the Messiah was living. And they bring gifts to honor him. The women know the Messiah is dead. And they bring spices and perfumes to cover his corpse. The angels continue their rebuke. Remember, remember. How Jesus told you that he must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise. A rebuke is really a rebuke to all of us This is the fundamental problem of everyone who hears Jesus' words We just don't believe them. The women remember Jesus' words, verse 8 says, but notice that it does not say the women believe. Jesus' words. They remember them. They know what Jesus said. They can recall it with great accuracy. But they still have not applied faith to their remembrance. And this is true of many in our midst. Even today. Hearing Jesus' words, knowing Jesus' words, recalling Jesus' words with great accuracy, yet not believing Jesus' words. Is this you? Can you quote the Bible? Can you recite the verses? Do you know the stories? And yet your life does not depend upon Upon what you know. Your faith has not been tied to the truth. Listen to the words of Jesus Christ. Throughout Scripture and ask yourself: do I bet my life upon these words? And that's faith. Few have it. I pray to God that He would grant it to you and I. Even the disciples. Eleven, closest to Jesus. They didn't have it. The women go and tell the eleven disciples, Luke says, and and here's the most telling indictment of their lack of faith, not just of the women, but the entire group of apostles. Verse eleven But these words seemed to be an idle tale. And they did not believe them. Now, this word idle tail is interesting. It's the only time used here. And it refers in part to a medical term used of delirious talk when one is sick. These apostles literally thought that these women were out of their minds. They were sick in the head. The entire company of believers actually did not believe. They had no faith Yes, impetuous Peter runs out and uh and goes to the tomb to see what they're all talking about. He marvels, it said, but there is no mention of belief. And herein lies the problem. They all had to see in order to believe. It was not until they actually laid physical eyes upon the risen Christ that they would actually believe that he rose from the dead. And recall what Thomas says, unless I see in his hands the mark of my of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails And place my hand into his side, I will never believe. Now believing due to seeing is good. There's nothing inherently wrong or evil. In believing due to the fact that you saw. Otherwise, Jesus would not have shown himself to the apostles and to five hundred others. During his time between the resurrection and the ascension. But without faith it is impossible To please God. Impossible to please God. What does Jesus say about a better belief than the one based upon Your sight. Have you believed because you've seen me? He says. Blessed is the one who believes. Yet has not seen me. You and I, Liberty Church, are counted among that number of the blessed who must by faith see Christ. And this is faith. This is the faith that's required for nearly every aspect of being a Christian. Yes, there are things about Christianity that we can see and believe. We see, for example, the changed lives of other Christians. That's right before us, and we are amazed by that, perhaps. And perhaps that's something that God used in your own life to lead you You to Him. Or we see the beauty and the good order of the composition of Scripture, and we're amazed, and we believe that it is indeed a holy book. But when it comes to Jesus Christ, your eyes are worthless. You must come to him by faith. I mean, look at what all you must believe in that you cannot actually see with physical eyes. You must believe in the incarnation. that God took upon flesh. You must believe in the virgin birth. You must believe in a perfect and sinless life of Jesus Christ. You must believe in the miracles and healings that He You must believe that at the cross he atoned for the sins of the world. And you must believe in the resurrection. The Apostles' Creed actually adds even more things that we believe. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life as Everlasting. But you have no reason to believe in these things. In fact, it's unreasonable. Especially the resurrection. You've not seen the empty tomb. You've not spoken directly with the eyewitnesses Jesus Christ, the risen Lord, did not appear to you like he appeared to Paul or Saul on the road to Damascus. And yet, eternal life hinges upon this belief And it's not just a one-time belief, it's an ongoing one. What good is it to have believed? And now no longer do. And to hold these truths to be tales when once you trusted. Belief is a daily practice. It's a critical discipline. Come to Christ often. Believing in his words, believing in his promises. And as you believe, you trust. As you trust, you love. You grow in love for him and what he has done for you. The gospel, punctuated by the resurrection, is good news for you. It's not just for the world. It's the power of salvation for you Do you believe this? Do you love this? I pray that you do. Not only today, but tomorrow. And forevermore. Let's pray.