If you have your Bibles, turn with me to Luke 22. We're looking at the first six verses. of Luke. As we continue in our study of this gospel, we are nearing its end, and this has been a very rich dive into the life and teaching of Jesus Christ. And the the last three chapters deal with just a few events in Jesus' life, his death and resurrection. But before he dies, Jesus is going to institute a very important sacrament, one of two, actually, the Lord's Supper And we're going to spend this week and next looking at this sacrament in more detail, which is fitting because on the first Sunday of each month, we as a church celebrate. the the table of the Lord. And we are not doing that this Sunday, unfortunately, due to this virus. But just know that your church leadership, this session, strongly desires to have communion. I long for it, to partake in the body and blood of Jesus Christ, the spiritual communion with him. And we are thinking of ways for us to do this in a in a safe and and healthy manner. And so that's not going to take place this month, but we will keep you updated as we proceed with that. Today, we see Jesus and his disciples getting ready for this. Supper, this Lord's Supper, and to enjoy it together, the the thirteen of of them in the upper room, and unbeknownst to the disciples. There's a traitor in their midst. Now Jesus, of course, knew this all along. He is sovereign over all events. He's the one that handpicked Judas. And his sovereignty knows no bounds. No one took Jesus' life from him. He laid it down on his own accord. And he had reason to pick Judas. It was part of God's divinely ordered plan. And this man, this Judas, who we're going to look at this morning, should have been in love with Jesus. But instead he was in love with the things of this world. And it has been wondered, rightfully so , how this man, Judas. Could have walked with Jesus, talked with Jesus, broke bread with Jesus, heard Jesus' teaching from his own mouth. And wasn't a devoted worshiper and follower of Jesus. Instead, Judas betrays him for a few pieces of silver. How is this possible? How can this man who was with the Son of God in the flesh betray him? We shall see a few possible motives this morning. But what I want to impress upon all of us. Is that the propensity of a heart of betrayal is found not just in Judas, but in all of us. We all turn our back upon the Savior. We all betray Jesus for the things of this world. It's in all of us. We're all guilty of loving wealth or power or whatever it is more than Jesus Christ. How can we be scared, unlike Judas? Well, Judas is a warning to all of us. He's a very vivid warning of that It's not enough to be in the inner circle of the church. You have to have a heart for God. It's not enough to hear of the teaching of Jesus, to know the teaching of Jesus. You have to obey it. It's not enough to sing when others sing and to pray when others pray and to come to church when others come to church. You must desire to follow your Savior. You must love Him. This warning to us all, found in the life of Judas, tells us not to rest upon a proximity to the church, but rather to rest And wholly lean upon the person and work of Jesus Christ. For you see, the other fact that comes out of this, these few verses, six verses, is that the gospel of Jesus Christ declares that We are all Judases. We are all sinners separated by God and our rebellion against him. And yet God, in his great love for you, has had mercy upon you By his shed blood, which was depicted so vividly by the table by the Lord's Supper. It's through Christ and through Christ alone that all Judases are saved. Now, unfortunately, the Judas of this text, Judas Iscariot, did not embrace that. He did not come to Jesus by faith, embracing the Christ, the Messiah, for his own salvation. As Christians who have embraced Christ, there are still many snares, there's many entanglements that can trip us up. And can lead us astray, lead us away from a proper worship of Christ. What was Judas's entanglement? What was his motivation? What was the thing that led Judas to do what he did? And as we shall see, it was something quite simple. Money. Luke starts off giving here a time marker now, verse one, and this indicates, as I've mentioned before. throughout the gospel of Luke that that it's a new event and it's a and it's an important event at that. And this is the feast Of unleavened bread. And then Luke adds this parenthetical statement, which is called the Passover. Now these two events were considered one in ancient Israel. They were kind of part of the same ceremony. And it was a week-long feast following the Passover Supper. And this was the greatest feast in Israel Many traveled from all over the land to come into Jerusalem during this week and to celebrate it. We see the uh Jesus as a child coming during the Passover feast, the only other time that it's mentioned in Luke. And this feast was a feast to celebrate life. It was to celebrate the Jews coming out of the death of Egypt. Where they were enslaved. And now they're entering into the land of life, the promised land, given to them as an inheritance, a picture of the eschatological life to be heaven. And this feast was to celebrate this life, to remind the Jews of this life. How ironic. This greatest feast celebrating life, the religious leaders of Israel are plotting the death of its Messiah. And yet that's what they're doing. He's going to be crucified like a common criminal. But how to murder him? That was the great dilemma. That was the question on the officers' minds and the chief priests and religious leaders. How are we going to do this? You see that their animosity has ratcheted up intensely through the Gospels. Back a few chapters ago, the religious leaders seek to test Jesus with questions, hard questions, difficult questions, trying to trap him. And uh that Does not work, kind of uh fires in their face. And and then it says a few chapters ago that they sought to lay hands upon Jesus. They're seeking to arrest him. They that doesn't work either. That backfires as well. Well now what are they trying to do? It says they are trying to kill him. They want to kill Jesus. But how are they going to do this? There was a great crowd in Jerusalem at the time. And this crowd was pro-Christ. Now recall that people came from all over the land to Jerusalem. And Jesus was from the north. All of his disciples were from the north. And these northern Israelites, these Galileans, were coming into the land as well, and land into the land of Jerusalem. And so, of course, the religious leaders cannot kill Jesus during this time because he has a lot of support. He has a lot of followers. They feared a mutiny, an uprising if they were to do this. But this potential mutiny was also the reason why. They wanted to kill Jesus in the first place. Notice the text, what it says here. Notice the word For used by Luke in verse 2. For they feared the people. What word is not used there in place of for? But They try to kill Jesus, but they feared the people, so they're not doing it. But this is different. They tried to kill Jesus. For they feared the people. Luke is not talking about the fear of a rebellion due to Jesus' death. They're wanting to kill Jesus out of a fear of the people. What do I mean by this? The crowds were following Jesus, which meant they're not following the chief priests. They're not following the officials. They're not following the religious leaders of Israel. They're following Jesus. And the religious leaders of Israel understood this. They saw what was brewing. A potential uprising, a rebellion against their authority. They feared that the people would turn away from them. Follow Jesus wholeheartedly. And that there was some political authority even that he could wield against them. We see this, right, in the triumphal entry in Luke 19. It's an incredible passage that shows Jesus really resisting the authority of these religious leaders. What happens? What do they say in this triumphal entry? What do the crowds say? Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. The crowds were following Jesus. They believed him to be a king. And who is threatened by this more than anybody else? The king of Israel, Herod, of course, the religious leaders of Israel. They want to kill Jesus because of the fear they fear the people. But they also can't kill Jesus because of the fear of the people. The whole world is about to go after Jesus Christ, as the leaders, these leaders are going to say in the book of Acts. The whole world now is following them. They saw this. And the threat had to be neutralized. The decision was made by these leaders out of a fear to kill the Christ. And now The perfect opportunity just fell into their laps. They could not have scripted this any better. Verse three. Then Satan entered Judas called Iscariot, who was a number of the twelve. He went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray Christ to them. Luke is wanting to communicate something important to us. Two things in that one line One is that Judas was one of the twelve. He was a close associate of Jesus. He was in the inner circle of Christ. The other thing that Luke is saying here is that it was Phaeton behind all of this. It was Satan, the master plotter, the master schemer, who was actually the architect behind Judas' betrayal, and not just Judas' betrayal, he was the one behind. The chief priests and scribes and officials of Israel seeking to kill Jesus. Satan is the one. Judas is called Iscariot here. And we don't know what Iscariot means. There's many suggestions that such as he's from the tribe of Issachar. or that there's a geographical name there that juice is from is scary. It's another uh suggestion I think it's plausible is that it's connected to uh an ancient word Sakari, which means assassin. And I don't know if that's a name that maybe was given to Judas after this incident. But either way, the text simply states Satan entered into Judas. Now, this does not mean that Satan had complete control over Judas. Does not mean that Judas all of a sudden became this uh robot following the will of the Prince of Darkness. There are actually two types of possession that take place in the New Testament. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this. But there's the one type of possession where it does seem that demonic influence completely overwhelm an individual. We see this with the demoniac and Gennesseret who has very little control over his faculties, over his mind, says at the end when he was uh when Jesus uh exercise the demons out of him. He said, what did it say? He was in his right mind. So he was in his wrong mind before while he was possessed. So that's that's something. And that's rare, I believe. Is it still happening today? Maybe, but it's rare. Another type of possession here is where Satan is tempting and prompting others to do things against God's will. And we see that all throughout scripture, notably when David did it in the census and it said that Satan incited him. It didn't mean that David was possessed by Satan, but through whatever means Satan deigned, he would he would tempt David into doing this. And this is what probably is the type of entering into Judas, this idea of prompting, of tempting, of leading him in some way through some other means, perhaps. And it does uh I do want to say unequivocally that that Judas was responsible Judas was uh is held accountable just as Pharaoh was responsible for his actions against the Israelites that led to the first Passover. But yet Satan used him So too, Judas would be held accountable for what he was going to do. Judas was operating with his own volition. He sought to betray Christ. And it begs the question as to why. Why did he do it? There are a number of suggestions about this as well. One of the more prominent ones is that Judas was disgruntled with the messianic kingdom because he was anticipating, along with other disciples, an earthly kingdom. An earthly kingdom where he, of course, has one of the inner circles, one of the twelve, would have prominence. And I can certainly see validity in this But I think it's actually even more simple, and I've alluded to it already. Judas was disgruntled because he wasn't getting rich. The connection between Judas and money is an airtight one and made explicitly throughout the Gospels. It's very clear that there is this strong connection between the two. Recall the incident. of the alabaster jar of ointment used to anoint Jesus Christ. And it was broken and poured over Jesus and and who complains about it? Judas. This is could be used on the poor. John let's John say in chapter 12. He said Judas said this not because He cares for the poor, but because he was a thief and having charge of the money bag, he would help himself to what was put into it. And we see the same avarice at the end of Judas' life, when he actually receives the 30 pieces of silver that he demanded. The way that this passage is that verse is constructed when it says in verse 5 they were glad and agreed to give him money. Gives the impression that Judas is asking for the money. He's making a demand for the money. And the very end of Judas' life, when he's overwhelmed by guilt for what he's done. What does he do? He throws the money back. It was the money, in a sense, that was the source. Of his temptation leading him away from Christ and causing him to betray him. For some reason, Judas believed that in betraying Jesus He could gain more money than by not betraying him. Thirty pieces of silver, it's not mentioned here in this in this text, but that's the amount that also was to fulfill a prophecy found in Jeremiah. This thirty pieces of silver was now small amount. And Judas was greedy and he's willing to go to great lengths in order to satisfy this greed. And this just could not have worked any better for the chief priests and the officers. This was really falling into place for them. One of Jesus' inner circle, one of the twelve, was willing to turn Jesus over to them. This is a real coup. And they were glad, it says in verse 5. And they were glad. This word is a word used for rejoicing. They're celebrating. Finally, after three long years of enduring Jesus and the and the threat of his kingdom replacing theirs. Now they can put an end to him. And they were just loving it. They were glad and agreed to give him money. How far off these leaders were from true religion. They feared the crowds. They feared the people. And they loved the opportunity to gain power. And this was a misplaced fear and love to the greatest degree. I should have feared God. And yet the text makes no mention of that. They should have loved the Messiah who was here at last, yet the text makes no mention of that. They feared and loved the completely wrong things. Judas seeks an opportunity to betray Christ. And where? And when, does it say? Again, a fear, a fear of the crowds comes into play It says that he saw an opportunity to betray him to them in the absence of a crowd. Fear has gripped Judas, just as it gripped the chief priest. And really, one of the main themes of these six verses is a fear. It's interesting that they're kind of booked in here. In verse 2, they were seeking how to put him to death where they feared the people and the very end of the section to betray him in the absence of the crowd and implication that there's fear of the crowd there. There's fear from the chief priests and the officers. There's fear of Judas. Fear was a driving factor. Fear of the crowds. Fear of not having enough financially. Fear of losing their power. Fear of losing their prominence. Fear, fear, fear. But what does First John four say to us Perfect love drives out fear. How can we not be a Judas? How can we not be a chief priest for that matter? Love God with all your heart, with all your mind, with all your soul, and with all your strength. How can we avoid running the risk of being a traitor ourselves? Love Christ. Love his word. Love his people. Pray to grow in love. Practice love. And when this happens, neither height nor depth, nor the temptation of money, nor the lure of power. Nor anything else in all of creation can separate you from Jesus Christ. How are we not Judases? It's by a daily love for not only God, but for God's people. Liberty Church, let us put that to practice. Not only today, but all the days of our life. Let us pray. Father, we confess that we have a bit of Judas in our own hearts. If I am honest with myself, I see a desire to turn my back at times in order to receive from the world things that I want to possess. Forgive us, O God, for the love of money or the love of any other thing that Satan throws our way and that draws us away from a pure and unadultered Devotion to you, Jesus. Protect us. Give us a love, a perfect love that drives out fear. Fear of insecurity, fear of loss, fear of fear of the financially being depleted And pray that we would love you and trust you with all of our heart. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen