Let us continue. Alright, our our passage today connects back to what Jesus said in Luke 4. 23, where he quotes this ancient proverb, if you recall, he says, physician, heal yourself. And then our passage this morning in 531, Jesus says, those who are well have no need of a physician. These book ends indicate that Jesus is the physician. And in between these two verses, Jesus does a whole bunch of healing. He heals the demoniac He heals Peter's mother-in-law. Verse 40 says that he heals many people who are sick with various diseases. He then heals a leper. He then heals a paralytic. But in our passage this morning, it it seems like Jesus is finished with the healing. It seems like the calling of Levi does not fit in with this theme of healing. Levi seems to be healthy. He seems to be okay. Does not appear to be sick. But recall what we talked about last week. with the leper. And that this physical unhealth of the leper was merely a sign that Jesus pointed to of a spiritual unhealth. And Jesus was using what was physically happening to the leper to point to an underlying problem, an underlying sin. And he was addressing this notion of being unclean before God. And the Old Testament, God demanded these these requirements and these regulations that they would worship, that his people would worship him in holiness That God's people would be set apart from the world and would worship God in the splendor of His holiness. And that they had to be worthy of worship. If you were unable to worship, you are unclean. And Levi, in our passage, is not sick physically, but he is unclean. How is Levi unclean? Well, he's a tax collector, so of course he's unclean, right? Most people think that during this time. I'm sorry, accountants out there, anybody working with the IRS, we think that no, he's not unclean just because he's a tax collector. Uh no matter how much we want to think that this time of the year. Uh but as a tax collector, Levi would have made constant contact with Gentiles. Thus he would have been defiling himself ceremonically. He would not have been able to worship before the Lord. But being a tax collector in Israel, in ancient Israel, not only made Levi unclean, it also made him despised. There were two kinds of taxes that the Roman Empire levied against Palestine and other nations. There was the first tax, a tribute. That was paid on it was a tax on land. If you didn't own land, it was a a a personal tax. And that tribute was used for the purposes of the Roman Empire, supporting the Roman military and such. And there was also this indirect tax that was imposed within self-governing towns or cities. And these included taxes on imports, exports, inheritance tax. There was a 4% tax on selling your slave. There was a 1% tax on your. on public auctions. There was taxes on uh that were like tolls basically if you were to use the bridges and ferries. There was even a temple tax. So as you have finished or about to finish your taxes, Liberty Church realized that some things never change. Taxes are as old as time. But as a t a tax collector in the area of Capernaum, Levi would have collected taxes in a uh in the form of the exports and imports in the forms of tolls because it was a a very common trade route. Copernum to the northern area of Syria. And he would have been very it would have been a very lucrative occupation. But what the tax collectors did was to charge an amount far above and beyond what Roman policy required. Thus they They help themselves to large amounts of tax revenue by increasing the tax rate. And they're basically stealing from their own countrymen. So not only was Levi unclean, but he was unfaithful. He was stealing from his own brothers. And in this way, Levi is not much different than the leper that we read about last week, at least in the eyes of the people. They were both pariahs. ostracized from their countrymen. They were both unclean, unable to take part in worship. They were both despised by their people, one for a physical disease and one for the disease of greed. And these are connected stories. And just as Jesus reaches out to the least desirable in the leper And calls him to follow him. He calls the unclean to become clean. So too does he call Levi. Jesus walks by the booth, it says. And says, follow me. And without a moment's hesitation, Levi rose, left everything behind. And followed Christ. And after leaving everything behind, Levi throws a party. Isn't that great? It's a great fief, Luke says. Perhaps it was a lavish party. But this is a beautiful picture of salvation. Christ calls Levi out of the tax booth, out of being unclean, out of being unable to worship God, out of being an outsider of God's people. And he calls him to be clean, and Levi responds by leaving that which was most important to him. And he does so in joyful celebration. Before Christ came to us, we too were sitting in our uncleanliness, unable to worship God, no desire to follow Christ. And then Christ calls us and we forsake all for Him. And we respond to this call with joyfulness, with exaltation, with celebration. And if that celebration has never happened to you, If you've never celebrated the call of Christ in your life, then perhaps you've not responded to his call. And perhaps you're staying in your booth, content with not worshiping God, content with not following Christ. But the call of Christ Has an inverse call. Those who do not heed his call will face judgment and the wrath of God. So get up. Turn from your sins, repent, put your faith in Jesus Christ, leave everything, and follow Christ today. And at Levi's party, he obviously invites unclean people, as we see here, because that is who he was. And that's who he hung out with. So the party was a, quote, a large company of tax collectors, Luke says. And this is a feast where no good Jew would be at, yet Jesus is there, and it's confounding the religious leaders. And these religious leaders, the Pharisees and scribes, notice all the filth in this room, this uncleanliness. And they see Jesus reclining at table with all these tax collectors who are unclean, and they begin to grumble. How can this be the Messiah? He eats with sinners. Drinks with tax collectors. No good Jew would do this, let alone the savior of the world. And their grumbling reminds us. Of a grumbling that took place thousand years before when Israel was traversing through the desert of Sinai. And Moses was the appointed leader by God over the people of Israel And Israel should have been following him, yet they grumbled and complained and were ready to stone Moses. And the same thing is happening today to Jesus. The people that should be embracing Jesus as their Messiah are complaining and grumbling and plotting on how to kill them. But look at this. Who are the Pharisees grumbling to? Who are they grumbling to? The disciples, it says. So that they basically are interrogating the disciples about Jesus' actions. And rather than letting the disciples just bumble their way through an explanation to give to the scribes and Pharisees, Jesus is the one who speaks up. Jesus is the one who answers the Pharisees. And this is a great principle here for us, Liberty Church. You do not need to defend Jesus. He doesn't need your justification Or your advocacy. He defends you. And the disciples are surely on the defensive. I'm certain that if they were forced to answer this, they would not have been able to. to answer the accusations levied against Christ, but Jesus comes to the rescue. And as our advocate, he speaks on our behalf. He speaks for his disciples. And there's a similar scene which takes place later in the Gospel of Luke, where Jesus is being anointed with oil by this woman, and The uh Judas complains about the waste of money, and Jesus again speaks up for her. Leave her alone, he says. And in God's eternal economy, though Satan should buff it, your defender Jesus Christ ultimately says, leave her alone. Jesus is our defender. We are not his. He is our high priest who sits at the right hand of the throne of God, interceding on our behalf. And the gospel of our salvation state that when you are accused, not by Pharisees, nor by scribes, but by Satan, who in the heavenly courts shouts out at the top of his lungs, look at this good for nothing sinner! He always is breaking your rules, God. He deserves hell. That's when Jesus says, I took hell for him. Jesus' blood cries out as your advocate, as our defender. And the words of the song that we're going to sing here after the sermon rings so true and they're so powerful. Five bleeding wounds he bears received on Calvary. They pour effectual prayers. They strongly plead for me. Forgive him, oh, forgive they cry. Forgive him, oh, forgive they cry. Do not let that ransomed sinner die. And this is the gospel. That sinners who deserve to die have a defender in Christ who died in our place. And Christ calls you and I to follow him because he paid for you. You're his. No more uncleanliness. You're clean by the blood of Jesus Christ. No more impurity. You're pure and unblemished in the eyes of God. This is what the blood of Christ does for us. And as Christ speaks up for his disciples, as he defends them and in so doing defends us, he also Provides or offers a scathing rebuke to the Pharisees. Look what he says. Those who are well have no need of a physician. But only those who are sick. Now, if anyone doesn't think Jesus uses sarcasm, here is a great example. Jesus as the great physician is ready, he's able to heal the sick, but apparently the Pharisees don't need him. Apparently the Pharisees are good to go. They're already clean. They're already healthy. They would not take part in this feast for fear of defilement. But what they didn't realize, what the reality is, is that they were already unclean. Though their hearts were already rotten, that though they were outwardly well, they were inwardly sick. And Jesus wants us to be sure of something. He wants his true followers. He wants his true followers to not follow their example. He wants us to follow his example. And this is the point of the next part of the passage. about the wine and the cloth. And this illustration that Jesus uses here in verse 36 to 39 is somewhat confusing and people have been debating about it for centuries. Well the c the question starts off though before that By someone asking Jesus about fasting and why his disciples do not fast. And Jesus gives a pretty straightforward answer here. He uses a wedding analogy. And he's stating that there is going to come a time where the groom is taken away, alluding to Jesus' death. So he's saying his disciples will fast. There will come a time when they fast, just not right now. But then he goes into this parable about sowing a piece of new garment onto an old one and pouring new wine into an old wineskin. And the point that Jesus is saying here is that the new will be ruined. What does this mean? What does this all mean? Well, it's important to see the connection to the Pharisees in all of this. As I've said many times. Luke places certain scenes and sayings next to each other in order to make a theological purpose, in order to make a theological point. This passage is no different. Jesus just finished rebuking the Pharisees, and now he shares a parable having to do with that rebuke. I'm honestly amazed when I read uh different scholars who don't see any connection or continuity in the literary structure. They they think that this verses 36 through 39 are just kind of standalone. that there's no connection to what was said before. There's most certainly a connection, but not in the way that people typically think. The old cloth and the new cloth and the old wine and the new wine have nothing to do with the Old and New Testament. That might be a shock to some people, because that's maybe what you were thinking as you were sitting there. Surely this is Jesus talking about Old and New Testament. This is what Jesus is referring to. This is not what Jesus is contrasting. Both the Old and New Testaments are good. All right, as covenant theologians, as a church that practices covenant theology, we believe in the continuity of the Old and New. Both Old and New Testaments are good and from God. And Jesus is not saying that the gospel doesn't fit into the Old Testament. The gospel is found throughout the entire Old Testament. All throughout it, from the very beginning, from Genesis chapter 1 all the way to Malachi. We can find the gospel through the entire Old Testament. That's not what Jesus is saying. Jesus is saying that the gospel doesn't fit inside the teaching of the Pharisees. See, Jesus is pitting his own teaching against that of the religious leaders of the day, the ones that everyone looked up to, the Pharisees. And Jesus does this again in Luke, by the way, when he tells the disciples to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Beware of the teaching of the Pharisees. What did the Pharisees do? They added a great deal to the Old Testament, specifically to the law of Moses, and particularly To laws of cleanliness, ceremonial cleanliness, and Sabbath regulations. And these are the two main aspects of Pharisaical teaching that Jesus most often addresses. With the first uncleanliness, Jesus deals with that. He declares all things to be clean ceremonially. There is no longer any unclean food. All is kosher And there is no longer any unclean people. Jew and Gentile are one. And now this was a direct front to the Pharisees. This is what they base their entire system of religious regulation on. So you can imagine how upset they were And then Jesus declares that their interpretation of the Sabbath is wrong. He's going to do that next week. The next passage is about Sabbath. It's all connected to this Pharisaical form of teaching. He's going to say, your interpretation of Sabbath is wrong. You can do good on the Sabbath, even if that good constitutes what the Pharisees would call work. It's okay, you can do that. And again, this was absolutely offensive to the Pharisees and to the system that they had created, not an Old Testament system. It's nothing to do with that. They took what's old the Old Testament and they distorted it. And this is the point of the parable. You cannot take Jesus' teaching and try to fit it into the pharisaical system of arbitrary rules and regulations. It just doesn't fit. Jesus and the Pharisees' teaching are incompatible. New wine, meaning new teaching, Jesus' teaching. cannot fit into old wineskins. It must be put into new wineskins. And Jesus highlights the Pharisees' own blindness to this. And the inferiority of their teaching in verse 39, when he says, And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says the old is good again. There's a hint of sarcasm here. The Pharisees are content with their old wine. They're content with the way that they are teaching the Old Testament. They're content with their ceremonial laws. and Sabbath regulations. They think that what they are drinking is good. But the reality is much darker. They do not realize that they are sick. They do not realize that they are unhealthy. They do not realize that what they are drinking is poison. They do not realize that the the wine, the old wine that they have, what they think should bring life, is actually killing them. We moved here from Michigan and while we were there the terrible scandal of the Flint water supply came about and thousands and thousands of homes had been drinking water from their faucets uh and had every reason to believe that the water was safe But lurking inside the water was lead, an insidious poison that was just slowly killing the people that were drinking it. In Liberty Church, the same happens to us. Many people think that they're drinking the good wine of the gospel, but in reality, you're drinking poisonous water. Many people, like the Pharisees, have distorted the gospel. We've twisted it. And we've added things that don't belong there. And we've taken out things that should belong there. And we've all, to some degree or another, we all have bought in to a counterfeit gospel full of these arbitrary rules and regulations, man-made laws. That are merely just opinions that God doesn't share with you. And this counterfeit gospel is killing us because this twisting of the gospel affects how we live. It affects how we think about God. It affects how we think about others. And it affects how you interact with others. Just like it did with the Pharisees. This twisting of the gospel affects everything about us and how we live and move and have our being. It affects how we view God and it affects how we view people. Part of the major problem in the church today is that many people just don't know the gospel. I often will just ask that question. It's just a simple question. I may ask one of you that. So be ready. If I ask this simple question, what is the gospel? Explain the gospel. And what we often find is that the purity of the gospel The purity of the lie of the gospel has been so fractured that many people, even our churches today, don't even understand it. If you don't understand the gospel, then you don't have an anchor that moors you to the Lord, the living God. The purity of the gospel, Liberty Church, the purity of the gospel is what we must protect. And here's the purity of the gospel The purity of the gospel is that Christ came to save sinners, of whom I am foremost. The period of the gospel is that Christ came to save that which was unclean, of whom I was the filthiest. The period of the gospel states that Christ came to save those who had fallen, of whom I was the one heading straight towards hell. And Christ, in the beauty of the gospel, made the sinful, unclean, fallen man a new man. In Jesus Christ, and made this man righteous in the eyes of God. Those who are sinners As Christ says, He's come to call not the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And those who are sinners who repent and turn towards God, we have new life. We have forgiveness of all of our sins, past, present, and future. For the wrath of God that was stored up for sinful man has now been placed on Jesus Christ. And he is our defender. He is our advocate. And if Jesus Christ is not your advocate, then you will have to stand before God and pay the penalty for your sins. And that's the reality for every person living and breathing. Everyone will have to give an account of our sins, but praise be to God. Hallelujah. Jesus Christ paid the penalty of our sins. Those who repent and put their faith in him. can have forgiveness. And Liberty Church, Christ has called you to himself to embrace this gospel, the good news of our salvation. And what should your response be, Liberty Church? What should your response be to this gospel? It should be the same response as Levi. To rise up, leave everything behind, leave everything that holds you back. To embrace in Christ the fullness of the gospel, leave it behind, and to celebrate your forgiveness with joy and thanksgiving. Let us pray. Our holy God, you have called sinners to yourself the new wine of your teaching Lord God, that I pray that we all embrace , declares that we who once rebelled against you are now defended by you. Because of your shed blood at the cross. And this gospel declares that we who once were unclean are now pure in your sight and righteous before you, not because of anything we have done, O Lord. but because of what you, Jesus Christ, have done for us. And I pray for Liberty Church that everyone in here would know and understand the gospel and that everyone in here would have responded to the gospel. with joyful celebration, knowing that there's newness of life found in you, Jesus Christ. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.