To the first two verses of chapter nine. As we've been tracking along here, we're Starting a new theme, Luke is introducing for us. It's a theme that will stretch all the way back from chapter 8 through chapter 9 and even into chapter 10. Luke is going to continue to emphasize what he's already been emphasizing throughout his gospel, that is the supremacy of Jesus Christ and his dominion over all things, natural and supernatural. But he introduces this new thing: the power of the church, Christ's bride , the body of Christ. And this power is not something that's inherent with the church. It's something that's conferred to the church Endowed upon the church by Christ Himself, and it's established through the apostles. So that's something to keep in mind about this apostolic ministry. So this is kind of two parts here. First part this morning and next week we will we will tie it all together But Luke starts the passage here with a story of a man named Jarus, who is a ruler of the synagogue. Now typically the rulers of the synagogues have been antagonistic towards Christ. And maybe at some point Jairus was, but not any longer. Now he's a desperate man. For his 12-year-old daughter lies at home dying. And though Luke does not mention this, most certainly Jairus had tried a lot of means to heal his daughter. I'm confident. That doctors had paid a visit to Jairus and to his daughter to try to heal her, but to no avail. And now this dignified man, he's a ruler of the synagogue. This influential man, leader of the synagogue, a and a group of people that have been against Christ from the beginning, those involved in synagogue worship. This influential man, what does he do? He drops to the feet of Jesus and begs him to heal his daughter. Now We cannot miss the literary connection here. If you have been coming each Sunday and you've been hearing uh me preach through Luke. You you should immediately think of another scene that we just talked about. Who else Just ran to Jesus and dropped at Jesus' feet and began begging Jesus. We just saw him, the demon-possessed man from the last chapter. In chapter 8, verse 28, it says that this demon-possessed man fell down before Jesus and begged him. And now we have this ruler doing the exact same thing. Why? Why is Luke doing this? Luke is very intentional with what he puts in, where he puts it Why does he have this? Well, one reason can be that Jeez, that Luke is now showing this great contrast between the most ostracized person in Israel, this demon-possessed man living in the tombs, he's probably a Gentile, he's completely on the outskirts and the margins of society. And he comes and bows the knee to Jesus Christ. And now this ruler of Israel, you can't get more insider than this. This ruler of the synagogue is doing the exact same thing, the least to the greatest. They're all coming to Jesus Christ and bowing their knee. There's another reason, though, that Luke is doing this. He has shown that Jesus has power and authority over all things. We've seen this already. He's he's shown that Jesus has power and authority over storms and wind and rain, and he caught causes them to cease. He's shown that he has power and authority over various diseases and ailments. He heals people of leprosy, we've seen. He's healed people of paralysis. He's even shown just recently that Jesus has power and authority over Satan and all demons. As we saw last week, this demon-possessed man. is clothed in his right mind after an encounter with Christ. But now Jesus is going to show his authority over the greatest enemy known to man. Not storms or diseases, not Satan or demons, but death This is an enemy that we're absolutely powerless to defeat. This is an enemy that 's an unrelenting foe. Merciless, insatiable, wanting to consume all. But just as the demons hit the deck at the feet of Jesus And acknowledge his absolute sovereignty over them, so too Jesus will display his own power over even death itself. And look what he's going to do to show it. He's going to use the suffering. He's going to use suffering of one of his believers. Of one of his followers to drive this point home. Now eventually, Jesus is going to use his own suffering and his own death to make this point airtight. But here, in the meantime, he's going to allow the death to overtake a 12-year-old daughter of someone who trusts him, someone who places their faith in him And it's going to seem at first as if that faith now it's been misplaced. But as we will see, blessed is he who trusts Christ even in the darkness and in the valley of the shadow of death. But before we can get to this memorable lesson that Jesus is going to teach us, Luke sneaks this other scene in. It's almost jarringly abrupt. Jesus is making his way to see the daughter of the synagogue ruler when another daughter Who was also suffering from constant bleeding, Luke says, comes and approaches Jesus. Her suffering was so great That Luke said that she spent all of her money, all of her income, all of her possessions on doctors, completely indebted to them, and yet she was not healed. And moreover, this was an embarrassing disease. It's one that would have made her ceremonially unclean. She would not have been able to participate in any of the temple worship to disease that more than likely she would have suffered with in silence and solitude. She's too embarrassed to even make herself known to Jesus. So what does she do? She sneaks up. She sneaks up and touches his garment, thinking, if only I can touch him, if only I can grab onto him, then I'll be healed. What faith is the first time? She believes in Christ so strongly that if she can just touch his cloud She believes she'll be healed. She wasn't yet willing to disclose herself to Christ and to the public. She wasn't ready to show the world her deepest, darkest secret, her suffering, but she at least started with a touch. She wanted to be in his presence. And the same is true for some of you. Some of you have not yet come to the point where you want to publicly declare That you are a follower of Jesus Christ. You just see from afar. And perhaps you even believe. You think he's able. You think he's powerful enough. But not yet for you. And perhaps it's a besetting sin in your life that just continually overtakes you. Perhaps it's the embarrassment. Of having to acknowledge before everyone that you're not actually a Christian, something that you've claimed for maybe many years of your life. And the embarrassment's too much. And just like this woman did, I plead with you to reach out to Christ and to grab hold of him by faith, believing that he can heal you. even now. Not of physical diseases necessarily, but of the more grave disease of your sin. And the punishment that all sin deserves. Grab on to Christ. And this is exactly what this unnamed woman does in our passage. And we have this then somewhat of an odd exchange here between Christ and his disciples. Christ recognizes that a power has gone out of him. Now clearly this power is the power of of healing. And he he senses this power and yet he doesn't know. And this is the mystery of the incarnation. How does Christ not know? What does And that's a whole nother topic, a whole nother Sunday of why doesn't Christ know? And the reality is that Jesus fully embraced his humanity. He also fully embraces divinity. And that interchange, that interplay between the two is far more confusing than we can fully understand. But this power had gone out of Jesus. But it's this power that's acquired by faith. And faith is the avenue by which we can receive the power of Christ. Faith is the channel by which all Christ's power and all his benefits can come to me. And there's many people, as I just said, who can see Christ from afar, and they can see that he's powerful. They can see that he's probably true. And yet, just like if we were sick and had a disease and we saw the antidote right in front of us but never actually consumed it, so too many people. Many people see Christ but never actually apprehend him. In fact, the writer of Hebrews talks about this. Back in the day, during the time of Christ, some people, many people, walked with Christ. They talked with Christ. They ate with Christ. And yet they were unsaved. The Riot of Hebrews says that they tasted even of the spiritual gift. They tasted of these heavenly realities. They got close. They smelled it. They could touch Jesus. They heard Jesus' actual words. Yet they were condemned. Why? Because they had never combined that knowledge with faith. They never apprehended Christ, repenting of their sins and putting their faith in Jesus, grabbing on to him. Let that not be said of any of you Liberty Church. Let us all be aware of our need for Christ and faith in Him. But as we see here in our passage, Christ Was healing one person. He was healing this woman. And as he was healing this one person, another was tragically left dying. As Christ was condescending to heal this disease of the woman, a seemingly, a seemingly non-life-threatening disease. Another girl with her life barely in her lungs was losing the battle. And Jesus stopped. He asked, he talked, the woman talked. There's a big ado about her healing and about her faith. And who was watching all of this transpire the entire time? The father of the dying girl. It's hard to imagine what was going on in his mind. I'm sure he was thinking, come on. Come on, Jesus. I know she's bleeding, but she's been bleeding for twelve years. What's another day? I need you to I need you to hurry And all of a sudden, while Jesus was still speaking to the woman, it says, someone came up to the man and delivers the worst possible news a father could ever here, your daughter, your only daughter, he says, is dead. And to pour salt in the wound, this person, whoever announced this, they add Do not trouble the teacher anymore. In other words, you need a funeral director now, not a miracle worker. And this man, Jarrett, he must have had a wide array of thoughts just rushing into his mind. Incredible grief and despair, overwhelming sadness And perhaps, perhaps, anger. Perhaps he was angry with Jesus You waited too long. Why did you waste your time on that person when I'm the one that needed you most? And something that we can all think of. Probably have all thought at some point. Why, Jesus, are you helping other people out when it's obvious I need help the most And perhaps Jairus at that moment was at a point when he didn't need someone to tell him, don't trouble the teacher anymore, because now he was done with them. He wanted nothing to do with them, perhaps. The trust that he once had in Christ had now just evaporated. It's gone. And in its place, rather than trust, it's fear. It's fear because he thought he could come to Jesus and that Jesus would heal. He thought Jesus was the answer to the problem of his daughter. He even saw Jesus in that very moment heal someone else. And now it's fear because he has nowhere to turn. And now he feels all alone. But Jesus, in his infinite grace and mercy, leans over to Jairus in the midst of his sorrow. In the midst of his suffering, and he whispers to him, Do not fear. Only believe, and she will be well. The men had told Jairus not to trouble Jesus. But Jesus wants to be troubled by Jairus. This is the glory of Christ. This is the beauty of grace. Jesus wants to be troubled by Jesus. Jairus. Jesus wants to be bothered by your prayers. Jesus wants to be confronted with your questions. Jesus wants to be soaked by your tears. Jesus wants to be grabbed. In fact, he let death come to Jared. He waited. I think he did that on purpose. He let Jairus get to a point of such desperation. He waited until after his daughter was dead, not before it. Recall, that's the same thing he did to Lazarus. He hears that Lazarus is sick. What's he do? Waits four more days. Just want to make sure that he's really dead. Why? Why? To show the never-dinishing power that Christ wields over death and the grave, if only you would just believe. He makes sure that they are dead so that when he does his work, they'll be convinced And that's what he's seeking. He's seeking people who believe in him and his power and his ability and his love for you. Look what Jesus does. I love it. Reminiscent of the temple. When he walks in a temple, he kicks everyone out Jesus walked right into Jairus ' house, kicks everyone out, except the parents, brings in Peter, James, and John And everyone's weeping, it's seemed, but Christ tells them that she is, the daughter is just merely sleeping, at which point they all begin laughing at Jesus. Then Christ tells her to rise from the dead. And she does. And now they're all amazed that Christ holds such power. Luke in this passage is tying a lot of themes together. Some very important ones. This scene should be reminiscent of another scene to you. That took place not in the Gospels but thousands of years ago, recorded in the book of Genesis. It's the story of Isaac. There, Abraham is told to believe in the miraculous. There he's told to believe in the miraculous involving his only child, just like Jaris ' only daughter. In both of them, there Sarah laughs at God because of the ridiculousness of the promise. There, Abraham's son is as good as dead, and there God raises Isaac up. from the grave, figuratively. The common thread in these stories culminates at this point. The only child of Abraham and Jared, though near death, both live. The only child of Abraham lives, and the only child of Jared lives, but the only child of Jesus Christ. The only child of God, Jesus Christ, He died on your behalf He was crucified, died, and was buried. Not figuratively, not near death, not sleeping, dead For you and for me. And to show the ultimate power over death, Christ rose from the grave, declaring that he is the king. Over even death itself. Sickness can't hold him. Disease can't hold him. Demons can't hold him. And even death. itself cannot hold him. And all those who come to Christ by faith, apprehending Christ, you too can have resurrection life as well. And after healing Jaris' daughter, Jesus tells the family not to tell anyone what he had just done. Well, that's odd. Why not? Jesus, why wouldn't you want a lot of people to know about this? And this was part of the judgment announced by God against Israel. And Luke's going to mention that Jesus does this a few other times. Throughout the Gospels. Jesus does something and then tells people, don't say that I did that. And why is that? It's because God has announced judgment on Israel. Because they refuse to listen to the plain truth of the prophets and the Messiah. The plain words and scripture. that were there for them, given to them for thousands of years, the plain truth about what the Messiah was going to be, who he was going to be, they refused to listen. They had obstinate they were obstinate. They had hard hearts. Scripture says. So what does God do? In a form of punishment, gives them parables, gives them riddles in a sense, gives them mysteries of the kingdom. If they were really wanting to try to find out the truth, they would understand the parables. Not so for the Gentiles. The Gentiles are given the plain truth. And this same judgment is even here with us today. The plain truth of Scripture is readily available for all who want to come and hear. And yet many people refuse to listen. Many people turn a deaf ear to the scriptures. And yet they're calling out. They're calling out to you to believe in the Christ of the Scriptures. And we see that this is what happened, that Jesus Christ resurrects this daughter and And everyone's amazed, and that happens often in the Gospels. And we could have ended the sermon here, uh, but We can't because I believe chapter 9, verses 1 through 2, they are connected to these stories. The woman in chapter 9 and Jairus, they're all connected. So what does Christ do next here? He gathers his disciples. It says, and he commissions them to go and do what he had just done. Now here's the question. What ties Chapter 9, verse 1, to the stories we just looked at. What's the connecting point? What connects these things, these stories? Is it healings? Well, that's in there. Is it is it faith that's in there as well? Now bear with me for a moment I believe what connects all these stories is the number twelve. Now this isn't your pastor going off the deep end here, okay? Just hang on. Luke rarely adds frivolous details. I mean, he is he is an astute historian. He gets details right. But he does, as we have seen throughout the nine chapters of Luke that we've been in, he does arrange material in a way to make a theological point or to fit literary themes. Well, let's start here at verse 42. Look at this. Jaris had a daughter, an only daughter, who was twelve years of age. Why mention that? Luke rarely does this. He usually doesn't add an age to the child. Later on, in the very next chapter, chapter 9, verse 47. Jesus is going to take this child, a little child to himself and make such a big statement about this little child that all the apostles, all the disciples must be like this little child. In order to be his follower, no age given for the child there. Just a little child. Our girl is twelve. Then in the very next verse of our passage, we have the description of this woman and the seemingly insignificant detail that she had been bleeding for how many years? 12. Again, Luke rarely does this with the demon-possessed man that we just looked at a chapter earlier. He said that the demon-possessed man was possessed for, quote, a long time. Not nine years, not five years, just a long time. But with this woman, in this bleeding, he mentions something very specific. Twelve years. And then after Jesus raises the dead, what does Luke say to cap off this series of healings and miracles? Jesus. called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over what? Over all demons. Over all diseases, and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal 12, 12, 12, 3 times, in of itself an important number. Do you see the connection? Why is Luke doing this? Luke is doing this to connect all of what Jesus had just done. All that we've seen, all these miracles, all the healings, all the power, and he's giving it to the apostles. He's giving it to the foundation of the church. In just a short time, Jesus is going to tell the apostles, greater things than I do, you will do. Greater works will you do. And we're going to dive into this further next week because I think it's such an important point that Luke is trying to make here. And Luke is showing the transition from Christ as the head to the church as the body of that head. But even more specifically, in the next chapter, he's showing the apostles. He's showing the apostles As the foundation of the church, with Christ as the chief cornerstone. This is important. It does not mean when people read this, read verse 9, chapter 9, verse 1 and 2. It does not mean that all Christians have the power of healings and miracles and raising people from the dead. That's what a lot of people think when they read this. Gave them power and authority over all demons to cure deceased. Well therefore I have that power. No, you're not an apostle. The apostles were given this power to lay the ground for the church. The apostles' teaching lays the foundation for the teaching of Christ. Listen, Liberty Church. The church of God possesses the keys to the kingdom. There are not two sets of keys, one in heaven and one on earth. One set of keys given to the church. To bind everything in heaven and on earth. The church, insofar as the church adheres to the apostles' teaching , Possesses the king the keys of the kingdom. Again, I'm going to talk more about this next week, but there's something that people do often. Especially in academia, where there's this push to go back and try to find the original Jesus. What did he eat? What did he wear? What did he actually say? There's all these trends, these academic fads, the Jesus Project, the Jesus seminar, the historical Jesus. And all these are misguided. Listen, everything we know about Jesus, we only know through the apostles. Everything we know about Jesus Christ, every word that He's spoken, we know because the apostles laid the foundation right here in God's word. The apostles are the ones who preserved the words of Christ. And what the church must say is what the Apostle Paul said. For what I received, I deliver to you. What I received, I deliver to you. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with Scriptures. That He was buried, that He was raised on the third day. in accordance with scriptures, and that he appeared to the who? To the twelve. The twelve is symbolic of the entirety of the people of God. And the people of God have one source of truth. One infallible rule of faith, and it's the teaching of the prophets and the apostles recorded in this book. And our faith grows from the seedbed of this word, cultivated by the apostles and prophets thousands of years ago. You and I stand in the Line of great witnesses, stretching back all the way , validates what you and I believe. Liberty Church, let us return to the scriptures. As a church, let us remain steadfast in the scriptures. As a people, remain steadfast in the scriptures Let us go to the scriptures and nothing else. Let us go to the Christ of the Scriptures and no one else. And once we find him there Once we find Christ here, cling to him by faith until he makes you well. Let's pray.