If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Luke chapter 19. We're going to be looking at 38, verses 38 through Uh forty-four actually. I know that forty-eight is printing your bulletin, but uh making a uh last minute Audible, cutting out those few verses and going to use those for a couple weeks from now. And for those of you who uh regularly attend Liberty Church normally you know this about me that I rarely deviate from preaching verse by verse through the scripture in the general order that it was originally written in And today, I'm making an exception. We started the Gospel of Luke way back in November. of 2018 and providentially we were right on track to preach on Palm Sunday using the original Palm Sunday text today. But we lost a week due to coronavirus a couple weeks back. And so we were a week behind on this. So I'm going to make up for it. I'm going to skip Luke 19, 1 through 27 and jump to the Palm Sunday passage, Luke 19, 28. through 44 for this week. And then we'll come back to Luke 19, 1 through 27 for the for Easter next week. So in Luke 19, Jesus has been making his way up to Jerusalem, and that started way back in Luke chapter 9, this journey of Jesus to to go to Jerusalem and back in Luke nine it says, When the days drew near for him to be taken up, that is, taken uh up upon the cross and then ultimately up to heaven, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. And ever since that point in chapter nine, the narrative of Luke has been focusing and honing in on this climax, the moment that Jesus stepped foot into the city of Jerusalem. And then the subsequent trying and trial of Jesus and the murder of him. It's a grand entrance. It 's the greatest entrance in the history of the world. It's greater than any other entrance of any other king, of any other person. And we know people who like to be fashionably late in order to make an entrance themselves. And this is not the case with Jesus. Jesus was right on time. In fact, it was a time that was established before the foundation of the world. God appointed this time, this day, for Jesus. to come and be a substitute on our behalf. And it wasn't very fashionably late at all either. It wasn't fashionable at all. For what Jesus was doing was turning the world upside down. As we shall soon see. The long away king was finally arriving. But unlike human kings, this kingly entrance was not what everyone expected. Verse 29. Take a look at this with me. It states that Jesus arrived first at Bethany and Bethpage, which are twin towns. And Jesus had set up operations there throughout his ministry. And fittingly the name Bethpage means the town of unripe figs. or something along those lines, which is fitting, since since the city of Jerusalem was in a sense unripe They were not ready to receive their king, their long-awaited Messiah. Jesus went up to the Mount of Olives, it says. In verse 29, called Olivet here. And he had done this before numerous times. He preached extensively from this small hill, but this time Jesus does something Different. He sends two of his disciples on a mission. Go into the village, he says in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you why are you untying it, you shall say this, the Lord has need of it Now this is certainly an odd mission to borrow someone else's donkey And this is not an example of doing what Jesus would do. We are not to borrow other people's belongings. The king, though, owns all the donkeys in the world, including all the owners of all the donkeys in the world. He owns everything in this world. And if Jesus deems Necessary to take for himself something, he has every right to do so. We do not. He is the rightful owner. The Lord has need of it. That's all Jesus needed to say in order to end the discussion with presumably the donkey's owner, who would be protesting against the taking of his animal. But what's interesting here is that it's not often in the Gospels that we see Jesus in need of something. But in a sense, he was not in need of a donkey. We can't think of that word need as something that was missing from Jesus. He was very capable of walking into Jerusalem on his own accord. So why the donkey? Why does Luke talk about needing, Jesus needing this donkey? And why does he talk about this the scene of borrowing the donkey at such lengths? I mean he spins four verses. on this one little aspect of the triumphal entry, longer than many other of the aspects that we That we know of when we think about the Palm Sunday event. He spends four verses just on this one section of borrowing a donkey. Why? Well, it's to show fulfillment of the coming Messiah that was prophesied long ago. In fact, thousands of years ago. It's found not first in Zechariah, which we'll get to in a moment, but in Genesis , very beginning. has this prophecy found in Genesis chapter 49. Recall in Genesis 49, it's the blessing that Jacob gives to his sons. And one of his sons was Judah. And this is what Jacob said about Judah. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples, binding his full to the vine, and his donkey's colt to the choice vine. He washed his garments in wine, and his vesture in the blood of grapes, his eyes are darker than wine. And his teeth are whiter than milk. This is an odd prophecy. The last part of it The description of Judah and his garments being covered in the blood of grapes is an image of judgment. And the cult in Genesis 49 is tied just as the cult in our story this morning. But in Genesis 49, the cult was tied to a vine, a grapevine, something you normally would never do. The vine is gentle, it's sensitive. And if you tied a colt of a donkey to a vine, you can expect that that colt is going to rip the vine out. And that is the significance of this. And that's exactly what's happening here in the messianic age. Israel is rejected They're being uprooted in a sense. The vine of Israel is being uprooted because of their unbelief. Recall the story. of Jesus with the fig tree and how he sees a fig that's not bearing fruit and he curses it. Another fig tree must come in its place. And this is a picture, this Genesis 49 is a picture of Jesus coming into the people that should have received him. And yet did not. And the penalty, the punishment of that is their rejection, because they rejected Jesus. There's still another prophecy that Christ fulfills. through the use of this donkey. That's why it's so important. That's why Luke spends so much time on it. And the other prophecy is found in Zechariah 9. And verse 9 says this, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you, righteous. And having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the full of a donkey. It's the triumphal entry prophesied by Zechariah, the king coming into his kingdom, not riding a war horse. But a donkey. A pure donkey. It's a donkey that's never been ridden on. Representing the purity not only of the donkey, but of course of the purity of Jesus Christ Himself. It's a symbol of peace, this donkey. It's not a symbol of the war or that a war's been accomplished, but a symbol of peace. But it's a peace that has not yet been made. It's a peace that Christ has to bring We see this in the context of Zechariah, the Zechariah 9 passage. You just continue a little bit past verse 9. Verse 11 says, as for you, because of the blood. Of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free. And it goes on in verse 16, on that day the Lord their God will save them. Jesus is bringing peace to the city. Not because he has already won a battle, but because he's going to win a battle. A battle against sin, a battle against death, a battle that will require the blood of the covenant, his own blood. And that's the significance of Jesus riding on this donkey into the city. He's saying that peace has not been won yet. Peace is coming. And Zechariah and Genesis shows that peace is coming because of my blood, because of my death. But the people do not recognize this. They did not see this. Some of the disciples certainly were excited about Jesus coming into the city. They're the ones who put him on the donkey. Did you notice this? That they're the ones that place Jesus upon the donkey, verse thirty-five They brought Jesus and throwing their cloaks on the colt. They set Jesus on it. They're excited. Their enthusiasm is just pouring out of this passage. But they're looking for a temporal king. This idea of placing Jesus upon the donkey is similar. to the language used in other places in the Old Testament where Israel would gather together for themselves a king, such as Saul, the first king of Israel. And they would make him the king. It's also language used to David, of placing Saul in a position of authority, of power. The people are the ones seeking to coordinate Jesus, but only as a king of Jerusalem, only as a king of Israel. It's as far as they've gone. They cannot imagine a king that must suffer and die. That is so beyond their frame of reference. We know that because when Jesus did actually die, what happens? The disciples just go on their normal life. Saddened by the reality, or so they thought, of their dashed hopes in this Messiah. But here there's joy, there's jubilation. The cloaks are put on the donkey and Jesus is is sat on the donkey. The cloaks are laid on the ground. What are these Israelites doing? They're doing the ancient equivalent of rolling out the red carpet for Jesus. Now this is Palm Sunday, but Luke does not mention Palms here. This is interesting. The other gospel writers who record this scene mention palms, but Luke doesn't mention Palms. It's probably because it would have been beyond the audience that he was writing to, mainly a Gentile audience, certainly a mixture of Jewish Gentiles as well. But they might not have understood the nature of the palms and particularly the nature of the palms if it has to do with the Jewish feasts, namely the Feast of Tabernacles. It's during this time where Israelites would would gather together outside the city in these makeshift booths. That they would also grab palm branches, according to Leviticus 23. And they were to do this. They were to rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days. Here too we have a seven-day period, at the end of which would be rejoicing, although it had to come after much weeping. And much suffering. In heaven, according to Revelation 7. 9, we will again take palm branches up. Which is encouraging. Knowing that we can't take them up this morning together, as we normally do, at least as the children do But there will come a point when this is all over and we're we're back together physically, and there will come even a greater moment. When we're in heaven and we take up these palm branches, as Revelation 7 says, and we rejoice before the Lord, not for seven days, but for all eternity. And the disciples began praising God, and they're quoting Psalm 118 here. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory. in the highest. Now this Psalm 118, it's one of anticipation. It's one of the anticipation of salvation. Right before this verse, they don't quote this, but if you go back to the Psalm and read that, right before it states, Save us, we pray, O Lord, save us. The whole psalm has to do with the anticipation of God's great salvation. But before even this part in Psalm 118, there's an even more important prophecy found, another prophecy, and this is We have to understand this this entire scene, this triumphal entry is rich with uh illusions. to the Old Testament, prophecies found in Scripture. This is why I keep drawing our attention back to them. But in Psalm 118, right before what they quote, this is what it says: open to me the gates of righteousness, the gates of the city, that I may enter through them. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day the Lord has made. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords. Up to the horns of the altar. The disciples are quoting Psalm 118, and they're quoting a part of it. That talks about the king coming. But I believe unbeknownst to them , that unbeknownst to their understanding of the song. Is that there's all this prophecy in Psalm 118 about the coming Messiah? It encapsulates so much the blessedness of the true king coming into Jerusalem. This king who brings salvation who's coming through the gates of the city. In Psalm 118, the sacrifice of Christ is alluded to. Binding the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. And even the rejection of Christ by many It's found in that psalm. The stone that the builder has rejected has become the cornerstone. That is the stone that was cast away. Because it was deemed not good enough. That stone has actually become the most important stone. And Jesus quotes this elsewhere in the Gospels about the Pharisees and others who've rejected him. Those who should be the most glad that Christ was there were the ones that were clamoring for his crucifixion. And this is what leads Jesus to begin weeping. See, Jesus understood Psalm 118. Jesus is the author of the Psalms And even though the disciples were taking a part of that psalm, a true part, and applying it to Jesus, Jesus understood the bigger picture. He understood that even though, yes, the king is coming, open the gates, he understood that there's many who are going to reject him. And we finally seize the city. What's verse 41 says? He begins to weep. And this language, this word that's used for weep here is strong. It's a a deep crying, wailing even. Jesus sees the city that he loves, and it should be the city that loves him in return. But instead it's a city that stones her prophets. The Pharisees back in verse 39 are a microcosm of the entire nation. It's not just the Pharisees. They ought to get a bad rap. The entire nation of Israel is uh In their pattern, their mold. The disciples were rejoicing. And what did the Pharisees do? They seek to silence them. They're always seeking to put a damper on any true praise of God. They did this even the passage before, a couple passages before, with the blind beggar. Who's calling out to Jesus and and what is what's the crowd do? They try to silence him. Stop. And they try to silence the disciples here, but what does Jesus say? Even if They're silent. Even if my own followers are silent, the rocks will cry out. All of creation. Will sing my praise. Even inanimate objects shall give me glory And the rocks indeed will cry out, which is the sobering reality of what we see Jesus talks about the city of Jerusalem after he weeps. He says, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace, but they're hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side. and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone, one rock, upon another. The rocks indeed will cry out. But here they will not cry out about the glory of Jesus. They're going to cry out about the destruction of Israel. Not one stone will be left upon another. This is complete and utter annihilation, which did indeed happen just a few decades after Jesus uttered these words. When the Roman Empire and Roman Emperor came and destroyed Jerusalem. This entire scene is Palm Sunday. It's not just Jesus coming into the city. It's Jesus weeping over the city. And Palm Sundays in most churches, even ours, is portrayed as a festive time. We give palms to our children. They sing. They wave them around. It's actually rather cute. It's a tradition that I personally enjoy. That's only a part of Palm Sunday. Palm Sunday is also tragic. Because it's a reminder of the rejection of Christ by the world. That though the king has come to his rightful throne There are many who refuse to come and bow before him. The king should have been received with joy. with glad thanksgiving and yet Christ weeps over the city because he knows what is to come. And for us today Palm Sunday should be a mixture of emotions. On one hand, we do celebrate, just like the disciples. We understand that the king truly is here. That he truly did come and he reigns in heaven right now as we speak. He is the king who sits at the right hand of God the Father, the creator of all. But yet we also know that Jesus the King is going to return, not on a donkey. Not in peace, but on a war horse. And he's coming to destroy his enemies. And as Christ says to Jerusalem, so too does he say to you. Would you know what makes for peace? Do you know what makes peace? It's Christ. It's his kingship over all creation. It's his substitutionary death upon a cross. It's his resurrection. It's the gospel. The gospel. Of your salvation, a gospel that declares that you can be saved from all your sins by believing in Jesus Christ and his power. That's peace. That is the peace that we all long for, even now, even in this day and age, even in this time of anxiety, of distress. There is a peace that can be had. That is beyond the reach of any virus. It's the peace of the believer who has come into a relationship with Jesus Christ. Who's been reconciled to God through the death of God's own son? And through That process, we now have been declared children of God, adopted into his family. And those who do not know Christ, it can come to you as well. That's peace of knowing God. It comes to all who have faith in Jesus. On this palm Sunday, for those of us who are in Christ, let us rejoice Let us rejoice. Let us be thankful that the King has come. Let us pray also for those who do not know Christ. Let us share about Christ with those who don't know him. For those who do not know Christ. Repent and believe. Trust in Jesus, who is the true King, and this true King has come for you. Let's pray. Father God , King of all creation, Lord of heaven and earth, we bow before you. Forgive us of our sins. Forgive us of our anxiety, our worry. Forgive us of our disbelief. Give us faith to trust you at all times, even in the darkest hours. And God, for those who do not know you, I pray that the gospel would pierce their hearts. Lord, you'd open blind eyes and unstop deaf ears. That they would repent and believe, turning away from their sin and trusting you, Jesus Christ, for their salvation. And I pray even today would be the day of salvation. That you would cross over from death to life those who now believe in you. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.