Good morning. If you have your Bibles, turn to Luke chapter eleven, verses thirty-seven through forty-one. I wanted to first thank you again, those who came out yesterday morning to the men's Bible study and helped replace all the hymnals in record time. I calculated it was over 2,000 pounds of hymnals that were all replaced in 20 minutes. So thank you very much for that. And um also wanted to just mention that we had our first uh after a long hiatus of at least fifteen years, our first uh Sunday evening worship this past Sunday and it was Was it was truly a special time. It was so encouraging. And uh I hope you consider coming on Sunday morning as well as Sunday evening, because I do think it's good for our souls. which is the topic of our sermon passage this morning. We get to a section in Luke where Jesus is going to start a uh speaking to the Pharisees and really rebuking the Pharisees for some of the things that that they do. And this is kind of an introductory part to that So while Jesus was teaching and preaching on his way to Jerusalem, he gets an invite to a dinner party. And uh it's from a rather surprising source. It's one of the Pharisees. And Jesus decides to go to this dinner party, and in that act, in of itself, we have an amazing and powerful lesson. Now this is not Jesus' first encounter. with the Pharisees. Already in Luke's gospel, he has had quite a few run-ins with the Pharisees, and they've all been bad encounters. And back in Luke chapter 5, the Pharisees begin grumbling about Jesus and about what he's doing, and they begin watching him. suspiciously. They're uh looking for ways to accuse Jesus and they're constantly questioning him throughout Luke's gospel. And they're not doing this just so that they can say, we were right, you were wrong, and then go on their merry way. They are looking to accuse Jesus in a theocratic government in which religious lawbreakers are put to death. They're looking to condemn Jesus Even early on in the in the uh gospels, the Pharisees want to put Jesus to death for his supposed negligent Disregard of the law of Moses. And now one of these very Pharisees has invited Jesus to his home. Behind enemy lines, so to speak, the heart of the conflict. And Jesus says, Yes. Why? Why would he do this? Well, it's because Christ was on a mission. To seek and save the lost. And this Pharisee was certainly one of those lost. And Christ stepped into a very uncomfortable situation, not for his own sake. But for the sake of those who don't know him. Dinner party. He was willing to go and be in a position of conflict in order that some may hear the words of salvation. And we should take note and we should do the same. And there are people all around us that if we had a conversation about the gospel, it might be uncomfortable. It might even bring conflict, perhaps at work, perhaps in family or friends, perhaps in your own home. But we must be willing to sacrifice our own comfort in order to ensure that someone at least hears the words of truth, the words of their salvation. And Jesus was willing to do this. And and he goes to this house. In reality though, Jesus had already been behind Enemy lines from the very first moment that he stepped foot on Earth, his entire existence on this planet was one of conflict, of struggle, of suffering, of strife. to conflict. And at the Pharisees' house, things immediately go south, and and Jesus knew that that would probably happen. Jesus is reclining at the table, it says. The way that they would eat in the ancient Near East. And he was presumably relaxed. He was enjoying himself. We don't know what he was eating, but he certainly must have eaten something, uh the middle the ancient Near Eastern equivalent of falafel or hummus. And as soon as he does this, the Pharisee, it says, was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner. Now, although washing is still a cultural custom today, it's nothing like it was in the ancient Near East or in Israel during Jesus' time. I recall my mother telling me, wash your hands before you eat. And I did it all the time. But now, today, I sometimes do and sometimes don't. I'm not certainly not bound to any law that demands I wash my hands before eating. But the Israelites, the ancient Israelites, they were, the ancient Jew were bound to this. They washed all the time. They certainly washed before dinner. And this was not a biblical command necessarily. It was a command or a tradition rather of the elders. It was tradition that they were following. And we see this in Mark chapter 7. It describes a scene. And he says, For the Pharisees and all the Jews. Do not eat unless they wash their hands properly, holding to the tradition of the elders. And there were biblical mandates to wash in the Old Testament specifically, but these were to wash things that unclean Something that was unclean fell into perhaps a pot or a dish or a serving utensil and you had to clean that whatever that was or even break it. if it could not be cleaned. But the Pharisees took cleanliness laws in the Old Testament to the extreme. They assumed everything could be unclean. Or had the potential of uncleanliness, and they just cleaned everything. Everything needed to be washed. So to see this fellow Jew, Jesus, not washing. The Pharisee's amazed. He's not necessarily angry here. He just can't believe what he's seeing. He's astonished. And we do not know if he said anything to Jesus. We don't know if he said anything at all, but Jesus responds to his amazement. And he does so in the most interesting way. He comments on the Pharisees' dishes. And not how nice the dishes were, how they were made. He comments about how nice the dishes were washed. None of you have ever done that. It it is polite and common to go to a dinner party and to remark how marvelous these dishes are, but no one has ever said how marvelous is your dishwasher. Which does not happen. But this is what Jesus basically does. And he's doing this to get to the heart of the Pharisee. You see, the reality is Jesus probably did wash before most meals. Uh this is an assumption of mine. This is not the Lord saying this is Nathan saying this. This is Jesus probably washed before most meals. That was the cultural custom of the time, and we have no reason to think that Jesus was not following the majority of these cultural customs, if they were not inherently wrong or sinful. When Jesus went to s the synagogue every Sabbath, Jesus went to weddings, he went to feasts. We do have an account where it says that the disciples did not wash and the Pharisees got mad at the disciples, but that was one meal. We don't know how often that was. And we do see Jesus washing The feet of his disciples. So we know that he's not against washing per se. He probably washed before most meals. But he didn't do it this time. And he did that to make a point. He purposely did not wash in the home of the most religious, legalistic people on the face of the planet. To get their attention. And he got it. And though this Pharisee points out the lack of washing, Jesus Points out the object of what is being washed , namely the Pharisee himself. And Luke doesn't go into much detail into what happened and how Jesus broached this conversation with the Pharisee. But with sanctified imagination, I I I do imagine Jesus having a cup in his hand, holding it up perhaps. Turning it around, maybe in the light. And saying, You Pharisees , you really do clean The outside of the cup well. I mean, it's it's polished. It's spotless It's pristine. And then staring right at the Pharisee who worked so hard to keep these dishes clean. Jesus tells him, but inside, not inside the cup, but inside your heart, you are full of greed and wickedness. Jesus remarks first on the good. The outside of the cup, it truly is is clean. But at what cost? Keeping the outside of this cup clean has cost you your soul. And I'm sure that this was a shock to the Pharisee, the religious elite. And I wonder if at that moment the Pharisee thought to himself the very same thought that I often have when I look at a passage like this, and thought that goes in my mind. Is that it is indeed hard to keep dishes clean Literally speaking, keeping dishes clean is a nonstop activity in almost every American household. The sheer volume of dishes that a family of four accumulates every single day is staggering. And uh every night it takes up a lot of our time. to clean our dishes. And I cannot wait until Evelina is old enough where I don't have to touch a single dish again as long as she lives in my home. And that's the price of room and board. But I am not talking here about literal cups and dishes as I know you know. Keep a veneer of religiousness Without godliness is a terrible burden. Trying to appear good To an outside world, to an observing people around you, without focusing your attention on what's inside Without making sure that what's inside is pure and clean is a monstrous burden. And it's one that every single person will eventually cast off someday in their life. Focusing on outward appearances without ever giving consideration to the condition of your heart. Without ever thinking about hiding God's word in your heart. How much are you praying? How much are you repenting? Are you putting faith in Christ? Are you trusting Him in the difficult circumstances of life? And working towards appearing good to other people while never aiming to be To be good before God is a yoke, a man-made yoke, that crushes your spirit. It breaks your will, and it will eventually Drive you to despair. How much energy was this Pharisee putting into being good apart from God? How much effort was he trying to keep his traditions by while while forgetting what the Bible actually says? How much energy Do you exert in doing the very same thing? For this Pharisee, the tradition had supplanted the word. The external had become more important than the internal. The inside had become subservient now to what's on the outside. And outward appearances mattered so much. The appearance of religiosity. The inside, not so much. The Pharisees were clean, polished, pristine. put together, but their souls were corrupt, filthy, and broken. And the same is true of many of us today. Many of us have the appearance of godliness, but no power. We have the appearance of holiness, but no roots Inner life is in turmoil. Faith is on the brink, hardly praying, hardly repenting, hardly sharing their faith Why? What do you have to share for those who are not taking care of their souls? What is there to share? And this is American Christianity at its finest, or rather at its lowest. The reality is we can appear Christian in name. And that's enough for so many people. Where is the zeal for God? Where is the passion for souls? Where is the desire to go behind enemy lines? Where's the humility and brokenness that's evident to all? Where are the men and women that meet with God truly and are changed? And what we have so much now is just people who know what to say. How to say it. When to say it. We have a lot of people who know how to look, Christian. We at least go to church. And all the time people are wondering why does God seem so distant? Why do my prayers seem so unanswered? Why do my sins seem so unconquered? I wonder why. And not to offend, or perhaps to offend, Jesus has the same Rebuke for you and I that he had for the Pharisee 2,000 years ago. You fool Now it's Jesus saying this, not me. Don't get mad at the messenger. But I I don't like actually the translation here of the exclamation point, uh that Jesus after Jesus says you fools. That that can be there and there's certain reason to think that it is there's not in the original Greek necessarily, but I uh I don't picture Jesus raising his voice if the exclamation is is indicating this. I don't picture Jesus raising his voice or or mad or furious or even really exasperated. I I do I picture I picture Jesus shaking his head Almost with a touch of sadness. You fool You traded something of eternal value for something of minuscule value. You traded your condition before a holy God for your appearance before a sinful man. What do you think God cares about What do you think God wants out of his children? I think my daughters are the most beautiful girls in the world. But I so much more want beauty of character. I so much more want beauty of soul. I so much more want beauty of a good name for them. I want beauty of holiness. And God feels the same about you. The God who made the flesh that covers you also made the soul that is you And it's your soul, it's your spirit that can either reflect your creator or distort the image Is your soul right with God? That's a question that every single person must ask. Are you being the Pharisee in the story? Are you being like the one who makes all the effort to make sure that the outside is clean and uh uh of good appearance. Yeah, on the inside, filthy. And Jesus here gives the solution to the Pharisee and he gives the solution to us. He says this, give as alms those things that are within And behold, everything is clean for you. Now the giving of alms is a sacrifice. When you give to the poor, it's a financial sacrifice. It's a spiritual sacrifice. Jesus is saying this metaphorically again. Alms here are not actual literal money. It's not financial. It's spiritual. But there's a nuance here, if you noticed, of giving as alms. What's he saying? It's giving as alms those things that are within. Hmm. What is Jesus saying? Well, it's the treasure of your heart and of your soul that God wants. It's the valuable alms of a Christ-like character and of worship that God is looking for. Listen to what the psalmist says many years before this says the very same thing in Psalm 51. For you, O God, will not delight in sacrifice. Or I would bring it. You would not be pleased with the burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, oh God, you will not despise. A broken spirit, or as Jesus has said earlier in the Gospels. Blessed are you who are poor in spirit, for yours is the kingdom of God. A heart that is humble and contrite, a heart that is recognizing sins and repentance A heart that continually places faith in Jesus Christ. This is what God's pleased with. These are the alms. These are the sacrifices. And when you do that, Liberty Church, everything is clean. Everything is clean. The outward appearances work themselves out when the inward is right. In other words, when you focus on the outward, the inward is neglected. But when you focus on the inward, the outward actually is fine. Liberty Church, we must be a church that is godly, that is cleaning the inside of the cup. Even more than the outside. And there are many churches out there that have beautiful, beautiful buildings, glorious sanctuaries. Amazing, amazing structures. And yet the inside of the church is filled with dead people. And we're not like that, Liberty Church. Praise be to God. But we can be, we could be If we begin neglecting the cultivation of our heart and soul for God, if we don't, if we stop paying careful attention To the condition of our souls, then we most certainly could be like any number of churches that have gone that way. Let us be godly. How? Through our God. Let us be righteous. How? Through the righteousness that Jesus Christ has given to you. See, in reality, it's not we who wash ourselves. But it's Christ who washes us. It's Christ who cleanses us. It's Christ who takes the soap and water Of the Word and the Spirit, and cleanses the filthy hearts of all mankind. And slowly but surely, the dirt that covered all of us. Slowly gets washed away. Not perfectly in this life, but more and more. More and more cleansed. Until the day that we see Christ in person. As soon as we're saved, this process begins We were all dead in our sins and transgressions. We were all dark inside, filthy And yet God sent his son to die in our place, the righteous for the unrighteous, and he chose you for eternal life, and he gave you his Holy Spirit, and part of the purpose, part of the role of this Holy Spirit is to cleanse you. You day by day. That's what baptism represents: the cleansing work of the Holy Spirit. If you have the Holy Spirit, you should be more and more cleansed. More and more transformed into the image of God. And we are, if we are saved, we're we're right with God. We're justified before God. But we still need to work out our salvation with fear and trembling, as Paul says. Even though we're saved, we've been saved, we are being saved. And we're continually being saved as we live like a child of God, as we grow in grace, as we meditate on mercy. As we love God with all of our hearts, minds, souls, and strength. Liberty Church, let us cry out to our God, proclaiming The wondrous love that He has for you in Jesus Christ His Son. Let's pray. Father, we come before you in need of cleansing. Perhaps there's some here that have never been cleansed At all. And they need to be saved. They need to turn to you, Jesus Christ , in faith and repentance, and experience being born again again by your Holy Spirit. And Lord, that work of sanctification, of purification, of cleansing to begin in there own life. And Lord, for those of us who've been walking with you for a very long time, we still need daily cleansing. We need the purification of your Holy Spirit and your word. Father, we know that positionally we're clean before you, but experientially we need to be cleansed. So we repent of the sin. sins of today, of yesterday, of of the sins of even tomorrow, we come before you anew and afresh. that you would continually give us your Holy Spirit as a psalmist says, do not take it away. We know that it's a guarantee. of our inheritance. And I pray that you would restore to us the joy of our salvation. And when you do, I pray that we would treat teach transgressors your ways. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.