If you have your Bibles, turn to Luke chapter ten, thirty-eight through forty-two. I've been Very persistent to have the praise team sing that song. And I'm glad I was. Luke 10, 38 through 42. After telling the story of the good Samaritan, who's really the great Samaritan, who's really a picture of Jesus Christ. Jesus goes into another village to continue preaching the gospel. And we're not told this detail in Luke, but we know from another incident in the Gospel of John that this Village that Jesus is in is Bethany. And Bethany was a very important town to Jesus. It was the hometown of Jesus' friends, Lazarus, Martha, and Mary. It was about one to two miles away from Jerusalem. When Jesus ascended into heaven from after rising from the dead, that ascension took place here in Bethany. So Jesus is coming to Jerusalem. That's what Luke has now transitioned the gospel to. Luke is showing that Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem. But before he gets there, he's stopping in Bethany. And Bethany will be a type of headquarters for him until going to Jerusalem itself. And while in Bethany, a wonderful woman by the name of Martha comes and greets Jesus and invites Jesus into her home. Now Martha was perhaps a widow, and she was a kind and generous woman. She's extending this Invitation to Jesus and all of his disciples. In fact, Martha is exercising a vital component of Christian discipleship: hospitality. Hospitality is expressly required of all the elders in the church, but it's not just elders who are to be hospitable. All Christians are to be hospitable. Paul tells us in Romans chapter 12: contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. And this is what Martha is doing. She is being hospitable to Jesus Christ. She's expressing her faith in good deeds. And hospitality is a a very important component of the gospel advancing throughout the kingdom. And Christians have been doing this for many millennia. And the world has taken notice. Hospitality is so important. And it makes perfect sense that this scene of Martha showing hospitality to Jesus immediately follows the story of the Good Samaritan. It says this, Luke is saying, here's an example. Here's an example of a Good Samaritan. Now, Jesus is not requiring medical attention as the person that the Good Samaritan helped, but the idea carries over that Martha is extending herself greatly. To meet the needs of someone else, namely Jesus Christ. But as we shall see No one plays the role of the good Samaritan perfectly except our Lord Jesus Christ. Martha's hospitality falls far short. Just as ours does, because all that we do is tainted by sin. Every good endeavor that we attempt, evil is right there beside it. Let's take a closer look at this story. Martha welcomes Jesus and his disciples into her home. She's serving up a meal for everyone. It 's probably at least fifteen to twenty people. And that is not a small number. Even in today's uh modern conveniences that we have that we possess in the kitchen and and in the grocery store. You know, I enjoy cooking for guests, but even with stoves and running water and already prepared food, I get a little stressed out. cooking for two people, let alone fifteen. Back in Michigan I was preparing a meal for about eight guests one night and I was running out of time and they were they were about to be here and I was frantically trying to prepare and I chopped some of my finger off with the basil. and uh had to go to the hospital. I canceled the entire dinner because of it. And that's the the kind of thing that can happen with hospitality. It's hard to be hospitable. It's costly. You can lose part of a digit from it. But it's a wonderful service if done with the right motivation. get to later. So Martha is here, she's she's cooking away in this ancient kitchen context, which means she's doing everything by scratch. And Luke says Martha was distracted with much serving. Now, the word translated as distracted here is an interesting one. That particular form is not found anywhere else in the Bible. In the Greek Old Testament, however, it's used a couple of times. And one of those places that it's used is a story that's found in 2 Samuel and the man Uzziah. You may have heard of him. And this connection to Uzziah is worth mentioning. Uzziah was following along behind the Ark of the Covenant. Which was on a cart being carried by an ox. And all of a sudden the ark starts to fall, and Uzziah reaches out and steadies the ark. And God strikes Uzziah dead because no man was to touch the ark. And Uzziah broke that law, thinking that his hands were cru Cleaner or holier than the dirt that God created. But relevant to our passage this morning, the word used of the ox stumbling It's the same word used of Martha for being distracted. This is not mere distraction. Martha is under a heavy load, and she's beginning to stumble. She feels the weight of serving. And she's starting to falter. In other words, Martha is burdened. But Martha has a sister, Mary, and that word for distracted is not even remotely used for her. It's just the opposite. Look at this text. Mary, Luke says, is sitting down at Jesus' feet. She's not even standing beside Jesus. Helping mainly in the kitchen, but kind of stealing some moments with Jesus just to hear what he's what he's talking about. No. She makes zero indication that she's going to serve at all. She sprawled out, laying on her side, probably propped up on her elbow, enjoying the teaching of Christ, oblivious to her sister's burden Far from frantically preparing the food with Martha, Mary is not lending a hand nor lifting a finger. And Martha begins to fume And perhaps you can relate to this episode of sibling tension and growing discord. But as Martha fumes, she directs her anger at Jesus. Look what Luke says. Martha went up to Jesus, perhaps indicating some form of defiance. She 's certainly not going to Jesus bowing down. And the question she asks has accusatory tones. Lord, do you not care? That my sister has left me to serve alone. And then Martha does the unthinkable She starts barking orders at Jesus. Tell my sister to help me, she commands Now, there's something interesting about this command, isn't it? Why didn't Martha bark the command at Mary? Isn't that what brothers and sisters typically do? Reading this passage and seeing Martha burdened like an ox about a stumble and seeing Mary relaxed And not helping, I would fully expect that the story is driving to this point in which Martha will say something like, Mary! Get up and help me. I got a lot of cooking to do. I would fully expect that. But instead, she yells at Jesus. Why Jesus? What did he do? Before I answer that, this story of Martha and Mary's It's very common and it's commonly used for application. And it's often used in a very misguided way. Many times people will preach on this or teach on this. There's a moral of the story that they're trying to connect. Basically, it comes down: don't be a Martha. What you've heard before. The story is not to elevate reflection and contemplation over service. It's not to condemn being a busybody, which you shouldn't be. It's not placed here to show how to be hospitable to traveling missionaries. It's not put here as a psychological treatment for anxiety and other mood disorders. And it's not put here to help Christian siblings get along. All of these have been suggested, preached, and teached, taught. It's far deeper than this. The point of the story is connected to what we just saw last week. Week. The story of the Good Samaritan and the nature of the law of God. Sums it up with two commands. Love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And love your neighbor as yourself. And upon hearing these two commands, if you remember, this lawyer seeking to justify himself asks, Jesus, well, then who's my neighbor? And Jesus tells the story of the Good Samaritan. A story that typifies obedience to the second command that Jesus just gave. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. And you cannot find a better example of someone loving their neighbor more than this good Samaritan. The Good Samaritan typifies obedience to the second commandment. But what about the first commandment? What about you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and all your mind and all your soul and all your strength? Who typifies obedience to that command? Mary. Mary. She's our Example. She's the example of obedience to the first and greatest command of God. And juxtaposed against her is Martha. Martha typifies loving your neighbor. Loving your neighbor by serving them without first loving the Lord her God. And this is a powerful distinction that we must realize. When you seek to love and serve your neighbor out of any motivation. Besides to honor and glorify and to love Jesus Christ, you will grow bitter. Resentful and frustrated, not just with your neighbor, but with your God. You will begin to feel that He's the one putting this heavy burden. Upon your back. The main reason to serve in the first place is because God is worthy and you love love him and you seek to please him. When service becomes service for service's sake, when people become go first You've lost the source from which all Christian service must be derived: a love of Jesus Christ and a desire to honor Him Martha did not have this. Obviously not. She wasn't seeking to honor Jesus. She's rebuking Jesus. Jesus teaches Martha a lesson. Jesus wants to make something very clear to Martha. And thus to all of us. Jesus wants Martha to get something that's that's very important. Jesus wants to tell Martha I am more important than your meal. I am more important than your service. And nothing compares. Nothing compares to the majesty of Jesus Christ. and our obligation to first and foremost give him all praise that he is due. When Martha had an opportunity, just like her sister, to listen to the word of God, to sit at his feet. To worship and adore him, she chose to serve rather than to worship. And that is where she went wrong. This story is primarily a story of worship. What is the primary act of service as a Christian? What are you primarily called to do? What's the work that God would have you do? It's to worship your king. Before you think of serving anybody or anything, you must first realize that Christ demands your worship. He demands for you to sit at his feet. Service to others is secondary. It's not primary. It must flow out of a love of God and not the other way around. And Mary had set her mind on worshiping, and Jesus was not going to take that away from her. He says, it is the better portion , the better food. Jesus says elsewhere, for man does not live on bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. And the food that Mary was eating tasted so Delicious to her. And this is how all believers in Christ must be. We should long to be at the feet of Jesus, to hear his words, to be in his presence. And Martha missed this. Martha missed this thing. She got she got reverted. Loving neighbor first versus loving God. And the question this morning is, how often do you miss this? What is your motivation to serve? Do you have motivation to serve? I believe that our service, everything about it, comes down to this one fact, the love of God and how you respond to it. Everything boils down to that. Of course, we need more servants. I just mentioned needs this morning. Of course, we need more servants in the church. But we need worshipers more I do not aim for service. I aim for worship in the church. Many churches believe that the fidelity to the gospel is how much people are serving. I don't I don't think that's true at all. Our faithfulness to the gospel is how much we worship. And I never want to get those two twisted. I do not aim for service, I aim for worship. I want Christians to love Jesus. I want Christians who obey the first commandment. With all their heart. And I'm convinced that those Christians will love and serve and give to their neighbor sacrificially more than anybody else. Their service will be long lasting. It will have an eternal impact. It's those that first realize loving God results in a love for others and not the other way around that make the greatest impact in the kingdom of God But interestingly, once we begin obeying this first commandment, we realize that it's not truly about us serving the Lord as much as it is about how much He has served you. We can't outserve God. He's the giver. We are the receiver. God served you by sending his own son, Jesus. Christ to die as a payment for your sins. Is there a greater service that's ever been done on the face of the planet? God saw sinners who have rebelled against him, who hated him, who didn't serve him at all, and he served eternally by sending Jesus Christ to die on a cross as the payment for all the sins that you've committed, past, present, and future. And Jesus stood in our place, taking the punishment that we deserved. And when we receive Christ, we receive all of him The greatest gift the world knows. And this love, that love compels us to not only love Him more, that's the source of all of our love for God, but also Martha forgot all about this. Jesus, though, has compassion on her. Just like how Jesus has compassion on you and me when we forget. He first lovingly rebukes her. Martha, Martha. It's really a sweet thing. Saying her name twice was emphatic. It's it's loving, it's gentle. It's trying to get her attention. He cares about her. He doesn't want this just to go over her head. Martha. Martha. And he tells Martha what's wrong. You're anxious and you're troubled about many things. And he reveals to Martha her sin, where she's gotten the gospel wrong, where she's twisted it where we can all twist it very easily. And he points to her the right way. What's the right way to do this, Martha? He points her To himself. Come to me first. Sit at Jesus' feet. Worship. Listen to his word. Love him. Then go be a servant. Serve with gusto. Serve greatly. But do it out of the love of God. And though he doesn't say it here, Jesus' words in the Gospel of Matthew are so fitting for Mark. Martha and fitting for any of you, any of us who are stuck in this same predicament of a loveless serving Jesus tells us, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And you will find rest for your souls Martha had the wrong service. She took this heavy yoke , she put it upon herself. And she started to stumble and fall. And what she needed to do was take up Christ's yoke, his yoke to love and worship him. The truth is when we love Christ like this, we actually serve our fellow man to a much greater. degree. We actually give more. We sacrifice more. We we're we're willing to be burdened more. We begin to love others. We begin to offer ourselves as living sacrifices. Paul says. This becomes a delight to us. It's never a delight when we switch it around. When loving neighbor becomes the end. Loving our neighbor is just a residual result of loving God. Mary is an a is a great example to all of us of loving God first And even loving God to the point of great cost and sacrifice to her. Later on, when Christ was about to die, there's a scene in the Gospel of John. That's such a beautiful picture because Jesus is back at Martha's house. And it's found in John 12. I just I want to read it because it's a beautiful picture of God's redemptive grace. John 12 is what it says, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany. Where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead, so they gave a dinner for him there. And Martha served. And Lazarus was one of those reclining at the table. It's like deja vu for Martha. This is happening again. It's another dinner scene. But she learned her lesson. She learned her lesson. We aren't given the details. But no more. No more words of anxious and troubled or distracted and burdened. Just delightful service. And what about Mary? What about Mary? She gives of herself so sacrificially. Luke says, Mary took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure herbs, and she anointed the feet of Jesus. and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. The perfume that Mary used. says later, cost three hundred denarii. It's a year's worth of wages for the average day laborer. This is a An example of worshiping the Lord and it costs serving him out of love. Her service was not for man, but for Jesus. And your service in whatever capacity that entails, in whatever sphere of service that you provide. to your children at home, to the children at church, to anywhere in between. Your service is not for them. Your service is for Jesus Christ, your King, your Lord, who is worthy of all that you do. You do it for him. And if you're not doing it for Jesus, repent. Confess your sins. Tell him I've gotten this all wrong. I've gotten this backwards. I have my neighbor in my side, and I don't have you. And serve the Lord first by worshiping and then go and serve your neighbor. Why? Because God loves you. How does he show it? Because he died for you. And your service is merely a response to that. You are compelled because of that. It's truly amazing love from an amazing God. He has given you an interest in his blood. He has clothed you in his own righteousness, has given you the crown of eternal life. This is worthy of praise. This is worthy of love. Love, this is worthy of your service. Let us pray. Oh God, forgive us for having a man centered view instead of a Christ interview. Forgive us for making things about others versus making it first about you. Lord, I confess that I often serve Out of a lack of love for you. I pray that you'd bring us all back to the cross to see you and all your glory. glory and grace, and that we would be compelled by your love. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.