If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter six and to this very convicting passage, verses twenty-seven through forty-two, about love. This morning is Palm Sunday. This is where Jesus enters into Jerusalem triumphantly. And uh even though a lot of the leaders of Jerusalem did not perceive who Jesus was, they did not perceive that Christ was the it was the Messiah. The children actually perceived it and they were singing Hosanna, which means save or he saves. And what a wonderful job our kids did in reenacting that scene. They did great. But before Palm Sunday Jesus was preaching and teaching the Word of God. And that's what we're going to look at this morning as we continue through the Gospel of Luke verse by verse. Looking at what Jesus' ministry was. As we continue looking at Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, we've got to keep two things in mind. Number one, Jesus is preaching this sermon to his disciples. That is us. That is the church. So Jesus is preaching to the church. And second Jesus is reinterpreting, or rather correctly interpreting, that which the Pharisees got wrong, the Old Testament, the law of Moses, a law that the Pharisees grossly misinterpreted. Not only did the Pharisees add a bunch of man-made regulations to the law of God, to the Old Testament, but they also just got things just absolutely wrong. Um one example would be the Sabbath where they said that uh if you work uh by helping a friend in need, that is breaking the Sabbath. And that's not what God intended for his law to be interpreted as. The Pharisees, though, they also got something else incredibly wrong. They they missed something in the Old Testament. completely. They missed love. They totally got that wrong. And Jesus, what he's going to do here in his His reinterpretation of the Old Testament, he's going to bring love back to focus. He's going to show the centrality of love in the law of God. And Jesus does this again later on in the gospel. If you recall, a Jewish expert in the law comes to Jesus and says, Jesus, what is the greatest commandment? What's the greatest commandment? And Jesus summarizes the entire Old Testament with two commands. And both commands have to do with love. Love God with all of your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And the other one is like it, he says, love your neighbor as yourself. Love God and love your neighbor. There is no way to make the law of God simpler than that. It's irreducible from that point. Okay? You cannot just have love God. And you cannot just have love your neighbor. And you can't just have love. That's kind of what our culture wants to just love. Love wins. Well, many people love, but they only love themselves. Or they only love those who love them in return. It's the object of your love that's important. That's what Jesus is going to stress here. What's the object of your love? If it's not first and foremost God and then your neighbor, then you have missed the Old Testament commandment on love, just like the Pharisees. And the question though that comes next is, who do we love? What's this love entail? And Jesus says, love your enemies and do good to those who hate you. And just like that, Jesus gets our attention. It's difficult to even love our friends, let alone our enemies Even in the church for whom Christ died, it's difficult at times to love our brothers and sisters in Christ. The moment someone disagrees with you, the moment someone thinks differently about something than you do, we slowly can turn off the faucet of love. Until there's maybe a little drip for them. And Jesus is saying, even if someone is your enemy, which They're not. You must love them. I could end the sermon right there, and we could just go home and try to put that to practice. And some of you would like that if I did that. Oh, we got some clapping. But this is the original intent of the law. Loving your enemies is not expressly mentioned in the Old Testament. But it's what Jesus It's how Jesus reinterprets the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder. Was it just murder that God was concerned with? No, he was concerned with the root of murder, love, even our enemies. And if you can love your enemies, if you can love your enemies. Then you'll probably love everybody else. That's why enemy is the standard. If you can love them, then you're on the way to loving as God loves. You're on the way to loving as God wants you to love. And that's the whole purpose of the law: to conform us into the image of God most high. And this law of love is no different. God Himself shows love to those who hate him, to his enemies, to those who revile him and curse him That's what Jesus says right here in verse 35. The most high God is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. And God allows those who hate him. Who reject him, who despise him, God allows them to experience the same common graces that his own children experience. Later in the gospel, Jesus is going to say God causes his rain to fall and his sun to shine on the just and the unjust. the godly and the godless. And if God does this, how much more should we He is the one who has been ultimately offended. Not us. We're not the ones. We're the offenders. It's been it's God who's been offended by our sin, by our rebellion. So as offenders towards a holy God, We then must look upon those who hate us, who persecute us, who revile us, who curse us, and we must love them, knowing that we all have done the same to God. And even worse. But even if someone is not reviling you or cursing you, uttering all kinds of evil against you, that's not as common. Perhaps perhaps they just believe differently than you. Perhaps they parent differently. Perhaps they worship differently. Perhaps they dress differently. Perhaps Say act differently. These aren't even your enemies. And if you can't love them, how on earth are we to obey Jesus' command to love our enemies? And don't just say, well, the law is too perfect. I can't do it. Therefore, I won't even try. Jesus did it for me. Jesus did not give this law for you to give it back to Jesus. You're not the lawgiver. This is a moral law for all of God's people to obey. Every day. And when we do not obey this law, we repent. And we probably need to repent every day. I need to repent every day for my disobedience, for my rebellion against this law. Yes, Christ died for me. Yes, I'm forgiven by his blood. And he's even died for my failure to love. He loved me, the unlovable, and he purchased my forgiveness. But now, as the redeemed, Of God, how then should we live? And we are to be like God, to love even our enemies. Love your enemies. And this is radical in our day and age, is it not? I mean, there's a constant fighting for our rights in this day and age. Jesus says if someone takes something from you, get it to them. In our culture, some someone takes something from you, you punch them in the nose. Uh at least that's how I grew up. You fight them to take it back. You don't back down. But in God's economy, someone takes something from you, you let them have it. I don't mean let them have it like a knuckle sandwich, I mean let them have what they just what they just took from you. You don't you don't hate them, you don't have murderous intentions in your heart Someone may say, yeah, but aren't we just going are we just gonna allow people to be unjust? Or are we not just empowering people who are evil and wicked? Shouldn't we stop that? If someone is trying to take something from someone else, you stand up for their rights. That's just. That's righteous. But as far as it concerns you, lay down your rights for love. For the sake of your neighbor, for the sake of the gospel witness and the testimony of Jesus Christ, we lay down our rights. Never put rights before love. Someone curses you, you don't curse back. But it doesn't mean you can't just ask them, why? Why are you cursing me? Doesn't mean you can't explain yourself. If someone takes something from you, let them have it. But it doesn't mean that you don't talk to them about it, doesn't mean you don't warn them even. Of the judgment of God. This love ethic that Jesus gives us does not turn men into mice It's just the opposite. It's power. It's absolute power. It's meekness To have the ability to do something about it, but to lay that aside. To put that down. Isn't that Jesus? Isn't that what he did? At this very moment I could call upon 10,000 legions of angels. But he instead chose suffering. He instead chose persecution. How do you view your enemies? How do you view your enemies? Less than that, because many of us don't have enemies. How do you view those people in, around your life whom you strongly disagree with? Had you turned off the love? Do you think of these people less? I cannot believe they think like that. I can't believe they're doing that. I can't believe they raise their kids. I can't believe they don't recycle. The list goes on and on. If you refuse love, for whatever reason you can come up with, you are doing the exact opposite of what your heavenly father did for you. In his great mercy, he took the most unloving us. He took the most unworthy us. And he loved us to the point of death, the death of his own son, Jesus Christ. And Christ did not die for you so that you can then turn off the love. He died for us so that we would pour out that love to every single person that we come in contact with. Repent. Of your sin. This morning during our prayer time, I had to repent of my own sin, of not loving my neighbor, my family, my friends, loving my God. Ask God to change your heart. Ask God to conform you into his image. And not the image of this world. Seek out those who think differently than you. And love them as your brothers and sisters in Christ bought by Jesus' blood. Love them as sons and daughters of God most high. Is this not what we want others to do for us? And this is what Jesus does. He summarizes this love ethic in verse 31. As you wish that others would do to you, so do to them. We've heard the golden rule so often, yet we put it to practice so rarely. And this is something I I teach Evelina almost on a daily basis, this golden rule, but it's something that I need to be taught. And ask the question, in in all my interactions with people, does this rule guide Does this rule guide me? It's simple yet profound. Now, Liberty Church is a wonderfully loving church. And my wife and I talk about this often. When we got here, we just were we're so uh welcomed and with love and we are still feeling the love from this church. Maybe it's just the honeymoon stage of me being your new pastor. Um no, but I don't believe that. I really think that this church truly is a very loving church. But what would happen if every single member of this church Would love their enemies with extravagant love. What would happen? I think people would begin to take notice I think communities would change. I think the gospel would be advanced. I think the kingdom of God would come. That's how powerful loving our enemies is. That's how powerful loving God is. And Jesus wants to make sure that we get it before he moves on to the next part of his sermon. So before I move on to the next part. Do you get it? Next, Jesus tells us not to judge, verse 37. And this is absolutely connected to love, by the way. There's a lot to pack into this sermon this morning because I believe the whole thing is having to do with love. They're all connected. And judgment has to do with love. The reason we often do not love is because we have judged someone unworthy of our love. We've rendered a verdict upon them. We've declared them guilty for whatever crime that they supposedly had committed. And the punishment for that crime is no love for you. That 's the judgment that we've rendered. How foolish we are. Do we not realize that we are under the judgment of God? We are not the judge, but the judged. And the judgment that we foolishly use upon others, God says He will use against us. Are you strict in your judgment of others? Well, so too God will be strict in his judgment of you. Are you merciless in your judgment of others? Well, so too God will be merciless in his judgment of you. Jesus' sermon on love is not some like happy feeling message about love. It comes with a dire warning. If you go around condemning everyone else in judgment, perhaps you are the one under condemnation. If you go around in your heart saying, guilty, guilty, perhaps you are the one that's actually guilty. God will never relinquish the bench of judgment. He will never, never abdicate his role as the judge of the entire cosmos. He is the one that upholds justice, and he is the one to make sure that it's not thwarted even by his own children, which we can often do. Do. And when we judge rightly, there is a right judgment. When we judge rightly, that is, when we love first. Notice in Jesus' sermon he puts love first and then judgment. When we judge rightly by an out of love. Then Jesus says, We shall be rewarded. That's the image that's found here in verse 38. Seems like a confusing image. It wouldn't have been in the ancient world. A man in ancient Israel. who wanted to buy grain would sit down on the ground in his robe and put the measure the measuring cup uh on his lap and they'd pour some grain in there and then he would shake it to make sure it all kind of settled down. And then he'd pour some more and he'd shake it some more. And then we got close to the top, he would begin pressing it with his hand. And then he'd pour some more grain in there. And he'd press it some more. And he poured some more until it was overflowing onto his lap. Do you see what God wants to give you if you obey this law of love? God says, I want to pour blessing into your life in such an incredible way. You're overflowing. He wants to be our God. He wants to be close to us. He wants to be intimate with us. He wants to to build this relationship with you. But when we disobey the first commandment, It strains that intimacy, that relationship with God. Jesus says later on, How can you love me? How can you love me and yet do not obey my commands? And that same question is true for us today. There is blessing that's found. And after giving this glorious standard of love and judges this convicting, standard of love and judgment with the rewards that come with rightly practicing them and with the the the challenge to intimate intimate God and imitate God, Jesus closes this section with an interesting story. It's a parable about a blind man. Now what does this parable have to do with love and judgment? Most scholars think that this this verse this has been insert this this story has been inserted into this for no apparent reason. They think there's a break between verse 38 and 39 and it always amazes me this line of reasoning. That's not true. Luke has put this parable into the story at exactly the right place for a very specific and intentional purpose. This parable of the blind man. What is Jesus saying? Those who do not love, those who go around judging, those are the ones who are blind. They walk around thinking that they see so clearly that they see everyone else's faults, everyone else's blindness. But in reality, they're the ones who can't see. And Jesus says this exact same thing about the Pharisees later on. He says to the Pharisees, you claim you can see, but in reality you're blind. It's almost this comical parable that Jesus gives. It's a blind man trying to convince himself that he can see and trying to lead others. And if this w were a scene in a play We'd all be laughing hysterically right now if it wasn't so true and sad. It's it's this blind man saying, I I can see guys, really. Trust I I really can see And the other guys say, okay, we'll follow you, and then they both just fall into a pit. And that's the punchline of uh of Jesus' parable. But what's Jesus' exhortation to these blind leaders? What's this exhortation to them? First, they are warned. Falling into a pit is a sign of God's divine judgment. If you, as an unloving, judgmental person, lead others To be unloving and judgmental, you lead God's children into sin. And God says that He will judge that severely Jesus says, woe to the man through whom sin comes. And second, the arrogant blind , so I call them, the arrogant blind, should immediately self-reflect. They should immediately take stock of their own blindness, their own transgressions. This is the this is the second best Practice on the road to loving as God loves. I'll get to the first in a moment. But this is this is the idea of the speck and the log of taking stock, self-reflecting upon your own blindness. And again, Jesus paints a rather funny scene. A speck of sawdust is easy to get into your eye. Anyone that's ever cut wood has probably experienced a speck of sawdust in their eye. And I'm sure during the uh church work day that was uh here a few weeks ago when we were they were cutting logs into firewood, I'm sure a few people got some specks of sawdust in their eye, I imagine. Um but it's really difficult, really difficult to get a log in your eye. Am I right? Uh I I don't think that happened last week. I hope not. It's even more difficult to not notice the log in your eye. I mean Jesus is really using some humor here. There's a log in the person's eye. This is the epitome of hypocrisy. This is a complete lack of self-awareness You have a log in your own eye, a beam, and other translations say, and you're you're trying to pick out a little piece of sawdust in someone else's eye. And what Jesus is saying is, he's saying, Stop! Stop what you're doing right now and take stock of your own transgressions, your own rebellion, your own ways that you have offended a holy and righteous God. Reflect on our own judgmental practices. It is so good. It's so good for us to realize After God helps us realize this, that yeah, I do look at everyone else's faults more than my own. I do point out other people's problems more than my own. It's good. See, that's a sign of grace. If that's happening to you, even right now as you're sitting here. If God's showing you that you do this That is God's wonderful and merciful. It's his grace in your life. He's giving you a chance to repent. Repent of them. And when you clear that log from your eye and you begin to see And you begin to love as Jesus loves, and you begin to judge rightly, then you will actually be a source of positive change in someone else's life. Other people will will want you to help them take the speck of sawdust out of their eyes. No one wants someone who's hypocritical and arrogant to help them, even if their advice is correct It's just the source of the advice is just not wanted. But when we fully recognize our own fault and we're humble God will use you in the lives of other people. He will use you to help them get the speck or whatever that is, the sin, out of their own lives. God will use you. I mentioned earlier the second best practice to attain love was to look at your own faults. To see that you should not judge others, lest you be judged, to repent of where you fall short. But first and foremost, how do we love? Look to Christ. Look to Christ, your true love. We love because He first loved us. You see, Jesus shows us a better way. Not through self-help, not through gritting my teeth. He shows us this way: be filled with Christ's love. And then you will pour out love to other people. I believe that the source of people, Christians, not loving other people, certainly not loving our enemies The number one source of that is you don't feel loved by Jesus Christ. You don't feel loved by Jesus, you don't experience his love, and you don't love him in return. And an empty person has nothing to give. An empty person who is not experiencing the love of Jesus Christ has no way to give a supernatural love, which is what's required to love your enemies. A supernatural, spirit-driven love. Because you're empty, you have nothing to give. So the number one recourse is to pray and repent and put your faith in Jesus Christ, who is our true love, and to be filled to the measure of the fullness of his love. Do you know this love that Christ has for you? Do you know this love? His love is what compels us to love others. I don't love in my own strain. I don't love because I'm just always so happy or I'm always this or that. I love because I recognize that someone so great has forgiven all of my sins. has adopted me into his family, and now I am loved by God most high, and therefore I can now love even those who offend me, or those who hurt me, or those who revile me, because I did that same exact thing to God. And if you do not know this love, if you don't know this love of Christ, think back to the other passages that we've read through Luke. Think back to some of the miracles. That Jesus has done. Jesus heals the blind. If you're in here right now and you're one of those people that It's talking about the Pharisee who's blind. He thinks he can see really clearly, but in reality you're blind. Remember what Jesus did just last chapter. Jesus heals the blind. And he can heal you. He died on a cross so that you could be forgiven and the scales of blindness moved, removed from your Eyes that you can see the glory and the beauty of Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior, that you can be filled with the Holy Spirit dwelling inside your heart, and that fruit, the fruit of that spirit being love. And joy and peace. When we repent of our sins and put our faith in Jesus Christ, who is the only way for our salvation. He's the only person who is able to take the full penalty of our sins, of our transgressions, of our rebellion, and he took it upon himself and suffered on our behalf the greatest, the greatest example of love. And when we trust Jesus Christ for our salvation, Jesus says, My love I give to you. Now go spread that love, share that love to everyone around you. Jesus shows us a better way. He tells us to follow him, to be his disciple, love your enemies. Love your enemies. If you love your enemies, then you'll probably love everyone else. Liberty Church, let us be a people who look to Christ, who are filled with his Spirit, so that we may reflect His wondrous love to the world around us. Let us pray. Oh God, we confess our sin. You are the father of love. We are people very unloving. In so many different ways. We've strayed from your simple commands, just simple yet profoundly difficult without the help and blessing of your Holy Spirit. The simple command of love you with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and to love our neighbor as ourselves. And Lord, I confess my sin, I confess the sins of our church, Lord, that we often do not love As we should. I pray that you would make us a loving church by your Spirit, that the members of this church would look to you, Jesus, and would be filled by the fullness of your love. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.