Thank you, choir and congregation, for joining in. If you have your Bibles, turn to Luke 14. Luke 4, verses 14 through 30 Last week we looked at the temptation of Christ and we saw our hero face that temptation and was victorious. This morning we are going to be looking at a passage where Jesus returns to his hometown of Nazareth. And he should have received a hero's welcome, but instead the citizens of Nazareth try to throw him off a cliff. And as we will see, Jesus is the greater Israel. He fulfills the calling of the First Nation of Israel who has actually rejected him. Jesus leaves the temptation that he had just faced in the spirit in the desert, and he was now returning to civilization, the power of the spirit, the text says, and people began to take notice. Word spread. And Jesus began his itinerant preaching ministry throughout Galilee. And then he goes to Nazareth. And Nazareth is a small town. It's about 500 people. And it's surrounded by a mixed ethnicity of Jew and Gentile, and that's important to keep in mind for later in the story. And as was his custom. Jesus went to church. Now with Jesus it was the synagogue on Saturday, and for us it is the church on Sunday. But Jesus did not neglect to meet with the people of God, to gather together with the people of God, even as the Son of God. And that's important to keep in mind. And if Jesus made this a custom to attend worship regularly, that's all the evidence that we need to do the same. And Liberty Church, I just want to encourage you to continue making Sunday worship a priority in your life. During this time In a very special way, the means of grace are given to the saints of God And this is so important, and I'm encouraged by you who make this a priority. And Jesus stood up to read, it says. It's indicating that he was a teacher, perhaps, or at least a a man of good standing. And the attendant hands Jesus a scroll, the prophet Isaiah, which would have been a very large scroll. And Jesus rolls a scroll out and he goes to a very specific place, Isaiah chapter 61, and he reads a few verses and he shakes the foundation of the synagogue. Why did Jesus turn to that specific place in Scripture? He could have turned anywhere in the Old Testament. To any chapter, to any verse, yet he turns to Isaiah 61, the end of the book of Isaiah. Well, there's a few reasons. First This section of Isaiah contains a lot of messianic promises of the coming Christ, as well as visions of the last days. Right before Isaiah 61, in Isaiah 60, it talks about when God will redeem his people by sending the Christ. Listen to these promises. Your days of mourning shall be ended. Your people shall all be righteous. They shall possess the land forever. And immediately after the passage that Jesus quotes, it says this in Isaiah 62, the nations shall see your righteousness, and all the kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new name. And say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your salvation comes. Behold, his reward is with him, and they shall be called the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord. If there was anywhere that Christ could turn to in the Old Testament to proclaim that he is the one, that he is the Messiah, it was the book of Isaiah. More than any other book in the Old Testament, I believe, Isaiah contains the most prophecies, the most foreshadowing of Jesus Christ. Talks about the branch of Jesse. It talks about the suffering service. It talks about Emmanuel, Lord, with us. And on and on, the light of the nations. And Isaiah 61 is the quintessential passage that describes the coming king. Jesus turning to this section is basically saying, Isaiah was talking about me. I am here. And there's both a short-term fulfillment of these prophecies of Isaiah and a long-term fulfillment. The short-term Fulfillment is Isaiah himself. Isaiah prophecy, and he was actually talking about himself. But the long-term fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecies are someone much greater than Isaiah, Jesus Christ. And so it is here that Jesus turns. But there is another reason why Jesus goes to Isaiah 61. It's because in that chapter Isaiah is not just describing the coming of the Messiah. He's also describing what the Messiah has come to do. He's describing the ministry of the Messiah. And Luke 4, Jesus begins his ministry for the first time. This is the start. Before Luke 4, it was mainly John the Baptist ministry, if you recall. John the Baptist was the one preaching. John the Baptist was the one baptizing. John was the one suffering for the ministry. He was a forerunner of Christ. But now Jesus is here and he begins his ministry. So where does he turn? To the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah says this, the spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me. Now, no one is this more true of than Jesus Christ. The word Christ means Messiah, and the word Messiah means anointing. And the word anointing meant to literally smear somebody with oil in order to consecrate them for religious service. Now today we don't uh typically smear liquids on people when we set them apart for religious search, but maybe we should. And unlike Isaiah, who was anointed at some point in time, between the day of his birth and the day of his death, Jesus' anointing was pre-existent. He was the anointed of God. For before time began, before the creation of the earth , God anointed Jesus Christ to come and die for the sins of mankind. And any anointing That we do today for the consecration of religious service is done with the acknowledgement that the true and greatest anointing is that of Jesus Christ. Our anointing However, you want to define that is just a reflection of his anointing in a very small part. And what's the ministry of the anointed Jesus? Well, Luke says five things. Proclaim good news to the poor. Proclaim liberty to the captives. Recover the sight of the blind. Set at liberty the oppressed, and proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. The list starts with Christ preaching the gospel. The good news that Jesus Christ has paid the penalty that you and I deserve, has stood in your place as a substitute. And has took the death that God has demanded for our sins, and He's took that for us. And Christ's ministry is first and foremost a ministry of sacrifice. The sacrifice of himself on behalf of us. But who does Christ preach the gospel to? To us? Well, the text says that he came to preach to the poor. And this is what's amazing about Jesus' ministry. It's a ministry that takes place among the lowliest of humanity, the marginalized. The poor, the captives, the blind, and the oppressed. And this is what the text says. This is who Jesus ministers. But a question should arise in your mind. I don't recall Jesus going into a jail cell and preaching to captives. To prisoners. When did he do that in the Gospels? And what does this word oppressed mean? This word is used of breaking something, like when the woman came to Jesus with a jar and broke it over him, anointing him for his death. It's this word that means something like being downtrodden. It's being broken under a yoke of slavery, perhaps, or the yoke of purity. Who is Jesus talking about here? Where are the captives? Where are the prisoners that Jesus is preaching? Where are these oppressed, oppressed people that Jesus is talking about? Well, he's talking about spiritual captives and the spiritual, spiritually oppressed, and the spiritually poor Now he most certainly is also talking about physical captives and the physically oppressed and the materially poor. We should not disregard that for the sake of the spiritual. They are both true. The poor and the oppressed from this passage must include actual poor and oppressed. And there are many places where Christ and his disciples and in scripture talks about the church meeting the physical and material needs of others. But the ailments that Christ talks about here represent spiritual ones. The physical ailments are reflecting a greater spiritual need, an ailment. For whether you are oppressed or not, whether you are captive or not, whether you are poor or not, or blind or not, Christ is still talking about you. You are poor spiritually, completely bankrupt before a holy and righteous God who will exact payment from you. And more than that, we are so far in debt with God that there is no hope of repayment. What are you to do? You are captive to sin. You have no hope of escaping it. You were sinful from birth, and you'll be sinful at death. And the sobering reality is that God hates sin. And will punish it for all eternity, yet you can't free yourself from its captivity, from its clutches, from its bondage. What are you to do? And you are oppressed by your own wicked heart that you can't change, that you can't replace. And that constantly breaks you by causing you to do the things that God hates. What are you to do? But thanks be to God. Christ, the anointed one, has come. Christ took our debt and he paid it in full with his own flesh and blood. And Christ took our captivity and became the guilty one in our stead, entering into the prison of our own sin. And Christ took the oppression that we are facing and instead was oppressed at the cross, where he was broken and died. On our behalf. And because of his death, we are freed. This is the year of the Lord's favor that Luke is talking about. Not a year of 365 days, but a year of eternity. Christ is our hope, and in him we have God's mercy. And this is praiseworthy, brothers and sisters, is it not? I did notice something else interesting about the passage as I was studying it this week. Jesus talks about the poor here, he talks about the captives, the oppressed. But I believe that Jesus is mainly Talking about the blind. I believe Jesus is mainly focusing on the spiritually blind. Which is all of us. Why do I think this? Well, the reference to Isaiah that Jesus quotes is structured intentionally. I don't want to get too technical here, but the reference has been rearranged. In order to make a point. Well, for one, the original reference, Isaiah 61, 1, includes the line, He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. That's missing from Luke 4. Jesus just doesn't quote it. And Jesus stopped at a very specific place. He could have continued, and much of the reference from Isaiah continues in the same manner. Isaiah 61 goes on to say, the Messiah will comfort all who mourn. Jesus does not mention that. He ends with proclaiming the year of the Lord. So we have a situation. We have an Old Testament reference quoted by Jesus that he Intentionally rearranged. Why? That's to make a point. Notice this symmetrical structure Jesus starts with proclaiming good news and ends with proclaiming the year of the Lord. Next, Jesus says that there's liberty for the captives and then liberty for the oppressed. And in the middle, the part that is emphasized is this, recovering the sight of the blind. Blindness is different than all the other maladies listed here. Oppression can cease. Captives can be freed, poverty can be alleviated, but blindness is permanent. No doctor can fix it. No matter how many doctors you went and went to in the ancient world, if you were blind, they would say, sorry, I I can't help you. I often say that without my contacts, I'm blind. I can't see. That's not true. I can see you just don't want to be on the road with me if I'm not wearing them. But I just pop in, you know, some pieces of plastic and voila I I can see. But no contacts or glasses or surgery can fix complete blindness, and certainly not in the ancient world. If only there was a doctor who could heal the blind. If only there was a doctor who could heal the blind And immediately after this, what does Jesus say in verse 23? Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb: physician, heal yourself. Of all the ancient proverbs that Jesus could have quoted, he quotes one that is not even found in Scripture. Why? To show that even though our blindness is permanent, there is indeed a doctor who can heal you. Even though we walk in darkness because we are spiritually blind, there is a great physician. Who can heal the blind, who gives sight to those who can't see. All the healings of the blind in the Bible, and there are a lot. Point to this greater reality that Jesus gives sight to the spiritually blind. That the world is blind to the gospel and to the glory of God, and we need Jesus to give us sight. And we're all in this predicament. We're all walking around blind without the light of Jesus Christ. Listen to what this reference in Isaiah 61 says. Isaiah 59, right before the part that Jesus quotes, Isaiah 59 talks about this spiritual blindness, this condition that we are all in. Listen to this. We hope for light, it says, and behold, darkness. And for brightness, but we walk in gloom. We grope for the wall like the blind. We grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble at noon, as in the twilight. We hope for justice, but there is none, for salvation, but is far from us. For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us. For our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities. Transgressing and denying the Lord and turning back from following our God. This prophecy is ascribing us We are the spiritually blind, groping around in the darkness, in need of some light to show us the way. And hundreds of years after this prophecy, the great physician comes. And he says, I can actually give sight to the blind. And there's this wonderful scene that takes place in the Gospel of John. Jesus heals a blind man who is blind from birth. He tells him to go to the pole the pool of Siloam and to wash there and he goes and he is uh healed and you can see and the Pharisees throw him out of the synagogue. The Pharisees whom Jesus says later on are blind. And they throw him out of the synagogue because they don't believe that Jesus could have healed him. And Jesus hears that the man was thrown out. And he actually goes out to try to find him. This is one of the very few incidents in all scripture where Jesus goes out to find someone. Most people are coming to him. And Jesus finds this man that was blind, born blind, and he says to him, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And the man hadn't seen him yet because Jesus uh told him to go to the pool of Saloam and then wash and then he could see, so he hadn't yet actually laid eyes upon Jesus. So Jesus says, Do you believe in the Son of Man? The man answered, Who is he? That I may believe him. And Jesus says, You have seen him. It's he who is speaking to you. And the man said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. And then Jesus says this For judgment I came into the world. That those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. This is the reality that we are all in. Every single person on the face of the earth. is blind because of our sin and rebellion against the holy God. And Jesus Christ, the great physician, has come. And he's enabled us to see the beauty of his grace and his mercy. He's enabled us to have faith, to apprehend Jesus Christ. And now you who are blind are the ones who see. And what are you to do now with new eyes? What are you to do if if Jesus Christ has healed your blind, your spiritual blindness, what are you to do now with your eyes? Well, look what the man did. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshiped him. And that's the first thing. We worship Jesus Christ our Lord. But look also, Jesus says this elsewhere in the gospel. Lift up your eyes and see. The fields are white for harvest. You who can see are now to help the spiritually blind. You who can see are now called to be a light to those who cannot. Liberty Church, this is what we are to do, to take notice of those around us who are still groping in the darkness, who are stumbling in the darkness with no way to see. And we're to notice them and we're to reach out to them and we're to proclaim the gospel to them. Talk to your friends, your co-workers, your neighbors, invite them to church. Invite them to Bible study. Invite them to lunch. Our mission as a church Is to be the light for those who are blind and lead them to Jesus Christ. Pray that this would happen. We're starting this prayer time on on uh every Sunday morning and I just want to encourage you to please join because I think this church needs prayer. I think our communities need prayer. Our children need prayer. And one of the things that I did was create this acronym with Liberty, the name Liberty. And the R, I won't tell you all the letters what they mean, but the R means repentance and revival. And we should be praying desperately that God would bring revival not only to this church, but to our surrounding community and to our neighbors. This is what we want to see happen. For there are communities that have rejected the gospel. And in this Luke passage, those who have rejected it are Jesus' own people. And those who have received the message are the most unlikely people, Gentiles. And to illustrate this, Jesus points to stories in the Old Testament of two prophets. Elijah and Elisha. The stories are found in the book of Kings. God has punished, in the first story, faithless Israel And he punishes them with a famine during the time of Elijah, but God sends Elijah to a widow in Zarephath. And this was an area within Sedan of southern Lebanon. It's on the coast of the Mediterranean. And the point of the story is that the widow was a Gentile. She wasn't even of the people of God. Jesus continues, tells another story of Elisha. And he was sent to cleanse Naaman the Assyrian. And not only was Naaman a Gentile, but he was a Syrian, which was a neighboring nation that warred with Israel constantly. And here's what Jesus is saying. His hometown of Israel, not just Nazareth, his hometown of Israel has rejected him. And to them, to Israel, Jesus is the prophet without honor. But God's word will not return to it void. It goes first to the Israelites, to God's people that he has called from the days of Abraham. They reject it. God's word does not return to him void, so it goes elsewhere. And where does it go? Praise be to God. It goes to the Gentiles. It went to us. We are the recipients now of Christ's healing. The Israelites have been rejected, and when they hear Jesus telling them this, they are filled with rage. And they rose up and one accord and they sought to kill him. They tried to throw him off a cliff. Why? How can you can't do this in Israelite law? You can't just take somebody and throw 'em off of a cliff just because you don't like what they say. The the uh offense, the capital offense, was being a false prophet. It's the only way that they could have done that. So they heard what Jesus was saying, and they said, blasphemy. You deserve to die. And they tried to throw him off a cliff, and Jesus walks right through their midst. It was not his time to die. That time would come just a few years later. But to those who have eyes to see, Jesus is the Messiah. He is the anointed one who has come. And now, Liberty Church, we are the ones, the people of God, who can see with clear eyes. And we are proclaiming the year of the Lord's favor to all around us. Library Church, let us sing this glory to God for opening our eyes and let us be the mouthpiece of God. sharing the good news to those who are still walking in blindness. Let us pray. Father, we come before you and humble ourselves, acknowledging that before Christ and without Christ we were spiritually poor, captive, oppressed, and bankrupt. We were blind. But God, through your mercy, your son, the great physician, has healed our spiritual blindness and has allowed us to be able to see the glories of the gospel. Father, thank you so much for that grace. And we pray, Lord, that Liberty Church would be marked by people with eyes wide open. Seeing your beauty and your glory, and also seeing those around us who are harassed and helpless walking around in darkness. And I pray Liberty Church be marked by as a church who goes and proclaims the good news. to all those who are our neighbors. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Liberty Church, let us give God the glory that He is due.