If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Luke chapter 14. We're continuing our series in the Gospel of Luke. know me by now long enough, I've been here a year to know that I'm I'm probably not going to deviate from uh uh preaching on um expositing a a book of the Bible, even though it's the Sunday before Christmas. There will be a Christmas themed homily on Christmas Eve though. If you want that, please come uh for for that time. And this morning we're continuing our series, and uh it's this passage that concludes Jesus' teaching on the great wedding feast. Which is this end-time banquet in which Jesus is going to be united with his bride, the church. And I'm not talking about a physical building. This is not the church. The church is a redeemed people of God. It's a people that have been bought by Jesus' own blood. And Jesus started talking about this wedding way back in chapter 13. And this wedding feast, this banquet, is synonymous with the kingdom of God. And the kingdom is here, but it's not yet fully realized. And similar to the marriage with Jesus, we're really engaged to Jesus. Jesus right now, and we're awaiting the day of the wedding where that will be consummated. And that won't happen until the end of this age. And in this passage, chapter 14, Jesus is again addressing the crucial question of who belongs in the wedding. Who's going to be at the wedding? In other words, who's in the kingdom? And the question I have for you, Liberty Church, is: are you going to be at the wedding of the Lamb? Are you counted among the bride of Jesus Christ? And verses 12 through 14 are directly connected to verse 11. And we saw last week that the Pharisee who invited Jesus to this feast. Did not give Jesus a seat of honor as he should have. But instead, everyone else who thought of themselves more honorable than even Jesus took the seats of honor ahead of Jesus. And Jesus rebukes them. We saw this last week. And he ended that rebuke with this statement: For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. The first will be last. The last will be first. Those who think that they are worthy of the kingdom actually prove themselves to be unworthy. And those who think of themselves as unworthy of the kingdom are those who are indeed worthy. It's the paradox of the kingdom of God. And the Pharisees and the guests And all those who had invited Jesus thought themselves to be worthy men. They exalted themselves. So Jesus teaches on what is trueworthiness, which is the exact inverse of what the Pharisees were doing. Jesus here gives the ideal standard for us. Rather than inviting the rich, powerful, cultural, elite, Jesus tells the man who invited him to invite the poor. crippled, lame , and blind. And those four descriptions are going to be important to keep in mind as we shall soon see. The poor, crippled, lame, and blind. Now in telling the Pharisee to invite these, Jesus is not indicating that he himself Should not have been invited. He doesn't fit in any of those categories. As Jesus declares earlier, the poor you will always have with you, but you will not always have me. Jesus is greater. He is the greatest guest, the guest of highest honor. And Jesus here is not saying to only invite the poor, even though the word only is not found In the text here. I mean, we see this in other places of Scripture. Jesus Himself ate with his friends. The apostles ate together. There's no indication in the Bible that they always had the poor with them at the table. So what's Jesus talking about here? Well, in order to see the main point of what Jesus is trying to communicate, we have to see that he's directly rebuking the Pharisees still. The one who held a banquet, and who presumably did not invite the poor, crippled, lame, and blind. Instead, this Pharisee invited the exact opposite. Look what the text says. He invited his friends, brothers, relatives, and rich neighbors. Neighbors. Jesus' statement is directed towards him, but it was directed at what was going on underneath the surface. to speak. This is akin to when Jesus was talking to the rich young ruler, if you recall that story And he tells this rich young ruler, go and sell all you have, all your possessions, give to the poor, and then come follow me. Now, this does not mean that in order to be a follower of Jesus, everyone, everywhere, must always sell all their possessions and give to the poor and then follow Jesus. That's not the standard that is applied universally to every single follower of Christ. Jesus was getting at the rich young ruler's heart Which was idols of wealth and possessions, and he addresses it directly for him. He's doing the same with this Pharisee. He's getting to his heart. And what is in this Pharisee's heart? And just like the rich young ruler, the heart of this Pharisee was set. On earthly reward, not heavenly one And Jesus confirms this in verse 12. Lest they also invite you in return and you be repaid. That is, you will get rewarded. It's not a question about that. You can be repaid. You can be rewarded. When you do things only with an eye to earthly reward. What you will get is an earthly reward, and it's an enticing reward. You may find wealth, you may find friends, you may find Find success here on earth in this world. You can find all those things. But what Jesus is saying is, you'll be given nothing at the resurrection. That's the exact opposite of being repaid here on earth. Being repaid in heaven is what Jesus is after. And so verse 14 is Indicates because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just. Now, for some, when they hear about this resurrection of the just They just don't care. Because they do not believe in a resurrection of the just. Or a resurrection of the wicked, for that matter. For then, it's as the Apostle Paul says, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. Why should I even care about this? Resurrection. If you believe in the Bible, if you believe that this is God's word, then you believe with conviction that you You will stand before a holy God one day and give account of your life. There is no greater truth than that The reality of what Scripture teaches is that if this is true, the moment you draw your last breath, you will stand face to face With a holy God who created all of the cosmos. And you will have to give an account for how you lived your life. And it will be revealed during that accounting whether you lived for earthly gain or whether you lived for heavenly gain. And it's God Himself who rewards you. That's the point of the message here. There is certainly a resurrection of the wicked as well. Well, where God condemns, but here the emphasis is on the reward that God gives. And God wants you to be motivated by heavenly reward. God wants you to be moved by the prospect of heavenly reward. He's not ashamed of doing that. Of course, there is an even greater motivation than what we will receive as a heavenly reward. Paul himself says, For the love of Christ motivates me. Because of Christ's love, we no longer live for ourselves, but we live for the one who died for us and was raised again. This is the greatest motivation. So if you're unmotivated in life to live a godly life, what do we go back to? Not just the heavenly reward that's promised, that's held out before us, but most importantly we go back to Christ died. For you. But though this is the greatest motivation, it's the most lasting motivation. Christ does not make qualms about motivating you with heavenly rewards. Now, I do not know what the nature of these rewards will be. And when we seek to figure that out, when we seek to understand the the secret uh behind the veil, so to speak, of what this these heavenly rewards will look like, we just end up thinking foolish. I'll have a bigger mansion. You'll have a bigger house. That's not what Christ is talking about here. And we begin to think about these things, and we we actually begin to marginalize. The entire concept when it appears disingenuous. I do not know what the reward will be. I only know this: the reward will be worth it. I can only assure you of that. Whatever Christ is ready to give, when we stand before a holy God, whatever it is , I promise you it will be worth it. So Jesus brings our attention to this heavenly reward as he often did all throughout the Gospels, everywhere in the Gospels, He's talking about this heavenly reward that He's ready to give Luke 6, back in earlier in the gospel, blessed are you when people hate you, for your reward is great in heaven. Luke 6 again, love your enemies, do good, lend without expecting anything in return, and your reward will be great. Or in the Gospel of Matthew, when Jesus is talking about not persecution, but your own private spiritual disciplines, let your fasting And your prayer be done in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you Again in Matthew 10, whoever gives one of these little ones, even a cup of cold water, because he is my disciple. Truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward over and over again. Jesus motivates us by these heavenly rewards. But what this Pharisee in Luke 14 cannot grasp is the same thing many of us cannot grasp. We don't care about heavenly rewards because we only care about the earthly ones. The same disease That so corrupted this Pharisee is the same disease that's prevalent in every single one of us We don't think about heavenly rewards because we're so enamored with the ones that we got here. And this is the core problem. Our eyes are constantly on the here and now, constantly on the present. What am I going to get now? What am I going to do today? What am I going to give? What am I going to receive? What am I going Pat work On and on. But what does Paul say to the church of Colossians? Seek the things above, where Christ is seated. At the right hand of God. And he doesn't stop there. Paul goes on: set your minds on things above. Not on things that are on earth. Why, Paul? Why would you tell us to do this besides the fact that Jesus has told us to do this over and over again. Well, in the very next verse, Paul tells us, he continues, for you have died. And your life is now hidden with Christ in God. Do you get that If you're a believer in Christ, if you've been born again, you have literally died And been raised to newness of life. And your life is now hidden with Jesus Christ. You have literally died and been born again spiritually. The resurrection that will take place and the end of ages is merely a picture of the resurrection that's already taken place in your heart. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ. If that's the case, Christian, why do we act as if we still belong to this world? Why do we act as if it's only this world's treasures that we're after? It's only this world's rewards that we long for. There is no question that you can become great here on earth There's no question about it. There's no question that you can't become rich, famous. No There's no question that you can not have it all. But what good is it for a man to gain the whole world and yet lose or forfeit his very soul? And the question Jesus is putting before you is, is your soul forfeit? Have you forfeited your very soul? The man who invited Jesus to this party, his soul was forfeited. And yet, and yet, what does he say? He's completely blind to this report. Reality. Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. He thought the exact opposite Rather than his soul being forfeited, he thought his soul was blessed. He thought he was going to eat bread in the kingdom of God. This language of reclining at table. It's a language rich with illusion of reclining at the end times table of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and he's reclining at the table. Oblivious to the reality that his soul is forfeit. And I think that that reality is true even of many of you. This morning. Do you believe that you're blessed and worthy of the kingdom of God? But in reality Nothing in your life indicates that you care about heavenly reward more than the earthly reward. What does your life tell you? And to drive this point home, Jesus does what he often Does, which is gives a parable. It starts in verse 16. A man once gave a great banquet and invited many. Now This man is obviously God. I'm gonna spoil the the parable for you as I go along here. And the great banquet is the wedding feast that Jesus has been addressing for the past two chapters here. And God invited many to the feast. He invited an entire nation, actually, the entire nation of Israel, all the Jews. He said, Come, for everything is now ready. Table set, the wine's poured, the celebration is about to begin, and yet what did the nation of Israel do? They refused to come. They did not come to Jesus. They did not listen to the prophets. Jesus had spoken of this earlier a few chapters ago. They stoned the prophets rather than coming to them, just like they're going to crucify Jesus Christ. They refused to come to Jesus. And Jesus puts this refusal in the form of excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a field, and I must go and see it. Another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. And all these excuses really boil down to the same excuse. They all have their eyes on earthly reward rather than heavenly ones. And it's this juxtaposition between living for the realities of things on earth versus living for heavenly reward. This juxtaposition is found all throughout Scripture and it's found most poignantly right here. Each excuse places stress on what someone was to receive in this life, buying a field, buying an oxen, getting married, which is only of this life as well. There's no sense in any of them that their eye is on the eternal. So what does God do? In his anger, he tells his servant to go quickly to the streets and lanes of the city. And bring in the poor, crippled, blind, and lame. Where have we heard that before? He tells the Pharisee earlier that he should have been the one inviting the poor, crippled, blind, and lame. He refuses to. And therefore Christ does. Christ does do what this leader of the Pharisees cannot do. He practices what he preaches and Christ actually does invite the poor, crippled, blind, and lame. He goes out and he finds the unworthy. He goes out and finds you. You 're the poor, crippled, blind, and lame. I'm the poor, crippled, blind, and lame. It's you and I who have nothing to give to Christ. Nothing to offer. Nothing that we can show him, say, God, this is why I deserve eternal life. This is why I should be in the resurrection of the just. Look what I've done. You're broke. As Christ says in Revelation three, you say you are rich. Not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. Christ invites those who are utterly broken by sin. A sin that has caused us to be spiritually bankrupt before God. With no way to pay. A sin that's broken us, with no way to work towards our salvation. A sin that's blinded us so that we cannot even see the glory of God and the gospel. We had nothing to offer to God. And yet he invites you to the wedding feast. We are the epitome of not being able to pay back. In this parable and in the exhortation that Jesus gives earlier, because they can't pay you back and bite these people because they can't pay you. We're the epitome of that. You can't pay back your salvation one cent. God will be glorified as the giver. The giver of grace, the giver of mercy, the giver of eternal life, the giver of salvation And after the poor and crippled and blind and lame were invited, there was still room at the feast. So God tells his servant, Go out to the highways. and hedges and compel people to come in that my house may be filled. Well who are these? It's more of the same. Some people think this is a reference to the Gentiles. This could be I think it's more likely that this term actually refers to beggars. People that are standing on the highways and hedges and the and the places where there's a lot of traffic, those people In this context, we're typically begging. So Jesus adds another category to you and to me. Not only are we pitiful, poor, blind, naked, we're also begging. Yet no one's coming to rescue us. There is no other philosophy, there's no other savior, there's no other way, there's no other recourse that you can take. There's nothing you can do when the actual resurrection happens and you say, oh God, I didn't think about this part of it. Maybe there's another way around Christ. Jesus is saying, there is no other way but by me. And when this owner of the home and is throwing this feast and he tells the servant to go out to the highways and byways, what's Christ also saying here? He's saying that the house is not full. Full yet. That there's still room for you. What an awesome promise. Time's not up. It's not too late. You haven't Passed it by. Christ is here right now offering to you to come. Will you respond by faith and say, yes, my Lord The house is not full yet. It's waiting for more to come in. Christ continues to give the invitation. Day in, day out, through his word, week in, week out, through this preached word. And for those of you who continue to refuse to come Christ ends this parable with an ominous warning. For I tell you none of those men who are invited shall taste my banquet. Now the U here he switches. It's a plural U. He was talking to the Pharisee. That would be a singular. you. But now he's broadened it, the scope. The you is for everyone. The Jews who thought that they were certainly in the kingdom of God, they will not even taste the food of the wedding. They'd be shut out. But not just the Jews, every single person who does not respond to the invitation to come and bend your knee in allegiance to Jesus Christ Will be shut out from the kingdom of God, from the wedding feast, for all eternity. And the question that Christ leaves with you is: will you come to him. Are your eyes set on the eternal heavenly rewards that he will give to you? Or are your eyes only set upon what you can see, taste, touch? And smell. Look to Christ. He's ready to receive you even now, even today, a day of your salvation. Let us pray. Father God, your message about the wedding feast is both encouraging and sobering. It's encouraging for those who are in Christ to await your second coming, awaiting this. wonderful, glorious event when we will be united with you. We'll see you face to face. We'll no longer have to walk by faith, but we can walk by sight. We'll see you Our God, our Father, our Creator. Lord, it's also sobering to think that many will be shut out. Because they have not responded to the invitation To come to Christ by faith. I pray, oh God, if there is someone here who has never responded to you, to your call to come to you, to trust their life. Life to you, their salvation to you. I pray that even now, this moment, that you would be working in their heart, you'd open their blind eyes, you'd unstop their deaf ears to see and hear the glory of the gospel. The fact that you, Jesus Christ, died on a cross for our sins. The perfect for the imperfect. The righteous for the unrighteous. Lord, you paid the penalty that we all deserved. And I do pray, O God, that they would come to you by faith and receive the salvation that you have purchased by your death on the cross. Thank you, O Jesus, for this wonderful gift. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.