Well if you had your Bibles or your bulletins, you can turn to chapter 7 and Luke this morning as we begin a new chapter in our study of Luke. We see a connection with the previous one. It's as if Luke is tying in Jesus' teaching From the end of chapter six, with a real-life example beginning in chapter seven. At the end of chapter 6, Jesus tells a parable of two builders. One who is foolish, who builds his home on sinking sand. And the other is a wise builder who builds his home on the rock solid foundation, so that when the storms hit, his house will stand. And Jesus makes clear for us what this solid foundation is. In chapter 6, verse 47, the wise person is one who builds his life. on the foundation of Jesus Christ, who trusts in his word and builds his life on what Jesus says Whoever does that is a wise person, for they have built their life upon Christ, who is our rock, our refuge, and an ever-present help in times of trouble. So then as we turn to chapter 7, what do we see? We see but a man who lives this parable out. In high definition color and surround sound. And yet, what is interesting in chapter 7. No, what is astounding in chapter 7 is who this person is who builds his life on the solid foundation of Jesus Christ. It's not one of his disciples. It's not even one of Jesus' countrymen. Not a Jew, but a Gentile. And even equally amazing is this person is not just any ordinary Gentile But he's a centurion. He's the very symbol of Roman power and privilege and of Jewish oppression. And if one word, if one word could characterize for us this historical count in the first ten verses of Luke 7, it would be that one word would be amazement. So many things in this account go against what we would expect if we were in Capernaum on that day that Jesus entered it. There are attitudes and actions displayed which go against social norms and conventions at that particular time. So many amazing things. One right after the other, which reach a crescendo of amazement spoken by Jesus himself in verse 9. And yet, all of this amazement starts off in a very ordinary kind of way. The stuff of life which confronts us every day. Illness. Disease, death, and the desire to live. We see in verse 2 that Jesus enters the town of Capernaum where one household, in one household, a servant is dying But wait just a moment right there. Here is an amazing thing. His master, the centurion, cares about the servant What? A powerful Roman officer with a hundred men at his command? He cares about a lowly slave? He's concerned about him. And he wants to save his life. Now how amazing is that? After all, the centurion was part of a culture and he was part of an empire that had little regard for human life. where life was cheap and easily discarded. For example, if a Roman father wanted a son And his wife gives birth to a daughter, instead, that Roman father had every right to order his baby girl to be put out along the road. to be left to die through either exposure to the elements or by attack of hungry beasts. You gotta wonder, are we much different than the Roman Empire? Well, if we were living back then, we might assume that the centurion would say, Oh, one of my servants is dying. What of it? Slaves are a dime a dozen. A dime a dozen in our great empire. So you go out and just get me one from the marketplace and bring them back. And a new slave would be readily available since the majority of people in the Roman Empire were enslaved or under subjection to Roman rule. Why, we can imagine that he might say something along the lines of Scrooge. It would be better for the slave to die and so decrease the surplus population. But no, he doesn't, does he? No, he he values this man. This servant was dear to him. Or as other translators say, this slave was highly respected or esteemed by his master, the centurion. So we see something very out of the ordinary here. A Roman who values a servant for who he is as a person, not for his skill. are his abilities, but simply he cares for him for as a person. So when he learns that his beloved servant is ill, well we can imagine that he spared absolutely no expense in trying to save his life. We can just imagine a whole slew of doctors arriving at his home and the centurion getting a second opinion and then the third opinion. And then a fourth opinion from doctors who would try this potion and that remedy, but sadly to no avail. At one point, the last doctor steps out of the servant's room, and he just grimly shakes his head. To say, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There's nothing more that we can do. And we can just imagine the centurion rushing into the room and seeing the sick slave and instantly knowing that the doctors were right. His dearly loved servant was in the grip of death, and there were the telltale signs that he had seen on the battlefield. The weak pulse. The cold hands and feet, the pale, pasty complexion, and the shallow breathing. And suddenly, suddenly, this powerful man, this powerful man suddenly feels completely powerless. He is confronted with a situation that he cannot control. Have you ever felt desperate like that? Has life ever just simply pinned you against the wall? And you feel like you're in the crosshairs? Or that you're end uh uh at the end of your rope, and you find out that the rope is frayed? Have you ever felt desperate like that? Like that. Where do you go? Well, in our account, we see that this desperate soldier does something amazing. This powerful Roman turns to the one person, the one person he knows is his only hope. And who is that person? But a poor Jewish rabbi. Now, how astounding is that! But this soldier, he's heard that this Jesus, this Jesus can heal people. He can heal people by the touch of his hand, by the mere power of his word. So he seeks after Jesus, thinking that maybe he will heal my servant. And then what happens is also equally astounding. Does he say to one of his sol soldiers under his command, You now go, bring me that Jewish rabbi back to me here right now? Does he do that? No. He asks the Jewish elders, the Jewish elders of the town to come to his aid and plead his case before Jesus. What? Jews lobber lobbying on behalf of a Roman soldier? And notice he doesn't ask just any Jews. But what do we see in verse 3? That he asks the elite, the powerful, the elders of the people to plead for him. And what is equally amazing is that is that they are willing to do it. Now, how can we put that in a more contemporary context? What would it be like? Jewish leaders speaking for a Roman captain would be like POWs helping out one of their prison guards. It's just completely outside the norm. But in verses 4 and 5, we see why they are willing to give him a hearty recommendation. And the reasons are also astounding. Here he is, a Roman soldier, a clog in the oppressive military machine of Rome. And what do we see in verse 5? That this soldier he loves, he cares for the very people his empire is oppressing. And he demonstrated that love by contributing financially to the building of their local synagogue. And he didn't just pay for a brick or two with his name etched on it. He didn't just buy a pew with a plaque on it. No, for what does he say? What does it say in verse 5? That he paid for the whole building. Now, how amazing is that? A Roman footing the bill for a Jewish synagogue? Well, most likely he was a God fearer Someone who accepted the God of Israel but hadn't come become a full-fledged convert to Judaism. And because of all these things. The elders deemed him deserving. In their eyes, this man was worthy of Jesus' time and healing power. So, you know, we see here a theme in these first five verses. And that theme is about placing value. Placing value. The centurion valued his servant, and the Jewish leaders thought the centurion was a worthy person. We can imagine them saying to Jesus, Jesus, you know, if there's anyone, anyone in this town at all deserving of your attention and healing touch. . It is this centurion who lives down the street, why? Because of all the good things that he has done. And we can totally relate to that viewpoint, can't we? For in matters of the world, as well as in spiritual terms, what do we do? We assess others. And we say they are worthy people based on the externals we see in their lives. We might say, oh, well, he's a hard worker She's responsible. He's frugal. He's a blast to hang out with. And we assess people based on what we value. And in spiritual terms, what is often said at viewings and funerals? Well, if anyone is deserving of heaven, this person is now, I know he's singing with the angels up there. Because why? He was such a good person. And often what follows that remark is a sort of checklist of things that the person has done that people value, which they think merit eternal glory. Oh, he was a good family man. He was a faithful husband and a wonderful provider. Whenever the church doors were open, she was always there and so giving too. She helped out every week at the local soup kitchen. Oh, she was such a kind-hearted, warm soul, the first to give to any social cause. And we could go on, and of course you would get the picture, right? And indeed, those are all good things worthy of our remembrance. So it's not unusual That when we ask people why they think they're going to heaven, what do they normally say? They usually say, well, because I think I'm worthy of going to heaven, right? I deserve it because what I'm basically a good person. And yet Yet when we come to this account of the centurion, all of those assumptions are turned upside down. For notice what it says in verse 6 and 7. As Jesus approaches the home of the Santa. He sends another delegation to tell Jesus, Lord, Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof. Apparently, this centurion had a change of heart between the first delegation that went to Jesus and then the second generation that came to him. Something happened. Something happened that caused the centurion to say, no, I am not worthy to have Jesus come into my home. Now some might say, well, of course. He knows that should a Jew enter his home, the home of a Gentile, that Jew would be ceremonially unclean He would defile himself, and so he's just being considerate of Jesus. But is that really it? Because notice what it says in verse 7. That he's not even worthy to meet Jesus on the street. We see that this is personal. It's personal for the centurion. That he knows that he's not worthy to face Jesus. Despite all the notable things that others may say about him, this centurion knows that he is not deserving to be in Jesus' presence. He can't even look at him in the face. Now this is not some false humility, but it's a profound humility. Because this centurion sees himself clearly in the light of who Jesus is. And he realizes I'm not worthy. Others may esteem him and estimate his worth by externals, by his good deeds. But this centurion knows his own heart. And he knows the kind of man that he is. And such a man cannot be in the same room with the Son of Man, Jesus Christ. He sees himself clearly And he sees Jesus clearly. And he knows something about Jesus. But Jesus can heal the sick. He gives sight to the blind. And who could do that unless there's something unique about him? That he has divine authority and divine power. And we see this in verse 7 and 8 where he conveys this idea to Jesus, all you need to do, Lord, is say the word, and I know my servant will be healed. Because I am a man under authority who exercises authority, and I recognize you too have authority. You have a greater authority. For with just one word, just one word, one command, you can do what I couldn't possibly do to make the dying well again. The centurion could see himself, and he sees Jesus clearly enough to know that he is not worthy to be in Christ's presence. And beloved, if we see ourselves clearly, we know that we're not worthy to be in his presence either. No way could we stand before Jesus with any kind of self-righteous posturing or thinking that we might merit his attention or approval. How could we stand before the sinless Son of God in all of his glory and majesty and power? We can't. Because we know our hearts. And they are far from perfect and pure like Jesus Christ. Now scripture gives us a crystal clear picture of what we are like. Jeremiah 17, 9 says that our hearts are deceitful above all things, and there is absolutely no cure. And James 3 tells us that our tongues, they create a blazing trail of fire when we gossip or we slander or we tear down others with our speech. And then James goes on in the next chapter, in chapter 4, and he says that our speech is simply just a reflection of the desires of our hearts, because what does he say? What causes quarrels and fights among you? Is it not this? That your passions, your hearts are at war within you. You desire and you do not have. So what do you do? You murder. You covet and you cannot obtain. So what do you do? You fight and you quarrel Well you might be thinking, well, that all may be true to a certain extent, but I'm not really as dad as all that. Mean what about the good that I do? Surely that must count for something Certainly my good intentions and my compassion and my random acts of kindness, they count for something, so that I could indeed stand before a pure and perfect God. And if we think that our good works or our good deeds gives us some skin in the game to offset some of the wrongs that we do to others, well, sadly we are sorely mistaken. Isaiah 64, 4 tells it like it is. That even our good deeds, even our good deeds are but filthy rags before a holy, pure and perfect God. Those good deeds that we think will get us somewhere Well, they reek to the high heavens because they are rank. Because they're done with mixed motives or to boost ourselves in the eyes of others, or to gain points with people, or to increase our own sense of self-worth and value. So if we see ourselves clearly, as Scripture sees us, we would be like that centurion. Saying, no, Jesus, please stay away. I cannot bear to look at you in your eyes because I am completely covered in all my shame and in all my guilt and I should never ever be in your presence Well, I would have the same reaction as the prophet Isaiah had in chapter 6. I would say, I would be undone, for I am a person of unclean lips. And I am of a people of unclean lips. And what would I want to do? I would want to duck and cover, just like Isaiah did, in absolute terror before the pure and perfect Son of God. Oh beloved, this is a harsh reality, is it not? For we find that we are in a desperate situation. We're just a single breath away from the searing judgment of a holy and just God. And yet here, here is the amazing thing. That just as Jesus responded to that desperate need of the centurion out of compassion. So has he responded to our desperate need out of his love, providing us with an even greater healing than he did in making a dying slave well. And what did he do? Well, Paul explains it beautifully and succinctly in Philippians 2, 6 through 8. That Jesus Christ, the Son of God, fully God, with all power and authority, what did he do? He emptied himself of heaven's majesty and he took on our humanity. And yet without our sin. Why? So that he could be a perfect substitute for us. dying in our place, having suffered the judgment that we deserved for all of our sins, all of our lies and our lust. our pretentious self-righteousness, our deceitful ways, the murder that we harbor in our hearts, and the jealousy that we have when others succeed. All of that vile junk that emanates from our wicked hearts. He paid. He paid the judgment that we deserved. Being obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. And on that cross, all of our sins were paid for. All the guilt and the shame that weighs us down, it was all washed away by the blood of Christ. So that we are free. We are free from the just wrath of the holy God. And what is even more beautiful, Jesus didn't just remove all that made us unworthy. No. He gives us infinite worth because he has clothed us in his perfect righteousness. And what is the result? That we can then stand before a holy God without any fear of condemnation. Without any fear of death, without any sense of shame or guilt. For we, beloved , We've been made worthy by the blood of Christ, the Lamb of God who was worthy to be slain. And how do we receive this gift? By trusting in Christ alone Just like the centurion trusted in Christ to heal his servant, so we put our faith in Christ and what he has done to heal us. Now, isn't it absolutely astounding that Jesus would accept us who are so unworthy? As we read this morning, it was all out of his grace. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not of your own doing. It is what a gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. For where were you before you became a believer in Christ? Well, Paul tells us, remember that at one time you were separated from Christ. You were alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having what? You had no hope. And you were without God in the world. But now, oh, but now, in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off, so far off Have now been brought near by the blood of Christ. And if you've already put your trust in Christ This account reminds us of something else. We see a connection in this account to our very lives. In verse 9, Jesus marveled at the great faith of a Gentile when his own people rejected him. And isn't it just as amazing? That you, a Gentile , have put your faith in a Jewish Messiah. A Jewish Messiah who is wounded for our transgressions and who is bruised for our iniquities. It's amazing, isn't it? But it's really not surprising. Because what has occurred in your life was promised thousands and thousands and thousands thousands of years ago. What do I mean? Well this Gentile centurion trusting in Jesus is but a prelude of a promise that was to be fulfilled. A promise made to Abraham by the Lord in Genesis 12 and 15, that when the Lord told Abraham that through one of his descendants, all the nations of the world would be blessed. And then in Acts 10, we see this promise bearing fruit, starting with who? Another God-fearing centurion, Cornelius, from Caesarea. And Peter, guided by the Holy Spirit, preached to Cornelius and his household. And the Holy Spirit came down in power, and they believed, and they were baptized, and they became the first Gentile believers in the risen Christ through the preaching of Peter. And beloved, you, if you're a believer in Christ then you are a realization of that promise as well. So when you read Genesis 12 verse 3, when you read that verse, you are in that verse. That is you there. You are part of the promise that the Lord made to Abraham through his descendant, the Lord Jesus Christ, that all the families of the earth would be blessed People of every hue, people of every nation, tribe, and tongue will be a part of God's kingdom under the banner of the Lord Jesus Christ as King, and together we form this rich beautiful, variegated tapestry shining with the brilliance of God's grace. Amen? So what do we see in all of this? We see that the Lord has done a greater work of healing in your life than he did in the centurion's servant 's life. He saved the servant from the throes of death, but beloved, for you, you, he saved you from eternal judgment. And hell through his own death on the cross where he experienced hell on earth for your sake. And just as he healed the servant by the power of his word. with just a word, so he saved you by the power of his word. Which you heard. And you believed, just like the centurion believed. You trusted in Christ. And when you did, he He did a greater work in you. He healed the servant from his affliction. But for you. Oh. For you. He made you a new creation. For the old has gone and the new has come. Amen. And we know that he didn't enter the home of the centurion. He didn't go there to heal the servant, no. But when he healed you from all of your sins. He didn't just enter your home. No. He entered your very heart So this, beloved, is your new reality? That the King of the universe resides in your very soul through his spirit So that we could say with the psalmist in Psalm 139, where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? We can't, because he's always with us. Because the Spirit lives within us. Now, what an amazing reality is that It is what Paul writes in Colossians 1. 27. He says to the Gentiles there, we have this mystery. That Christ lives in you. And Jesus isn't simply just taking up space or biding in his time. No, he is remaking us. We are a work under construction. He is at work changing us, renewing our minds by the power of his word. Refashioning our character to be more like his, increasing the infections of our heart, the affections of our hearts so that they beat with his. Now is that not amazing? I think it is. But the question is do we Do we really believe that? Do we really believe this reality to the point where it actually touches our hearts and affects our lives? Or have we heard this good news so often it has become old news? Stale. And lifeless. How could that ever be? That what Christ has done through up for us through the gift of his grace alone, how could that ever be mundane? This is what Christ has done for you He's done a greater healing. And it was all his doing so that even the faith that we have is but a gift from him So where is there any boasting at all, but in Christ alone? Well, desperate circumstances like the one the centurion was in. Those desperate circumstances tend to reveal the metal of our faith. So when life slams you against the wall, where do you turn? Where do you go? Where is your face? When you worry or you doubt, or when doubt and despair weigh you down Do you turn to the one who said, Come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. When you are fearful, do you turn to the one who has promised that he will never leave you nor forsake you? When you are undergoing affliction or suffering, do you reach out to the one who said, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect. In your weakness. And when you think you, I just can't go on. I just want to give up. And you think that you cannot do what God has called you to do. Do you say with the Apostle Paul, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me Sorry for that interruption. When you think you can't go on. Or when your phone rings. When you think that you can't do what the Lord calls you to do, do you say with the Apostle Paul, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me? Beloved, I don't know where you are in your relationship with Christ today, but I know this. That wherever you are in your faith in Christ, whether it is as small as a tiny seed, Are so great that the Lord Himself would proclaim there is not one in all of Baltimore County with such a faith as this one. Wherever you are in Jesus. We have this encouragement from the promise from Philippians 1. 6 that he who has begun a good work in you He will complete it to the end. For we have one who has the greatest authority and who has done the greatest Just work up healing in our lives