Thank you, choir. He is worthy. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter six. This morning we're going to be looking at Jesus calling his first disciples as well as the first part of the Sermon on the Mount. So Jesus calls his disciples in this passage, and the question is: what does he call his disciples to? He calls them to himself. He calls them to a life of blessing. The life of blessing that comes from knowing Jesus Christ intimately. From following Jesus Christ. And this blessing, as we will see this morning, is for all the church, all of his disciples. There's also a converse to this blessing. It's the woe that Christ gives. It's a warning to those, even in the church, who do not heed Christ's call, who do not obey his commands. This warning is for them to repent. In our passage this morning, it says that Luke says that Jesus went up to a mountain to pray. Now, this was not a normal prayer. It's probably not like the prayer that you and I offer to the Lord. He prayed all night. Alright. And um this this prayer, this nighttime prayer marathon, uh it foreshadows another nighttime prayer marathon that Jesus is going to do uh in a few chapters from now, and that's the prayer that Jesus gives before his arrest. And there's actually a lot of similarities between these two. And both of them, Jesus is is praying. At night, through the night, Jesus is on a mountain praying. And both of them, there's hostile leaders who are ready to Kill Jesus. In both of them, Jesus' disciples are nearby. But most important, in both of them, as soon as Jesus gets up from prayer, he engages in mission. After the first prayer, the mission is establishing the church through the calling of the apostles. And in the last prayer, it's by dying for the church. Cleansing her by his own blood. And these prayers are for the church. And they provide an example for us. At least twice in the Gospels Jesus prays through the night, but many times in the Gospels it says that Jesus got away and prayed, got to a quiet place. And some people might take this passage and they and they may suggest to you You should try to spend a whole night in prayer. Uh and you maybe you should. But we are not Jesus. Our prayer capacity is certainly not as great as his. He is the most blessed man, the man from Psalm 1, the the The perfect man who meditates on the law of the Lord day and night. But I want to challenge you in a different way this morning. You won't pray all night. Until you pray at least some of the day. You're not going to pray all night until you at least pray some of the day. Cultivating a life of prayer starts small. If you're praying right now for zero minutes a day, I encourage you to pray for one minute. And then maybe from one minute you'll go to five minutes, and five minutes you'll go to 30 minutes. Or who knows, maybe some of you will end up being the watchmen that Isaiah talks about who are on the wall. Praying for God's people day and night. I hope that. I hope that there are, I know that there are some people even in this church Some men and women who faithfully pray for Liberty Church. But what's the secret to Jesus' prayer? His ability to pray for so long, or for any of us to pray. We look at a Jesus praying for a whole night, we think that's that's impossible. What's the secret? was found way back in Luke 3. 22. And it says this, and the Holy Spirit descended upon Jesus in bodily form. Again, right after that, in Luke 4. 1, it says Jesus was full of the Holy Spirit. Again, in Luke 4. 14, just a few verses later. Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit. And lastly, in 4. 18, Jesus says himself , the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. What's the secret to praying, Liberty Church? It's the Spirit of God within you. It's walking by the Spirit. It's obeying the Spirit's promptings. It's heeding the Spirit's word when the Spirit uses God's word to speak into your life. When we're walking by the Spirit, The Spirit longs for us to pray, as Paul says in Romans 7. The Spirit begins to compel us to pray. And we begin to pray in a way that Paul states where we're praying unceasingly. Not just in the morning or in the evening, but praying throughout the day. And many of us, many of us have grieved the Holy Spirit. Through disobedience, through not following God's word. And as a result, our spiritual life has shrunk. And with our spiritual life, our prayer life as well. I encourage all of us, beg God for his spirit to indwell you with power. And you know what's going to happen? You'll start praying with power. You don't need to read books on prayer, I'm not against books on prayer, but you need the Spirit of God within you. The Spirit longs to connect to God God. And the Spirit in you, if it's on, if it's full, if He's on fire within you, you will pray to your Lord. And this is what Jesus Jesus was doing full of the Holy Spirit. And day finally broke, and Jesus gets up and he calls his disciples, and he picks twelve of them out of a larger group of disciples. Now There's discussion about who these twelve disciples are in terms of the order. I don't think that particularly matters. There's twelve of them we know, and uh in most of the lists that the gospel writers give, Peter is the first. Okay, so that's the that's the main consistency in all these lists across the gospel. Peter is usually uh the first one indicating that he has a uh a position of authority. There, but there's also you know some of these names here. There's some disciples with even different names. So Matthew is Levi, and we looked at that actually a few weeks ago. Some think that Bartholomew is actually Nathaniel. Judas, that's mentioned here, is the son of James, is not Judas Iscariot, nor is he Jesus' half-brother. He's a different Judas. And there are also a few familial connections here. Peter and Andrew are brothers James and John are brothers. So a lot of brothers. It's like if Jesus was to pick his twelve disciples from Liberty Church. I am sure a few of them would be brothers. I'll take a couple brothers, I guess. And these disciples were probably all young men. It would have been strange for a rabbi to have disciples who are kind of grown grown up. They have their own uh business or their own families. These were probably all uh maybe teenagers, maybe a little older than teenagers. That's something that people forget about when they think of the disciples, how young they were. We often criticize them for some of the things they do and just think about some of the things you did when you were a teenager. Peter alone, perhaps, was the oldest, and maybe that's why he's uh considered one of the leaders of the uh apostles. He's he alone was married. And we see that even earlier in Luke, Jesus heals Peter's mother-in-law. And it seems that the other disciples eventually did get married. We we know that from Paul's comment in 1 Corinthians 9. So we think that they all did. But at this point It seems like the only person married of the disciples of the apostles is Peter. And this term apostle, it comes from the Greek word meaning ambassador. Or messenger. And these apostles would take the message of Jesus Christ, namely the gospel, and they would take that message, and they were commissioned to spread that message throughout all of the earth. And though neither you nor I are apostles, in the strictest sense of that word, we too are commissioned to carry on their work. To spread the gospel throughout the ends of the earth. That's what we're called to do. We are ambassadors. We are messengers. And we need to continue the work. And one important thing I want to just mention about the apostles, about the number of the apostles, if you need more evidence that the church is the new Israel. And that there's this great continuity between Old and New Testaments. Look no further than the fact that Jesus chose twelve apostles to mirror the twelve Tribes of Israel. This is no coincidence. He could have picked seven. He could have picked ten. Both of those are significant numbers. But he chose 12. Why? Well it goes back to this blessing, and this passage is going to be a lot about blessing. But the original blessing that God intended was that the tribes of Israel would spread out all over the earth. And that they would be a blessing to the world. And the new Israel, the church, is fulfilling that blessing by spreading out to every corner of the globe. Now, of course, there are still some tribes and languages and people groups that do not have the gospel, do not have a church witness, and we need to be praying, and we need to be sending. But the sheer breadth of the church's global expansion is astounding. And it's it's the result of nothing less than this blessing of God that God that God promised way back with Abraham. That from you all the families of the earth will be blessed. And he did that through Israel, through the new church. And Jesus comes down from the mountain. And this picture of the entire earth is kind of comes down to him in microcosm form. Look at this. Luke says that a great multitude of people From all over Judea and Jerusalem and the seacoast of Tyre and Sedan. Now, Tyre and Sedan are Phoenician ports. They're prominent Canaanite cities. And they're full of Gentiles. And what's amazing is that from these ports , the message of Christianity would be spread throughout the entire Mediterranean region. Through the Apostle Paul, who's going to use these two ports as his launching pad for his missionary journeys to the Gentiles. And Jesus heals these crowds Of their diseases and their ailments. And again, a picture of the blessing that's going to come to the nations, to the Gentiles through Jesus Christ and his apostles. And then what do we have? Jesus begins to preach. Oh. How I would have loved to have heard Jesus preaching a sermon. If I could go back in time, I would go back to this moment with Jesus preaching. Now I would not want all of you to hear Jesus preaching. preaching because then you have to come back and hear my sermons and then you'd be sorely disappointed. But this this sermon of Jesus is so profound and we're going to be looking at it through the next few weeks. We're looking at the beginning part of it this morning. This sermon is paralleled with the sermon that Matthew records. It's often called the Sermon on the Mount. It's Jesus' most famous sermon. In Luke, we don't have the sermon on the mount per se. We have the sermon on the plain. So what it says. And this has caused many people to think that these are two different sermons to two different groups of people. And uh and certainly that could be the case. I'm sure that Jesus, over the course of three years of itinerant preaching, preached similar messages to different groups. And uh it could be, but we're not constrained by that. It doesn't have to be The same. There's no re uh there's no reason to not think that they are the same. Much of the material found here in Luke is the exact same material as in Matthew. And besides, this idea of plain In the Greek could also mean a level place near a mountain. So this is, in my opinion, still the Sermon on the Mount. It's the same sermon found in Matthew, but Luke tailors it. He tailors it for theological purposes. Now here's what's interesting is this sermon has absolutely confounded scholars and Christians for for since it's being written. It's been so confusing to so many people and the questions abound. Who is Jesus talking about? What is Jesus truly saying The ways that this sermon have been interpreted are almost countless I read one commentator who listed out 30 different interpretations of this Sermon on the Mount, who its audience is, what the purpose is of it. You know, and and everything is it's from how to be saved to a stress on on sociological issues, from ecclesiastical protocols to ethical concerns, to everything in between. Is being poor financially poor or spiritually poor? Is Jesus talking to the church or those who want to come into the church? Is this how we are to live once we are saved? Or is this how we are to prepare ourselves to come to Christ? Is it everything or is it nothing? And there's a lot more of those questions where they where those come from. Now, I'm not going to assume that I have all the answers because I don't, but I will say that many people miss the point of this because they isolate the passage. And they don't read it in its context. As I've said many times, you're probably getting sick of it, that Luke places scenes and sayings next to each other for theological purposes. Well, what has Jesus been doing these past few chapters? Those of you who have been here week in, week out, hearing the Gospel of Luke preached, what has Jesus been doing these past few chapters in the book of Luke? Well, he's been rebuking the Pharisees. Namely, he's been rebuking the Pharisees' interpretation of the law. And we have seen this over and over again. Jesus confronts the Pharisees who say, this is what it means to be clean, and this is what it means to be unclean. Jesus says, no, no, no, no, you have it wrong. He confronts the Pharisees about what it means to the Sabbath. He says, no, no, no, you have it wrong. He's bringing the true interpretation. Well, see, now Jesus is going to interpret the law again for his disciples. He's going to bring the truth of the law out for the church. He's going to help the church understand the law. This is not for the Pharisees anymore. If you look back, the Pharisees have left Jesus. Verse 11. They were filled with fury and discussed with another what they might do to Jesus. And the Pharisees don't come back on the scene until the very end of chapter 7. So we have Jesus, the master teacher, the wonderful teacher, who is preaching a sermon to who? Not to the Pharisees, not rebuking them. He's preaching to you, to the church. to his disciples and he's telling you how to look at the Old Testament and it's beautiful. Look at what Jesus says himself in in verse 20. Well Luke says about Jesus. Right before he starts in on a sermon, it says, and he lifted his eyes up on his disciples. And said, he's talking to his disciples. He's preaching to them. And he's preaching to the church And this particular sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, has to do with the correct way that Christians are to interpret the law of God. We've seen the incorrect ways. The Pharisees. And he does this by grouping four blessings and woes. That's how he starts his sermon. And these four blessing and woes mirror one another. They have an exact counterpart, a blessing with a woe. A blessing is a state of happiness. That's what the word means. It's being happy. It's profound happiness, though. It's a profound joy. In the context of the Bible, especially of the New Testament, The context of blessedness means the happiness and the joy that comes from a relationship with Jesus Christ. It's the happiness of being in God's presence. The ultimate blessing is the blessing of the Lord Himself in your life. Now woe is an interjection that usually denotes pain or uh displeasure. Pain though usually is one of it's like hitting your your thumb with a with a hammer and you yell out, whoa, because it hurts so bad. And we're not talking about physical pain. here, but it's this idea of pain, and if you say woe to somebody, you're saying, watch out, there's pain coming in your life. There's pain coming. There's danger. And in order to understand this list of blessed blessings and and woes, we have to see Jesus drawing these blessings and woes from the Old Testament, as he often does. And particularly, he uses a book of the Old Testament that he's used already in Luke many times, the book of Deuteronomy. And in Deuteronomy, there's a section. Chapters 27 and 28 that talk about the blessings and the cursings that are for Israel. Blessing if they obey the law of God. If they have God as their God and they worship him, God says, I will bless you, Israel. I will bless you in this land. He will not withdraw his presence from them. He will be with them. But if they disobey the law of God, they will be cursed. Moses says. They will be cursed. God will be against them. He will withdraw his presence from them. But did you notice something about Jesus' sermon? Do you notice a change from Deuteronomy to Christ's sermon? Christ does not use the word cursed. He uses woe. The word curse is clearly what's used in Deuteronomy. There's no doubt. To be cursed means to be under divine condemnation. To be cursed in this context means that God's wrath is hanging over you. That you are under condemnation. It's not just pain. It's God being completely and utterly against you. And Christ has not used this word in his sermon to describe the church. We know he knows this word. In fact, he uses the word curse a little bit later in the sermon to describe what the world wants to do to Christians, which is namely to curse them. They want Christians to be cursed. But Christ does not say, blessed are you, and then cursed are you. He changes Deuteronomy. He interprets it. He interprets it correctly for the church. He does not use the word curse. Why? Because Jesus Christ has already taken the curse for us. Jesus Christ has paid the full penalty of the curse on your behalf, on my behalf, on the behalf of the church. Galatians says that cursed is anyone who hangs upon a tree. And that's exactly what Christ did. He became a curse for you, so that we wouldn't have to be. He hung on a tree on a wooden cross and this curse of God's judgment, which is the result of man's rebellion. Way back, starting with Genesis chapter 3, when all the human race in Adam rebelled against God, God said that there is a curse now upon all the cosmos. Upon all the earth that Paul says in Romans 8, he's ready to be lifted. But there's this curse, a divine condemnation. That's why the whole heavens and the earth will be renewed by fire. And this divine condemnation is upon the entire human race. It's a curse. And we all feel the sting of it. But Jesus felt the sting for us. He suffered and died in our place. He became a curse for us. Are you under that curse still? If you have not repented of your sin And put your faith in Jesus Christ and have been born again by the Spirit of God, you are under that curse. No matter if you sit here this morning or if you come to church seven days a week, If you have not repented of your sin and put your faith in Jesus, you are under the curse of God. I just plead with you to flee the curse by running into Christ. And hiding in him. He is our only hope. But no matter what judgment befalls Christians, if you truly are in Christ , God will never say, cursed are you. You are blessed beyond measure. Therefore, Christ, instead of pronouncing curses to his disciples, he pronounces woes. He's telling the church, woe. So even though there's no cursing for the church, there still can be a lot of pain. And every single one of you, every single one of us, brothers and sisters in Christ, if we do not heed Christ's command in our life, if we do not obey the Spirit's promptings. If we don't repent of our sin, follow God on a daily basis, there can be woe to us. There can be pain. There is danger. Christ is saying to you, when he says, woe to you, he's saying, be warned. The path that you're on potentially is one of pain. There's danger in this course that maybe some of you are following. Danger of losing the blessing of Christ. Danger of losing the joy in the Lord, the intimacy that comes, the blessedness The happiness of knowing Christ. So look what Jesus says about this blessed state. He starts off by saying, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Now certainly there's a spiritual component to this as the Matthew parallel adds. If you look back at Matthew when it says, Blessed are the poor, are you who are poor in spirit. And we saw this in chapter four as well when Jesus is preaching, he says he's uh preaching the good news to the poor, and there's a spiritual connotation, but Luke removes the spiritual uh part out of this quotation. The emphasis is on poor in wealth. The emphasis is on materially poor. Just as the converse of this, the mirror, is on materially rich in verse 24. In fact, each of these four blessings that mirror one another, they all have to do With being poor in some way. And what Jesus is doing here, as he has done the last few chapters, is reinterpreting the teaching of the Pharisees for the church. He's talking about poverty now. And the Pharisees have a certain type of teaching about poverty. Now at one point when the Pharisees just started as a sect in Israel. Israel, a powerful they became eventually a very powerful sect. At one time they eschewed uh wealth and material possessions. But by the time of Jesus, that was no longer the case. Luke 16, verse 14 states the Pharisees were lovers of money. The Pharisees were lovers of money. In their own eyes, the Pharisees were the blessed of God. They had been given wealth, they had been given money, they've been given power and authority, and that's me that means to them that God has looked down upon them with favor. And this sounds familiar, right? The idea that blessing comes from material wealth. Not a modern invention. It's thousands of years old. Conversely, those without money surely had to be cursed. But Jesus flips this around. Many of those who were following Christ were probably already poor. at least some of them. But their economic situation would certainly deteriorate further once these new Christians were kicked out of the synagogue. And they became social pariahs in the land of Israel. And Jesus is helping them see that when that happens, you are not cursed. You are blessed. The kingdom of God belongs to you. To those suffering from financial hardships where it seems like the curse of God is on you. The heavy hand of God is just pressing in. And Jesus says, no, no, no, no, you got it wrong. You're blessed if you're in Christ. What a promise. What a promise to those who are in Christ. in Christ. This this church has a wonderful ministry of with the food pantry. And uh and when I arrived here I immediately made the policy that if anyone comes to receive food, I want to meet them. And I just wanted to be able to share the gospel with them and to pray for them. And I'm glad I made that decision because it's had a profound impact on my own life and hopefully it's impacted those who have come for food. And just last week As I was preparing the sermon, I was reading Jesus say, Blessed are you who pour , Lisa comes into my office and says there's someone here to receive food. So I said, Okay, I'd love to meet them. And they come into my my office and it's a woman and I just ask, tell me your story, tell me what's going on. office. And she proceeds to tell me an absolutely devastating story, as all of them do. A story of struggle, a story of hopelessness, a story of fear that I have I personally have never experienced to that degree And I asked her, I said, what about your faith? Do you believe in Jesus Christ as your Savior, as your Lord? She says, I do. I believe. I believe the gospel. And I reached over and grabbed my Bible on my desk, already open to this verse. And I said to her, if that's true, if you are in Christ, if you're born again, blessed are you who are poor. For yours is the kingdom of God. Jesus is wanting to teach his disciples. He's wanting to teach us that blessedness does not come from material wealth. It doesn't come from having money or not having money. It comes from having Christ. It comes from being known by God. And I don't know about you, but I often get that twisted. I forget. I think about money often. And maybe that's why Jesus preaches about money often. I need a reminder every few chapters in the Bible. I just get consumed with having or having not. And I wanted to tell that woman who's taking care of five children with $150 a month of grocery money. I wanted to tell her, if you're in Christ, there's an inheritance waiting for you. Conversely, the wealthy are put on notice. The wealthy are put on notice here. For their wealth to God means nothing. It's not a sign of blessing. They're warned, woe, woe to you. In other words, be careful. Because the path that you're on of focusing on wealth may be actually destroying you. It might be the thing that's causing you the most pain. Whoa, be careful. Whoa, stop. The hammer's about to hit your thumb. And what's a specific warning to the rich that Jesus gives? They already have received their consolation, Luke says. Well, that's a strange word to use. They've already received their consolation. What that's odd. Well, Jesus, Luke has already used this word, so it's a it's a reminder, it's a clue. Recall when Jesus is presented as a baby to the temple, and Simeon is there, right? And it says about Simeon, he was holy, he was devout, and what was he doing? He was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Israel and that consolation was right there in the form of a baby. Jesus Christ is the consolation. What is Jesus saying? Woe to you who you who are rich. You have already received your consolation in your wealth, in your money, which means you're not receiving your consolation from Jesus Christ. And they've missed the true treasure in Jesus. And each of these four blessings and woes, they state the same thing. It's, you know, when we see in the Bible Jesus repeating things, it's for emphasis. When Jesus says Mary, Mary, there are all these times that Jesus talks about Uh and anytime any biblical writer repeats things, it's for emphasis. Well there's four blessings and woes, and they're about uh money. Blessed are you who are hungry now. Again, there's a spiritual connotation. That Luke removes. Matthew says, blessed are you who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Luke just says hunger. It's physical hunger due to material poverty. Poor, being poor, is connected to being hungry and connected to being to weeping, to sadness. For all these people that are blessed if they know God despite their circumstances. Now Jesus is not saying that poverty is the means to blessing. Do not hear me wrong. We don't become poor in order to be blessed. Christ already did that. Christ became poor on your behalf so that you can become rich. And the point of what Jesus is saying is that wake up. You're already rich in Christ. If you are in Christ, you are wealthy beyond measure. You have eternal treasures. And this last blessing and woe also has to do with poor, even though it's more peripherally. still have connected. When the disciples were kicked out of the synagogue for following Christ, their entire social structure was stripped away. This resulted in massive economic hardship, but it also resulted in massive social hardships. They became, like I've mentioned before, social pariahs. The Jews hated Christians. And the Jews had all the power. They hated followers of Christ. Saul, the apostle who became Paul, is a great example of this attitude towards Christians. He hated them. He excluded them, he reviled them, he spurned them, he sought to kill them. The opposite, Jesus mentioned of this, is for everyone to speak well of you. Jesus compares that person to a false prophet. No person following Christ who truly believes what Jesus says and who actually says it with their mouth will be loved by everybody. There will be people who revile you. But what does Jesus say to them? He gives the very first commandment found in this sermon. First time he gives a imperative. What's he say? Rejoice. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy. Why? Because you are being treated as a true prophet, not as a false one. Rejoice that your name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Liberty Church, are you in Christ? As a Christian, are you reading his word and are you obeying this every day? Do you take up your cross and deny yourself and follow him? Then you are on the path of receiving more and more blessing. The blessing, no matter what evil befalls you, you're on the rock. And you cannot be moved. This is the path of joy. This is the path of love. This is the path of God's grace. And if you're not experiencing that, If you're not experiencing the happiness and the joy that should come if you're in Christ, then repent. Turn to Christ. Get back on the path of following Him, of obeying His word, and experience the incredible joy of knowing Christ your Savior. Liberty Church, you will be blessed. By following and trusting Him. Let us pray. Father, you call us blessed who sit at your feet and respond to your word in obedience We will be like a tree, Lord, planted by the water. Sends out its roots to the stream. We will bear much fruit, and the world will recognize that we are your disciples. Let us not, oh God, put our trust in riches. Let us not put our trust in material possessions, as if those are in any way a sign of blessing. Lord, it's just the opposite. There's pain, there's danger that comes in trusting those and thinking about those to a unhealthy degree. And God, I I I just pray that we would put our full trust and hope in you, Jesus Christ. And I pray that you would bless this church and that the world around us, the communities around us would see this blessing. and want to know what is the source of joy and happiness that we have. I pray that we would open our mouths and tell everybody it is because of you, Jesus Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen.