If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter 5. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 11. And Jesus has just begun his ministry, as we saw a few weeks ago, and he's already become a pretty popular attraction. Crowds are coming from all over the place to hear him teach and preach the word of God. And uh as a preacher, this is a good thing. But as is the case with all preachers and all preaching, some like his message and others do not And the scene that we are looking at today is an example of such dichotomy. In the previous chapter, if you recall, we saw crowds. Coming to Jesus, hearing him preach, and then looking to throw him over a cliff. And now in this chapter we have a similar situation, people coming to hear Jesus preach. But they're pressing in to hear more. And throughout the gospel, Luke brings up these various scenes to highlight aspects of Christ's ministry. Now we shouldn't look at Luke 5, 1 through 11 as strictly chronological. Luke's not forced to do this in a certain order. This is more theological. The reason that Luke put this scene exactly where he put it is to convey a theological point, as we shall see. So let's start with verse 1. And it starts with the phrase on one occasion. And this is an indicator that it's not strictly chronological. And Luke does this a lot actually, on one of those days he says in chapter 5 verse 17. Or on a Sabbath, he says in 6. 12. In these days, he says. And sometimes Luke does stress a chronological order. He does so in chapter 7. He says, soon afterward, or as some manuscripts have it, the next day. But here in chapter 5, verse 1, we have on one occasion. And on this occasion, Jesus is standing by the Lake of Gennesaret. This is actually the Sea of Galilee And why does Luke say Lake of Gennesaret? We don't really know, but it's probably just to give a little bit more detail. What part of this large region that the Sea of Galilee is in, what part was Jesus actually in? And while Jesus is standing there by the lake, Luke says that the crowds are pressing into him, literally pushing against Jesus. Why? to hear the word of God. What an amazing testimony of this crowd. This is something I pray for every day for Liberty Church. Not just that there will be crowds coming, but that crowds who are here are coming to hear the word of God. That they're pressing in. That they're pressing in to hear God's word on the Lord's day, maybe even a little bit righteous pushing and shoving. You know, just as long as it's as long as to hear the word of God. All right. And we have plenty of entrances here at Liberty Church and a great sound system. You can hear the Word of God from any seat in the church. There's no need to be pushing and shoving. But this is the source of revival. When crowds of people come to hear the word of God. When crowds of people hunger and thirst for righteousness, when crowds of people come to church because they need the bread of life, when crowds come to church pressing in because they need living water. And this day on this Lord's Day, God reveals Himself in a special way by the means of grace. And revival does not come when crowds come pressing in to hear a popular personality. Revival does not come when crowds come just to hear a specific type of music or to meet a certain person Revival comes when crowds press in to hear the Word of God. Revival, the Spirit of God moving in the hearts of his people, only comes When the Word of God goes forth in power. Liberty Church, brothers and sisters, are you praying for this? Not only for our own church, but also for the churches in the surrounding areas. The churches around us. Are we praying? Are we begging God that He would move mightily in and through and around us? Are we praying for revival? This is one of the things that we do Sunday mornings from 9 to 9. 20. We have our prayer time, and one of the things that we pray for specifically is repentance and revival. We're praying that crowds would press in to hear the word of God. Well, this crowd in Luke 5 is pressing in. It's making Jesus rather uncomfortable. He's maybe not able to do the ministry as he envisions it. And so he's he looks up and he sees two empty boats. Why are they empty? The fishermen, Luke says, were washing their nets. This is something that had to be done. If you were a fisherman, whether you're using a casting net or whether you're using a drag net, you caught debris, you caught sand, you caught weeds, you caught all types of things, and so nets had to be taken care of. They were the source of one's livelihood and provision for their family. And Jesus climbs into this boat. And Luke mentions that it's actually Simon Peter's boat, and then asks Peter to help push him out a little on the water. Now, before this. Peter was presumably washing his nets with the other fishermen. And we can assume that in part because he says in verse 5 that he had been fishing all night. So certainly a night of fishing would require some washing of the nets. And Luke records that Jesus sits down And teaches the crowds. Now, we can begin to understand why Luke put this episode, this scene, right here. For a theological purpose. It's not just to say that he sat down because if you stand up on a boat in water, you have a good chance of falling in It's not to say that it's uh you know that teachers back then usually sat down when they taught There's a theological reason, and the reason why Luke is saying that he sat down in the boat is to contrast the first time he sat down and taught the crowds. And we saw that in Luke chapter four. Luke four, Jesus first began his ministry. And he goes into the synagogue, and Luke records that he sat down to teach. The crowds. And in that synagogue, the response of the crowds was also to press into Jesus. But not to hear the word of God, to drive him out of the synagogue, out of the town, and to a brow of a cliff where he's going to throw, they're going to throw him over. And now here in Luke 5, Jesus sits down again. And the crowd's pressing in not to kill him, but to hear the word of God. The difference The different responses of the two crowds are stark. The first crowd heard the teaching of Jesus and rejected him The second crowd hears the same teaching of Jesus and they want more. And the question that should come to all of our minds is this. Which crowd do you belong to? I'm not saying that you would ever think about throwing Jesus off a cliff. We're far more subtle than that. Some hear the words of Jesus, and they're tracking along. They're enjoying what he is saying. Luke mentions that the first crowd in the synagogue says spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. So far so good. But all of a sudden Jesus says something that the crowds don't like, and they try to throw them over a cliff. And the crowds today do the same. Many people track along with what Jesus says. Many people give a nod of affirmation. Many people can enjoy some of the teaching, but then all of a sudden Jesus says something that they don't like. And they just want Jesus to disappear. Perhaps Jesus abruptly says something about how you spend your time. Or how you spend your money, or how you should serve others rather than being served, or how you should love your enemies or how you should deny yourself and take up your cross daily and follow him. And when we get to these hard sayings of Jesus, our expression changes. Our brow furrows and we just we stay away from me in this teaching. Enough. And perhaps you're not as antagonistic as the crowd. In Luke 4, but you certainly can be just as dismissive of Jesus as those crowds were. Do you belong to this first crowd? Do you enjoy hearing 90% of what Christ says, but the 10% that strikes at your heart, you reject? Like the rich young ruler who was following Jesus until Jesus mentioned the one thing that he lacked. If that's you, repent. Take all of what Christ has said. Take all of what Christ has commanded. 100%, for he is your Lord. He is our God, and follow and obey him. We don't choose what we follow, what we obey. We follow the whole counsel of the Word of God. But here in Luke 5, we have a different reaction from the crowds. They're pressing in to hear the word of God, and Jesus finishes what he was teaching in verse 4, and he says that no one in the crowd wants to kill them. We don't see that. The crowds on the shore embrace the teaching of Christ. And far from the synagogue, far from Jerusalem, and these plains of Galilee, this people, they hear Jesus and they want more. That's why it says in Luke 5. 15 that now even more the report about Jesus went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him. And after teaching the crowds and being satisfied with their response, Jesus turns his attention to someone else. He's looking to teach a personal lesson to somebody. He turns his attention to Peter. And he wants to get Peter's attention He wants to make sure what crowd does Peter belong to? And so he tells Peter, put out into the deep. And let down your nets for a catch. Now this is amazing. Jesus telling a fisherman how to fish. That's incredible. That's like me telling Tommy Crohn how to drywall. That's just not going to happen ever. And it's not gonna happen that Tommy tells me how to preach. I hope not. But Jesus is saying, go out here, do do this, put your f your net here. Is absolutely unheard of. Peter could have said, Jesus, you're a carpenter. You're a son of a carpenter. I'm the fisherman. Stay in your lane And Peter does kind of say this, doesn't he? He says, Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night, took nothing, but at your word I will let down the nets. And the catch was so large that it required the fishermen and other boats to help haul it in. So Jesus really did know something about fishing after all, since he made all the fish in the world in the first place. But Peter doesn't respond in a way that we would think, a typical response. He doesn't say, wow, Jesus, how? How did you know that there was a fishing hole, a great fishing hole right there? How did you know that all the fish would be right there? What does Peter do? He falls down and says to Jesus, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. Even with the boat sinking, as verse 7 says, Peter still falls at Jesus' knees The Lord got his attention. We have to ask, why did Peter respond this way? Peter had seen Jesus perform miracles before. I mean, just in the last chapter, Jesus heals Peter's own mother-in-law. And he heals a demoniac, a man possessed by demons. And Peter in that episode does not fall at Jesus' feet and say, depart from me. And after this episode, Jesus is going to see, Peter is going to see Jesus perform many more miracles. Amazing. The next chapter, or right after this scene, Jesus is going to heal a paralytic. But the response is not the same from Peter. He does not fall at Jesus' feet and say, Depart from me. Why does Peter respond like this? Well, some say that it's because Peter had a lack of faith. And he was convicted about it. And certainly that's that's true probably to some to some regard. Peter's lack of faith, and there can be some of that. Peter certainly seems frustrated at the very least. So who wouldn't it be after you know not catching any fish after an entire night of fishing? I get frustrated after twenty minutes of not catching anything. And it's not my livelihood. It's not my career. But Peter's response to Jesus in verse 5, to me, personally, it does reveal faith in the Lord. Look what he does. First he says master. He's acknowledging that Christ is his Lord. And also, even though Peter had worked all night. Peter responds to Jesus by saying, At your word, I will let down the nets. To me, this is the essence of faith In light of conflicting information, in light of the improbability of Jesus' request, Peter listens to the word of Christ over his own. He obeys Christ Even when it seems like all signs should be pointing to the fact that Jesus would be right or that Peter would be right. And this is what faith does. It's the conviction of things unseen. It's trusting even when the visible realities seem to contradict any reason for that. So if it's not lack of faith on Peter's part, why does he respond the way he does by falling to Jesus' feet and saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord? Well, I believe the answer lies way back in verse 2. You have the scene in which the crowds are pressing in. To hear the word of God, there's great crowds coming from all around. And they're pressing, they're pushing Their way to see and hear and touch the Christ, but there is someone on the shore who is not pressing in to see Christ. It's Peter. Luke says that the fishermen of whom Peter was one of were washing their nets. And this is deliberate of Luke. This detail isn't crucial to the story. He expressly states that the fishermen were washing their nets. So you have these crowds. pressing in, pushing against Jesus just to hear the words coming from his mouth. But over there you have Peter washing his nets Why wasn't he pressing in? Why wasn't Peter in the midst of that crowd longing to hear the word of God? Well, they had important business to take care of, didn't they? They had to wash their nets. That's important stuff. You don't not wash your nets. You don't let them just get dirty. Peter saw the Lord, he knew the Lord, but in his mind, he had more pressing things to do than just sit at the feet of Jesus and hear the word of God. And this reminds me of another story Luke will share just a few chapters after this. It's a story that many of you are familiar with, the story of Mary and Martha. Mary was at the feet of Jesus because she wanted to hear the word of God. And Martha was busy, not washing nets, but washing dishes and cooking food and cleaning up. And she had just so much to do. And Jesus could have said to Peter something similar to what he said to Martha. Martha, Martha, you are anxious. And troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. And in a way, Luke actually does say that Jesus does this. Doesn't say Peter's name twice, but if you look through starting with verse one and throughout the entire passage Luke is always referring to Simon, Peter, as just Simon. But here Verse 8, he brings in his whole name, Simon Peter, the fullness of the name. This almost this idea of Martha, Martha. And by telling Peter where to fish and how to fish and thus telling Peter how to live, Jesus was in essence telling Peter, Peter, Peter. Why are you worried about your nets? Do you not realize that one greater than your nets is here? Don't you see that one greater than fish is here? One greater than your business. Don't you see that one greater than your life is here? And the abundance of fish that comes, which symbolizes the abundance of life that's found in Christ alone, it strikes Peter to the core. He's convicted. What a fool I've been Standing here before the Holy One of God, and I busy myself with washing nets. And Luke says that Peter falls to Jesus' knees and confesses his own sinfulness. That he is not worthy to hear the word of God, and neither are we. In fact, Peter and ourselves are only worthy of judgment. We have not fallen at the feet of Jesus. We have fallen far short of God's standard, and we all stand condemned. Because of our sinfulness, because of our transgressions against the Lord. We have busied ourselves with all types of things. work and play, family and friends, dreams and ambitions. We are constantly every day mending our own nets to ensure our success, to ensure our livelihood, to enable us to have the life we want. And so often we forget the most important thing, the word of God and Christ who embodies that word. And this conviction can set in to us just as it set in to Peter. But Jesus immediately reassures Peter just as he reassures us and he tells them, do not be afraid. Because even though Peter's sinful, even though we are all sinful, there is now no fear of condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. If you are in Christ, you have no fear of judgment. You have no fear that God's wrath is going to fall upon you because God's wrath has already fallen upon the perfect son in your place. And so he says, fear not. Don't fear, because Christ has took our sins and he's paid the penalty of them on the cross. And immediately after this assurance, Which I believe symbolizes a greater assurance, the assurance of salvation. Christ sends Peter on a mission. From now on, you'll be catching men. And this sequence of assurance and mission was not only good for Peter, it's also good for us. We come to Christ as sinful people, unworthy to be his servants, let alone his children. And he calls us, his children, he immediately employs us in the family business, this business of evangelism. We as sinners, saved by grace, are now called to go catch other sinners. We are to proclaim the good news of salvation found in Jesus Christ alone. We're to go everywhere. Everywhere we go We're to spread this aroma of Jesus, whether it's our friends, our neighbors, our co-workers, our family Everywhere we go spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. And we trust the Spirit of God that by His mercy the people we come in contact with would press in. We press in to hear more of the Word of God. Now, some people, some crowds are not. They're going to reject the message. But that's not for you to decide. That's not your concern. We are merely sowing seed. We are merely watering. God causes the growth. And this mission that Christ has given us to be fishermen is so compelling. Liberty Church, my prayer for this church, for our church, is that we would be fishermen employed in this family business, looking to catch those who do not know Christ. And I ask and pray and trust that God will do this, but that you would take just one step forward in this family business. Maybe this is the first you've ever heard as a Christian, it's the first you've ever heard that that you are employed by God to now do the work of spreading the good news of the gospel. Maybe it's the first time you hear, or maybe you've known about this for a long time, but For whatever reason you have not been participating in that business. And I just ask wherever you're at that you take one step forward. And that you pray, God, help me to be a fisher of men. Help me to spread the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's so fulfilling. And one easy step if if you're starting way in the beginning of this One easy step that I encourage everybody to do is to make a list of three to five people who do not know Christ, who are within your sphere of influence, maybe their friends, maybe their coworkers, maybe their neighbors, and make a list of three to five people and begin praying for them. That they would know Christ. And if you don't know three or five lost people, then the first step would be to make friends with the lost. You gotta do that first. I encourage you to begin praying, not only for yourself that you would be an evangelist, but also for those people around you that That you would be able to bring the good news of Jesus Christ to your lost friends. Liberty Church, this is what God has called us to do. He called us as sinners, those who have been purchased by his blood. To go to go and to catch men. And what's amazing about this is it's such a compelling vision. Look at what they did in verse 11. They just caught all these fish. They they the nets were probably almost breaking. They had to have other fishermen come and what do they do in verse 11? They just left it all behind. They left it all behind to go follow Jesus because this mission that Jesus has given us is worth it. It's worth leaving your nets behind. It's worth leaving your fish behind. It's worth leaving everything behind to follow Jesus Christ and to make him known. So go out into the deep, start fishing, share Christ. And let us see God bring in a glorious catch. Amen. Let's pray. Father God, thank you so much for this word. That reminds us that you have not just saved us for our own sake. Oh God, you've saved us for your glory. And now you have called your church, your people, your sons and daughters to go forth and to be fishers of men. And I pray that that would mark Liberty Church in a great way. They would mark us that we are evangelists by nature in our heart that we long to see those around us who don't know Christ, that they uh their eyes would be opened and that they would cross over. from death to life. Lord, I pray that that would be a reality here in our midst. We pray this only by the power of Jesus Christ. It's His name we pray. Amen.