If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Luke 22. We're going to be looking at verses 7 through 23. This morning is the second part. of our look at the Passover. We looked at the first part last week, and this great feast of unleavened bread that all of Israel celebrated was here. Feast of the Passover. And this would be the last feast of Jesus' earthly ministry. And this being the last, he instituted what we now call the Last Supper, the Lord's Supper. And feasts and suppers and meals were a very important aspect of Israel's history. And they were a very important aspect of Jesus' ministry. His first miracle, you recall, he did during a wedding feast in Cana. As soon as he was resurrected post-resurrection, had a post-resurrection meal with his disciples on the beach. Meals were important. But it is this meal, the Last Supper, that is the most famous and most important meal in all of history. It's a meal that's known worldwide. Arguably one of the greatest and most famous artists of all time. painted what his depiction of of this feast and became one of the most famous paintings of all time. Da Vinci's Last Supper towards the end of the 15th century is when he when he drew that, when he painted that. Of course, Da Vinci was not much of a historian. That painting looks much more like a Greek, ancient Greek meal, rather than an ancient Near Eastern meal. But it's the most famous painting. The Supper also was a subject of the highest-selling book of all time, Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code. Although it is a riveting read, this too got the Lord's Supper wrong in a lot of ways. Got a lot of other things wrong as well. So it seems like a lot of people are getting the Lord's Supper wrong. And that continues to happen today. Even now. What is the purpose of the Lord's Supper? What does it mean? What does it not mean? Well, this is what we're going to be looking at this morning. Luke announces here in verse 7 that the day of the Passover lamb being sacrificed has arrived. The feast was a week long, the feast of unleavened bread, a week long, but the greatest day of the feast. was when the Passover lamb was to be killed, sacrificed, and eaten. Now Luke places this here very intentionally. He is well aware of the literary technique of foreshadowing, and he employs it here. When we think of the Lord's Supper , We must first start with its foundation, which is the Passover. That is the impetus for the Lord's Supper. When God was rescuing the Jews from Egypt, he called them to hastily eat this meal. Where this Passover lamb was to be roasted. And it was to be eaten before they escaped death. which is Egypt, and entered into the life of the promised land of Canaan. That's important. Eating of the lamb was a prerequisite to being saved by God. And in the same way, Jesus says, you can have no part of me unless you eat of this meal. His body and his blood. We must have Christ and possess him before we are to enter into the new land, the land of heaven, of which Canaan is merely a foreshadow of. As I mentioned last week, the Passover was a feast fundamentally celebrating life. Israel is now free from bondage and slavery. They were given a new lease on life in the Promised Land. And how ironic it is that during this feast of life The religious leaders of Israel were seeking the death of their Savior. But this is how Christ ordained the Passover. He ordained the Passover. Even a thousand, two thousand years before he walked upon the earth. He ordained the Passover because he himself was to be the ultimate Passover lamb. He himself was to be the ultimate sacrifice. Recall what John the Baptist says about him. Behold the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sins of the world? Jesus Christ is the true Passover Lamb, just as he is the true high priest. Just as he is the true temple, just as he is the true Davidic son, just as he is the true prophet, the Messiah. These all were a shadow in the Old Testament of the things to come, Paul writes to the Colossians. The reality, though, the substance, was found in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Verse 8, Jesus sends Peter and John to prepare the Passover meal. To make all the preparations. Now why? Peter and John. We don't know. Maybe it was random. Maybe Jesus just picked the first two that he saw. Maybe because Peter and John presumably were perhaps older. They had the connections. They had the financial resources, maybe, to prepare the meal. Well we have to keep in mind this is not a cheap endeavor. This is costly to have a Passover meal with thirteen grown men eating lamb and bread and wine and all the other dishes that were served. Either way, Peter and John dutifully go, but before they do, they ask, where will you have us prepare it? And Jesus gives explicit instructions. Where to go, who you'll find. specific room that is to be furnished and Jesus says prepare it there and then Luke adds verse 13 and they went and what happened they found it just as he told them Now why does Luke, who's meticulous about details and very intentional about why he put some details there and some he omits, why does Luke add this? Well, I think is to show that Jesus is in control of all the events that surround this meal. He is absolutely sovereign to the point of telling his disciples to go and they're going to find a certain man who's going to lead them to a certain room where he's going to have the He's in control of the entire event. And if he's in control of this entire event, you best be assured that he's in control of the event surrounding the Passover, namely his death. He is sovereign not over not just over this feast, but all the events surrounding him. Christ is King. And Christ the King now is reclining at table with his subjects, his disciples. his closest followers. And he says that he has earnestly desired to eat this meal with them. Because in eating it He is that much closer to fulfilling his mission on earth. He's this much closer to returning to his father where he eagerly desires to go. It's this return to heaven that's prefigured in the Lord's Supper. Look at this very next statement here. Verse 18, for I tell you, verse 16, I'm sorry, for I tell you, I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. I will not eat it. This Passover. What's Jesus saying? There's another Last Supper. This isn't the only Last Supper. There's actually going to be one even after this. It will not take place here on earth, but in heaven. At the great wedding in which Christ the groom and his bride, us, the church universal, come together at last to feast with him forever and ever. It's going to be a glorious day. Revelation 19 talks about this. Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Jesus is laser focused on this last day feast. He mentions it again in verse 18. For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. It's not going to be until groom and bride are seated at this wedding table in which Jesus will once again partake in wine. I was able to officiate the wedding of Brynn and Heather Lee this past Sunday and uh the newlyweds are here, which is uh wonderful, and it was a beautiful wedding. And Heather did an amazing job with all the details, considering how many things had to be changed and how many uh stuff had to was thrown at her. She did incredible in terms of planning the wedding in light of COVID. And uh no worldwide pandemic was going to stop these two from getting married I mean that is true love. Of course, they had to change a number of aspects to the wedding from what was originally planned, not least of which was the feast. I mean to protect the health of of others, the meal was served in individual containers and it was delicious. But I want to say There is no COVID in heaven. Praise be to God. This is going to be a feast. And we are going to dine sumptuously with Jesus Christ, our groom. It will be a spread. And the question That is begged, is this, will you be there? Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage feast. Christ has invited you. He has paved your way, not with silver nor gold, but with his own flesh and blood. He died for your sins. Standing in your place, taking the transgressions and rebellion that you've committed against a holy God. the punishment of which has been placed upon his back. And he died for you. The call is to repent and believe the good news of Jesus Christ. He's extending an invitation even now to you to enjoy with him this heavenly feast for all eternity. It's this heavenly feast that's emphasized in the Lord's Supper. It must be emphasized also in our partaking of the Lord's Supper. You know, many people approach the table as if it were a dirge A funeral that we celebrate every week or every month. The funeral of Christ. And the mood is somber. And we approach the table with melancholy. And some of this is fitting. Some of this is appropriate, for sure. But the Lord's table is not just looking back upon Christ's death. It's looking forward to Christ's glory and our glory with him. It's looking forward to the heavenly feast. It is rejoicing along with repentance. It is expectation along with solemn reflection. These two have to be held in tension. And that tension is purposeful. We shouldn't try to get rid of it. Solemnness along with eager and joyful expectation. The feast that we celebrate And that the church universal celebrates is a feast that is in between two feasts. Jesus' last feast, foreshadowing his death, but also the great eschatological feast, the great feast of heaven. Which we are all long and eagerly awaiting. So our feast that we celebrate here on earth, it's in between these two. And so that's the tension that's pulling us. And Jesus, knowing what lies ahead, not only his death, but also his vindication. Takes the cup. And there were four cups during the Passover. And it's debated which one is Jesus taking. Is it the first through fourth? I believe it's the first cup. It's this cup that is traditionally was the cup of blessing. Where you bless God for all that he's done. And Jesus takes this cup and he gives thanks. Which is why we call the Lord's Supper the Eucharist from the Greek to give thanks. And what follows in verses 19 through 20 Are perhaps the most debated verses in all of Christendom. I mean, these two verses Have been the source of such controversy throughout the history of the church. This is my body. Given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. Jesus states clearly that these elements, the bread and the wine, are his body and blood. But the interpretation of this is far from clear. In fact, it's it's quite difficult. I mean, even the early disciples had a problem with this concept of the bread and wine being Jesus' Body and blood. Recall back in John 6, Jesus says to the crowds, Truly, truly I say to you, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Now, in case these disciples were tempted to just think Jesus is meaning merely allegorical reference here, or it's just merely symbolic. Jesus follows up with, for my flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink. That seems pretty clear. And the disciples understood this, that Jesus must be meaning more than just an allegorical or symbolic meaning. We see this in their response in John still in John 6. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying Who can listen to it? And then later on, after this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him So obviously the disciples understand that Jesus is not just talking about symbolic meaning here. Else why would they have such difficulty with it? They're taking Jesus' words at face value. And John uses the word disciples in that passage. He's indicating that these are followers of Jesus. These are people who claim Christ. They are part of the inner circle. They're part of the church. These aren't just random people in the crowd that are having a difficult Time with what Jesus is saying. The body and blood of Christ has caused much dispute among those who claim Christ. On one side, the Roman Catholic position, and I know that there are other non-reformed uh beliefs and traditions that differ from the Roman Catholic position, but I'm just going to stick with Roman Catholic as as uh one end of the spectrum. The Roman Catholic position is that Christ instituted the Eucharist in order to perpetuate the sacrifice of the cross throughout the ages until Christ returns. And this leads to the doctrine of the real presence of Christ within the elements. The Catholic Catechism states this. Christ is thus really and mysteriously made present. So far so good. We can actually agree with that. Then he goes on, the very next sentence. In the Eucharist, Christ gives us the very body which he gave up on the cross. And the very blood which he poured out for the sins of many. That's where we diverge. Catholic believes that this is by the power of the Holy Spirit and the words of institution which convert the elements of bread and wine into body and blood. Also known as transubstantiation. The sacrifice of Christ is therefore perpetual, and it takes place on the altar of communion every single week. And this doctrine actually has led to a type of worship even of the elements, since the elements themselves are the physical, actual body and blood of Jesus Therefore, they must be handled with absolute care. Well, this perpetual sacrifice flies in the face of Jesus once and for all sacrifice for the remission of sins. There is no need for Christ to suffer continually. It is finished, he declared upon the cross. And he's now even seated at the right hand of the Father in heaven. Well, this doctrine of transubstantiation, it was not established at the very beginning of the Catholic Church And we see from the Middle Ages on much dissent about this doctrine, even from those like John Wycliffe, the morning star of the Reformation. Starting to argue with its premise. And of course, the Reformation sought to deal a fatal blow to this doctrine of transubstantiation. However, Martin Luther, who was staunchly Catholic before his epiphany, had great trouble with it. He believed in the real presence of Christ, but he did not go as far as transubstantiate. He didn't believe that they became those things. They transformed. And to those things. He believed in consubstantiation that Christ's body and blood were in and around and above and below the elements. If you think this is confusing, join the crowd. But basically, and to boil it down, the Reformation sought to remove the sacrificial element from the table. It's not upon an altar in which our Savior is dying again and again. And the Reformation was critical to our understanding of the Lord's table and has influenced the way we think about the Lord's table for the past 500 years. But there is a tendency To swing the pendulum the other way and too far in the other direction. And many evangelical churches Have what I consider to be a low view of the sacrament. They view the Lord's table as merely a memorial. A remembrance of a past event. In this way, the Lord's table actually does not differ much from the Jewish Passover. Which is merely remembering what God has done in the past. Well, is that all the Lord's table is? No. The Lord's table is not the physical flesh and blood of Jesus Christ. But it is also not just a remembrance of Christ. Jesus said much more than do this in remembrance of me. What is it then? What is the table? What are the elements? Well, this is where the reformers help us out tremendously because they spilled a lot of ink on this one topic. Well look at the confession in 29, 7. It's a little wordy, but just follow along with me. Worthy receivers, us, those who claim Christ, who are born-again believers, can partake in the elements, worthy receivers, outwardly partaking of the visible elements. In this sacrament, do then also inwardly by faith. Really and truly. Yet not carnally nor corporally, not in bodily form, but spiritually receiving and feeding upon Christ crucified and all the benefits of his death The body and blood of Christ being then not corporally or carnally in, with, or under the bread and wine, who is that a jabbat? yet spiritually present to the faith of believers in that ordinance as the elements themselves are to the outward senses. I love that last line. It's a beautiful analogy of beautiful pictures. It's a mouthful here. No pun intended. But here's the point. Just as bread and wine are substantially real to the outward senses. You can see it, taste it, touch it, smell it. So, too, the body and blood of Christ are substantially and mysteriously real to the senses of faith. By faith, we take the spiritual body and blood of Jesus during the Lord's Supper. And they, being spiritual, do not make them any less real. Christ is really present in a spiritual and mystical, as Calvin would say, mystical way. He is truly present, appropriated by us, believers, through faith. The means by which we receive actual body and blood of Jesus in a spiritual manner is the vehicle of faith. And when we partake, we are united with Christ in the most fundamental way. I mean, think about how can you get closer to Jesus than eating him? I mean, we are in him. He's in us. It's a beautiful picture. And it begs the question for us, Liberty Church. What do we do now when we are unable at this present hour to partake in this beautiful and meaningful sacrament? How are we to commune with Christ? Well, the answer to this is twofold. First, the Lord's table is vitally important as a sacrament for our faith, and we are truly missing out. The longer we wait to partake in these elements, the more damage, I believe, it does to our spiritual life and our health. The Lord's Supper builds us up. It conforms our thinking to Christ. It lifts our hearts together corporately Communion re-establishes our union with Christ. Communion reconnects us to our union with Christ and those who neglect it intentionally suffer for it. Therefore, I ask you, Liberty Church, to pray. That we may once again soon partake in the table. And I just want you to know, I want to reassure you that your session is thinking long and hard about how to do this in a way that will also mitigate against possible spreads of viruses. We want to figure this out and we're working hard on it and we'll keep you updated about that. But we want and we long for communion. But the other answer to that question of what do we do now since we can't take communion? The other answer to that is that the Lord's table acts as confirmation for what has already taken place. That is, you are united with Christ now. You are with Him now, this present hour, this day, and that never changes. You are connected to Him. You do not need communion in order to commune with the living Savior who is at this time living inside of you. You commune with him now, and the fruit of the table is truly the fruit of the Spirit. That if you are a believer in Christ, is inside of you. The table should reorient our thoughts. It should reorient our minds. It should recalibrate our wills. But it's the daily living with Jesus. Following Him, obeying Him, that the table seeks to engender. Jesus Christ is the bread of life. He is the fountain of living water. We do not feast upon him weekly or monthly. We feast upon him hourly. Every day. Liberty Church, feast upon your Savior today. And when The next day comes, do the same. Again and again, feasting on Paul and Christ. And then when we one day partake of this supper. It will have a tremendous benefit to our spiritual life, but it will confirm what we've been doing all along. Let us pray