Turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 7 verses 24 through 35. And last week we looked at the crisis of faith that John the Baptist was having. If you recall, he was uh uh the seed of faith that he had was uh struggling to survive as he languished in prison. And Jesus, in his mercy gives John the Baptist his word. And that word was to affirm who Christ was, the fact that he is the Son of God. And the same word that Jesus gave to John, Jesus also gives to you. And he gives to me. It's a word from him that strengthens our faith when we need it most. It's not a word that necessarily is four years down the road, even though it may be, it's for now in our present moment. And uh after, though, Jesus encourages John, Jesus begins to talk to the crowds about John. Why? Well If you're going to receive Jesus' message, then you must receive John's message. Because John was the messenger. If you reject John, you reject Christ. And this is Jesus' point. He wants the crowds to receive John, not for John's sake, but for his own sake. He wants the crowds to believe in him through even John 's testimony. Now, our passage this morning is a rather difficult one. There are some odd sayings, there's some analogies that are difficult to interpret about children playing music and wisdom having children and uh and there's all these things about reeds and and it's This one just continuous thought that comes out of the mouth of Christ. And but we're going to try our best to understand what's going on here. So in verse twenty-four If you notice, Jesus begins to ask a series of questions to the crowd about John. And the first one was what did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind. Now this is the first confusing analogy. Why did Jesus talk about a reed shaking in the wind? Well, he's referring to John the Baptist. When John the Baptist was in the desert before Jesus began his ministry, he was out there preaching, and all these crowds came to hear John's sermons. And Jesus is asking, did you go out into the desert to see a reed? And why did he use reed for this illustration or to make this point? Some people think that reed is uh or read shaking in the wind is a local colloquialism, just meaning nothing. In other words, what did you go out in the desert to see? Nothing? Well, if Jesus could have used the word nothing, he could have said that. They have a word for nothing. And so you could have said, did you go out in the desert to see nothing? But instead he uses this phrase. Did you go out to see a reed shaking in the wind? Why? Well, interestingly, reeds are actually rather important in the Bible. Reeds grown by the marshes and it's in the Near East, they're very abundant. And uh reeds were sometimes used as a measuring rod, as we see in the book of Ezekiel, where Ezekiel is measuring the new temple and he is laying out a reed. to measure the dimensions of the temple. Reeds are actually what the Bible is written on. You make papyrus out of reeds, this paper-like material that the books of the Bible were written on. But reads are also an analogy. For what? For being humbled. For being broken Reeds, they could grow very tall, 16 feet tall. And uh when a reed was bruised, when it was uh a part of the stalk was bent or or bruised, the head of the reed would bend down. And it would look like this long, tall plant, but though with the head of the reed just bent all the way down, almost touching the ground. And when a man is described as a reed As was common, it's the same picture of a man bent down low, his head to his chest. Symbolizing humility, symbolizing brokenness, symbolizing near defeat. Far from being a mighty oak, a reed was just the opposite. It was easily crushed. It was easily broken. And there is a prophecy in the book of Isaiah, you may recall, that's talking about Christ. And the prophecy about Christ says he, Jesus. Will not break a bruised reed, and a smoldering wick he will not quench. So a smoldering wick and a bruised reed are put together as synonymous. Smoldering wick, it's the fire that's about to go out, it's about to be extinguished. And Jesus is saying a bruised reads the same way, it's about to be crushed. It's about to be broken. When Jesus was arrested and he was beaten by the Roman guards, he had a crown of thorns placed around his head, if you recall. But what was placed in his hand? A reed. The guards did that mockingly To show that he is supposedly the king of the Jews, right? But it was a symbol that this man, this king of the Jews, was broken. He was beaten. In fact, the crowd, the guards used a reed to hit Christ with. And they also put it in his hands to mock him. So the question arises in our text. Was John such a reed? Was he this this reed, this bruised reed that was shaking in the wind? Jesus using this analogy in connection with John implies that Jesus is talking about John. He's the reed shaking in the wind. But there's also a negative answer implied in this rhetorical question. So it's a sense of, did you go out to see a reed shaking the wind? Well, there wasn't one. So no, you did not. So which is it? Is John a reed shaking in the wind, or is he not? Well, as is often true with many things in the Bible. Both. John was most certainly humbled. He was having his doubts. He was needing affirmation. He was needing encouragement. But at the end of the day. At the end of the day, he believed in Christ. And this is the amazing thing about faith. John was in prison, alarmed that he might have been trusting the wrong one. He wanted affirmation. He wanted Jesus' word. But he still believed. He was beaten up, but he was not broken. He was a reed swaying in the wind, but he wasn't a reed that was on the ground. And this is very similar to what Paul the apostle says in 2 Corinthians 4. He says this, we, the apostles, are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. We are perplexed, but not driven to despair. We are persecuted, but not forsaken. We are struck down, but not destroyed. This is the power of faith. When you are feeling afflicted, perplexed, persecuted, struck down, yet not I But Christ in me that strengthens me and does not allow me to fall. Christ in me has the strength to overcome. And when you are a reed swaying in the wind, it's not your own power that will bring you through. It is your faith in Jesus Christ. It's the word of Christ spoken to your heart that strengthens This bruised reed. Do you need strengthening this morning? Are any of you a bruised reed? Are you swaying in the wind? Are you distraught? Are you alarmed? Are you anxious? The Bible doesn't have many answers besides this. Look to Christ by faith Look to Christ by faith. He has words that will lift you up. He will set you on solid ground. And Jesus tells the crowds, there was no reed in the desert. John was swaying, but he would he He was in prison and his faith held. And we see Jesus affirm John even later on in various other chapters in Luke 16 and 20. John did hold. to his faith did hold to Christ. So then the next question, if the crowds did not go out to see John and his crisis of faith, what then did they go out to the desert to see? Well Jesus asks a man dressed in soft clothing. That's another way of saying fancy pants. Basically. And John was certainly not this as well. He was uh a man that eschewed fancy. He wore a a camel coat for crying out loud. I'm not talking about camel leather coat. I'm talking about camel hair coat. And if you've ever seen a camel, their hair is not very glamorous You know, sometimes a man can have an affinity for his coat or his jacket. My grandpa had an old bomber jacket that he wore when he was in the service. uh that I still remember vividly this jacket. And you know, I have a I have this leather jacket that I really like. It's It's not as nice as Matthew Byrd's leather jacket. But i I'm sure that that John the Baptist would say, that's a fancy jacket. That's that's soft clothes. Well, I'm not John. He did not care one iota about appearance. He didn't care about what you thought of him. He was going to wear a camel hair coat. He was not showing off the latest fashion trends. He wasn't trying to be stylish. There were men who were trying to do that. There were men who did care about what other people thought. What's Jesus say? Those men are found in the king's palace. Who's he talking about? Herod. Herod, who was about to kill John, was actually consumed with what people thought of him to the point of his own demise. Well, if they didn't go out to see a reed, if they didn't go out to see a man dressed in soft clothing, what did the crowds go out into the desert to see? They went to go see a prophet. And even more than a prophet. The greatest prophet. The greatest prophet to have ever lived Jesus quotes Malachi 3, Behold, I send my messenger before your face who will prepare your way before you. And this was the epitome of John's ministry to point to Jesus Christ to prepare the way for him. He was the messenger. And he was declaring that God was here. That God had come in the flesh. He was announcing the kingdom of God. It was a kingdom, though, and this is important for later. It was a kingdom that had not yet quite come with John. He was on the threshold. He was right at the door. But this kingdom was still was going to come a little bit later. Recall with Jesus, when Jesus began his ministry, John said to the crowds about Jesus, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. That was John's sole point was to point to Jesus. And that's our point as well, to point to Christ. But then Jesus gives this a most amazing statement about John. Among those born of women, none is greater than John the Baptist. Wow. Those are high marks coming from the Son of God. So not only was John the greatest prophet to have ever lived. He was the greatest human to have ever lived. No one was greater. Now when Jesus says born of a w of women, he is meaning born of J just a woman, uh, in the sense that uh not born of God, which is how Jesus was born. Jesus was not putting John over him But Jesus is doing this to convince the crowds that John's message must be heated. John was truly from heaven. The Spirit was upon John in a way that was unique and different than all the prophets before. Unique and different more than Isaiah and Ezekiel and Daniel, any of the prophets before. John was unique because he was the messenger of Christ himself. And you get the sense here that the crowds are enjoying this. They are nodding approvingly. They were baptized by John. They of course knew that he was special. They listened to his message. And there were a lot of people there that didn't, as we'll see. But then, as he often does, Jesus gives us a turn. He gives us a pivot. And he says something so profoundly puzzling. John was great, yet the one who is least In the kingdom of God is greater than he. How can this be? You were just saying, Jesus, that John was so great, he's the greatest human basically ever to be born. And now you're saying that he who is least Smallest is the word in the kingdom is actually greater than John. Who are the least? Who is Jesus even talking about? Well, what is the kingdom of God for that matter? And both of those are important to answer. To answer this, we have to notice Jesus' qualification about John. He said, Among those born of a woman. Oh, this seems rather obvious and uh I uh doesn't seem to there isn't a need to state it. I don't know of any other way for a person to be born than of a woman. I'm very thankful that no one can be born by a man. Perhaps Jesus was merely contrasting his own birth with John's birth, as I mentioned earlier. But there is something else that Jesus is hinting at. How else can one be born? You can be born by the Spirit. You can be reborn by the Spirit of God. All people All mankind are born of flesh and blood. They are born of a woman, so to speak, a natural birth. But only some are born of the Spirit. Only some are given the Spirit of God to dwell in them. And being born of the Spirit is the, the prerequisite. To enter the kingdom of God. Or the kingdom of heaven. They're synonymous. Being born of the Spirit is the prerequisite to enter into the kingdom of God. Recall what Jesus says in John chapter 3 when he's talking to Nicodemus, truly, truly, I say to you. Unless one is born again, he will never see the kingdom of God. Now Nicodemus was understandably confused slightly, and Jesus elaborated this a little bit more for him. Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water, natural birth, and the spirit. He cannot enter the kingdom of God. The Spirit is the supernatural birth All mankind is in the same boat. We've all been born naturally, and you've all been born of a woman. But by God's grace The Spirit of God can give you new birth. Because before God, just like Adam, we're all dead. In our sins, in our transgressions, in our iniquities, in the ways that we've rebelled against God over and over, day in and day out. We're dead. And so we need to be reborn. And recall Nicodemus Daniel. Go back into a woman. No, you must be reborn by the Spirit. And the kingdom of God is made up of those who have been born again by the Spirit of God. And the one who has the Spirit Even if that person is deemed to be small or little, that person who has a spirit is greater than even the greatest prophet to have ever lived. John the Baptist. How is this? Because the Spirit of God never lived in the Old Testament saints Of whom John is counted as the last one. Remember that Jesus says later on that the prophets were prophesying up to John. John is the end. And the Spirit never lived in those Old Testament saints the way it lives in us today. The way the Spirit has come upon us, the church, is different. This does not mean that the Spirit was absent or that the Spirit was inactive He was just not fully realized. He wasn't fully consummated as he was on the day of Pentecost. See, the Old Testament foreshadowed the coming of the kingdom of God by foreshadowing the permanence. of the Spirit of God among us. That's what the Old Testament was pointing to. Not just that there was a Messiah to come, which was obviously very important. But that the Spirit of God would actually dwell in a permanent way for the first time. Our salvation is Trinitarian The Father sends the Son, who dies on our behalf as a substitutionary atonement. The Son sends the Spirit. Who gives us the adoption as sons of God the Father? All three are necessary in our salvation. They're all involved. And the kingdom of God consists of those that have experienced all three. Christ has died for your sins. The Father has adopted you into his family. And the Spirit of God lives within you. And it's the Spirit of God that ushers us into the kingdom of God. It's the Spirit of God that now establishes the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven. It's the Spirit. But the Jews, they did not understand this. They knew about the Spirit, of course, but they didn't know about faith And it's with faith that we look to Christ, who then gives us his Spirit. It's by faith that we receive the Spirit of God and thus receive the kingdom. But the Jews Most of them rejected faith, thus rejecting the spirit, thus rejecting God. And Jesus turns his attention to them in verse 30 to this present generation, he says, a generation that for the most part listened to neither Jesus nor John the Baptist. The Jews thought they were obeying God. But in reality they were rebelling against him. They believed that they knew what God wanted, but in reality they were in the dark. They had this narrow understanding. of the Messiah, of the Spirit. And they wanted those to fit into their box. And this is the meaning of the part of the passage about children singing songs. There's much debate about who this saying uh refers to who are the children? Who uh are the children calling out to? Who are they? My view is that the children are the Jews of the current generation, as Jesus says, and that they are calling out to Jesus and John who refuse to capitulate to what they want them to do. The Pharisees, the Jews of that generation had an idea for what the Messiah would be like. They had an idea for what John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Messiah, would be like But neither one of them fit into their category, into their box. John the Baptist was an ascetic, a man who practiced incredible self-discipline. Self-denial. He preached a message of repentance. He foretold the coming of judgment. He was certainly impressive figure to behold. And the Jews did not know what to do with him. They had nowhere to put him. So rather, declaring that he was from God, they said he had a demon. What else could explain your behavior, John, other than demonic activity? If you're going to wear a coat like that, you must be possessed. But when Jesus comes, he's not an ascetic like John. He eats normal food, drinks normal wine, lives in a normal house, might even had a cool leather jacket, I don't know. Not one made up camel hair, but and he's proclaiming the kingdom of God. And the Jews say, John can't be good be the forerunner. Because he's too odd. And Jesus can't be the Messiah because he's too licentious. How can this be the Messiah eating and drinking with tax collectors and sinners? So they call him a drunkard. And they call him a glutton. They actually later on in Luke call him a demon-possessed as well. So they just throw everything at Jesus. Neither the messenger nor the one the message pointed to would fit into their category. But neither the messenger nor the one the message pointed to cared about their categories Jesus makes the rules. It is we who abide by those rules, not the other way around. And Jesus declares the kingdom of God is now at hand. And the question it leaves us, Liberty Church, is, are you in that kingdom? Do you possess the kingdom of God? How do I know I possess the kingdom of God? The Spirit of God lives in you. How do I know the Spirit of God lives in me? You love Jesus and you love his word. I can give a further answer, but at a basic foundational level, in order to be in the kingdom of God, you must have the Spirit of God. In order to know that you have the Spirit of God, what does the Spirit cause us to do? What's the Spirit compel us to do? It compels us to love Christ and to look to him by faith and to love his word and to trust it. Every person must ask the question, Do I have the Spirit? Every person must do that examination to themselves. Paul encourages, implores us. To do that. Do you possess the Spirit? And the Jews neither loved Jesus nor did they believe his word. They rejected him, just as there are some, perhaps even now, in this room who are doing the same. But wisdom, Jesus says, will be proven by her children. This is the last of the odd statements that we have to We have to uh unravel here. This idea of wisdom being personified as a mother comes from the book of Proverbs. And it's such an apt analogy because mothers are so wise, aren't they? Proverbs 8 says this, does not wisdom call Does she not raise her voice? I love that. And the rest of the chapter just talks about how this personified wisdom is is helping the children of God know God. And it it leaves this question if you read through the chapter and you read through the rest of Proverbs, chapter 8 fits into the context of the rest of Proverbs. It leaves this question for all of us. And the question is this, what is wisdom? And it's answered very clearly. It's to fear God It's the fear of God is to obey his word. It's to hear his word. And rather than rejecting, rather than turning away from his word, it's hearing it, receiving it, and obeying it. That's true wisdom. And that wisdom can only come by the Spirit of God in your heart. It's not a natural response to God's word. The natural response to God's word is, as Paul says, to smell it like death. To hear God's word and not believe it. But the supernatural response to God's word, done by the Spirit of God, is to hear God's word and say, that's true. I'll bet my life on it. You can only do that by the Spirit of God The Spirit changes our hearts. It gives us ears to hear and gives us eyes to see what? To see truth. And all this will be revealed in the last day. Wisdom will be proved by our children. Later on, it will be shown. It will be revealed, as Paul says, when at the name of Jesus Christ. Every knee will bow in heaven and on earth, and every tongue will confess that he is Lord. to the glory of God the Father. This is the children of wisdom, bowing your knee to King Jesus, receiving his Spirit, and entering into the kingdom of God now and for all eternity. Let's pray. Father, we come before you and beg for your spirit. To descend here in our midst. Lord, to lead us that we may walk by your Spirit That we may exhibit the fruit of your spirit, the love and the joy, the peace. Lord, we want to be Christians who are spirit-led, spirit-driven. I pray that that would be the mark of Liberty Church. Lord, and I do pray for those in here who do not have your spirit, who have never been born again, I pray that your spirit would not leave them alone. Lord, that your spirit would harass them, would chase them, that you would open their eyes to see the beauty. Of the gospel of Jesus Christ who died on a cross for our sins that we may become children of God. I pray that that would happen even today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.