Thank you, Choir. If you have your Bibles, open to Luke chapter 7. We'll be looking at verses 18 through 23. Before we get started, this day is special to me for a trifecta of reasons. It's Mother's Day, as we've mentioned already. Uh today also marks the six months that we have been here at Liberty Church. And well no need. Wasn't looking for applause. Um but what a wonderful six months it's been. Uh but even more importantly than that, today marks the twelve year anniversary of our marriage. So happy anniversary, Fallon. And what a wonderful twelve years it has been. Alright, let's uh dive into our text here. Luke chapter seven verses eighteen through twenty-three. This short passage peers behind the curtain of a particular crisis of faith. Not of the apostles. Not of the ordinary believers in Jesus, but of the great John the Baptist. And I can say great because Jesus called John great. Later on in Luke chapter 7, he says, Among those born of a woman, there is no one greater than John. But this great man, this prophet, this cousin of Jesus, begins to struggle to believe. And he was fighting for his faith. Like someone fighting to stay above water to breathe. Even John grew uncertain about the claims of Jesus Christ. And isn't this good for you and I to know? Isn't this Encouraging to know that we're not the only ones who whose faith falters at times, whose trust topples. Isn't it reassuring to read about a man? Who once boldly proclaimed, he who is coming will baptize with fire, but now is saying, Are you the one to come? In just a few short chapters, what are reversals. But in this we can all take heart. For the faith the size of a mustard seed is capable of apprehending Christ, of of receiving salvation through him. But it's still difficult to go through times when that seed of faith is struggling to grow. We just started our garden recently and uh we have a variety of crops, uh six to seven different vegetables and herbs, and uh the crown jewel of the garden. are the heirloom tomatoes. That's basically why we started the garden in the first place. But not a single sprout yet. Uh no sign of life at all. Apparently it's too cold. And uh the kale, the boring kale is growing in leaps and bounds. But where are my tomatoes? And uh even in good conditions with great soil, adequate water, plenty of sunlight, there can be little growth. And the seed of faith is like this at times. Even in good conditions, we can struggle. Let alone the conditions that John was facing. You know, Luke does not mention it here, but recall what was said earlier in the Gospel. Where was John the Baptist at this point in time? Where was he? He was in prison. He's languishing in a Palestinian jail cell. Two chapters from now, John's about to be beheaded by Herod. His situation was grave. And thus his faith, which was once this mighty oak, has now been reduced to a seedling, struggling in the soil of his jail cell. Let's look at what's happening here. Verse 18 says the disciples of John reported all these things to John. What are all these things? Well, it's the things that Jesus had been doing all right, namely raising a mother's son to life, as we looked at last week in verses 11 through 17, as well as healing a centurion. And these are impressive acts. These are works that you would think could only be done by the Messiah. So the disciples of John who see this go and report these things to John who is in prison. And verse 19 says that after John heard the report, he sent two of his disciples. to go and talk to Jesus. Now sending disciples out two by two is something that Jesus started and John is continuing that pattern. And his disciples are to ask a very specific question. It's repeated even twice in these six verses. Very specific question. Are you the one to come? Or should we look for another? Now, some people argue that John's question sent by way of the disciples was meant to encourage the disciples' faith. Well, if that's the case, why didn't John send all the disciples? Is it just two of them that needed encouragement? No, it was John who needed encouraging. It was John who needed hope. Are you the one to come? Or should we look for another? In other words, John 's saying, I'm struggling here. And I need some reassurance. This question from John came because of this report that he received from his disciples, the report of what Jesus had just been doing. What was it about this report? That would make John ask such a question. A dead person was just raised to life In the last passage. To emphasize this point, look what Luke adds. He adds this parenthetical statement. In that hour Jesus healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits. And on many who were blind he bestowed or gifted sight. Of course, Jesus is the Messiah. Why would anyone doubt? Look at what Jesus has been doing right up to this very hour. Why would John think anything different? Why would the report of what Jesus has been doing precipitate a question like, are you the one? Well, I believe it does have to do with Jesus' ministry. But not what Jesus has done. Instead, it has to do with what Jesus has not done You see, when Jesus started his ministry way back in Luke chapter 4, if you may recall, he goes into the synagogue, he opens the scroll to Isaiah, he reads, and he says that he has been, that the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. Okay, so far so good. John has witnessed that. He has seen Jesus preaching good news to the poor, the gospel to the poor. And Jesus reminds him of this through his disciples. But in that part in Luke 4, Spirit has anointed me to preach good news to the poor, and also to proclaim liberty to the captives. And John, sitting in prison as a captive, is asking, why hasn't that happened yet? Why am I still here? In other words, John's situation, his circumstances, are the seedbed for doubting Jesus If John was out and about roaming the deserts of Judea, he probably would not have asked that question, but he was not free. He was in prison. And he wondered how this could be. How could the greatest disciple of Jesus, the first one who followed Jesus, how could he be in prison? And John must have thought to himself, okay, Jesus, you've healed a lot of people. I get that, I understand. You've even resurrected somebody. But I'm still a captive. It's worthy to note that when Jesus gives evidences of his ministry in this passage to John's disciples, including sight to the blind, the crippled walking, the dead raised. What does he not include? He does not include liberty to the captives. In other words, for John, there would be no liberty. He was to die in prison. Jesus obviously knew this. John's situation would not improve. In fact, it would get much worse. And all of this was the force that was driving John's faith. Into the ground. John heard the word of God from the mouth of Jesus himself, yet he was not believing that the word of God was for him. John heard the word of God audibly, but he did not believe the truth personally. And is this not true of you and I, Liberty Church? Oftentimes you hear the word of God either preached or by reading it on your own. And you ask, how can this be about me? Perhaps it's a promise from Scripture, like when God tells you in Hebrews 13 I will never leave you nor forsake you, and yet you feel left and forsaken. Or perhaps it's when Jesus says anything that you ask of the Father. Father, I will do for you, and yet you feel like your prayers are falling on deaf ears. Or perhaps it's when Scripture says, God is faithful, he will not let you be tempted. Tempted beyond what you can endure, but you feel yourself at a complete breaking point, resisting sin. But giving into it. And you begin to wonder, is the Bible even for me? You cry out with John, how long, O Lord, how long will it take for these things to be true about me? But Liberty Church, Jesus Christ hears your cries. He most certainly sees the seed of your faith struggling. And like an expert gardener, he knows when to prune, he knows when to water. See, Jesus perceived in John's question a sense of hopelessness. A sense of desperation. He didn't need to be told that this is what John was thinking. He knows what's in the heart of every man. And Jesus knows the same about you. And he hears and he listens and he responds to your struggle with truth. Not truth that you're going to use years from now, like five years from now, even though you may. Truth that you need right now. In this present hour, in this moment of crisis, Jesus meets you with truth and he gives us hope. Listen to how Jesus responds to John's question. Go and tell John What you have seen and heard. Jesus condescends to meet John where he's at. He doesn't say, John, how dare you to doubt? How dare you to question me in front of all these crowds? I'm embarrassed. You're embarrassing me. That's what I would do. If someone came up to me after the service and said, Are are you really a preacher? I would say I thought so, but maybe it would be embarrassing. Jesus is not concerned. He's not embarrassed. He condescends to where John is, and he sends John a message. Of hope with also a message of a slight rebuke, as we shall see. And the same is true for us. Do you think God is offended by your crisis of faith? Do you think he gets annoyed by your questions, by your doubts? Do you think he grows weary by your need for affirmation? Of course not. I have to admit I'm I'm not a very good affirmer. Uh that does not mean I do not know how to do it. I just choose not to do it. at times. Don't worry, my wife is working on me still. But sometimes there's just something in me that just doesn't want to affirm or reassure. I don't know why. That's why Jesus Christ is our high priest. He can meet our concerns in droves. He can be waylaid by our frustrations, our fears, our doubts, and they will not discourage him They will not worry him. They will not frustrate him. They will not cause him to turn a deaf ear to our pleas and our cries. He will speak to us. Through his word to encourage the hearts of God's children. And Jesus sends his word in a variety of ways. Most importantly, he sends his word through us picking this up and reading. Taking scripture and hearing God's promises. And God speaks through this word, but perhaps He speaks, He also speaks through a book or a devotional. Well, you may not agree with everything the author says, but God uses the wisdom, a seed of wisdom, to remind you of God's promises for you. Or perhaps he speaks to you through a song. Some of the songs that we even sang today, where he reminds you through that song of God's great promises found in scripture. Or perhaps, as in the case of John, you are told the word of God by your friends. That's what presumably these disciples of John did. They came back to John and told him what Jesus had told them. And that is true fellowship. How great it is to have men and women in our life who hear from God through His Word and then come tell us who are struggling to help encourage our faith. Do you have friends like that in your life? Are you that friend to somebody else? We see here Jesus points to specific miracles that he has done to reassure John. The blind receive their sight. The lame walk, lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. And all these miracles were from Jesus' ministry. He's done these. But they're also from the book of Isaiah. And Isaiah is a very important book because it foreshadows most vividly the coming of the Christ. And the very book of Isaiah details one particular aspect of the Messiah's ministry. Mainly, really, even above others. And this aspect of Christ's ministry is that he would become the suffering servant. Christ knew suffering. He never lost faith, but he suffered. And in that way he can relate. But Jesus' last words are perhaps the most powerful. Look at what he says: Blessed is the one who is not offended by me. This is perhaps the slight rebuke that I alluded to earlier. Blessed is the one who is not offended. By me. Jesus had just preached a sermon on being blessed back in Luke chapter 6. And in that sermon on blessedness, we saw that those who are suffering in various ways are to receive the kingdom of God. And Jesus mentions another way to be blessed. And that's by not being offended by him. This word offended is where we get our English word scandal or scandalous from. It means to cause to fall or to stumble due to something said or done. Jesus uses John's doubt here to make an important point for the church at large. There is much that Jesus says that is offensive. There is much in this word of God that's a stumbling block for Christians and for non-Christians. And the greatest stumbling block is not, is not that John would die in prison. But that Jesus would die for John. It is the cross that's the offense. It's the cross that's the scandal And many stumble at this point, right here in the gospel. They're tracking along nicely, and they get to the cross. And it's an offense. And they stumble over it. And they trip and fall. Maybe even some in this congregation. Who can accept the words of Jesus to a point, but then they get to the cross and they don't know how. Paul says this to the Corinthians, For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Where is the one who is wise? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? We preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews. and foolishness to Gentiles. And that word stumbling block is the same word used here in Luke as an offense. A scandal. The idea that the Son of God would take our sins upon himself as a substitutionary atonement That's a scandal. The idea that God would have wrath, that he would pour out upon his son for the injustice of sin and the rebellion of all mankind, that is an absolute scandal The idea that Jesus Christ rose from the dead and is now sitting at the right hand of God the Father as we speak, that is a scandal. The idea that you and I, sinners, guilty under the law, who have broken all of the law, who stand condemned That we can receive forgiveness for all of our sins, past, present, and future, by repenting and by trusting Jesus Christ alone for our salvation. That is an absolute Absolute scandal. Absolute scandal. Have you done that? Liberty Church, have you done that? Are you offended by the cross? Or have you embraced the scandal that is Jesus Christ crucified Have you repented of your sin and put your faith in Jesus Christ alone for the forgiveness of all your sins? This is he who is blessed. It's the one who is not offended by me, who is not offended by my word, who is not offended by the cross. And Jesus says that he who comes to me must not be ashamed of me. What's he talking about? He's talking about the scandal of the cross. As we read earlier in Hebrews 12, 2, what did Jesus do? He endured the cross, scorning its shame. It was an absolute shame that the Son of God would be naked upon a cross, suffering the penalty that he didn't deserve. And were to embrace that? We're to receive that shame? Absolutely. If you're unwilling to receive that, Christ says He has no part of you. You must receive the scandal that is Jesus Christ and Him crucified in order for you to be born again. And blessed are you who are not scandalized. Who are not offended, but who believe the words of Christ and receive from Him life everlasting. Let us pray Father God, the word of the cross is indeed foolishness to those who are perishing. For those who have not been born again, who do not have your spirit, it is such folly. There is no wisdom in it. But you, O God, thwart the wisdom of the wise. Let all mankind be a liar and you proven to be true. Father God, that you sent your Son, Jesus Jesus Christ, born of a woman, born under the law, to die for all of us under the law who have broken your commandments and rebelled against you. And Lord, only through you, Jesus Christ, can we have forgiveness because you have paid Paid the penalty of our sins. Lord, I pray for those who are believers. Lord, that if they're struggling right now in their faith, that they would look to you, Jesus. They would remember your promises. In your word. Lord, they would read your word. Father, I pray for those who are not believers, who have not bent their knee to you, Jesus. And I pray that you would move in their hearts even now. Lord, you would show them by your mercy and your compassion, show them the beauty and glory of your Son Jesus Christ, and that forgiveness is of Available to them. We trust you with this and we pray all this in your name. Amen.