Good morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Gospel of Luke, chapter 11. We're going to be looking at verses 29 through 36. 29 through 36. Before this passage, Jesus has been teaching on the kingdom of God verses the kingdom of Satan and the crowds were a little skeptical and they began to believe that Jesus and Satan were actually on the same thread. Like they were in cahoots together. And recall what they said back in verse 15, which provides the context for our passage this morning. The crowd said this. But some of the crowd said, he casts out, Jesus, cast out demons by Beazel, the prince of demons, while others to test him. kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. And the first accusation of this crowd is that Jesus is casting out demons by the devil. But that cannot be. It's illogical. How can Satan fight against himself? And that's not the case. Satan wasn't fighting against Satan. Jesus fought against Satan. It wasn't even a fair close match. Jesus was the stronger man who bound Satan. And took away all of his weapons and took away his captives. And we looked at that last week. And now Jesus is going to address the second part of what the crowd said. They wanted to test him by asking for a sign. Now, why does the crowd do this? And not just the crowd, but the entire generation of Jesus, as he says later on. Why are they looking for a sign? Well, Jesus is claiming to be a prophet, and not just any prophet, a prophet with a capital P, the prophet, the Son of God. And throughout Israel's history. Every prophet that came up proved themselves to be a prophet by some form of sign or miracle. From the very beginning, we see this. Elijah flew on chariots of fire. Isaiah healed the king Hezekiah. He even stopped time for a little bit, if you recall that. And we have Daniel surviving the lion's den, his friends surviving a fiery furnace. And the greatest prophet up to that time, Moses. Parted an entire sea. And now the crowd is asking Jesus for the same proof that they had been receiving throughout their entire history. If you're a prophet, prove it to us. And you can almost see this look of smug dissatisfaction on their faces as they ask, what exempts you, Jesus, from From proving to us and from obliging our demands. And what's ironic about this demand is that hasn't Jesus been proving it already up to this point? All throughout the gospel, how many miracles had Jesus already performed? He healed the blind, he gave the mute man ability to speak He told a paralytic man to walk. He cast out demons. He was transfigured on a mountain gloriously. And he was, if you forgot, born of a virgin. And we're not even halfway through the gospel of Luke yet. Was this not enough for the crowd? They wanted more. They wanted more proof. And the reality is it's not about proof. It never was. It never The crowd had all the proof that they needed to believe in Jesus. They refused to believe in light of the proof that they already had. Because They were not born of God. They did not have eyes to see. Jesus Christ would set them free. The crowd was just doing what Satan wanted them to do. I mean recall back in the Gospel of Luke, recall what Satan did to Jesus. He tested Jesus as well. Long ago, the beginning of Jesus' ministry When Jesus went out to the desert to be tempted by the devil, the same word used for tempted then is the word used for tested now. And one of the tests or temptation that Satan used on Jesus was to challenge him to prove his divinity. To prove that he was indeed the Son of God. If you're the Son of God, turn these stones to bread. If you are the Son of God, throw yourself off this building. And Satan was demanding a sign of Jesus' divinity, and the crowd was merely following in his footsteps, which is why Jesus calls them an evil generation. And the same is true of this generation. Without Christ freeing you. From your spiritual blindness. Without Christ giving us his Holy Spirit, no proof will ever be enough Nothing anyone can say or do to a spiritually dead person will convince them. to give their life to Jesus Christ, whom they assume is dead as well. You could ask for riding in the sky. But somehow you would explain even that away by an anomaly of the clouds. You would ask for some sign, perhaps, to convince you. Prove to me, God , that Jesus is who he says he is. Prove to me, God, that you're real. And you can ask for a sign all day long, and Jesus says, none will be given to you except the sign of Jonah. Now this is interesting. The sign of why pick Jonah? There's a lot of prophets in the Old Testament. I just named a few. Why Jonah? Jonah was a prophet in the 8th century. He preached to the Assyrians in the city of Nineveh. But what does it mean that Jesus says, none or no sign will be given to you except the sign of Jonah? It means two things, actually. The same saying of Jesus is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew. But Luke omits An important part of what Matthew adds. And that is that the sign of Jonah points to Jesus' death and resurrection. Just as Jonah was in the belly of a huge fish for three days, so too the Son of Man will be in the belly of the earth for three days. And just as Jonah was figuratively resurrected from the dead when the fish spit him out onto dry land, so too the son of man will rise from the dead. But Luke omits that very part of the Jonah analogy. Not because he does not think it's important, of course it's important, but because he's focusing on another aspect. Jonah's preaching. Jonah's preaching. Verse 32 gives us a little of a clue of that. repented, the people repented at the preaching of Jonah. It was the preaching of Jonah that was the sign to the Assyrians. They were a godless nation. They were the enemies of God 's people. But when Jonah preached the gospel to them, they repented. They didn't know about Jonah and the fish in three days. Jonah preached to them, and the Assyrians repented. That was the only sign that they needed. The word of God preached with conviction and power, and it caused a national revival in Nineveh. And Jesus is telling his generation, the sign that you are wanting, the sign from heaven is yours. It's twofold. My death and resurrection and the preaching of my death and resurrection And neither one of these were heeded by Jesus' generation. And the same is true often today. The resurrection is disregarded as fictitious, dubious, as the invention of man and preaching Preaching, this antiquated form of communication, seen as narrow minded, bigoted. When people hear of preachers and preaching Many often turn up their noses. They act the very act of this disgusts some people. Hopefully that's not true of you. And the sad truth is, if you are going to reject Jesus' death and resurrection. And if you are going to reject the preaching of Jesus' death and resurrection There is no sign left for you. That's it And if you're not a believer here this morning, that is, if you do not believe in the death and resurrection of Of Jesus Christ. Christ , If you do not believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God who has come to earth to die for your sins, if you don't believe that, I plead with you. To keep coming and listen to preaching. It's all you have left It's the only sign left given to you. If you will not accept the death and resurrection of Jesus Jesus Christ, and you will not accept the preaching of God's word happening right now in your very midst. There is no hope. And you are doing what the gospels say of blaspheming the Holy Spirit, rejecting every sign that God could possibly give you to come to Him. And at this very moment, Christ is preaching through his word, through a broken vessel , he's preaching you the good news that you do not have to die in your sins. You can be saved by turning away from evil and believing in Christ. He atoned for our sins by becoming sins for us. Paying the penalty for all of our transgressions, all the evil that we've done. He died on a cross and was buried in the ground, and yet he did not stay He rose three days later to declare victor victory over sin and death, and that he is truly the Son of God. This is the gospel. And though Jonah preached, and preached with power, the Son of Man is a far greater preacher. Jonah preached the grace of God. Jesus is the grace of God. Jonah preached the truth of God's word. Jesus Christ is the truth of God's word. Jonah, if you read through his book named after him, he was a sinful man. He complained a lot. And uh he was just Gruntled, didn't want to preach, upset about God's plans and purposes. And yet God gave him power How much more the Son of God, sinless, perfect, who atones for our own sins Who loves the plans and purposes of God perfectly is in perfect accord with them. How much more should people repent at his preaching? And the reference here to Solomon, we see in verse thirty-one. And to the queen of the south. This is also connected to the preaching of Christ. Solomon was endowed with this incredible wisdom. And the queen of the south is the queen of Sheba, another name for Sheba. Which is in Southwest Arabia. And there's an incident that takes place there in 1 Kings chapter 10, in which the Queen of Sheba hears about the wisdom of Solomon. Now it's everyone's heard of it. And she travels from Southwest Arabia up to Israel to hear Solomon's wisdom. She wants to find out more about who this king is. But there's a very explicit connection to that 1 Kings 10 passage and the passage that we're looking at this morning. This is what it says in 1 Kings 10. Listen to this. Now, when the queen of Sheba heard the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the Lord, she came to test him. See, the Queen of Sheba had the same skeptical attitude as the crowd surrounding Jesus As the generation of Jesus, as our own generation. But she came and she heard the preaching of Solomon, and she was convinced. She was converted. She became a believer. It was the wisdom of Solomon, which is the wisdom of God. That she heard and responded to by faith. And when we preach Christ, we preach Christ as wisdom and power of God. Apostle Paul states this in 1 Corinthians 124. We preach Christ crucified, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. But sadly The preaching of Christ today falls on deaf ears. The power is inherently still there. The wisdom is inherently still there. What is happening in the church today? What is happening is that what would normally be called preaching is no longer preaching because Christ isn't there. People aren't preaching Christ. They're preaching everything else they can think of to attract crowds and tickle ears. And yet, Jesus Christ isn't the theme. It's no longer about Christ. So Christ has another word of warning to the church. In verses 33 through 36. Now, I have to admit, look with me at verses 33 through 36. This is a rather confusing passage. And uh when you heard it today, read, maybe you took it uh in a variety of ways. There's a lot of ways to take it, I think, or at least people take it in different ways. But what we have to keep in mind Again, I have I have preached uh until I'm blue in the face, and you probably are sick of it now, but looking at the context and the literary con the story, right, of of what each of these passages you just don't pluck out of isolation, say, oh, what's this mean? You look at how Luke has been developing the entire gospel very, very intentionally. And we have to keep in mind that this exact same passage, which is rather confusing, I admit, is mentioned earlier three chapters ago, almost verbatim. And uh it's found in Luke chapter 8, verses 16 through 18. It's almost the word for word, not quite. And some people would argue, well, Luke just must have spaced out. He was writing this this this long book and he he just he just wrote the same saying again. And uh he just c he just kind of forgot. And uh that's That is not the case, I assure you. This was intentionally done by Luke. He had this saying in in chapter eight And uh the this one saying means two different things, just like the sign of Jonah means two different things. The first reference to lighting a lamp, and you can flip back to chapter 8 if you'd like, or just listen to me. The first reference to lighting a lamp refers to our response to the Word of God. And Jesus says this in chapter 8, verse 18, take care then how you hear. And the context for that one as you recall, was it was immediately following the parable of the seed. And the seed is what? The word of God. And so this whole idea is this lamp is the word of God. And take care how you hear But in our passage, there's something slightly different going on. Jesus omits the part, take care then how you hear. That's no longer found in the two in this passage And the difference between the two passages comes down to one important element of this saying, the lamp. In the two illustrations, both lamps are placed on a stand. They are not to be hidden. The word of God is to be. proclaimed and declared for all the world to see. Everything is done openly. We talk about Christ openly. He's declared it to the world that he is the Son of God. The lamp is on a stand. We don't put it under a basket. It's not just for the for those in the uh in the secret society. We declare openly to all But in the first illustration, the lamp reveals what is hidden, what is in darkness. The lamp illuminates these secrets. secrets of the kingdom of God. Verse 17, again I'm back at the previous passage. I'm sorry this is m follow along a little bit with this, but uh these two passages, obviously we have to connect the two because they are um They are uh very so similar. Verse seventeen, back in that uh chapter eight passage states for nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and And come to light. So boil this down. The lamp in the first illustration shines externally in a sense. The word of God is that lamp. And we walk in its light. The light of the word is a light for our feet. It's a lamp to our path. We see by the word of God. We're called to walk in the light of God's word. But in the second illustration, in our one this morning, Morning, the lamp has an internal effect. It's not shining on a path for you to walk on. There's all this language here of eyes and your body and your body healthy and dark and The lamp becomes the eye of your body, it says, and your entire body can be filled with light or darkness due to this lamp. What's going on here? The lamp here is Jesus Christ, who is the Word of God. Jesus Christ is the lamp and he equates himself with the Word of God. In verse 36 of our passage, he is the lamp with its rays that gives you light. The word of God being preached. Is Jesus Christ come in the flesh? The Apostle John states this in his gospel: In the beginning was the word. In the beginning of creation, as we'll look at this evening. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning, God Well, John says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Well, who is this word? Who are you talking about, John? He tells us a few verses later, the word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. Jesus Christ, the one greater than Jonah. The one greater than Solomon, the one greater than all the prophets that have come before. He is the word become flesh, the lamp of God's word, the light of the world, a light by which We can see now. And when the light of Christ is seen by you, and this is the idea of the eyes, it's it's not to be taken literally This is poetic imagery. The gospel doesn't really come through your eye. It's connected to this idea of the light of the lamp. But when you see Jesus for who he is and what he has done for you Jesus says, your whole body is healthy. Your whole body is filled with light. You're healthy and good, he says Not in the way the prosperity gospel would say that you're healthy and good. You're healthy because you are no longer under the dominion Of sin. God has removed your sins from me as far as the East is from the West. And this brightness that we receive when we see Jesus Christ clearly, this brightness that we is not just for us, it's for all of the world to see in us. Jesus Christ, the hope of glory. And when you go out after Sundays and Go into the world, to workplaces, homes, families, friends, neighbors, and they see in you, if you are a genuine believer, they see the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ shining in you If no one sees that, then it has to lead us to wonder, is that light truly in us? But people will see the disposition of Christians. They will see the good deeds. They'll see your Christ-like character. They'll know that something is different because there is this light of Jesus Christ that's within us. And Jesus warns us as well, be careful lest the light becomes darkness. What does this mean? You're only healthy and good. You're only filled with light as far as you hold on to Jesus Christ, your Lord and Savior. Cling to him always. And if you're not seeing right now the light of the Jesus Christ and his gospel, it is not because there's something inherently wrong with him. Look to Jesus. Even now, even today, look to Christ, the author and perfector of our faith. Look to Jesus The one who is greater than Jonah, for he has come and he's declared to all the world the gospel of his salvation He did not do this in a corner. He did not do this in the dark. He did not do it hidden from view. He did it in plain sight for all the world to see. He announced his gospel in no uncertain terms. He cried out to all creation, I have come to give you life and to give it to the full. And now how will you respond? If you're not in Christ, if you're not a believer in Christ, I urge you and plead with you that you would even today repent and put your faith in Faith in him. See him for who he is. He is the King of glory. And he loves you to die for you. Stand in your place as a a sinner. If you are in Christ, how do you respond? When you see Jesus, the only natural response is to work To give him praise and glory that he is due. For he is the truth of God, the wisdom of God, and the salvation of our God Almighty. Let us pray. Father, you are God Almighty, and Jesus Christ, you are the light of the world. By this light we can see. Without this light, we are in complete darkness. We cannot see this light except for the work and power of your Holy Spirit to move in our hearts, to illuminate. In us, who you are and what you have done for us. Give every single person here the grace to believe in you and to see you in all your glory, holiness, and majesty. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Liberty Church, let us stand and give God The praise that he is due by singing praise to the Lord found number 50 in your hymn. Please stand with me.