If you have your Bibles, turn with me to Luke 22, 63, and then through chapter 23, verse 12. As I mentioned earlier, we have a A lot to cover here. I was originally planning on cutting this in about half, but there's just so much of it is interconnected, it's it would be hard to. But for the next three weeks, we're going to be looking at the passion of Jesus, the suffering that Christ experienced during his final hours on earth And passion is from the Latin word that means to suffer. And there are differences of opinion as to when the technical term for passion, the passion of Christ, actually began. Some hold that it began at the triumphal entry, as Jesus entered into Jerusalem. Others hold it to begin at the Lord's Supper. Others at the arrest of Jesus. This is not a a really a a biblical idea. The suffering of Christ actually started when he took on the form of man. And he condescended himself to become lowly human. That was when suffering began. But he also did indeed suffer in unique ways. More than just being incarnate. First, he suffered in the garden as he prepared to drink the full cup of God's wrath that was prepared for him. These sweat drops of blood we looked at a few weeks ago. So the passion in that sense could have started there. And he also suffered physical violence at the hands of evil men, which we see begins right here. And truly, this is a remarkable event. For the first time in the history of the cosmos A man strikes God. Verse 63. Now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him. And what sheer insanity is this? This these men with the hands that Jesus Christ Himself formed. Are using their hands to strike the face of their Creator. These men with the lips that Jesus put into place are using to speak wicked and vile and blasphemous things against their Creator. They're using the mind that Jesus made out of the dust of the earth. To devise plots against their creator. All of men And all of man rebels against Jesus Christ. All men are insurrectionists Against the rule and kingdom of God. And every part of a man rebels. His mouth, his hands, his feet, his mind, it's all in direct opposition to the holy divine will of God. It's not just these soldiers, nor the Jews, nor the Romans who are guilty of this. It's all of us. So we have here Christ experiencing something he's never experienced before, the creation, his creation, actually harming him. But the reality, however, is it's not the men's blows that are anything. They're nothing compared to the blow that Christ will receive from God his Father. And the physical strikes are nothing compared to the humiliation and the shame That Jesus experiences. And this is where many people get the passion wrong. Most people, when they think of the passion of Christ and the suffering of Christ, think only about physical harm that Jesus experienced. And this is something I'm going to harp on actually for the next couple weeks. This is one of the major issues. In my opinion, with the Passion of Christ movie directed by Mel Gibson, though there are many other issues with that movie as well, but this idea that the physical harm, the violence that was inflicted upon Christ is the main thing. And in reality, when you look through the Gospels, the physical suffering of Christ is hardly emphasized in comparison. It's there, certainly, but something else is emphasized much, much more. What? It's Christ's humiliation. It's Christ's shame. We see this throughout Luke's account. The soldiers beat Jesus, yes, they inflicted physical harm, but they mock him. The verb mock here is actually the main verb of the Greek. And they blaspheme him. This says Luke says many times. So Christ experiences shame. And humiliation even more than physical violence. Now, of course, the cross is one of the most physically violent Capital punishments ever formed. But the gr the gospel writers do not dwell as much on the physical pain that accompanies the cross as much as the shame that accompanies it, as we will see in the subsequent weeks. So why do gospel writers emphasize humiliation and shame rather than just physical pain? It's to display the gospel. It's to show the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ took upon himself Adam's sin. And Adam, in his shame and his humiliation, was expelled from the garden as an exile And Christ, associating with the first Son of God, Adam, now takes upon himself that exiled nature. That shame, that humiliation, associating himself with the sinner And it is he who is hung upon a cross naked, and the sins of the entire world are imputed to his account. And sin knows no other posture except to produce humiliation, guilt. Christ is humiliated for our sake, even though it's us who should be the ones humiliated before God. In Luke, Jesus is surrounded by men who are just dumping shame upon Christ, and yet these men who are the shameful ones. The soldiers are striking Jesus and they're blaspheming him, and thus they're fulfilling A messianic prophecy back in Psalm 22, verse 16, which says, For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me. I'm reading the biography of Theodore Roosevelt, and he was fond of saying that he belonged to the Company of Doers. And it was implied that he was doing righteous doings, and those in this company are doing the same. It's just what he thought of himself very often. But this is not just a company of doers. This is a company of evildoers. And Jesus is completely surrounded by evildoers from this point on. There's no more getting away to the mountain to pray by himself. There's no more just being with his disciples, his his inner band of followers. He is now in the company of evildoers from this time forth. In fact, Luke is going to present one evildoer after another here in rapid succession in these few verses. He first is surrounded by Judas. As we see, and then the soldiers who come with Judas to arrest him, this is previous uh passage. Then the men who are holding Jesus in custody, another company of evildoers, and then he's whisped away to this council in verse 66, which is another large company of evildoers. This council is the Sanhedrin, and it's composed of Jewish elders and priests and aristocracy that govern Israel both politically and religiously And Christ goes before them to trial, but he's certainly not judged by his peers. He has no peer. And Christ does not get a fair shake at his trial. It's an absolute sham Look at this trial. It's unbelievable. These Jews, the same this council, not even the complete council, just select members of it. They gather together in the dead of the night. out of the fear of the crowds. And they give again, they continue to mock Jesus. Now Luke does not record this in part, but recall the same scene depicted by Matthew. And what does it say? That the Jews, the council spit upon Christ, they slapped him in the face. They're humiliating him. They bring Jesus to the high priest's house for the trial. What kind of trial is this? You're in the high priest's house? This isn't where capital crimes should be decided. It's always to be in the temple. But verse 54, they brought him to the high priest's house. And the trial trial goes on through the night, away from the public eye. Now some may think that this trial lasts all night, right? Because you s you start the trial in the evening and we see later on that it's the next day, it's the morning. I believe that there's actually two scenes that Luke conflates here into one, that there's a trial, and then the morning is the verdict. And this is actually in accord with ancient Jewish custom and Jewish law that capital crimes need to have two days in order to determine the case. So I believe that there is an evening trial and a morning trial. And the Sanhedrin asks Jesus the critical question. It is the question, actually. It's a question that if Jesus answered a certain way, He would be off the hook. But you and I would still be on it. Are you indeed the Messiah? Jesus had a chance right there. And he affirms it. He does not deny. He gives the good testimony in the face of death. But first, he condemns the Sanhedrin for their lack of belief in verse 67. You wouldn't believe even if I told you. And then he declares in power, verse sixty-nine, but from now on. The Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God. Now in this statement, he is clearly and unequivocally presenting himself as the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. He's making himself equal with the transcendent one. Sitting at the right hand of God? That's not for mere man. There's no man that can do that. The angels aren't even allowed to sit at the right hand of God. This is a place reserved for the sun. So the Sanhedrin wants to make sure that they heard this correctly. Are we hearing what you're saying here? And they repeat, are you the Son of God then? And Jesus says in verse 70, you say that I am. Now, maybe you thought this. I know I certainly did. Why does Jesus answer them like this? You say that I am. This seems rather circumvent, uh somewhat indirect. You you say that I am? Yeah, that's some sometimes you can read it that way. Well, there are a few explanations why he does this, but I hold that Jesus reveals himself in that statement not only to be the Messiah, but also the magistrate. The judge. Jesus is being examined in a trial, but in reality, it's the council, the Jews, the nation as a whole. That's being examined by God. They're the ones who are on the trial. The Sanhedrin in particular. And Jesus is condemning them with her own words. It's a way of saying that you said, you actually formed the words, you The Son of God, though posed as a question, but these words actually came out of your mouth. You uttered them, you the Son of God. But they did not believe it. They did not believe the very words that their own lips had formed. Do not let this be said of you, Liberty Church. Do not let words come out of your mouth about Jesus that you do not believe. Jesus Christ is Lord. That's a very powerful testimony. And it's one that should be shared with everyone, both public and private, in your closet and on your rooftops. But not if you think it's untrue. And not if you're not willing To go all the way to its logical conclusion, which is Jesus is your Lord. If that's the case, it's just mockery. If that's the case, it's just lip service. And I shudder to think how many people in the church are merely giving Christ lip service. The Sanhedrin recognized very quickly that in saying, you say that I am, he Jesus was not being indirect. He was not being circumfended. He was actually being quite emphatic. Well what do they say next in verse 71? What further testimony do we need? Shut, close, case. This is it. We've heard it Then they convict him of blasphemy, and this too is a sham. I mean, even according to strict Jewish law if they were really abiding by their own law, that Jesus was not guilty of blasphemy, because you were guilty of blasphemy when you uttered the divine name Yahweh. When Jesus doesn't do that here. Even saying I am was off the books, so to speak. Like that that was allowed because it was so ambiguous. I mean you're saying I am as a divine name, or you're saying I am like I'm going to the grocery Like so they they didn't even make I am that big of a deal in terms of actual punishable crimes. Yahweh, if you said that word, that's blasphemy. You could be stoned, you could be killed. So there's some confusion here, but it matters not to the council. They want Jesus dead, and they want Jesus dead now, but they have a serious problem Because they are under Roman law. And Roman law has stated that they cannot carry out capital punishments without them. Romans are the ones who control penalties of death. So they must send Jesus off to Pilate. And Christ now is paraded before another evildoer, Pilate himself. Now, who is Pilate? Is he to be numbered among the evildoers? Now at first, we may not think so. We'll get to that in a second. An inscription's been found, the Pilate inscription, where it states that Pilate was perfectus Audeia, which loosely translates like a governor of Judea. He had charge of somewhere between 500 and 1,000 troops. He had less than a legion, right? He was less than a general. And there's discrepancy between the gospel accounts of Pilate and extra-biblical accounts of Pilate. Such as Josephus' account, another Jewish scholar, Philo, and his account of Pilate, both of whom talk about Pilate and portray Pilate as cruel, merciless, vindictive. Corrupt. Now, there is probably a lot of truth to these extra-biblical accounts. Not that the gospel writers are lying or or misleading us about Pilate. They're clearly uh they talk about the negative of Pilate as well. They're just not disclosing everything. And and some people argue that this is maybe for political riasons. Because Rome and Jerusalem are on a crash course with one another before, right after Luke is writing this, during the time Luke is writing this 80, 70 is coming very quickly. And so there is a sense of not mentioning all the things, all the crimes of Rome against the Jewish people. But either way. Josephus writes that Pilate just couldn't care less about Jewish laws and customs. He violated them often. He brought images of Caesar into the temple. He did many things like this. It was Pilate's monetary actions against the Jews that started the riot in the first place that led to AD 70. Continual upheaval of Jewish-Roman relations. Luke mentions back in chapter 3 that Pilate mixed the blood of the Galileans. You recall that? with the sacrifices in the temple, meaning he murdered the Galileans as they were sacrificing. Pilate also, this is not recorded in Scripture, massacred a large number of Samaritans. And this was the incident that led the emperor to recall Pilate back to Rome. So this is the man that the Sanhedrin, the council, brings Jesus to. And before Pilate, the counsel brings three accusations. Look what he says in this is 23, verse 2. We found this man misleading our nation. That's accusation number one, forbidding tribute to Caesar. Forbidding us to give tribute to Caesar. It's accusation number two, which was patently false. We see this in Luke's account. Jesus was not forbidding paying tribute to Caesar. And then the third one saying that he himself is Christ. Now that would mean nothing to Pilate. Christus, Messiah, translation of the Hebrew word Messiah. That would not register with Pilate. So in order to make it register with Pilate, what do the Jews add to Christ? A king. Now that that piqued Pilate's interest. We're talking about kings here. Pilate understands that dynamic better than anybody in the room at the time, besides Christ, of course. But we're talking about a king here, and it's this peaks his interest, and so what does Pilate do? Doesn't ask about misleading the nation, doesn't ask about tribute to Caesar. Are you the king of the Jews? Now ultimately Pilate's going to reject that proposition that Jesus Christ is any type of king. And in writing, King of the Jews, in Latin, Aramaic, and Greek above Jesus' cross, he mocks that claim. But what do these accusations all have in common? They're all political. The Jews have a religious reason to crucify Christ. The Jews have a religious case against him. He's talking about the temple. He's talking about destroying the temple. He's drawing people away from the temple, which is the center of Jewish religiousness. And yet they don't bring this up to Pilate. They bring political accusations. He's misleading the nation. He's forbidding tribute to Caesar, and he's saying that he's Christ, which is really a type of king, Pilate, just in case you don't understand And they need Pilate to see Jesus as a threat to the state. And Pilate, to his credit, it seems, does not concur with their assessment. He doesn't believe Jesus is a threat. Now, the Gospel writers are somewhat sympathetic, as I mentioned, to Roman authorities. And To Pilate in particular, and Luke perhaps most so. I mean, Luke omits some of what other gospel writers write as condemning to Roman authorities. Luke sometimes admits those things. And about Pilate in particular This is perhaps the greatest example. Because Pilate is portrayed as seeking to release Jesus. Not once. Not twice, not three times, not four times, but five times in the span of a few verses. Pilate is shown as wanting to release Jesus and believing that he is innocent. We see here in verse 7. Pilate sends Jesus over to Herod. He doesn't find anything wrong with him. In this way, Pilate is really seeking to wash his hands of the entire matter. He's abdicating to Herod. And before Pilate, Jesus says to him, when he is asked, Are you the king of the Jews? He again makes the good testimony, you have said so. But to Herod, No such testimonies made. No such effort to show Herod that he is actually who he says he is What's it say about Jesus before Herod? When Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was at Galilee in verse 6. Verse 7 when he learned that he belonged to Herod's juris jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who was himself in Jerusalem. And verse 9, so he questioned him at some length, but Christ made no answer. It says Herod was glad to see Jesus, not because he believed Jesus was the Messiah, but because he wanted to see a sign. He had heard of these signs that Jesus Jesus had performed. And he wanted to see it for his own. He wanted to be entertained by Jesus. Verse chapter 13 of Luke tells us that Herod wanted to kill Jesus, just like he killed Jesus' cousin, John the Baptist. But he gives no answer to Herod. I believe it's at this point that Jesus makes no more defense verbally. of his claim as Christ the King. He's ready to go to the cross. He's already given everything that he's needed to say. He's already declared the good testimony that he is indeed the Messiah. No more needed to be said. He was not going to placate the wicked inclinations of Herod By either performing a sign or even opening his mouth. From this time forward, he's silent. Except when he cries out, my father, my father. As a sheep is silent before its shears, so he too opened not his mouth. Jesus was bored with them. And Herod's, I'm sorry, Herod was bored with Jesus. And so he sends him back to Pilate. And it says that they became friends. These two were once at enmity with one another. Now they're friends over the unjust treatment of Jesus. And again, Pilate says in verse 14, he repeats to the Sanhedrin, I did not find this man guilty. And then in verse 16, therefore I will punish and release him. And the Jews protest. And verse 20 states that Pilate addresses them again. And Luke even adds that he was desiring to release Jesus. The Jews again protested, and verse 22 says, a third time, now this is in addition to the two times before Herod, receiving him before receiving him back from Herod, Pilate tries to convince the Jews of Christ's innocence But it's not Pilate who prevails, it's the mob. Verse 23 states, there, the people's voices prevailed. And in the end, what does Pilate do? He does what all evildoers do. He subjects Jesus to shame. He compromises by suggesting to whip and release him. How is that a righteous decision? To whip an innocent man And the crowd is completely against this too. Away with this man. Release to us Barabbas. And Pilate gives in. He chooses to release a murderer. And in this one act, 2,000 years ago, as Pilate of Governor of Rome And Jesus and Barabbas stood on the platform. In Pilate releasing Barabbas, it's perhaps the greatest picture of the gospel that the Bible provides for us. Barabbas actually did what Jesus was being condemned for. It's not like Barabbas' crimes were something completely foreign to this whole scene Barabbas was being convicted of being an insurrectionist, of misleading the nation, of not paying tribute to Caesar. Of not paying homage to the king. It was Barabbas who was against Rome, not Jesus. Barabbas was the one rightfully condemned. But Christ stood in his stead, the righteous for the unrighteous. What does Barabbas even mean? Aramaic son of Abba. Son of father. And this unrighteous son, just like Adam, was rightfully condemned for his crimes against God. But the true son of Abba, the true son of God, stood in his place Dying for not only Barabbas, but also everyone who puts their faith in Christ. God made him who knew no sin. to become sin, or rather, to become the sinner, so that those in him might know the righteousness of God. This transaction between Barabbas and Jesus is the transaction that has taken place in every single one of our lives if you believe in Jesus Christ. You the condemned being freed for no reason, for no reason on your own, nothing that you have done to actually secure that freedom. And Christ the innocent now is in your place condemned. I'm always curious as to what Barabbas was thinking in this time. How did he perceive what just took place? I can't help but think that someone, at some point Brought him to the Brahma side and explained to him and said, Do you see? Do you see what just happened to you? Perhaps he came to faith. This is what's happened to all of us. So let us be free from the company of evildoing, those who commit insurrection against the Holy God. including ourselves. Let us be free from even that old man, that old woman that was only a rebel against the holy God. And let us embrace The person and work of Jesus Christ, the innocent who stood in your place. Let's pray.