Earth. A month later, a month later, the water still covered the entire earth. Another month goes by, water still covering the entire earth. Another month, Another month, another month, and the water is Still covering the entire earth. And at this point, I am sure Noah began to have some doubts. I'm sure he began to wonder, this earth is doomed. This flood is going to continue, and God's covenantal promises that He's given me are going to take place here on this boat. We're just going to repopulate here and things are going to start fresh here. Noah had no way of knowing that it would not be until a year had passed that he finally was able to step off the ark. But when God sent a wind and the waters began to abate, Noah and Hope sent out a dove. And after three Sabbaths, the dove found dry land. Because of the dove, Noah knew that God 's mercy was present even in the midst of judgment. Because of the dove, Noah knew that God's grace was here even in the floods of the disaster. And fast forward thousands of years later, and John the Baptist stands in the middle of the waters of the Jordan and proclaims that judgment is coming. The waters of baptism in this case were not only for preparation, but also to convey that the people stood under the judgment of God. And all of a sudden, in the midst of that judgment , A dove rests on the head of Jesus Christ, just as it rested on the dry ground in the days of Noah. The dove landed on the mercy and grace of God. This time not in the form of dry ground, nor in the form of an olive tree, but in the form of the precious head of God's own son. And how is this mercy and grace obtained by Jesus Christ? Because the flood of God's water of judgment washed over him instead of you. Later in the gospel in Luke chapter 12, Jesus is about to head to the cross and he says this, I have a baptism to be baptized with. And how great is my distress until it is accomplished. And God promised to Noah that the waters of the flood would never accomplish again sweep across the entire earth. But in order for this to take place, another flood of judgment would wipe out Jesus Christ. Rather than the ark resting safely on the mountain of Ararat Jesus has given us safety upon the hill of Calvary. Rather than Noah's family being found safe and sound inside of a wooden ark. Jesus has given us safety by being nailed to a wooden cross. Rather than Noah coming out of the ark and offering sacrifice to God , Jesus, the greater Noah, offers himself as a sacrifice on your behalf. And the grace and peace that's signified by the dove over Jesus' head is only possible because Jesus took upon himself the wrath of God that you and I deserve. He died in our place, taking our sins that we have committed, both past, present, and future, and he was the one punished on your behalf And the flood of judgment is coming to all men and all women. And either Jesus Christ will take that upon himself. Suffer in our place, or we will take that flood of judgment. There is no other way. And the question for us this morning is, Liberty Church, have you fled from the waters of God's judgment by fleeing into the ark of Jesus Christ Are you safe and secure in Jesus? He is our only refuge. He is our saving grace. And God establishes his covenant with those who are within the safe confines of the ark. It's a picture that God then establishes this covenant with those who are in the safe confines of the person and work of Jesus Christ. And to show that God has indeed done this marvelous work of mercy and grace, Luke shows that he God then declares in a loud voice that Jesus is his beloved Son. And that with him he is well pleased. Now there is another time in the Gospels where we hear God's audible voice declaring something very similar to this. And it's during the transfiguration. And it's it's good to compare these two incidents because I think it's telling some differences that exist there. And the transfiguration is this point in the Gospels where Jesus and three of his disciples go up the mountain and uh the cloud of God overshadows them and and God Out of that cloud says, This is my son whom I love. Listen to him, my chosen one, listen to him. And though these scenes are similar, there is a major difference that I want to point out. At the Transfiguration, God is speaking about Jesus to his disciples. He's using the third person pronoun him when referring to his son. Listen to him He says. But in Jesus' baptism, God is talking directly to Jesus using the second person pronoun you. You are my son. With the transfiguration, God is speaking for the benefit of the disciples. But in Jesus' baptism, God is speaking to the benefit of Jesus. You are my son. With you I am well pleased. And the question that this raises is, did Jesus need that affirmation? Is he not the Son of God? And again, just as Jesus was baptized to associate completely completely with mankind, so too did Jesus associate with our humanity in this way. He desired and benefited from the affirmation of his Heavenly Father. And if Jesus needed that affirmation, how much more do you Liberty Church. Many of you go about your day feeling a lack of spiritual health. Perhaps a loss of joy, feeling insecure in the love of God , anxious about whether or not God accepts you. A waning love for God and for others. And you wonder, perhaps aloud, or perhaps to yourself, you wonder just as the psalmist did many years ago, why are you so downcast within Me, O my soul. You need affirmation from your Heavenly Father. You need God to speak to you. And where do we find such affirm affirmation? From the Word of God. God speaks to you through His Word to encourage you, to uplift you. To declare loudly to all of you, all of you who are in Jesus Christ, you are my child. With you I am well pleased. It's not an abstract thought It's not something that is just for biblical times 2,000 years ago. It's most certainly for you today, Liberty Church. That despite your sin, despite your weaknesses, your failings, you are a child of God, and he loves you eternally Why then do some of you hold on to guilt and shame as if you are never enough? Or you're never accepted. Why do some of us feel like spiritual failures or feel like we never measure up? Or that we feel like we have to earn the love of God? It's because we've forgotten , we've refused to go to the affirmation that God gives, where he declares to you that he is actually most pleased with you. You are accepted. You are a child if you are in Jesus Christ. And Jesus needed to hear this from this Heavenly Father, and you and I desperately need to hear this as well. And if you hear nothing else this morning, please hear me saying loud and clear, you are God's child. With you he is well pleased. And to show that Jesus is the Son of God, Luke then gives us this genealogy. Recited so wonderfully. Very few could have pulled that off. A clap started, but it didn't get all the way there. That's okay. But Luke gives this genealogy, and I have to admit, genealogies are not the most exciting thing to to uh read out loud, let alone preach on. And uh and but you know I hold firmly in Liberty Church, we we as a church hold firmly to expository preaching. So that means just taking a book of the Bible and working our way through that book. And uh that means that when we get to parts that are uh difficult, that I can't just skip it. Um sometimes I would want to. And it also means that when we get to places in Scripture that lack a little uh pizzazz or so, uh such as a genealogy that we just have to march right through it. Alright? But genealogies are important, for they're important to God. He put two of them at least in the New Testament. And one reason they were important was to show the importance of family connections within ancient Israel. What tribe you belonged to? And who you descended from was of critical importance to the Israelites. And I have seen the importance of family connections here at Liberty, let me tell you. I I am I'm shocked with how many people are related to each other in this church. I mean, every day, every day at least, I hear of a new connection. of people who are related to each other and I try to figure out, I try to keep it straight and just to be honest, it it makes my head spin a little bit. And uh, you know, further research is needed, but I I'm convinced that there exists only seven actual families here at Liberty. Everyone else Is somehow connected. I'll study that a little bit more and get back to you. But this genealogy of Christ in Luke traces Jesus' lineage not just to David. And not just to Abraham, as Matthew's genealogy does, but to Adam, and thus to God Himself. Luke starts the genealogy by mentioning that Jesus began his ministry at the age of 30. Now this is could be just Luke mentioning that as uh passing over could have some significance, I'm not sure, but thirty it was an important age in ancient Israel. Uh there are some heroes of the faith who had uh started their ministries at the age of 30. Joseph entered into the service of Pharaoh, Genesis 41 says, at the age of 30. King David became king at the age of 30. Jesus began his ministry also at the age of 30. And Luke says that Jesus was the son of Joseph, or as he puts it, supposed son. Legally, Jesus was the son of Joseph because he was his adopted son. But of course, Jesus was not Joseph's biological son. And it would make sense that Luke inserts that comment there that he does, just in light of him making the case that Jesus is actually the Son of God. He wants to keep the focus on that theme. The sonship of Christ, God's Son, only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. Now, we're not going to delve into each name of the genealogy. And that would be a wonderful study to do at some point. But a few general notes are needed. It's helpful to compare scripture with scripture, right? Scripture interprets scripture. And it's also helpful to inter to compare genealogies here So we have two in the New Testament. We have one found in Matthew chapter one and we have one here in Luke. And these genealogies uh are both detailing Jesus' family tree, but they do so very differently. Now I have to be honest, trying to figure out the difference between The Matthew genealogy and the Luke genealogy, it gets very complicated. Almost as complicated as figuring out the genealogies of Liberty Church. But Matthew and Luke have their genealogies in very different ways. And there's different names, there's different number of descendants. For example, Matthew contains 42 total generations. Luke contains 77. There's a symbolism of numbers here that's taking place. Matthew uses three groups of fourteen. In Matthew's gospel, he clearly says that's what he's doing. I'm using three groups of fourteen. Luke's gospel is using, we think, eleven groups of seven, getting to the number of seventy-seven. There's entire generations missing between Abraham to Jesus. Matthew lists 41 names there. Luke has 57. There are a number of proposed reasons for all of this. A lot of reasons actually. And quite honestly, all of them have problems. just to be honest. Some think that Matthew gives Jesus' line through Joseph, Luke through Mary. Others think that there's leverate marriages that are taking place in the genealogy where the brother of a deceased sibling takes a wife. Thus the genealogy shows physical lines of Jesus as well as the regal line to the king of Jesus We don't know. Just to be completely honest, we do not know. But the point of the genealogies and why they were crafted the way they were was to show that Jesus in every way that you could cut it connects back to David, back to Abraham, and in Luke's case, back to the first son of God, Adam. That's the point of the genealogy. Matthew's genealogy stresses that Jesus is Davidic. He's the king. He's the promised one. And not only from David, but all the way back to Abraham. But Luke's genealogy stresses that Jesus connects all the way back to Adam. Why? Why the difference? Because Luke is showing an antithesis. Adam, the first son of God, failed He disobeyed. And thus the whole world was thrown into chaos. Adam was created in the midst of perfection, but his sin as the Son of God. extended all the way down to every son and daughter to the entire human race. Until Jesus Christ. And Jesus is the second Adam, greater than the first. The Son of God, who did not give way to temptation who did not disobey, Jesus as the Son of God stood firm in the flood of judgment on your behalf. And Jesus as the Son of God, the greater Adam, rose victoriously from the grave after suffering and dying in your place, something Adam never did. Did. And Jesus, the Son of God, the greater Adam, calls you and I brother and sister. If we repent of our sins and place our faith in Jesus. God calls us his adopted children, and Jesus is your advocate to the Father. And this is the point of the genealogy. certainly in Luke's genealogy, to trace Jesus through the course of all of human history. To show that Jesus is the culmination not just of John the Baptist's preaching, but of the entire human race. And that Jesus is the second and greater Adam. one who accomplishes what Adam failed to do, which is to be the perfect and obedient son of God. Jesus Christ has rescued the entire human race. And in so doing, you and I can now be inserted into this genealogy. We are now a part of this long list, this tradition that extends all the way back to Adam. We now are included in this line. For we are the sons and daughters of God by faith. We are in this genealogy. And though we were once sons of Adams, we now can be called sons and daughters. And this is through Christ alone. What a savior, liberty church. Let us give this eternal and beloved Son of God all the honor, praise, and glory that he is due. Let us pray. Father, we are a part of your family through the shed blood of your Son, Jesus Christ. And thank you for the genealogy that shows that Jesus, you, actually accomplished that which the first Son of God could not We stood in the place of sinners, taking our punishment upon yourself and dying in our place. And Lord, I do pray that there is anybody here who has not repented and put their faith in you, Jesus Christ. I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. And that today be the day that you can say of them, You are my son, you are my daughter. I pray that you would adopt those, Father, who are right now in darkness, you'd adopt them into your Your family by opening their eyes and letting them see the beauty and glory of the gospel. I pray that that would happen now. Father, thank you for this wonderful truth of your word. I pray that we would respond. By praising you, for you alone are worthy of all the honor and praise. We pray this in Jesus' name. In Jesus' name. Amen. Liberty, let us stand and give Jesus Christ the praise that He is due.