If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Luke fourteen. We're looking at verses 1 through 11. In our passage this morning, Jesus is at the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees. And this scene, as I mentioned last week, is very similar to the scene that Luke records in chapter 13, verse 10. And rather than at the synagogue, as in chapter 13, Jesus is now in the home of a prominent Pharisee And rather than a a woman who's disabled who needs healing, it's now a man with dropsy, which is an old way of saying edema, the retention of water, usually from congestive heart failure. The root word here for uh dropsy is the Greek word for water. And just as before, Jesus heals the suffering of the individual, the disabled woman. And he does so on the Sabbath. And he does so here on the Sabbath. And just as before, the righteous elite of Israel complain about it, arguing that any such healing should not be done on the Sabbath. And just as before, Jesus uses an illustration of an ox or a donkey or son falls into a well, arguing from the lesser to greater. Caring for people is what's important on the Sabbath. So these two stories, although different incidents, they're very similar. If you want to hear more about Luke 14, 1 through 6, I just invite you to listen to the sermon of from a few weeks ago. We're going to be spending most of our time this morning on Luke 14, 7 through 11, the parable of the wedding feast and the seat of honor. And the question I would ask is, who occupies this seat of honor? Is it you or is it Jesus? This parable is a mirror of what happened after the previous incident. Jesus describes this great feast in which some will not enter even though they were invited. And this parable of this feast actually continues past verse eleven during our our passage this morning, all the way to verse twenty-four. It deals with this important issue. That Christ has been teaching about for now many verses, and that's the kingdom of God. Who belongs to the kingdom? Who's going to be in the kingdom of God? What's the kingdom of God like? And here it's described as elsewhere a wedding feast. It's a great banquet. But our passage this morning appears to be a short excursus. from this discussion of an end-time wedding feast. Instead, Jesus seems to be taking the opportunity here to teach on a present wedding feast. One that can and does often happen in this life. And the provocation for this lesson is that Jesus notices something peculiar While at the house of the Pharisee. He notices this: those invited to the house chose for themselves the place of honor. And these seats were arranged by distinction in ancient Israel. And there were places where people had to sit, depending upon your your rank. in society. It reminds me of Thanksgiving dinners at my grandma's where I had to sit with the other young children for a number of years. Maybe you're familiar with uh to some of you. And the the day when I actually graduated to the adult table was a wonderful, wonderful event. And uh the most distinguished in Israel would have seats at the heads of the table or in the middle of the middle couch, however they were eating. The most important of the time, they always arrived fashionably late. And if they were important enough, the place of honor would certainly be reserved for them. And Jesus sees this jockeying around for position. And he pauses his teaching on the great wedding feast that will take place at the end of the age. And he talks now about this age. He uses an illustration of a wedding feast, a common event in Israel, common event today. He's talking to the people who chose the seats of honor. And he says to them, When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, Do not sit down in the place of honor. Jesus is not being subtle here. He's not asking the people to read between the lines. He's actually being quite direct He's talking to the people who chose the seats of honor, and he's saying, you should not do that. Why? Well, Jesus continues, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him. And this is the crux of the lesson that Jesus is giving. There is always someone more distinguished than you. This lesson is borrowed by Jesus directly from Proverbs 25. We read this in Proverbs 25, verse 6. Do not put yourself forward in the King's presence. or stand in the place of the great, for it is better to be told, come up here, than to be put lower in the presence of a noble. This is an ancient maxim. Dates before Jesus' earthly ministry. It's one that makes a great deal of sense. Humility is indeed the best policy. A proper assessment of yourself is good for your health. By and large, pride comes before the fall. We know these principles to be true. They're biblical principles. And clearly, Jesus, at least, here is commending a way of living. That looks to others as greater than yourself. And this is all throughout the Bible. We see this principle in operation everywhere in Scripture. Galatians 6, Paul writes, if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing. He deceives himself. Now Paul could have used a different word there for nothing to kind of soften the blow and make it a little less cutting, but he doesn't. He says nothing. If you think you're something when you're nothing, you deceive yourself Paul states again in 1 Corinthians, let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks he is wise in this age, let him become a fool in order to become wise. Seems paradoxical, but the wisdom of this age, the strength of this age, the power of this age, the beauty of this age is actually nothing to God. And if you think you're those things, you should instead be the opposite. And in Philippians 2, Paul states, count others more significant than yourself. This is such a rare trait. Very few in our self-centered, self-aggrandizing, self-promoting culture think of others as more significant. We have an innate desire to think of ourselves more highly than we ought, to think of ourselves as more significant than others. We long for places of honor. In our context, it might not be a seat at a table, but perhaps it's a longing for distinction elsewhere. And whatever your context that could be, perhaps at work , at your home, friends , church. We want to be honored because we believe that we deserve it. We long for distinction And rather than waiting for it to be granted to us, we look to take it ourselves. But we actually do have a distinction. Our distinction is that we were sinners. And God had mercy on you. What more distinction do you want? You took nothing upon yourself except sin and death. Paul says this in Romans 5. God demonstrates his own love for us in this while we were still sinners. Christ died for us. Our distinguishability comes from the fact that we did the most unspeakable The most heinous, the most outrageous thing we possibly could have done, which is rebelled against a holy, almighty God. We deserve death. We deserve condemnation. For we all have fallen short of this righteous standard that He has set for us. And yet it is God who will receive all glory and honor For he sent his son to die in our place, the innocent for the guilty. Christ paid the penalty for our sins, of which we have many. And this is unspeakable mercy and grace. What distinction do you have compared to this? And this is the starting point to true wisdom, to true honor. We start often with what we have done rather than what Christ has done for us. Do you want to be wise? Then know Christ and what He's done for you on the cross. Do you want to be strong? Then know Christ and what he has done for you on the cross. Do you want to be honored? No Christ. And this is the point of the parable This is the point. Is Jesus telling us this parable just so that we may be more humble towards one another? Is that the point of this parable? In part, yes. Certainly. And that's all over Scripture, too, to be more humble towards to treat others as greater than yourselves. But there's more. For in the scene in which Jesus is telling this parable, who did not receive the seat of honor? Jesus, who's the one who did not receive The place of honor which he deserved. It was Jesus Christ. He comes into the house of this prominent Pharisee, and Jesus should have been the most distinguished guest. But he was not treated accordingly. The one who should have received the greatest seat above all seats. Received nothing. Others took the seats before him, ahead of him. One who is worthy of all honor, all praise, was in fact given none. By this Pharisee and by everyone else who was at the house of the Pharisee. You see, even more important than how you give honor to one another, even more important than that, and that's Very important. Even more important than how you give honor to one another is how you are giving honor to Christ right now. Does Jesus have the seat of honor in your life? Is he given the most prominent place? That's where it starts. If we are giving Christ the honor that he is due all the time, guess what will begin to happen? We will begin to give others honor. We're not going to be jockeying for honor or position or distinction. Why? Because we've already given it all away to the one who rightly deserves it. Jesus Christ. And therefore, we're free to give honor where it's due to others. Is Christ Is Christ the ruler of your life? Does he have the seat of honor? Or does he have an equal seat with you? And all you do is Christ exalted. And sadly, in our life, it's we, uh it's ourselves who often have the seat of honor. We take it just like these guests did As they walk into the house and they see Jesus, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, sitting down, and they, without hesitation, go ahead and just take the seats of honor. And yet we do the exact same thing every day. We do what we want, when we want, how we want. No one's going to tell us otherwise. And we're at this feast every single day, so to speak, and we're giving no consideration to the king who is sitting with us. And the ruler of the Pharisee was blind to the glory of Christ right in front of him. And when you and I go about our day. Day by day, dealing with the mundane, dealing with the monotony, dealing with the difficulties, dealing with the joys, dealing with everything that we deal with on a daily basis. How much honor do you give Jesus? How are you giving Jesus honor in your life? Jesus, I believe , will not at times force himself into the seat of honor of your life. We see this in Jesus' ministry all the time. Jesus can be fine for now and at times to be resigned to A lower seat, a seat of less honor, less prominence in your life. Jesus often takes the position of humility. While we go about parading ourselves, looking to ourselves, honoring ourselves, talking about ourselves Jesus sometimes won't make his presence known. We know that Jesus does this because he's done it before many times. Remember the last time Jesus was at uh a feast, was at was a guest at a Pharisee's house. What does Jesus say about this Pharisee? You gave me no kiss for a greeting. You gave me no water for my feet. And Jesus was fine with it. He pointed out someone who did. He gave her honor because she did all the things that the Pharisee neglected to do. He didn't complain. He just merely pointed to someone who was a good example. When Jesus' time on earth was nearly up, what did he do with his disciples? Rather than being served as he should have been, he served. Taking his clothes off, wrapping himself in a towel and washing the feet of his disciples. He'll take the lowest seat. But this will not be the case when Jesus returns. He will not take a seat of less honor when he comes back. Neither in your life nor at the great banquet. Make no mistake And more importantly, he will remove the person who does for himself take the seat of honor. And who does not belong there. See, this parable of Jesus right here is connected. To the end times wedding feast. It's not a story that's just been thrown in there willy-nilly. When he who invited you sees that you do not belong in the seat, That you have taken for yourself the seat of honor, it is Christ who will remove you. And with shame, he says, you will take the lowest seat Now this lowest place could mean the lowest place at the table or at the couch, but it could mean much more than that. The lowest place could mean being cast out. The lowest of lows. The shame here could be an everlasting shame. And we see this same principle in another wedding feast illustration. When the person who comes into the wedding feast but does not belong there is actually cast out. He's not given a lower seat in the wedding. He's cast out completely from the wedding. But is the one who acknowledges that he is nothing in the presence of Christ That he's nothing. That's the one who's going to be honored. By Christ Himself. And Christ will tell him: take a high seat. I know you're nothing, but I'm going to exalt you. I'm going to honor you. He's not honored because of what he's done. He's being honored because of what Christ is doing for him. Even at that exact moment. And this is the key to this whole story. Is that, as I said before, there's always, always someone more distinguished than you. And his name is Christ. It's Jesus. No matter what party you're going into, no matter what home you're entering into, no matter what workplace environment you're in, I'm not talking about bosses and employers. I'm not talking about friends and family. Wherever you are. Any minute of the day, every day of the week, there is always someone more distinguished than you. And it's Jesus. It's Jesus Christ. Right now. His name is above all names. This certainly includes our name, doesn't it? He must become greater. But this is the part that gets us. We just get that part. He must become great. We forget the second part of that verse. I must become less It's not I'm great, but yes, Jesus is a little greater. No, it's I'm nothing, and Christ is everything. I had a conversation with my mentor, a pastor friend, mentor of mine last week, and providentially this Topic of giving honor where it's due came up. And now this mentor of mine is well known, he's a souht after speaker. He led a church of over three thousand members. He's on various councils and the Gospel Coalition uh um council. He's one of the members of that and and uh he told me that that when he's with other local pastors in the area that he kind of expects that people are going to look to him for his advice or to to hear what he's saying because of his experience. He's been a pastor for many, many, many years, and he's got a lot of experience. And people do listen to him. But he said to me that when he's at the Gospel Coalition Council meetings and he's sitting in between John Piper and Tim Keller, he said to me this: I go get their water. That was a shock. This is someone that I esteem highly. This is someone that's accomplished much. And yet he recognizes that there's always someone more distinguished than him. In his mind, it's those certain pastors. And I thought to myself, shouldn't that be our attitude with Christ all the time? Whenever I'm prone to talk about myself, whenever I'm tempted to lift myself up, which is every day, Whenever I want someone's attention on me, whenever I want to talk about who I am or what I've done, shouldn't it always be At the forefront of my mind, the back of my mind, all around my mind, that there is someone far more distinguished than me? Isn't shouldn't it be the tendency of our life? To be afraid to talk about ourselves, to honor ourselves, to exalt ourselves when we have one like Jesus in our midst? Where's this fear and trembling? Are we not always carrying around in our body the life of Christ? Should we not always be singing, not just the end of days and revelation, but the same song should be sang today, worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive all power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory Is that your attitude now? If it's not your attitude now, why do you expect it will be your attitude the end of days? I'm convinced. I'm convinced that the mark of a mature Christian is how little you make of yourself. And how much, how much you make of Jesus Christ. The immature Christian makes little of Jesus and makes much of them. The mature Christian, the one who's walking with God, realizes what Paul says, I'm nothing, and Christ is everything. I'm going to make much of him. Will this humility be the mark of your life? If not, you will be humbled, whether in this life or the next. It's a policy of mine to always seek to humble myself before Christ has to humble me. Trust me, that's a good policy. If this humility is indeed the mark of your life, guess what? You're going to be exalted. Christ will honor you, whether in this life or the next We must live in a way that anyone who sees us and knows our life will say of us, he believes in someone greater. For there is someone greater, the Lord of Lords, the King of Kings. And there's comfort in knowing him. When we exalt him, we don't have to pretend that we are someone that we're not. We don't have to come across wiser or smarter or stronger or more spiritual or anything else. We can take the low road. We can take the low seat. We can say that Christ is the one who deserves all honor. That seat is always for Christ. That seat of honor, that place of prominence is always reserved for Jesus. And when we do this, it is Christ who will lift up your head. And it is Christ who will one day say to you, Well done, my good and faithful servant. Let's pray. Father, forgive me my sin of exalting myself in so many ways, so many minute instances in my life that I look to be honored in the eyes of men. I lose honor in your eyes the only one who counts. I confess on behalf of this church, oh God, we're all guilty. We're all guilty of making much of ourselves and making very little of you, Jesus. I pray that there be revival in our own hearts, that going forth from this day, that we would seek and strive with all the might and power that you've given us by your grace that we would just seek to make you known, to make you exalted and honored. That anyone who looks at us, who hears the words coming out of our mouth, that they would be able to say, He loves his Lord, and he wants to see him honored in all things. I pray that this would be true Of Liberty Church. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.