Beloved, if you have your Bibles with you, encourage you to turn back to Luke nineteen. Verses 45, and we'll be reading also through a portion of going through a portion of uh chapter 20 as well And as we look through the word today, we also think about how the word intersects with our lives. And long after this COVID crisis has passed, I would imagine that political science majors And historians will be studying this period in our nation's history for decades to come. Because it raises the issue of authority. How much power does the government have to limit the freedoms of its citizens in the pursuit of the common good? In other words, how does the governing authority of the state intersect or conflict with the freedoms guaranteed to us by the Constitution? Who has the ultimate authority? The state or the people? And the reason I mention this is because the issue of authority runs throughout today's passage. Who has the ultimate authority? Why, it's a question that the religious leaders asked Jesus in verse 2. When they said, who gave you the authority to do these things? And they were referring to two things. The first was Jesus' clearing out of the temple, of the money changers and the merchants the day after Palm Sunday, which Luke records in chapter 19, verses 45 and 46. And after he drove them out, he took control over the priest's domain, the temple. And Jesus had to clean out the temple because the priests, in their authority, had made a complete mess of it. What should have been a place of prayer had become instead a place of corruption, which the priests had condoned and encouraged. They allowed the temple to be a marketplace where God's people were being ripped off. Now, how did this come about? Well, Jews from all over the Roman provinces would come to offer sacrifices at the temple as prescribed by the law. And they couldn't travel with the animals that were needed for the sacrifices, so they had to purchase them there at the temple out of necessity. where unscrupulous sellers would take advantage of their situation and charge exorbitant prices for the animals that the priests had given their stamp of approval as unblemished. And the reason why the religious leaders condoned the fleecing of the flock was because they were receiving a kickback from the sellers. who would give them a portion of the prophets to the priests, making them very wealthy. The chief priests, well, they were running a lucrative operation that makes the mafia look like a Boy Scout troop. And it was the same with the money changers. By law, every Jewish male was required to pay an annual temple tax of a half shekel. And people coming from all over the world had to exchange their currency into the temple currency in order to pay the tax. And again, the money changers took full advantage of a necessity, and they charged then outrageous rates of exchange, all under the direction of the chief priest. Ananias, who profited from it. So there was a big mess to clean up in the court of the Gentiles The court of the Gentiles, which should have been a quiet place to pray and to hear God's word. But under the priest's authority, it became a clamoring, stinking cesspool of corruption, which was dubbed Ananias' bazaar. And when Jesus removed the swindlers from the temple, their caste cow was slaughtered. And the religious leaders, well, they didn't like it. In fact, they hated Jesus for it. And Jesus' teaching only added to their animosity. He had restored sanity and sanctity back to the sanctuary so that he could teach And his teaching was in direct opposition to what the people had heard from the religious leaders. Because notice what Luke writes in verse 1. He writes, Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel. And the gospel was 180 degrees different from what the religious leaders had taught the people And Jesus confronted the religious leaders on their false teaching right there on their own turf, right there in the temple, or what they thought was their own turf. And speaking truths to power, Jesus rebuked them, saying in Matthew 23, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanliness So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Jesus had brought the dark intentions of their hearts to light, and he revealed their true character of what they were like. And he also attacked their false teaching, which had crippled the people spiritually and kept them from knowing God and his grace. He said in Matthew 23, the Pharisees, you preach, but you do not practice what you preach. While the Pharisees, they tie up heavy burdens. that are hard to bear, and they lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be shown by, to be seen by others. You see, the Pharisees They wanted to control the people. They wanted to keep them enslaved by teaching them that the way to be right with God was to follow their man-made rules and regulations. Which had bastardized God's law. And these rules and regulations were crushing, and they were deadening to the people's souls. And beloved, isn't that the way of the human heart? To work out of your own self-interest? In your own self-interest to want to dominate others and to try and to control them for your own ends and means. Why, isn't that the reason that the mantra of the baby boomer generation was was what? Was question authority? Because authority can so easily slip into tyranny. And yet here we see Jesus Jesus spoke as one with authority. He didn't follow the man-made traditions of other teachers. But he spoke God's word as it was meant to be taught, because he is the word incarnate and truth in the flesh. And he preached this gospel to a downtrodden, oppressed people who were suffocating under the religious legalism of the Pharisees. Jesus taught that you can have a relationship with the Lord, and you have that relationship with the Lord by faith alone, in which he bestows his grace upon you. And unlike the Pharisees, Jesus' teaching didn't lead to tyranny. No, this this good news leads to freedom, not bondage. He said in Matthew 11. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy, laden under the weight of striving to be right with God by your legalistic rules. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me For I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. Jesus taught this marvelous truth. Which was worlds apart from what the Pharisees taught. Because of it, they hated him all the more for it. Because he threatened their power. He threatened their position and their profit. So they had to do something. They had to do something. But what? Well, they tried to trip him up to get him in a kind of a gotcha moment where they could use something against him that he said. So they asked him, by whose authority do you do these things? And they thought, you know, if we can get him to just say something. Just a little sound bite that can be viewed as blasphemous, then we can nail him with some bad PR and separate the people's affections from him. And yet Jesus, being the Son of God and being able to discern their motives, well, he didn't take the bait. He knew the question they asked was not a genuine question, but a trap. So he masterfully responds to their question with a question of his own He says in verses 3 and 4, I also ask you a question. Now tell me, was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? And like the Pharisees who questioned Jesus, Jesus' question to them also was one about authority. Who was John 's authority? Was he commissioned by God? Or was he preaching under his own authority? And with that one question, with just that one question, the religious leaders found themselves between a rock and a hard place. For if they acknowledge that the truth, that the truth that John the Baptist was teaching , well they would have to acknowledge that he was a prophet. A prophet sent by God to preach repentance. And if they did that, then the people would say to them, Well, you all have some explaining to do. Why don't you Pharisees follow him too if you acknowledge that he was from God? What kind of religious leaders are you? And what's also significant, if they acknowledged that John the Baptist was sent by God , Then they would also have to acknowledge that Jesus too was sent by God, because John affirmed that Jesus was indeed the Messiah. When he said in John 1, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. For I have seen and I have borne witness that he is the Son of God. Well, they couldn't admit that Jesus was the Messiah. They would be answering their own question with disastrous results for them. But they also couldn't say, well, John, John came with his own authority. He didn't speak for God. Because if they did that, if they did that, well, they would have started a riot. Because John was immensely popular with the people. So what did they do? They simply said, well, we don't know. And they claimed ignorance. Which is ironic considering that this group of men prided themselves on knowing all things spiritual. And Jesus responds by saying in verse 8, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. Checkmate. We just one question. We just one question Jesus trips them up and thwarts their plan. They get trapped in their very own trap. And this reminds us of Psalm 2, which Pastor Nathan preached on last week, where the psalmist writes, why do the nations rage? And the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed one, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. The nations rise up against God in a rebellion to try and cast off the Lord's righteous reign over them. But here Psalm 2 says it's a fool's errand because a mighty king over the universe thwarts their every attempt at resting God's authority over them. And isn't this incident just like a small microcosm, a psalm too? Only in this instance, it's not the leaders of other nations, no. It's the leaders of God's own people who are trying to thwart the Lord's anointed and to reject his authority. But like Psalm 2 says, it's a fool's errand. It's a fool's errand to try and stop the plans and the purposes of God. And the following verses display that truth, where we see Jesus, who is in absolute, complete control of his mission and his ministry. And he does that by showing it, by, he shows that by telling a parable in verses 9 through 16. And this parable makes it very clear that Jesus knows exactly what these leaders are about. He knows what's in their heart and what they plan to do. Although Jesus directs this parable to the crowd, The priests, while they get the message, they know it's about them. While Jesus' other parables may have been obscure, requiring interpretation. This parable of the wicked workers was very easy for the people to discern, since it was steeped in Old Testament symbolism. For example, when Jesus talks about a man planting a vineyard, they would know that he was referring to Israel. Since the Old Testament repeatedly represents Israel as a vineyard that the Lord had planted, Israel as a vineyard was very much a part of their national consciousness. The same way that we would associate a bald eagle with America by looking at a bald eagle. And the owner who planted the vineyard in the parable, of course, represents the Heavenly Father. who granted to the Israelites the land to tend, and the workers, of course, symbolize the spiritual leaders of the nation. And knowing their national history, Jesus' listeners would also recognize that the servants who the owner sends represents the past prophets the Lord sent to warn the people of their apostasy and their rebellion against the Lord's authority. And in the parable, each servant is treated worse than the previous one. Each is persecuted for being the Lord's messenger, because the leaders Reject the message. Well, in verse 13, the long-suffering owner decides to send his beloved son. Maybe, maybe then the wicked workers will receive him. Maybe then the wicked workers will respect him and listen to him and bow to his authority. And of course, Jesus puts himself in this parable as a son. And notice that the Father calls him my beloved son. And that little ditch detail is significant because Jesus is referring back to the time of his baptism in Luke 3. When the Heavenly Father said, You are my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased, affirming Jesus and confirming him as the Messiah. So what's Jesus doing here? He's subtly stating who he is and what authority he has as the Son of God. And he's also depicting the loving kindness of the Father, who does not give up on his people even in their rebellion. But he sends at last not a servant, but his very own beloved son. But once again, even the beloved son is rejected in this parable And he is murdered by the workers outside the vineyard, which is a depiction of Jesus' own death that was to come just a few days later. as he was taken outside the city gate to be crucified. And as we said before Jesus knew exactly what these religious leaders were all about. That they had murder in their hearts And Jesus knew exactly how his life would end. But in doing so , They would only be fulfilling the plan of God. Their evil would be used to accomplish the sovereign good purposes of the Lord in sending his son to be the perfect sacrifice for our sins. For not even the evil rebellion of the nations can thwart the loving purposes of God, that he will have the ultimate victory. Just as Psalm 2 predicted, which says, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree the Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. Well what does Jesus do? He ends this parable by asking another question. In verse 16, he says, What will the owner do to the wicked tenants? And then he goes to answer his own question by giving another prediction that the Lord will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to others. So he ends this parable with a severe warning. You leaders and this nation will face judgment for rejecting me. For rejecting me and my authority as king. And instead, others will share in my kingdom. I will give my vineyard to them. And this is exactly what happened. Jesus' warning to the religious leaders and the nations bore fruit in the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. And then Jesus' warning in the parable that the vineyard God's kingdom would go to others was fulfilled as Gentiles embraced the gospel and as they bowed their hearts to King Jesus. They came into his kingdom, which the Jews had rejected as a nation. Now Jesus wasn't just giving them a new warning. We find the same warning in Psalm 2 Which predicted the coming of the Messiah and warns that any nation or leaders that rebel against Christ, against God's Son, will know his judgment. In verse 10, the psalmist writes, Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of this earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, the beloved Son Jesus Christ, lest he be angry and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. And then moving on, Jesus added to his warning. In verses 17 and 18, he quotes from Psalm 118, which points to him That he is the stone that the builders rejected, that has become the chief cornerstone. He was rejected by the builders of the nation, the Jewish leaders. They rejected his authority and they sought to have him crucified. But he rose again from the dead. And in rising from the dead, he became the cornerstone, the foundation of his church. And Paul uses this imagery in Ephesians 2 to give us this glorious vision of what it means to be in Christ's kingdom. He writes that Christ, the foundation stone of his church, he is building his kingdom from people of all nations. And we are being fitted together, connected and united as one, like stones in a living temple where his spirit dwells. So what does it mean to be in his kingdom? It means that you have bowed your heart And your life to King Jesus. That you are trusting in Him alone and what He has done for you in dying for your sins and then giving you new life. A new life under his reign and under his authority So there's a warning for us as well in these verses. Look at verse 18. Jesus says, everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces. And when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. Now what is Jesus saying here? Well, Jesus is not only the cornerstone of the church, but he's also a stumbling stone for those who choose not to live under his rule. And how is Jesus like a stumbling stone for those who don't accept his authority? We find that this is all very relevant to the way that we live our lives. If we live our lives according to our own authority, and if we build our lives on any other foundation but Christ Then what happens? Then we find that our lives will break into pieces. After all, if Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life And we choose to live our lives apart from that truth and go against the way that He designed us to live, then what will happen? We will be shattered. Take, for example, the way that the Lord has designed relationships and the expression of sexuality in marriage. He offers us such beauty and wonder in that design. But when we go our own way, we stumble. We experience pain. Because Jesus is the truth. And when we kick against the truth, we stumble. And we find out that the truth hurts. Suppose someone says, you know, my truth says that hooking up with someone else is fine. Sex with no relationship, with no commitment. Why is freeing? It's fulfilling. Why? It makes me feel powerful. It makes me feel alive and wanted and desirable. And yet, how will that person feel over time? What will be the result? as they keep giving themselves away to one person and then another and then another and then another Well, they will feel used. They will feel abused, tossed aside like an old rag Or what about the person who says, what's wrong with porn? It's not hurting anyone. I take a lot of pleasure in it. It's like my daily comfort food when I'm stressed. But over time you find that the very thing that you thought would serve you ends up enslaving you, and you serve it as you are feel driven to do just one more thing. Click. Or you may say, well, I'm going to wrap my security, my identity, and my work, and my success, and my degrees, and my popularity, in my blog posts, and my appearance. my relationships, because that's where I find my fulfillment. And then what happens? Well you stumble over the truth. And when you do, you find that the truth hurts. Because you wake up one day and you say to yourself, well, this just isn't working anymore. Why? Why do I feel so empty inside? Or let's consider just one more scenario. You believe that you are basically a good person whose acts of kindness are like steps on the stairway to heaven. But then what happens? You stumble and you fall over Christ and his word, which says, all your good deeds are but filthy rags. Because they're done with mixed motives of self-interest where you want to be noticed or well thought of by others. And in fact, no one. No one can have eternal life with God based on their own sense of self-righteousness For we find that we stumble over the scripture that says, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, our words, our deeds, our heart attitudes. separate us from a holy and just God. And should we re-die in rebellion against Christ, we would find that He's not only a rock, a stumbling rock. But we would find that he is a crushing rock as we fall under the weighty just judgment for all of our sin and living apart from his authority. Proverbs 14, 2 sums it up well. That there is a way that seems right to a person. But in the end, it leads to death. What a horrible, horrible thing. Would it be for you to live life apart from Christ and not know that and not know life to its fullest in rejecting his authority? And then to die apart from Christ and be crushed by his just judgment, And it's especially painful when we realize all along that the very things, the very things that we strive for are found in following Christ, in being under his authority. It's ironic, isn't it? That in order to find freedom We need to come under authority. It seems counterintuitive, doesn't it? But when you come under Christ's authority, you find all the things that you were looking for in having a relationship with Him You find joy, peace, purpose, identity, and fulfillment So you decide. Whose life is it anyway? Who's really in authority? You or King Jesus? Let's pray. O gracious Father, how we thank you that you sent your beloved Son, the beloved Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. to take upon himself all of our sins, all of the wickedness of our heart, all of our disobedience to your authority and how you have designed us to be. So we thank you, Lord, that you have washed away all of our sins. And in doing so, Lord, that you are knitting us together to be like living stones in a temple where your Holy Spirit dwells. Oh Lord, this is such a glorious vision that we can barely keep put our minds around it. So all we can do is thank you for it. And seek to live under your wonderful authority, where there is life, where there is freedom, where there is joy, peace, and fulfillment Oh Lord, we pray for those who do not know you. We ask that if there be any listening today, Lord, that you would be at work in their hearts. That they would come to know you, that they would come to put themselves under your kind and loving yoke For we know that your yoke is easy and your burden is light. Oh Father, we pray that you would be at work in each of our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.