Thank you, choir. Beautiful as always. As we continue through our study of the Gospel of Luke We come to a place where God is preparing his people to receive this salvation. And he prepares his people by sending the prophet John the Baptist. Jesus' own cousin. And this morning we're going to be taking a look at the birth announcement of John, as well as who John is, his ministry, and his prophetic message. A message of repentance, to turn away from evil, and to embrace the true Messiah, Jesus Christ. So if you are able, please turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 1 and stand with me to honor God's word. Luke chapter 1, starting in verse 5. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah. of the division of Abiah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. But they had no child. Because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years. Now while he was serving as priest before God, when his division was on duty, according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense, and there appeared to him an angel of the Lord, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And Zechariah was troubled. When he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God, and he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel, I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news, and behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you do not believe my words which Which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived And for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among people. This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. Children may be dismissed to children's church as well at this time. But after Luke's introduction of the gospel, which we looked at last week, he starts the story in a very specific time frame. She says, in the days of Herod, King of Judea. Now this is Herod the Great Herod the Great was one of the most influential kings of all of Israel, at least since King Josiah, about 600 years prior to him. And much of what Herod did and much of what he built still remains today in Israel, the Temple Mount of Jerusalem. the fortress at Masada, the beautiful Caesarea, and much more. Herod built all of these projects. But nothing else is said about Herod here because the story really isn't about Herod. And really the story doesn't even start with Jesus, even though we know that the entire story is ultimately about Jesus Christ. Instead, Luke starts the story with John the Baptist's parents, Zechariah and Elizabeth. Now Zechariah was a priest He was perhaps named after the prophet of the Old Testament, Zechariah, who also saw the day of the Lord, who also prophesied about the salvation of God. And Zechariah was a priest serving at the temple in this division of Abaiah. And this was the eighth division out of 24. And there were about 18,000 priests in Israel at this time. And they divided these priests into groups of twenty-four. And each group would serve the temple and facilitate the functions of the temple for one week at a time. And they would do that twice a year. And this was what Zechariah was called to do. And Zechariah was married to Elizabeth. And Luke mentions something important in verse 5. He says that Elizabeth was a daughter of Aaron. Now, Luke does not often give frivolous details in the gospel. So there's something important here that we shouldn't miss. Why was Luke Trying to tell us that Elizabeth was a daughter of Aaron. What was he trying to communicate? It's this, that this is a priestly family, through and through. Not only is Zechariah a priest serving at the temple, but Zechariah's wife Elizabeth is a daughter of the first priest of Israel, Aaron, a distant daughter. She's not that old. And even Aaron 's wife in Exodus 6, verse 23, was called Elishaba or Elizabeth. And what Luke is trying to communicate is that this is a priestly family. And all expectations would be that the child, that the son of Zechariah and Elizabeth would also be a priest. Certainly, their son would go into the priesthood and follow into his father's footsteps. He would go into the family business, so to speak. But unfortunately, Zechariah and Elizabeth were childless. Elizabeth, Luke says, is infertile. And we immediately find ourselves in very familiar territory in the Bible, which is the plight of the barren woman. Throughout Scripture and in our own culture, infertility is rightfully recognized as one of the most difficult and emotionally painful ailments. In many ways, it's one of the clearest examples of the curse upon all creation. Very rarely is barenness. Have anything to do with a person's own individual sin. Rather, it's a picture of the fallenness of mankind in general, the rebellion and rejection of God. And then the curse upon all creation. And we see this in verse 6, that rather than being a result of individual sin, Luke describes Zechariah and Elizabeth as both righteous before God. Walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. These two were commendable in their loyalty and love for God, and yet they were infertile. And they were suffering, as infertile couples tend to do. And our God upholds the barren woman close to his heart. Almost all of the matriarchs of Israel, Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, Hannah, were all barren at some point. And almost all of the men that they eventually gave birth to were extremely prominent figures in Israel's history. Samson and Samuel, Jacob and Joseph, just to name a few. It's as if the Lord lifts up the barren woman as a living testimony. Of his grace and his redemption in fulfilling a purpose that's even bigger than childbearing. For the barren woman of the Bible was not merely about the woman, even though that tragedy is true and difficult. The barren woman of the Bible represents something else, something bigger than just the woman. Bareness in the Bible represented the suffering of Israel, who is the bride of God. This bride, Israel, was experiencing tremendous suffering due to the weight of oppression. They were a nation under Roman rule and authority during this time of Herod. And the Messiah This victor who was to come and overthrow all foreign occupation was nowhere to be found. The prophets have been silent for 400 years. We have no prophetic message. Between the closing of the Old Testament and this story of Zechariah, they're silent. Almost as this darkness has been on the land. In fact, in just a few generations. Their temple was about to be destroyed. And Luke's story of Zechariah and Elizabeth is one of hope. Hope for the entire nation of Israel. In just a few months. The Messiah was about to be born. But before Jesus could come, someone had to prepare the way. A forerunner must have must clear the path So to speak. And that person was John. How was John's arrival announced? Well, in verse 9, take a look. Luke says that Zachariah's division was on duty. For the temple and a lot was cast to decide who was to go into the temple and burn incense before the Lord. And this was done every day, morning and evening, according to Exodus 30, verse 7. Zechariah was chosen, so he entered the temple. He took the incense, he put it on the altar of incense, he burned it, and he filled the temple with smoke. The altar of incense was inside of the holy place of the temple. You walked from the courtyard into this holy place, and there was an altar of incense right in the middle. And it was in front of the curtain that separated the most holy place where God Himself sat from the holy place. And outside, Luke mentions in verse 10 that the entire multitude was praying. Luke is trying to tell us something. He's trying to show us that there is a remnant. Of faithful Israelites who were praying and hoping for the coming of the Messiah. Incense is a symbol of prayers. We see this in Revelation chapter 5. And we get this picture here as Luke is painting this scene that as there the smoke is rising and Smoke is filling the temple. It's a picture of the prayers of the saints, of the people of God, and they are praying fervently. And the question on everyone's mind is this Will God finally answer his people? Will God visit us at last? And all of a sudden, the angel Gabriel appears at the right side of the altar. The right side, as in the right hand of God, a position of authority. It's Gabriel that's there, but it's God who is speaking And this, as we know, is the same Gabriel who will announce the birth of Christ just a few verses later. Zechariah, of course, was fearful as anyone would be if they were to see an angel in person. But Gabriel comforts Zechariah and tells him that his prayer has been answered. His prayer has been answered. What prayer? We don't see anywhere in this text, in this passage that we read, that Zechariah is praying. Well Gabriel indicates what the prayer was for what he says, immediately after, your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. Now this seems a little odd, doesn't it? Surely Zechariah was not still praying for a child. He knew that he and Elizabeth were old and advanced in years and certainly knew that there was no hope of conceiving at this point in their life. I don't think Zechariah thought maybe, just maybe I could be the next Abraham, and uh and and Elizabeth could be the next Sarah, and maybe God could give us a child in our own age. What could he mean? What could Gabriel mean by your prayer has been answered? The only thing that this could mean was that the angel Gabriel was referring to Zechariah's prayer made many, many years ago. A prayer while he and Elizabeth were perhaps still young. A prayer made in anguish and desperation that God would grant them children. A prayer that Zachariah and Elizabeth thought would never be answered. What a comfort Liberty Church, to know that God does not forget our requests. Even after many years, our prayers are not lost on Him. The incense of our prayers always rise up to the Lord. David says of God in Psalm fifty-six, You have kept count of my wanderings. You've put my tears in a bottle. You've written them in your book. God has not forsaken you, nor has he forgotten your prayers. So keep praying I don't know what it is that you feel like Zechariah and Elizabeth, a desperate situation has been in your life where God's not answering your prayers. Keep praying. He knows your prayers. He hears you. And he heard Zachariah's prayer for physical children, but he had a plan to do so much more than that. He was about to bring spiritual children to Israel. He was about to fulfill the covenant promises that were made long ago by sending the Messiah, the hope of the nations. The appointed time has come, Luke is saying. It's here. The blessing of Abraham was finally going to arrive upon Israel, but this time, rather than pronouncing that blessing through Abraham and Sarah, who were also barren , God announces it through Zechariah and Elizabeth, the new Abraham and Sarah. Zechariah, like Abraham, immediately doubts that God's going to do this through him. I'm sure you picked up on that. He says in verse 18, How shall I know this? How shall I know that you're going to do this, God? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years. If you recall, Abraham said basically the same thing in Genesis 17 when the Lord told him that he and Sarah would have a child. He says this: Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who is 90-year-old, 90-year-old, bear a child? God is not bound by such physical limitations as infertility. His plan will never be thwarted He delights in the impossible, for it only brings him more and more glory. And just as Isaac was born from barrenness, so too John would be born. And Gabriel says that he will be great before the Lord, and that many will rejoice at his birth. Why? Because, Gabriel says, he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. He will do this by going before Him. Did you catch that? Look at verses 16 and 17 closely. Gabriel says the Lord their God, and then says that John is to go before him. The him implied is none other than Jesus Christ. So this is another example of the divinity of Jesus, that he is indeed the Lord God mentioned here. Gabriel says something interesting. He will go in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. This was John's ministry. It's important to take a closer look at it. John was to prepare the way As a forerunner. He was to prepare the way for the king to come as a forerunner, one who would shout before the procession of the king, saying, He's here, he has come. And uh not that I think of myself as a king, but my truck is so loud that it announces my arrival to my house, literally blocks away. So that Evelyn and my daughter and my dog Rosie are prepared to come running to the house, come running to the door to greet me. Now I guess my wife never hears the truck because she never comes running, but um That's okay. I'm not upset about that. But the forerunner of Christ was not an obnoxiously loud forward expedition. It was the prophet. John coming in the spirit of Elijah. The reference to Elijah comes from the book of Malachi. Incidentally, the last book. The Old Testament. And in chapter 3, verse 1, Malachi says, Behold, my messenger I send who will prepare the way before me. In chapter 4 of Malachi, verses 5-6, it says, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. That last line in the book of Malachi is telling the coming of Elijah was the final chance for Israel. If he wasn't to come, the land was going to be totally destroyed, Malachi says. So of course there was this eager expectation of the Israelites. When is Elijah coming? Are you Elijah? They ask. So why Elijah? Why not come in the spirit of Daniel or in the spirit of Ezekiel? Well, in part it's because of Elijah's uniqueness as a prophet. He called for repentance. He called for people of God to forsake the worship of Baal and other gods and to turn fully and embrace the worship of our true God Yahweh. And God's ministry was to do the same. He called for repentance. And he calls for repentance still today. And we must prepare ourselves to meet Christ by repenting of our sins. By acknowledging that we have rebelled against our God. That we have fallen short of the standard that is perfect. And in our preparation, we receive Christ by faith. We believe that He has paid the full penalty of our sins upon the cross. Liberty Church, have you prepared yourself to meet your king? Have you repented and turned from evil? Are you submitting your life by faith To the Messiah, to the coming King. Brothers and sisters, unlike during the time of Zechariah, who was mute, until the appointed time. And even Luke mentions that Elizabeth hid herself. Did you catch that? For five months. And later we're going to see that John hid himself even in the desert until the time of the ministry. Unlike this hidden message. The message to us has now been revealed. Today is a day of salvation. There is no other sign. For you, except the resurrected Christ. We must heed John's words in chapter 3 to flee the wrath to come. And the only safe place, the only refuge, is into the arms of Jesus Christ. And this is the message of John the Baptist. The prophetic ministry of John was vitally important, but there is something else about John's ministry that few people notice. He was not only a prophet, which he was, but he was also a priest. Or at least he functioned much like a priest. He was priestly. Why do I think John was a priest, or at least priestly? And he was a priest who never served in a physical temple. Why do I think this? First, there is a focus in Luke's gospel on Zechariah and Elizabeth being such a priestly family, and surely there is an expectation that their offspring would be as well. Second, the context of those Malachi quotations, the chapter 3 and chapter 4, is an address to the priests of Israel. Malachi chapter 2. 1 says, and now, O priest, this command is for you. And the address continues presumably all the way through the end of the book. Third, John would later baptize with water, even baptizing our own Lord, Jesus Christ. Baptism is a priestly function. Fourthly, Elijah the prophet also sacrificed to God in 1 Kings chapter 18, if you recall that story with the prophets of Baal. And sacrifice was a priestly function. Priests were called to prepare people for worship. Lastly There is this very interesting description of what John is to be like in our passage this morning. Look at verse 15. For he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. Now, many people take this as what's called a Nazarite vow, a vow of separation. I don't think it is that. I don't think it is. For one, there's no mention of cutting hair, and there's no mention of touching dead bodies, which were very important aspects of the Nazarite vow. Instead, I see the injunction to not drink alcohol as a reference to the command given to the priests. In Leviticus 10, 9. And the Lord spoke to Aaron, saying, Drink no wine or strong drink. The same language here in our text. You or your sons with you when you go into the meeting. Jesus too seemed to corroborate that John was more than just a prophet. In Luke chapter 7, he goes before the crowds and they're all asking him about John and he says, What did you go out to the desert to see? A prophet? Yes, and I tell you, more. Than a prophet. Why is it important that I'm stressing this? Why am I trying to get you to understand that John was not only a prophet, but also a priest? Because of this, priests bring sacrifices. And as a priest John was about to bring a sacrifice for all of the people of Israel. He was about to present to God the final sacrifice. The sacrifice to end all sacrifices, a sacrifice that would finally atone for the sins of Israel. John was about to bring the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Notice what John said when he first sees Jesus in public ministry, walking towards him. He goes to the crowds and he says, Behold. The Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world. John saying, Behold, here he is. Here's a sacrifice. I prepared the way for him. And John 's ministry was to present Jesus' ministry, the ultimate ministry being sacrifice of himself on our behalf. You see, Luke's aim in the gospel is in many ways to contrast the ministries of John the Baptist and Jesus Christ. He puts their parents, the announcements of their birth, their actual birth, their ministries side by side. But never to be confused. He wants to show the glory of John's ministry, but he wants for all of us to know that the glory of Jesus' ministry far outshines it. John brought a sacrifice. Jesus was the sacrifice. John baptized with water. Jesus baptized with the Holy Spirit. Don was a son of a priest. Jesus is a son of God Most High. Don paved the way. Jesus is the way. And the truth and the life, and no man can come to the Father except through him. And John died at the hands of Herod, his body to remain forever in a tomb. But Jesus died at the hands of Pilate and rose victoriously from the grave and now sits at the right hand of God the Father. And throughout Luke's gospel, John is always pointing to Christ. He's always saying, look at him. Not me. Look at him. John takes a step back. He's turning the spotlight completely on Jesus. He recognizes that he is in the story merely to point to Christ, to present Christ to the world. He says later, he must become greater. I must become less. In this way, Liberty Church, we have an example to follow, do we not? But we too must point not to ourselves but to Christ We must recognize that our place in this redemptive story of God is merely to point to Jesus and to present him to a dying world. to proclaim his mercy and grace, to show the world through word and deed that he is greater and that we are less Liberty Church, let us be prepared in heart and soul to meet our Lord. Humble yourself, as John did, repenting of your sin. And place your faith in King Jesus. Let's pray. O Lord, we ask that we would be prepared to meet you. We want to repent. We want faith. Grant us these gifts, O powerful and merciful God. If there are any in our midst who do not know you, we who have not prepared themselves to meet you, we pray. That their eyes would be opened to the glorious truth that you are our God. Humbly we come before you, and we eagerly expect your salvation, and we long for your coming. Let us always point to you, King Jesus, and never to ourselves. Let us always give you glory and never seek it for ourselves. For you must become greater and we must become less. We pray that this would happen. I want to pray all this in the precious and strong name of your Son, the true Messiah, Jesus Christ. Amen.