If you have your Bibles, turn with me to Luke chapter fifteen, one through ten. The section of Jesus' teaching deals with the lost and found , obviously not articles of clothing that are misplaced, but people. who are made in the image of God, who are not connected to Him, who are not in relationship with Him People who are adrift, who are wandering, who are spiritually blind without a saving relationship with their Creator. Being lost is a terrible predicament. And uh frequently I am directionally lost as my wife will tell you. And I don't know how I would get around without this little computer in my pocket. But being spiritually lost is the worst of predicaments. What do you do when you can't find God? Where do you turn? But there is a glorious truth found in Scripture for those who are lost, and it's this: Jesus Christ came to seek and save the lost. In our passage this morning, Jesus gives three parables to illustrate this truth. This morning we're going to be looking at two of those parables. And we're going to save the third one, the well-known story of the prodigal son, for next week. I'll be preaching on that. And here in Luke 15, verse 1, the scene opens up. In a very similar way that we have seen before in the Gospel of Luke. Tax collectors and sinners Are gathering around Jesus. Now, tax collectors were despised by the Jews as extortionists. They're greedy. They betrayed their own countrymen. And yet, at the preaching of Christ, many of these tax collectors realized that they were lost. They knew that they had done wrong. Then they needed forgiveness, just like the story of Zacchaeus, the tax collector. And these rich and powerful people saw that they were actually broken. that they're actually spiritually bankrupt. It's like those well-known stories of famous athletes. Who, upon winning fame and fortune, are still empty inside. Unfortunately for the Ravens, they are empty and losers That was a little harsh. I'm sorry. What do you expect from an Indianapolis Colts fan? Do I just discredit all that I'm about to say next? These tax collectors knew they were sick, and so they looked for a doctor, and they found one in Jesus And Jesus heals the sick. He gives sight to the blind. He gives spiritual wealth to the impoverished. And the other group, it says here in verse 1, that was flocking to Christ, were sinners. Now, sinners here is a catch-all phrase used mainly by the religious elites in Israel. And it described anyone that was not abiding perfectly by the law of Moses And by the traditions that were established by the Pharisees, this sect of religious leaders in Israel. And these were sinners in a legitimate sense. meaning that they did indeed miss the mark of God's perfect righteousness, God's standard. But here, I believe Luke is stressing the illegitimate way that they are sinners They had missed the mark of the Pharisaical standards. The standards established by the Pharisees themselves. The religious burdens placed on the people by the Pharisees were too much for them to handle. They couldn't carry the load. And yet the Pharisees did not see that they themselves had fallen far short of not only their own standard, but God's standard. They themselves were lost, as we shall see. These sinners and tax collectors, despised by their own countrymen as Jesus himself was. Gathered around their leader to hear him speak and preach words of truth. And Christ was having a meal with them. And this meal is important. Because of where it's placed in the text. Recall, we've been preaching through Luke 14, and we saw a lot about meals there. And here we have this meal, Jesus, on the tail end of another meal, the end times meal. The meal of the great wedding feast that will take place when the kingdom of God comes. We have to see this meal in Luke 15 in that context. The meal of Jesus here is a microcosm of the last meal. of Jesus, where redeemed sinners will eat with Jesus in the new heaven and the new earth. And in teaching on this meal, Jesus had stressed earlier that there were going to be many, many people who are invited to the meal. And yet who do not come. We saw that a few weeks ago. For various reasons, they don't come. They make excuses. They choose not to. They grumble And now look what's happening here in Luke 15. The Pharisees and scribes are complaining about who is eating at Jesus' table. They're complaining about the meal. They are the ones who presumed that they were in the kingdom of God. They presumed that they had the seat of honor at the great wedding feast when God comes. and is with his people for all eternity. That's what they thought. And they complain. And grumble about Jesus' dinner. And this grumbling, this word, is reminiscent of the grumbling of the Israelites years and years ago, as they grumbled against their other leader, Moses, in the desert. And that grumbling also involved a meal. It was the bread that came down from heaven, the manna. Now, what was the complaint here of the Pharisees and scribes against Jesus? What does it say here in verse 2? This man receives sinners and eats with them. Table fellowship was an extremely important aspect of ancient Israelite culture. Who you ate with. Said a great deal about who you accept into your community. It was very important to have either the table open or the table closed. This is why Jews and Gentiles did not eat together. Jews refused to eat with them. And we see this becoming a big deal in the book of Acts. But they wanted to separate themselves from Gentiles. And one of the greatest ways that they separate themselves is by not eating with them. But Christ opens his table to all who come to him by faith and repentance. And he has a glorious spread. He will feed you. with rich food. He welcomes you to partake in this banquet with him. To lean against him as the Apostle John, to have fellowship with him spiritually speaking. And the invitation to his table Has already happened. It's already been sent out. It's being sent out again even this morning To join with Jesus in fellowship around a spiritual table, which will one day be a very real table. When we cross this line into eternity. Revelations 3. 20. Listen to what Jesus says to the churches. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him and he with me. This is true table fellowship. This is the greatest meal ever. Christ inviting us to sit at the table with him. We who don't deserve to be there. We shouldn't be there. We don't even deserve to eat the scraps that fall from the table. But Christ, in his marvelous grace, seats us with him We have a seat at the table. And the Pharisees and scribes, they see who's at the table. You and I. Bunch of sinners. They want no part of it. And thus they are saying we want no part of that end times feast either. That great banquet. And Jesus, out of a deep love for these self-righteous religious elites, he teaches them a most powerful lesson in the form of three parables. The first parable is somewhat unique in terms of its form, it's left parabolic. It's found here in verse 3. It's more of a real life example. It deals with herding sheep and the very common predicament that sheep herders had, which was losing a sheep. And many of the men that Jesus was addressing, even the Pharisees and scribes, probably owned sheep. So it was relevant to them. And having a hundred sheep was an indication of a man's status in ancient Israel. So these men were well off. They weren't exorbitantly rich. It was uh said that a flock of 200 sheep means that you're wealthy. But 100 sheep, these are men of means. And the scenario here is at the end of the night, the shepherd would count the sheep, and then in this particular instance, he counts 99 sheep. One's missing. What does the shepherd do? Verse 3, Jesus says, does he not leave? The ninety-nine in the open country. Goes and and searches until he finds it. And then Jesus says, and when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders. He's rejoicing. He goes home and he tells his friends and his family, his neighbors, they throw a party for one sheep. Now, there are a number of difficulties with this. Questions, I think, at least. And perhaps you've already thought of some of them. Well, the first is that the Pharisees and scribes themselves were not shepherds. They were Pharisees and scribes. They would not have been out in the fields looking for the sheep. They would have been in the temple. Leading the people of Israel in worship. What's going on here? Well, I believe that Jesus is parable to these men. We have to recall who this parable is directed to, but that this parable is first a rebuke to them. It's subtle. The leaders of Israel are called the shepherds of Israel all throughout the Old Testament. We saw that even in the passage that Dave read in between songs in Ezekiel. God in the Old Testament condemned the shepherds of Israel for leading the sheep astray, for not being true shepherds. They failed, and their first and foremost responsibility, which was to shepherd the sheep. And Jesus here saying which one of you is actually implying that none of you would do this. None of you would go out and go find one sheep because you're not sacrificial shepherds. They're not faithful shepherds. Not like what a true shepherd would do. And the second difficulty in this passage is with the actual act of leaving 99 sheep in order to find one. Who would do such a thing? Risking 99 % of your investment for the 1% does not seem like a solid financial move. Just to be honest. And commentators struggle with this. They don't see they don't see how that would be plausible either And they try to smooth this over. Every one I read try to smooth this over. And the number one suggestion that they offer is that the sheep owner really just left the sheep with a guardian, with a gatekeeper. That is a posit that is a actual role. We see that role in John chapter 10. And one commentary I read calls this implication obvious. Obviously, the shepherd did that. Well, it's not obvious to me. In fact, it seems very unlikely. Well, for one, a gatekeeper is not mentioned here in the text, and it's not mentioned in the parallel text found in the book of Matthew. Gatekeeper's not found there. The shepherd leaves them that time on the mountain, just in the middle of nowhere. Furthermore, the k a key to this is this word here found in verse 4, the open country. I don't think that that's a great choice for translation. It should be, in my opinion, translated wilderness. As it is, most of the time that word is found in the book of Luke. In fact, every single time in the book of Luke, besides this one instance. This word is translated wilderness or desert or desolate place. This is not a pasture. They have a word for that. Luke uses it. It's not a field. It's a different word than just a field. It's not a place where the sheep can just frolic and play to their delight. This is dangerous territory. It's desolate. It's deserted. It's full of wolves and lions and all types of enemies. To helpless sheep. It's an extremely high risk to leave all these sheep for hours on end In the desert, in the wilderness, while the shepherd searches high and low for the one missing. Luke uses this word very intentionally. Instead of using the word for field or for pasture, why? Well, he's showing that the 99 sheep that are left behind are actually in grave danger. They're in the wild. No place they should be. Unprotected, unguarded, away from the shepherd And this is the point of the parable. It's not just about the one sheep that's missing. It's about the ninety-nine that are left behind. Who are these ninety-nine sheep? What do they represent? And Jesus tells us in verse 7, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance. Who doesn't need repentance? Everyone needs repentance. Jesus is talking about here those who think that they don't need repentance Those who think that they're not sick in need of a doctor. He's talking about the Pharisees and the scribes. This parable is about them. The Pharisees are the ninety-nine sheep who are left without God, left without Christ as their shepherd. It's not the Pharisees who are the sacrificial shepherds risking everything for just one. The Pharisees, in a sense, are the sacrificed sheep. God has left the unrepentant Pharisees to their own devices. They are in essence abandoned by God. They're left alone, unprotected, unguarded, because of their failure to repent. They have no need of God. So he leaves them in hostile territory. And he will do the same with everyone who does not repent. Are you a repentant person? Does repentance mark your Christian life? If not, you are in dangerous territory But if you are repentant, you are like the one sheep Who did not find his way back to the fold. The shepherd had to go get him. You did not come back to God. God came to you. He looked far and wide. He searched high and low He sacrificed everything. He's the one who sought you. He's the one who found you. He's the one who grabbed you and put you on his back. Repentance is Christ finding us when we're yelling out to him in need. Of grace. Repentance is us crying out to God, God, I turn to you, I don't know where you're at. Find me I'm sure that's what the sheep was doing. The one sheep all by himself. If you've seen sheep before in real life They're just bleating animals all the time if there's something stresses them out so that the shepherd could hear the sheep's voice. That's what we're to do. And when Christ finds you, there is much joy in heaven. God loves you. He rejoices when he finds a repentant sinner. And he no longer uses that term about you. Sinner is not used of a Christian. You sin, but you're a saint. The joy of the Father, the desolation of those who do not repent. That's the theme of this first parable. We can't miss that. Are you a person who repents? And this is the theme of the first parable, but it's not the theme of the second parable, even though many of the same components are the same. There's still something lost. There's something that's not lost. There's someone who finds the lost item. There's joy in finding it. But it's not the same point. It's not just a duplicate parable with different reference. It's teaching something slightly different, both of these parables together, then with the third parable that we will look at next week with the prodigal son. A whole new slew of lessons combined together to present a fuller picture of what does it mean to be lost and what does it mean to be found. The second parable deals with a woman who lost a silver coin and is just upending the entire house trying to find this one coin. It sounds a lot like my wife trying to find her phone. And what is this coin? It's no ordinary coin. It's a drachma. Now a drachma is worth about a day's wage. So even at minimum wage today, a drachma would be a $100 bill. Interestingly, a drachma is the price for a single sheep. And this drachma is lost. And why does the woman search high and low for it? Why does she light a lamp and sweep the rugs and look for it? Not because it's a mere penny, but because it's a drachma. It's because it's valuable. Because it's worth a lot. The repentant sinner is the drachma. The repentant sinner is valuable to God. So valuable he will stop at nothing. To have you. Jesus says, when someone comes to me by faith, I will never turn them away. No matter where you are at on a spiritual journey, either as far away from God as possible or right next to Him. God will do whatever it takes to receive someone who repents and turns To him. He will never let you go, and he will rejoice in finding you. And he has your name written on his hands. Heaven itself rejoices when you repent. Are you repentant? Turn from your evil ways and cry out to Jesus. Jesus Christ and He will find you. His grace knows no bounds. His love for us is eternal. For we who were lost have been found by a gracious Savior. Whose love is amazing. Let us pray. Father, we were once lost. Now we're Found. We were the sheep, as we sing about who wandered off, but you came and searched for us. Father God, thank you so much for your incredible grace. It is not of our hands. We did not do anything. We cannot earn Our salvation. You, Jesus Christ alone, came and found us. And you took us upon your shoulders and you carried us to the Father We praise you. We pray this in your name. Amen.