Verses thirty-nine through fifty-six. And after the Annunciation of Christ's birth, which we looked at last week, Luke is going to give us a further glimpse of Jesus' mother, Mary, and the song that she composed known as the Magnificat. Probably no older than 14 years, this young girl's world was just turned upside down. And yet, miraculously, she responds with grace and trust and obedience. Her example is a challenge to us all. We just recently moved into our new home three or four days ago, and I feel like my world's a little upside down. And I do not respond with the grace that Mary exhibited, I assure you. As we shall see this morning, Luke spends an inordinate amount of time on Mary. But not for Mary's sake. The reason Luke is putting Mary on display is to display Mary's God, in whom Mary trusted with her whole heart. In this way, Mary is a model for us. to love and to hold on to God even when our circumstances are out of our control. Our text begins with the line, in those days, referring to the days of the Annunciation, and immediately after the angel Gabriel appears to Mary. Luke says that she in haste makes her way to the hills of Judah, to the home of Zechariah and Elizabeth, her cousin, and the parents of John the Baptist. And the reason she went so quickly was that Gabriel had just told Mary that her barren cousin was now pregnant. And she was six months ahead of Mary. And both of these births were so miraculous that Mary wanted to rejoice with her cousin over this shared miracle. They had something tremendous in common. And so Mary quickly went with to see her. And as soon as Mary steps through the door to greet them, the Holy Spirit is present. And it said that John the Baptist, while still in Elizabeth's womb, leaped for joy. My wife is pregnant, and so our world is about to be turned upside down even more uh soon, but the girl, the daughter in her womb often uh has the hiccups. And just bounces around constantly to the delight of my other daughter who also has the hiccups often. But John John is not hiccuping Or kicking, or just moving around. Luke says that he is leaping. And Elizabeth says in verse 44 that he leaped for joy. It's important to see that this idea of leaping has an explicit connection to the Old Testament. As we saw last week, John the Baptist was fulfilling a prophecy found in the last book of the Old Testament, the book of Malachi, namely chapter 3, verse 1. And in there it says, Behold, I send my messenger and he will prepare the way before me. John 's role was to prepare the way for the Lord, to announce his arrival. And in Malachi chapter 4, verse 5, it says this, Behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. Now quickly, this day of the Lord is threefold. It's the day that Christ first came, which is the first advent, which is what we're celebrating now. The day of the Lord is also the day when Christ returns and gathers his people together under his kingship. But there is also a third day of the Lord. Today. The day of the Lord is the new Sabbath in which the saints of God gather together, foreshadowing the day in which Christ will return and gather his people. So the people of God We're waiting for this first day of the Lord to come. And it would be announced by the arrival of the prophet Elijah. Now, this isn't a reincarnate Elijah. It's one who had Elijah's spirit. And when Elijah came The people knew that the Lord was close to follow. And John the Baptist was Elijah. John the Baptist was Elijah, and Jesus makes this explicitly clear in Matthew chapter 11, verse 14, where he says, if you are able to understand, he is the Elijah to come. And the book of Malachi contains all of this about the day of the Lord that's fast approaching, about the coming of the Messiah, about the ministry of this new Elijah. 400 years before Christ even stepped foot on earth. It's from this book that these promises are found. And in Malachi chapter 4, In the context of this new Elijah who's coming to prepare the way for the Lord, it says this, but for you who fear my name, The Son of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping. like calves from the stall. The concept of leaping like a calf or leaping with joy is directly connected to the ministry of Elijah. Well what is being conveyed here when Luke mentions this, that this the idea of this John, the new Elijah, is leaping in our passage. It's this. that John the Baptist had already begun his ministry announcing the Christ, and he did so while still in his mother's womb. Even in utero, John has begun to be a forerunner for Christ, announcing his arrival with joy, it says What a profound picture. The baby John being a forerunner to the baby Jesus. John hears his voice and immediately begins to proclaim, not with words. But with leaps of joy. Leaps of joy. Hearkening us back to these wonderful prophecies found in the book of Malachi. This was John's ministry, to announce the coming Messiah with joy. John was not announcing Jesus was coming somberly. He was not doing it while singing a dirge. The Gospels describe John as a groomsman, someone who is elated about the groom that's coming. for his bride, which is the church. John's ready to give Jesus a toast of celebration. Now, later in the Gospels, we see John, who is just a man, begin to have doubts about the Messiah while he's languishing in a prison cell. But right now, in his mother's womb, he's jumping up and down, exclaiming, the Christ is here, the Christ is here, the day of the Lord has arrived. And we see this joy in John immediately, and we also see this joy in Mary. She begins her beautiful hymn of joy in verse 46. This song is called the Magnificat because it comes from the Latin translation of the first word to magnify. And this word magnifies actually translated elsewhere in the Gospel of Luke, and we've actually seen this already about three times, translated as great. So in other words, Mary is saying, my soul makes the Lord great. What does that mean? Well, this line is parallel to the next line right below it, which helps us understand the first line even more. My soul makes the Lord great, my spirit rejoices. In God, my Savior. Making the Lord great means rejoicing in God, your Savior. When we find joy in our Lord, it magnifies his greatness, his worthiness, his glory. The message of Christianity came with much joy. In fact, you cannot have Christianity without it Earlier in the Gospels, if you recall, the angel says to Zechariah , You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at John's birth. And later in Luke, when the angels announced to the shepherds the birth of Christ, what do they say? Fear not. Behold, I bring you news of great sadness. No, of course not. They say, news of great joy. Joy is essential to the message of Christianity. Joy in the fact that our Savior has been born. Joy knowing He has died in atoning death for us. Joy that the promises of the Old Testament have come true in the new. Joy that we belong to the people of God. Joy that even when my body fails, I have a glorified one waiting for me in heaven. Joy that my name is written in the Lamb's book of life. And when we rejoice, our joy is a delight to God. For he is a joyful God. And his children should imitate that. So the contrary then must be true, is it not? If you're not rejoicing in the Lord, then you're not making the Lord great. In Liberty Church, the question that leaps out at all of us is this: Do you find joy proclaiming Jesus Christ? Are you a joyful Christian? This is a vital characteristic of Christianity. In my opinion, it's one of the most important traits that gives the church its power. I believe that some of the fruits of the Spirit Can be replicated by an unbelieving world. By the common grace of God, many people can be patient or kind or gentle or self-controlled. But joy is nearly unattainable without the Holy Spirit. And when I mean joy, I mean joy in the midst of your world unraveling, like with Mary. Joy when darkness tarries. Joy when life is difficult. That joy is truly supernatural. It comes only by means of the Spirit of God. One of the most impressive testimonies is when a Christian faces their dire circumstances with a deep joy in the Lord. Now, joy does not mean happiness. Joy means triumph over tragedy. And this amazes an unbelieving world. I've heard countless of examples of when a patient receives the terrible news of uh of a illness. And the doctors and nurses around them are so impressed with a spirit of joy that transcends their own understanding. Not happiness or glee. That would be odd. But a quiet, deep love for Jesus Christ, despite their world unraveling around them And this is why Paul says to Philippians, rejoice in the Lord. Again I say, rejoice. Brothers and sisters, I preach to you in large part to help make your joy complete in the Lord. My desire is for Liberty Church to be a church full of joy, overflowing in it, in abundance, and spreading it to those around you. To your neighbors and co-workers, your friends and your family. And again, the question for us is this, do you have that joy? And if not, why not? And one explanation could be that you've lost your joy momentarily by taking your eyes off Christ. And his word. When John heard the voice of Jesus, he leapt for joy. Joy filled his heart. And this is what the scriptures do for us, Christian. They are Jesus' words. They are in essence his voice. When we read the Bible, we are hearing Jesus, and in turn, this fills our heart with joy. When I ask joyless Christians if they had been reading the Bible in ad almost always I I uh the response is no So one explanation for a loss of joy is you're not hearing from your Lord anymore. You have stopped turning to the Word of God for your joy. You have turned to other things in the world that bring no joy at all. And many Christians expect that Sunday worship Is all you need of the word. And I am very high on Sunday worship. Alright. I believe it's mandated for Christians. But the word needs to be in your heart daily. And this is the number one cause, in my opinion, of your loss of joy. It's a lack of God's word in your heart on a daily basis. But there is another possibility for being joyless. And it's this, you've never truly become a Christian in the first place. You've gone through the mechanics. You've attended church all your life. You know plenty of the Bible stories, but you don't have the Spirit of God. You don't find joy in the gospel. A message that declares that Christ came to earth to be punished for your sins and for your iniquities. And when one comes to him by faith, repenting of our transgressions and rebellion against a holy and just God , Jesus exchanges your record that earned condemnation for his perfect record. And he died in your place and gave you his righteousness. saving you from the wrath of God and declaring that you have become born again, born with the Spirit of God, born with a spirit of joy. And just as joyfulness is an indicator of the Spirit, so too joylessness may be an indicator of not having the Spirit. I ask that you pray and examine yourself and repent and turn to Christ to receive his mercy and his grace and his joy. Mary is full of this joy we see in this passage. Her soul is just bursting forth with it as she composes this hymn. This poem, which is contained in verses forty-six to fifty-five, is patterned. directly off Hannah's prayer. If you recall, Hannah was the mother of Samuel, and this is found in 1 Samuel chapter 2. And the similarities between The Magnificat and Hannah's prayer are absolutely striking. There is no question that Mary patterned her song after Hannah's. Hannah starts her prayer with the same idea. My heart rejoices in the Lord. Here again we find joy. And in Hannah's prayer, she magnifies the Lord who lifts up those who are helpless. Hannah says in 1 Samuel 2, verse 8, He raises up the poor from the dust, he lifts up the needy from the ash heap. And just as the Lord looked upon Hannah in her helplessness, so too the Lord looked upon Mary in her humble estate. Verse 48 of our passage says, The Lord looked upon her, and now all generations call her. Blessed. And this theme of God helping the helpless is so prominent in Mary's song. Mary, a child, a commoner, a girl in a very patriarchal culture, was was low in the social pecking order. Her husband to be, Joseph, was certainly low as well, for we find later in the Gospel of Luke that they can't even afford to bring a proper sacrifice to the Lord. In many ways, Mary was the marginalized of our culture. She was the outcast. And she certainly would have been even more of an outcast as news of her virgin birth spread to the surrounding community. Yeah, yeah, right, Mary, they probably said to her. Yeah, the Lord overshadowed you, huh? But God looked upon this girl, this little girl, upon her humble estate, and he called her Blessed. He did mighty things for her. Because that is the nature of God. To look upon the outcast. the downtrodden, the rejected, the small in the world's eyes, and to exalt them. God looks at the proud and mighty and he laughs, but he looks at the low and destitute and the humble and he exalts them. Look at all the places in the Magnificat where this distinction between the proud and the humble is made. Verse 51, he has scattered the proud in their thoughts. Verse 52, he has brought down the mighty from their thrones. Verse 53, he has sent the rich away empty. But look here, the contrast, verse 52. He exalted those of humble estate. Verse 53, he filled the hungry with good things. And the climax of the Magnificat is found at the very end where this distinction is made in such a powerful way. He has helped his servant Israel. In remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. Israel was the lowest of lows. They're a country not even worth mentioning in the ancient record books. They were constantly oppressed, despised, trodden on. They were rejected and cast off And Mary, the mother of Jesus, was a picture of the nation of Israel. God took what was small, what was meaningless in the world's eyes, and he exalted it. He brought blessing out of cursing, glory out of nothing, and honor to that which is scorned by the world. He reverses the fortunes of those in a humble estate. He lifts up the poor and downcast, and he calls them blessed. And ultimately Ultimately, this is a picture not of nations nor of mothers, but of salvation. For we all find ourselves in a humble estate spiritually. Dead in our sins, dead in our transgressions, but God, rich in mercy. Made us alive together with Christ. It is by grace we have been saved. Our fortunes have been reversed in Christ. We are now the blessed one. Who once were under the curse, not because of anything we had done, but because of Christ. Well, how then shall we respond to this great salvation? We respond like Mary. For just as John is a forerunner to the Christ, so too Mary is a forerunner to us. Mary is the first believer in the Lord. Have you thought about that? She trusted the baby growing in her womb She was the first to feel the touch of her Savior. She was the first to see him and the first to hear his voice. Mary, as the first believer, is the prototype of all believers. And she gives us the blueprint on how to believe and what belief looks like. It looks first and foremost like joy in the Lord. Rejoicing in God, our Savior. It looks like humility For we realize that it is God who saved us, not we who saved ourselves. It looks like remembering God's mercy, even in the darkest of our days. It looks like recognizing that God did not just save you, but He also saved the people around you. We belong to a community of believers, the church, the new Israel, the offspring of Abraham. As we think about what faith looks like, we have a wonderful example in the person of Mary, this young girl who, by God's grace, had tremendous faith. And we see that this faith is for everyone who comes to Christ and receives his mercy. And this faith is one, first of all, of profound joy. Liberty Church, I ask: what is taking your joy away from you? If you find yourself to be a joyless Christian, what is it that has robbed you of your joy? Put your eyes back on Christ, hear his word, and together as the people of God, we celebrate what the Lord has done. We do this by worship. We do this by hearing his word and by partaking in the sacraments of the Lord's Supper. And we do all of this with the joy of the Lord in our hearts. Hearts, let us pray.