Good morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke chapter 9. I'm going to be looking at verses 1 through 22. As I mentioned last week, this is the second part of a scene that Luke started in the last chapter as he begins to turn his focus briefly in his gospel to the church. to the body of Christ, to the people of God. And the foundation of the church are the apostles. Also called the disciples here in this passage, also called the twelve. These are all synonymous terms. The head of the church is Christ. But the church itself rests upon the authority of the apostles. It were these apostles that that were chosen by Jesus Himself. It was the apostles who initially followed Jesus. It's the apostles who wrote what Jesus had said. And they wrote with authority the very words of God. Just as the prophets of old could say, Thus saith the Lord, so too the apostles could say the same thing. 2 Peter 1:21 says The same thing. No prophecy was ever produced by the will of man. That is, no prophecy came from inside of man. It wasn't conjured up by a man. But here's what Peter says, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. So when we hear The apostles, when we hear James and Peter and Paul and all the rest, we are hearing from God. They spoke the very words of God, and this is foundational. to believing in the authority of the church. And Luke is beginning to sketch out for us what is the church? How was it formed? People often view Luke's second book, The Acts of the Apostles, as the origin of the church. And in part that's true. But the origin of the church starts right here in the gospel. The origin is found here in Luke. The mission of the church is found in Acts. And it's vital for us to understand what is the church. Because you are a member of the church It's wild to understand what is this that we call a church because you are a part of this church. What are you a member of? And as we shall see, you are a member of Christ's Church, an institution that has been given the very power and authority of Christ Himself. Look at 9, 1, chapter 9, verse 1 here. Jesus calls the 12 to himself and he grants them power and authority over all demons and diseases and sends them out to proclaim the gospel. And that's exactly what the apostles did. And interestingly, this commission that Christ gives to the apostles looks identical to what Christ has already been doing throughout the entire Gospel of Luke This looks like the ministry of Christ. And this is what Luke is attempting to show. This is what Luke wants to show us. That what Christ had done, the apostles are now doing. What the apostles are currently doing, Christ had already been done. Up to this point in the Gospel of Luke, Christ is the one who's been doing all the healing. But now it's Christ and the apostles who are healing. Luke's going to reiterate this multiple times. Showing that it's the church that's now healing. Look at this. Verse 1. They, the apostles cure diseases. Verse 2, sent them out to heal. Verse 6, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. Before that was all Christ. Up to this point, Christ has been doing all the preaching, all of it. But now, Luke is going to emphasize that it's the apostles. Who are preaching. Look at this. Verse 1 again. They are proclaiming the kingdom of God. Verse 6, preaching the gospel. And to show the similarities, the identical natures of these ministries, Luke uses again the same language to describe Jesus Christ's ministry as he just had done about with the apostles. Look at verse 11. Christ spoke of the kingdom of God and he cured those who needed healing. He had just said that. About the apostles. What's Luke doing? This is interchangeable. What Christ has been doing, the apostles are now doing. What the apostles are doing, Christ has already done. All this to say the church gets her cue from Jesus Christ and no one else. The church Gets her message and her commission from Christ. This is the fundamental difference of Christianity than any other religion. It's It is about Jesus Christ. It's not just about Jesus Christ, because it's also about Christians. Yes, Christ is King, but we are his ambassadors The church plays a most prominent role in this entire Christian endeavor. You cannot have Christ without the church. Just as you cannot have the church without Christ. They are not separable. They are not distinguishable Christ is the head. And the church is described as the body. How do you possibly separate that? I don't know. You can't. Christ is the the husband and the church is the wife. And in Genesis it says that when husband and wife come together, they become what? One flesh. There is no separating them. The marriage of Christ and his bride is no different. See, this is why the church, Christianity is so unique because the church is unique. There have been countless people in Israel's history, before Christ and after Christ, who have started movements. But none of the followers of those movements were organically connected to the leader of that movement. None of them were a part and parcel of the leader, like the church is. This is why I believe Luke includes this odd tangent here in verses seven through nine about Herod. These seems a little out of place. What's going on here? Talking about Herod. I believe Luke includes this section to show that Herod has now taken interest. In Christ. Why? Because of the followers of Christ. Before this, Herod The king had mostly been interested in who? John the Baptist. Why? Because John had been reproving Herod for his wife or for his marriage to his uh brother's wife. Herod had not even been mentioned yet. In Luke, in connection to Jesus. He'd been mentioned before in terms of chronological and then also talking about some of the people who followed about Christ. But in connection to Jesus. There's really no mention of Herod. There wasn't much concern about Christ. I mean, from Herod's point of view, he most certainly had heard of Christ before, but probably viewed him as just as an interesting person. This is odd. This rebel riser, this this person that's coming up, and I want to maybe know about him. But all of a sudden. . . Herod wakes up in the morning, reads the Israeli Times or whatever the newspaper they had, and and reads that now instead of one doing all this power, all these healings, all these, now there's 13. They just multiplied just twelve times now as many people He sees one person doing this thing, that 's okay. One person I can I can handle one person. Whoa, how did this happen? Howard, they're now one plus twelve doing all the same things. It's gone from a one-man show to now a thirteen-man show. And Herod wants to see where the power is coming from. Because he views this as a potential enemy. He wants to see, whoa, is this a is this the beginning of something that could threaten me And this is the sense that we get from Luke's statement when Herod says in verse 9, John I beheaded. This is what I do to my enemies. Now I'm going to turn my attention to this, to Christ and his followers, his disciples. He perceives a threat. And it's important for us to recognize that Christ did indeed give the apostles The power over demons and disease. What's that? Demons and disease. Physical, supernatural, all things. And how did he give them power? How did he show the world and the apostles that he was going to give them power? Well, look what happens here. He provided for them. He provided for them. He tells them to go without supplies. No staff. No bag, no food, no money, don't even bring two shirts, don't bring a change of clothes. Depend fully on me. Now, as an aside, we must understand that what Christ tells the apostles to do is not prescriptive for missionaries now. And this is Where some people get sidetracked. They see this happening in Scripture and they think, if I'm going to be a missionary, this is what I have to do. This is what I have to do. Not take any money, walk around with no shoes on, no extra cloth. No. It's not what Christ is telling you. Christ never tells you to go without staff, bag, food, or money. You and I are to make do with the resources that Christ Himself has given us. His grace can be found no less in his provisions to us than it can be in no provisions. This is important to remember. Remember when I was uh first came to Christ at 19 years old, no clue about the Bible, literally, and uh came to Christ within a couple weeks. saw this about faith and about trusting God with my with provisions and I just was doing various random experiments like walking on the sidewalk with my eyes closed. See how far I could walk. God, you gotta direct my path. Sounded very spiritual. You gotta walk you gotta direct me. I'm my eyes are s my eyes are closed. And then all of a sudden I would fall off a curb and or hit my head on a sign. And I realized, no, my eyes are actually a grace of God that God provided for me. And I should probably use my eyes. And in fact, Jesus explains later in the gospel, if we skipped over about 13 chapters, he's going to explain What he does here and he's going to explain that it's a one-off. It's a one-off lesson. We're going to understand what the lesson is, but he says this in Luke 22, verse 35. And it's an important passage to keep this all in context. And there Jesus says, when I sent you with no money bag or knapsack or sandals, what's he referring to? Obviously, this incident. When I s when I did that, when I sent you with that, did you lack anything? And the apostle said nothing. And Jesus said to them, But now, but now let the one who has the money bag take it. And likewise a knapsack. In other words, Jesus is saying, I had a specific lesson for you, apostles, and thus for the entire church. I wanted to show you. That you have the power because you have my power. And even if you were stripped of everything, Even if everything was taken from you, you have absolute power and authority because you have my power and authority. And I'm going to put that on display so you'll never forget. But it does not mean that you neglect the means of grace that God has given us in the form of provisions. In other words, just because the apostles are now to use these things Like money bag, knapsacks, all these things, does not mean that they possess any less power. And Christ even takes it further in that Luke 22 passage. Immediately after saying this about the money in the knapsack, he says this, and let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one. Now those who think of Christ is a pacifist have to deal with this verse. But that's not the point. It's not the point. It's that rather than not being prepared, Christ is advocating that we're as prepared as possible. As much as possible. And there's no sense here in this text of the apostles or Christ exhorting us to say, well You know, I don't really need plans, I don't really need provisions, I don't really need to prepare because I have faith No. I have faith and I have plans. And of course my plans are and your plans are completely dependent upon where the Lord takes you. Of course, your plans and your provision are completely dependent upon what the Lord deems to be right and good for you. You may have very different plans than what you've planned. We are not to worry about tomorrow, Jesus says, but that is not the same as not thinking about tomorrow. We are not to boast about tomorrow, James said, but that's not the same as not planning for tomorrow. And to neglect this principle is to pit scripture against scripture, for much of the Bible highlights its heroes as people, men who prepared and planned. And the entire book of Proverbs says much of the same. So Christ shows the apostles through this specific lesson in chapter 9 that he is enough for them. Whether in abundance or whether in want. And what a great lesson for you, Liberty Church. What a great lesson for all of us. Do you believe that? That Christ is enough for you, whether you have a lot or whether you have a little. And so we see this power. We see this power given to the apostles. But what about the authority? Luke 9. 1 says that Christ gave them power and authority. We see power here. Where is the authority? And this is the significance of verses 3 through 5. As the apostles traveled from town to town, their verdict of that town, or even of that house. It sealed their judgment. Christ did not travel with the apostles. So the apostles went around and they were proclaiming the Word of God, they're proclaiming the kingdom of God, which is synonymous with the gospel. Luke 9, verse 2, and verse 6. Those two terms are synonymous, and they're preaching the gospel, and they get responses from various towns, various homes. And they are not calling Jesus saying, Jesus, we've been doing this and we got a really hard case here. This house, we just don't know what to do with it. What should be done here? No, the apostles assessed the situation and rendered judgment on their own. Christ said, if a town does not receive you, leave that town, shake off the dust from your feet. In other words, not even the dirt can have union with you. And this is to highlight another all-important aspect of the apostles' ministry. They hold the keys to the kingdom of God. Whatever they decide on earth is bound on earth and in heaven. Keys are for locking and unlocking The kingdom of God is opened or shut based upon the apostles' judgment. Christ has given the keys. There are not two sets of keys. There's one. And Christ has fully given them to the apostles. Well, how does this apply to us today? Because the apostles' judgment and the criteria for all future judgment is found right here in Scripture in their very words. The church is to take the apostles' teaching and apply it into our own court. And no judgment can be rendered except by the Word of God, except by the Word of the Apostles. Christ has honored his apostles with such a great, great stewardship. They are not just followers They have real authority. They truly speak the word of God. They hold the keys of heaven and earth in their hands. And all of this goes a little bit to their head. Look at what happens in this next section. They come back to Jesus and they tell him everything that they had just done, all the manifestations of this power that Christ has given them. And then what do they start doing? They start barking orders at Jesus. This is unbelievable. Look at verse 12. It's been a long day, right? And these bit these 12 big shots come sauntering in. And Luke says, now the day began to wear away, and the twelve came to Jesus and said to him, Send the crowd away. To go into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and provision, for we are here in a desolate place. The disciples use the imperative here. This is not a request. There's no confusion in their intentions here. This There's so many things wrong with this. Why who do the apostles think they are? Unbelievable. They're ordering Jesus around. It's like just because you give a soldier a gun does not make him the general. But what else is wrong with this picture? What else is wrong with this picture? The apostles are worried about provisions. The apostles are worried about How quickly have they forgotten the lesson that Jesus Jesus just taught them. He provided for them when they had no food, no money. No resources, and now the apostles are going to send the people away from Jesus? That's not the church. That's not what the church should be doing. They're supposed to be bringing people to Jesus. The apostles miss this. The crowds don't need bread. They need Jesus Christ, the bread of life. The apostles don't need money. They need Jesus Christ, their rich reward. The apostles don't need lodging. They need Jesus Christ. their strong tower and their refuge. And the apostles should have known this. They should have seen this Yes, this section in Luke is about the 12, but the 12 forgot what they were all about. The church does not exist for her own sake. The church exists only, only to glorify Christ and to bring others to him. He is the reason for our existence. He is the reason why we come here to worship. He is the reason why we sing, pray, listen to his word. It's because of him. And churches can and do often forget this. It is possible. It is possible for churches to forget the main reason why she exists. Churches can begin to think, we're here to spend some quality time together. Or we're here to listen to wonderful music or a certain kind of music. We're here to have a beautiful building. We're here to even Serve the needs of others and serve the needs of the poor. Listen, all all of these can be good. All of them can be important, but they pale in comparison to the main reason churches exist to glorify the name of Jesus Christ. And that is the foundation. That is the fundamental purpose of the church, to exalt the name of Jesus Christ. In here every single Sunday, every single Lord's Day, and out there every single day of the week. That's what you're called to do. That's what I'm called to do. That's what the apostles were called to do. To glorify and exalt the name of Jesus Christ and to bring others to him. And it's through Christ that the church has her purpose. And it's through Christ the church has her provision. And to show this provision, Jesus is going to provide in a most miraculous way. It's one of the most famous stories of Jesus' provision. It's the multiplication of the fish and loaves. Now this is a miracle, okay? Make no mistake about it. People have come up with all types of possible solutions in order to discredit the miraculous aspect of this. One commentator, and these are not evangelical commentators necessarily, but one commentator said that Jesus broke off little itty bits of bread. Ittty bitty pieces. So that each person in the crowd could have a little nibble of bread. That's hard to explain. Twelve baskets of bread left over. I don't know if they kept reading through the passage. Another commentator said that Jesus hypnotized the crowd. To make them think that they were really full when actually they hadn't eaten any bread. I'm not making this stuff up, people who actually say this. Now this was a miracle. It's a miracle. And it's a miracle that Jesus shared. With his disciples. He shared it. See the real question about this miracle, and it's recorded in. Gospel, other gospels. The real question here is, when did the fish and loaves multiply? Have you ever thought of that? Do they multiply in Christ's hands or do they multiply in the disciples' hands? When? Where? When did this happen See, I think most people when they think of this scene, and the way I've traditionally thought of this scene, I think of of Christ Kind of going back to the basket every time and handing some more bread, and he's multiplying the loaves and handing them off and multiplying the loaves and handing them off. And the verb choice here is made by Luke to go either way. But I believe that the bread was multiplied not in Christ's hands, but in the disciples' hands. And many of the reformers thought the same Jesus gave the bread to them and watched them perform this miracle. And this is in line with the theme of the passage that the apostles were not just witnesses of Christ's power. They were not just witnesses, but they shared in Christ's power. They received Christ's power. And the significance of this passage is, of course, on Christ, but it's also on the church. And what the church has been doing. And what the church has received from Christ. Look how many baskets of loaves were collected. Twelve. Again, this number 12, you hear last week. This number is significant. Luke has mentioned it now four times in the span of twenty verses or so. Twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles, the totality of the church. It's the church. The church that provides from Christ the most basic needs of the people. It's the church that feeds the crowds. Do you understand? The church provides the most basic need of all human life could ever need. And this is symbolized, I believe, in the bread and fish. Most basic, most basic foods. In Israel. Can't get more basic than bread and fish. This was not foie gras that the apostles were were serving up. Or a Maryland, uh, an hour. This one they were not crab cakes that the apostles are giving to everybody. It's fish and bread. They not provide a menu of options to cater to the sickle desires of the crowd. They gave the most basic sustenance. And what is that symbolic of? The most basic needs of the crowds, the most basic need of all humankind, is the gospel. The message of the kingdom of God. This is the most fundamental aspect of the church to preach Christ crucified. Through Christ, the nations and these crowds, representative of the nations, will be saved. And Jesus is going to test the apostles on this most fundamental thing of the church. This most fundamental, most basic aspect of the church's ministry. He's going to test them. And he asks the apostles, who do the crowds say I am? And what do the crowds say? The crowds actually say the very exact thing that Herod had heard before in verses 7 through 8. Some say John the Baptist, some say Elijah, some say one of the other prophets. But it's not important what the crowds think. Jesus turns to his disciples and asks, Who do you say that I am? The crowds can say and often do say anything about Jesus Christ. He is a hypnotist. He's a liar. He's a fraud. Or maybe he's he's a good guy. He's a good teacher. Teacher of morals. Maybe he's this. Maybe he's that. The crowds have so many different opinions about Jesus Christ. And Jesus asked the apostles the essential question. The essential question that makes or breaks the church. Who do you say I am? And Peter makes the good confession. He goes, You are the Christ. Of God. And the same question is posed to all of us, Liberty Church. Who do you say he is This is essential question of anyone who wants to be a part of the church. It's the foundation. It's the confession. Not just of the church, but of your own mouth. As Paul says in Romans 10, if you believe and confess with your mouth. You will be saved. What do you say with that question? Do you say that Christ is the Son of God? That Christ did indeed suffer? and die. They did bear the wrath of God upon the cross. They rose from the dead and now sits at the right hand of God the Father. Do you say that he is the only hope of salvation? Do you say that there is no other name under heaven by which men can be saved? Do you say that he is your Lord and Savior? In order to know God, you must know Jesus. If anyone has the Son, they have the Father. If anyone rejects the son, they reject the father. And the church, in order to be the church, must make this confession. This is the confession of the church. This is the confession of every believer and every member of the church. And Jesus tells the disciples at the end of this passage to not tell anyone. this yet don't tell anyone yet he doesn't say yet there but that's implied so we know that the disciples are going to go spread and tell everybody There will come a time to tell the world, but for now, Israel, the nation, is kept in darkness. While Jesus was on earth, the leaders of Israel rejected the Christ. And their punishment, the judgment that God had for them was to keep them in darkness. That's why Jesus Christ spoke in parables, in riddles, and mysteries. If the leaders of Israel really wanted to know, they would find out. They would come to Christ in humility. But for now They were to remain clueless. The Messiah was right under their nose, and they did not recognize him. And the apostles were not to disclose these mysteries of the kingdom. But Liberty Church, that is the case no longer. We are to disclose the mysteries of the kingdom. We are to go out. And spread the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're to go far and wide. We're to go near our own homes, families, our workplaces. Neighbors, friends, everybody, to tell them the good news that salvation is found, and it's found in the person of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And we are to praise Christ. We are to praise Christ, who has given the church its very existence. We are here only because of him. We praise him here, we praise him out there. And we are to give the bread of life to everyone, to all who would eat. Let us pray.