The second judgment when Christ returns, when there will be no more time to repent, and the verdict will be cast, and his kingdom will come. And this passage this morning elaborates, expounds on this theme, except there's an additional lesson given on how suffering and sin are related. Is there a correlation between the two? Do we suffer because we sin? And Christ is going to be unequivocal on this, as we shall see. Well, Jesus' teaching on this critical issue begins with some people telling him about a horrific incident that occurred. in which some Galileans were coming down to the temple and to sacrifice, and Pontius Pilate murdered them. And their blood, the blood of these Galileans, these northern Israelites, was mingled with the blood of the animal sacrifice, metaphorically speaking Their blood was both shed while they were sacrificing. And this incident is mentioned only here. This is the only place uh in the Gospels that it's found and nowhere else. And this leads me to believe that it was probably a small number of Galileans. Maybe a couple, maybe a handful. It wasn't enough to make uh the headline news, so to speak. Nowhere else is it recorded. But Jesus was a Galilean. So he certainly knew about this incident. The people talking to Jesus about this about an event here that may have included Jesus' own friends. Galilee was a small place. where Jesus grew up. May have included his own family members. Who knows? But it's something that hits close to home for Jesus. Since as a Galilean, he would have done exactly as these Galileans had done, which is to travel to the temple and offer sacrifices. And though we don't have more information about what happened here, we can have a few details that can be inferred. Sacrifices by laity only occurred in Jerusalem. And only occurred during Passover. So we know it's probably during that time, during the Feast of Passover. And we also see here, secondly, more importantly, Pilate. Pilate was the one responsible for the Galilean suffering. Now, the depiction of Pilate in the Gospels is somewhat ambivalent. uh though certainly not benign, uh not much is made of Pilate. And that's maybe perhaps because the Gothel writers know that Pilate plays a a small role. He's a bit player. in the redemptive history of what Christ accomplished on the cross. But others, other contemporane uh contemporaneous writers of the time of the gospels, Josephus, Philo , others, they depict Pilate as a cruel, terrible leader who provoked Israel multiple times. And who eventually mass-murdered a group of Samaritans and was summoned back to Rome to give an account for his crimes. And the question that we have here is why would Pilate kill these Galileans who are merely going to the temple to offer sacrifices? Well, the story doesn't tell us. We don't know why Pilate did this, except that he was just a cruel, cruel leader. And perhaps maybe these Galileans were believed to be zealots. A group of Israelites, many of them in the north, who were against Roman rule, against Roman imperialism. And perhaps Pilate knew about them. And when they were coming to Jerusalem, he had them murdered. There's no proof of this, but the cause is unknown. And perhaps that's the intention here. Horrible suffering came upon these Galileans for seemingly no reason And the suffering that they experienced was dispensed from the hand of a wicked, anti-God leader who had no love for God, no love for God's people. Perhaps the Jews were telling this story to Jesus to see how he would respond. Perhaps the Jews were telling Jesus the story to see if he, too, perhaps would be a type of zealot. Upon hearing about what happened to his own countrymen. Perhaps Jesus' response would be, you're right. We need to do something about this, this tyranny. We can't let this pass. My own countrymen, my own neighbors were murdered by this tyrant. That's not how Jesus responds here. Instead, he questions the motive of the comment itself. Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all other Galileans because they suffered in this way? There's an implication that they actually did think that these Galileans were worse sinners because they suffered this way. That they actually did do something deserving of this. That's the implication. Why? Why is that the implication? Because in the minds of both ancient Israelites and modern Americans, suffering happens because of something we've done wrong Suffering takes place because of sin, and it's cosmic payback from the hand of God. So in the midst of talking about his second coming, the second advent, in the midst of talking about the need for repentance , Crucial issues in the gospel, Jesus pauses , he stops to answer this question Does my suffering correlate with my sin? And he gives a resounding answer in verse three. No, I tell you. And this was a shock to everyone listening at the time, and perhaps it's a shock to those listening now. They were not worse sinners than all the other Galileans whom Pilate did not kill. Suffering and sin are not related in this way. I've been sick all week, and this passage has given me great comfort. To know that it's not something I've done or some underlying sin that's caused me to be under the weather all week. Uh it's not my sin that has made me sick. It's my children I don't know how to avoid getting sick with a four-year-old. If someone has the answer, please tell me. But to the ancient Jew, disease and suffering were punishments from God. The entire discourse of the book of Job, if you recall, is the three friends of Job telling Job that he must have done something wrong for this suffering to have befallen him. This is Job's predicament. Their argument in essence is those who are rich and healthy are favored by God. So the opposite must be true. Jesus perceives this in the comment from the crowd. Jesus perceives bad theology. This is what this is. It's bad theology, and perhaps some of you have this bad theology as well. Let me differentiate between something that's often very confusing for us. And some mystery in ways. But when we do bad, bad things, oftentimes bad does indeed happen to us. If you were to treat someone poorly, badly, it's very likely that they would treat you poorly, badly as well. If you were to get in a car and drive while you're drunk, Very likely that something bad would indeed happen to you. And the converse is true. Doing good often leads to good. Not all the time. But the bad, the bad that I'm describing there, is not what the Bible thinks of when it uses the word suffering. The bad that befalls you upon making bad decisions and having immediate consequences from those bad decisions is not the same. As what the Bible describes as suffering. Suffering belongs in a completely different category. Suffering is not connected to your actions. Suffering is a gift of God to you It's an unbelievable gift. It's an act of mercy and grace from God to you. And that would have just blown the ancient Jews' mind. Perhaps it's blowing some of your mind. But this is exactly what the Bible teaches. Suffering. Is good. Listen to what the Bible says. Romans 5:3. We rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. Romans 8. 17. We are heirs with Christ provided we suffer with him. 2 Corinthians 1. 5. We share abundantly in Christ's sufferings. Philippians 1. 29. He has been granted to you for the sake of Christ. You should not only believe in him, but also suffer. Colossians 1 24, I rejoice in my sufferings, and I could go on and on. It is legion, the number of examples in the Bible. Really the kicker verse, 1 Peter 4, 1, since Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same kind of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Now, that verse needs some interpretation, and I'm not going to get into that right now. But to say that we are we are all still sinful. It's not what Peter's teaching. We are all still sinful. But yet when we suffer, it produces in us at the moment of suffering the closest conformity To Jesus Christ. In the moment of our suffering, suffering for righteousness' sake, we become closest to our Savior. So it is a gift of God to allow us to suffer. We are called up to suffering. It's something that the biblical writers are calling us up to, to suffer. For righteousness. It's a glorious calling. And Pilate sought to cause suffering in a different way. But God is the one who redeems such suffering and makes it worthwhile. No suffering, for righteousness is a waste. God has a purpose for your suffering. He's using it for greater glory. And whether that suffering comes from the hands of evil men like Pilate or it comes from an act of nature, it's all from the hand of God. And this is the point of what Jesus says next when he gives this other example in verse 4. And those eighteen on whom the tower of Siloam fell and killed. And here it's an act of God. This is not Pilate's fault. He's not to blame. This incident takes place, as it says, in Siloam. And like the previous incident of the Galileans being killed, there's no other biblical reference to this. And it's only found here. A little background. Salome is is this pool of water that draws from the Gehon Spring, which is just out of outside of uh Jer um Jerusalem's walls. And one of the most interesting things to see in Israel is the Siloam Tunnel, which the Bible records was built by Hezekiah in the 8th century B. C. And this tunnel is very long, and they had two teams of workers underground starting at opposite ends and working their way to each other To build this tunnel. And they knew where they were going by the sounds of workers above ground hitting rocks. Don't ask me how that works. But eventually they met actually in the middle. And they made this tunnel. And when they met together, they inscribed on the wall the tunnel about the whole process that they just did that. We're now here. We've we finally met. And today you can walk through this tunnel. It's about five football lengths long, as I've done a few years ago. Five football lengths long. It's less than a few feet wide, so you're crammed in there. And you're crouched over because it's not that tall. And if that's already kind of making you uneasy, uh by the way, it's also pitch black. And it's filled with water. It's not for the faint of heart, I assure you. The thought of doing it again still, even now, gives me some anxiety. But why is Jesus bringing up this incident about a tower? Well, he's showing that no matter who you are, Galilean, Judean. American. No matter where you are, at a temple, at a tower, in Jerusalem or in Baltimore. We're asking the wrong question when it comes to suffering. It's not about what this suffering is doing. It's not about why God is causing my suffering or how he's going to use it. Those are all very mysterious. How God uses your suffering is For us to know only on the other side of eternity. We are to know that suffering is good. The question, Jesus says, that they should have been asking Is how will I suffer if I don't repent? Unless you repent, you will likewise perish. Exact same line of Jesus used twice Perishing here is not the same as suffering. Perishing here means utter destruction. It means coming to ruin. Suffering is redeemable. God uses it. Perishing is not. Perishing is connected to what you do or not do. Perishing is judgment. The death of the Galileans and the death of the eighteen, it's merely a shadow, a a poor shadow Of a judgment that's to come. A judgment against sin and against sinners. Failure to repent leads to utter destruction Are you repenting? Are you repenting? Failure to repent leads to your ruin. Are you repenting? And this is true of Christians and non-Christians. Repent here means literally to change one's mind. But it's more than that. Repentance doesn't stay in your mind. It translates to action. Repentance means turning from sin and turning to God. Turning from sin and turning to God. We think of repentance as confession. But repentance and confession are completely different words in the New Testament. When we confess, we acknowledge our sin before God. But it's not repentance. Confession is certainly a part of repentance, but it's not even the main part. Repentance certainly does involve confession. It involves remorse. It involves shame. involves a sense of guilt for what one has done, but repentance is not repentance until you stop sinning. Now I'm not saying stop sinning forever, but what you're repenting of, you actually stop doing. That's what repentance means. It's a lot stronger language than just confessing, acknowledging. We should do that. Repentance is more It's the critical component of competence is it involves an actual turning away from an actual sin. And true repentance is done by only two groups of people, Christians and non-Christians. When non-Christians realize that their entire life Their entire trajectory of life is one of just sin. One rebellion of God against God after another. Their whole life is marked by sin And by the grace of God, they realize that I have to turn from this lifestyle of sin, from this mindset that is that is Just predominant in my life. I turn from it and I turn to God. God says at that moment of repentance, you're born again. You become a believer in Christ. When you recognize by God's grace that Jesus Christ has taken all of your sin upon himself, suffering. Suffering on your behalf, the wrath of a holy God. And when we realize that we're headed towards destruction, utter ruin, being just perishing before God. We turn and we flee into the arms of Jesus Christ Christians who have already done that are still repenting every day, not to be born again, but to please God and to live a holy life When Christians, when Christian, born-again Christians, do not repent. You will indeed suffer, but not in the way you think. Not in the way of a house falling on you Or necessarily being killed. Or anything physical that's happening that we think of when we think of suffering. Christians who do not repent will suffer. Because God's displeasure will be upon them, and their spirits will be quenched, and their souls will shrink And you'll lose all spiritual vitality of what you once had. You will be a joyless Purposeless, despairing Christian. A sad, sad state. No suffering may come the way we think of it. But non-Christians will indeed suffer, and far greater than if a tower fell upon you. You'll suffer the loss of God in your life. And if you continue in unrepentance, then it's evidence that you're never a Christian to begin with. Brothers and sisters, what sin or sins are you repenting of? Repentance marks your spiritual maturity How often you repent marks how spiritually mature you are All sin, but not all repent frequently. All revival is marked. Every revival and History of the world is marked by an urgent longing and desire to repent. To repent of specific sins, turning away from sin and turning to God. And to further emphasize the need for immediate and frequent repentance, Jesus gives this parable, as he often does. And there's a fig tree in a vineyard, he says. That's not bearing fruit. What's going on? Every parable that Jesus gives, we have to ask some questions. What, who, why, when, what's going on here? We ask, what is the fig tree? What's the vineyard? Somewhat confusing. Fig trees were planted in vineyards often, and in the Old Testament, in the Bible, they both represent God's people. Both a fig tree and the vineyard. So who's who in this parable? Well, the fig tree is an individual within the greater group of God's people. The fig tree is you. More specifically, it is you who are in the church. It's not someone that's outside of the vineyard, outside of the church. It's someone that claims Christ Who comes to church every Sunday? Who's living in the context of the vineyard? Yet there's an individual fig tree that's not bearing fruit. And the man who had the fig tree planted in the parable is God Himself. And he's coming around to see the fruit. And what's the fruit? It's the fruit of repentance. This phrase, fruit of repentance, is found elsewhere. Words of John the Baptist, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. Bear the fruit of repentance. And the man said to the vine dresser, Look, for three years now I've come seeking fruit. I find none. Cut it down. This person 's been in the church for years. They've exhibited a lot of the same attitudes and activity. They've done the same activities as other church members, but there's there's one thing that's that's marking them as different than the rest. They're not repenting. And they're living life as if that's okay. Cutting it down means removing this fig tree from God's people. It means utter destruction. It means ruin. But the vine dresser pushes back. I love this. Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure. Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good. But if not, you can cut it down. Who is this vine dresser? It's none other than Jesus Christ. He's gonna try again with you. He's patient He's going to try again and he's going to put manure on. What is manure to a fig tree? It's food. What is the food of Jesus Christ? His word. And in the context of the church, it's his word. Preached to you. As you sit here unrepentant, Jesus is giving you another chance every Sunday. How many chances will he give you? I don't know. But the theme of this one is Repent now because time is almost up. As John says, John the Baptist, the axe is at the root of the tree. If you're not bearing fruit of repentance, time is almost up. Repent. Turn to Christ. On the positive side, when you repent, you will experience time of refreshing to your soul. When we repent, we draw near to God, and He draws near to us. We experience God's love in ways that we couldn't if we remained unrepentant. And that's what we want. We want more love of Christ. Christ has Christ has showered us with all the love possible, with infinite amount of love by dying for us with a cross, but but we're the ones that block it. Experientially. And that blocking can be removed, and the love of Christ can flow forward through what? Through repentance. Liberty Church, I urge you, let us be a church that's marked by genuine and frequent repentance. Let us call each other to repentance. Let us repent of our sins privately, corporately, together as a family. Let us be always people who are repenting, turning from specific sins. And turning to God so that times of refreshing may come. Let us pray. Father, we come before you and repent. We repent of our sin, O God. specific sins in our life, sins of pride, sins of discontentment, of lust, of envy. Sins of jealousy, of gossip, sins of drunkenness, sins of not loving our neighbor as ourself, especially the neighbor of our wife or husband How we confess to you sins of not trusting in you and not believing your promises God, we repent as a church of not loving the poor, providing for them, not caring about your gospel going forth to the ends of the earth. And the countless millions upon billions of people who've never heard the name of Jesus. We repent of a callousness toward your kingdom. Father, we repent of all the injustices that we ourselves not only allow, but also commit. We repent. We come back to you. We turn to you, O God. Refresh our souls. Give us a love of you, Jesus. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.