If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Luke 22. We're looking at 35 through 46. We're also going to be glancing at 47 through 53, so you can keep your finger on that section as well. Jesus is ending his last Passover with his disciples, and he wants to prepare his disciples for the challenges that lie ahead. And he's going to do this by teaching them a very powerful lesson. And the lesson is to trust him. To trust Jesus, no matter the circumstances. And this lesson is actually connected to a previous lesson that took place in the Gospel of Luke. Recall back in Luke 10. When Jesus sent out the disciples and he told them, You can't bring with you anything. No knapsack, no money bag, no sandals, even nothing. You had to go completely without. And it's important to remember that this lesson was not to be a normative practice. It was to be a temporary lesson for the disciples to teach them and to provide instruction in a way that few other lessons could do. Jesus was using this. He was minimizing the disciples' possession, and it was acting like a spiritual discipline. You know, in the same way, in much the same way, fasting is not to be your normative state. You're not to fast in perpetuity, always being fasted. Fasting is a spiritual discipline to teach you a lesson which might be hard to learn in a well-fed state. And so we fast at times in different seasons in our life. I love to camp out in the woods. And it's during this time that I have solitude, which is another spiritual discipline. My wife and I are watching a new show, T V series called Alone, where they just drop ten people into the middle of a wilderness. And even people who don't have, at least professing spiritual devotions, after weeks and weeks of solitude by themselves in the wilderness, they begin to have spiritual revelations and epiphanies. But God has not intended us, the church, to live in wilderness. We're to be here. But that lesson is helpful. In the same manner, Jesus gave a lesson to his disciples that they can trust him, no matter the circumstances, without preparation. Without much forethought, really, without much of a backup plan. Without any of these things, Jesus does not become less trustworthy. In Luke chapter 10, Jesus was trying to nail that lesson home. But not having these things, not having the money bag and knapsack, is not to be the norm. The norm actually is to be prepared. The norm is actually to have forethought and to walk in prudence. And this is the meaning of the first two verses here in Luke 22. Jesus is saying, I did this in the past as a lesson. A powerful lesson. But now, do this a metaphorical interpretation In terms of the latter, some believe that in verse 38, when the disciples tell Jesus that they have two swords, and Jesus says, it is enough, this is a Semitic expression to say, it doesn't matter. In other words, Jesus is rebuking them, saying, stop, it's not really what I meant. The sword is a symbol, it's a sign. Now, what exactly the sword is a symbol of is also up for great debate. And I don't want to get into this too much, but the idea is that the sword means to be fully prepared. To do everything in your power, because now there's a time coming that is different than the time prior, and you must be fully ready. To the utmost degree. It's almost like an attitude of your mind to do whatever you can. On the other hand, the passage, this verse, does not seem to be metaphorical. Jesus is drawing a contrast. between two actual realities that have happened. The previous one in Luke 10, when they had no preparedness, and then now when he's telling them to be prepared. And the initial lesson in Luke 10 of carrying no money bag, no knapsack, no saints, that wasn't to be taken metaphorically. It wasn't like Jesus said, don't carry any money bag, and the disciples were like, We will think that we don't have a money bag. I get what you're saying, Jesus. We'll actually carry our money. This is supposed to be a metaphorical lesson, right? No, they were literally not to carry anything. And Jesus was to provide for them. Why then would it be metaphorical now? And the other thing I have an issue with, many of the commentators just point out the sword as metaphorical. Why not the sandals and knapsacks and everything else? Why aren't those metaphorical as well? I don't see this as metaphorical. I see this as Jesus advocating the use of a sword At least in some circumstances. Now, some people are going to take that, what I just said, and take it out of the context. And they will justify uh, you know, gathering an arsenal on their homes of weapons And some can take this to the extreme. And this statement by itself, in of itself, does not give us the answers to a lot of other questions. What kind of weapon? How? When? How should I do that? It's not meant to do that. But it is important. There's a few things I want to mention in light of this. We cannot build out an entire doctrine. That deals with personal defense or or just wars or or anything like we can't build out an entire doctrine out of one verse that really deals with it perfectly. And that's just a practice that you should employ all the time when interpreting Scripture. Right? We've all heard the adage Scripture interprets scripture. This is very important, especially in verses like this, where people want to take this one verse and say, see, Jesus clearly wants you to fight back. Jesus clearly wants you to have guns. Well that's not necessarily what Jesus is saying. We have to take scripture and interpret other scripture. And there's a few points I want to make about this verse. I want to offer two points on on either end of the spectrum and then try to boil down what I believe this passage is really talking about. The lesson that this passage is is actually conveying. It seems that when we take the Bible as a whole, that whenever possible, whenever possible with us, as far as it depends upon us, we are to take the offenses. of evil people upon ourselves. That's a hard lesson for us. Whenever we can, we are to bear the brunt of evil actions. We are to turn the other cheek. It is better to be wronged than to avenge yourself The scripture is unequivocal about this. Look at what Paul says to the Corinthian church This church was filing lawsuits among one another, member against member. Can you imagine this? They're filing these lawsuits. And Paul says this to the church: to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? Another way of saying that. Why not rather be stolen from? The impetus on Christians is to have a higher standard in the world. The world says, you cause me to suffer, I'm going to wish the same upon you. It's in our nature. It's in our sin nature. The Christians are to have a higher standard. You cause me to suffer. What am I going to do? I'm going to pray for you. You cause me to suffer. You cause me pain. What am I going to do? I'm going to love my enemies The second point On the other side is that scripture does seem to point to the idea that we are to be protectors of life. Even our own. We are to defend life. Turning the other cheek was in response to being disrespected. It does not mean that there's a threat on your life. Slapping someone does not mean seeking to kill them. What happens when someone does threaten your life? The example that we see often in Scripture to take up the sword. Well it gets slightly confusing though with that. Again, all these cannot You cannot just take that one line and and build out an entire doctrine because it gets confusing. There's context to all this. And it gets very confusing even in our own passage. Because Jesus tells them, take up a sword, and that's what Peter does just a few verses later, does he not? Takes up the sword. Exactly what Jesus was advocating. And what does Peter do? He cuts off Malchus' ear. But Jesus clearly was not for this. And he says, no more. And he heals Malchus' ear. Well, what was the problem? Right? Peter was doing what he had been doing all along throughout the Gospels. Namely, that Peter was a stumbling block to Jesus. It was not a just cause that Peter was fighting for. Jesus had to die. Jesus was going to the cross. And just like before When Peter was trying to persuade him not to do that, so too now he's trying to prevent Jesus from dying. And Jesus would have none of it. Well, what about in the early church? And we see uh do we see examples of the early church defending themselves with the sword? Well no, we don't, but we don't know if they they never did either. It is clear that the disciples sought to preserve their life. You have that give you some form of security. Let me ask you all a question. Why do you feel safe at night? If I asked you that question, you thought to yourself, why is it that you feel safe at night? I guarantee most of us, including myself, would say, because my doors are locked. Because my alarm system's on. Because of my guard dog, my ferocious poodle. Because I've a gun in the house. I feel safe. Why do you feel safe flying in an airplane? The the pilot, maybe you don't feel safe. But uh the pilot's trained. He's not sleeping, hopefully. He knows what he's doing. It's clear weather outside. Why do you feel safe when you drive? And the list goes on and on. Why do you feel safe? At every turn, when we ask that question, the answer usually is we want to trust in the things that we've provided for ourselves. We want to trust in our preparedness, in our possessions. And our protections. And it's not wrong to have these, but it is incumbent upon Christians to look past these things to the God who protects you. Do you get that? It is not wrong to have your doors locked at night. But if our eyes are solely on that locked door, has the means to protect you. You are foolish. It's a hard lesson to come by, but it provides great comfort to those who get it. And none of us have arrived at getting it, but hopefully more and more. I believe that actually trusting in possessions only increases your anxiety. Increases the uncertainty. Will the alarm work? You know, will my sleeping dog actually wake up? Is is the Pilate? What's that mean? Why the psalmist in the ancient Near East saying, I lift up my eyes to the hills? Because every tribe, every civilization would put their gods upon the high hills. The statue of their God, the temples of their God. So the psalmist says, I lift my eyes to the hills. I see all these statues of gods. Where does my help come from? He says. My help comes from the Maker of heaven and earth. He will not let your foot be moved, he says. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. That's a powerful lesson. A time when we want to trust everything else around us besides an almighty powerful God. Trust in man, either other men or our own selves. And we don't trust the creator of man. That's why that Jeremiah passage is so powerful It's not about wisdom. It's not about strength. It's about God. Another point of the sword, however, that's quite different. than this is a sense is a metaphorical sense. And it's not to prepare the followers of Christ for armed conflict. Instead it it serves as a metaphor or an illusion, perhaps, that the Christ himself will be surrounded by enemies. The prince of peace who has come to bring peace is yet surrounded by people who hate him. Instead of finding, as John 1 says, those who receive him, what does Christ find? Those who hate him? He finds resistance. He finds conflict. And so he says, Jesus says, this will be fulfilled and be numbered amongst the transgressors. And this is cited from a strong messianic text Perhaps the strongest in the entire Old Testament, Isaiah 53, written seven hundred years or so before Christ, and yet powerfully portrays uh not only uh the c the life and ministry of Christ, but also his his suffering. In Isaiah passage, if you take a look at this, Isaiah fifty-three, he says, There I will divide for him a portion with the many And he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death. and was numbered with the transgressors. And that's the Isaiah 53 passage. Well who are these transgressors? He was numbered with the transgressors. There's actually a number of theories. Really it boils down to two interpretations of who the transgressors are. Christ is numbered as a transgressor himself, or Christ is numbered among transgressors. Both are accurate. I think both are implied here. Christ was viewed as a transgressor. He was viewed as a rebel. The Jewish and Roman authorities hated him. I mean, why does Jesus say The end of this section, verse 52, have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs? The authorities viewed Christ as a rebel. When Christ himself committed no crime, yet he was punished. Not only did he commit no crime, he committed no sin. pure and spotless son of God. So Christ was viewed as an enemy. He was viewed as the transgressor. But Christ was also counted among transgressors, of whom you and I are counted among. Judas, of course, is the prime example of the transgressor. He's the ultimate. He feigns allegiance to Christ with a kiss. An ironic kiss is Judas who was the one who was condemning the woman who was kissing Jesus' feet. Now Judas in an act of betrayal is kissing Jesus. What is transgression? It's rebelling against God. The word transgress means, or at least denotes, this idea of being a rebel. That is the most concise picture of sin that we can get. I believe it's one of the best descriptions. We've all fallen short of the standard of God. Well, how have we fallen short by rebelling against God and against his commands? This is our reality. We are the ones Isaiah is talking about. We only knew hostility. Towards God before Jesus Christ came. We only knew being at war with God, enmity with God. We only knew that God had a law and we've been breaking it from the very beginning We've only known law breaking. That has been our fundamental relationship with a holy creator God. A lawbreaker, an alienated lawbreaker, one of enmity in our hearts, in our minds, rebelling against God's authority So when Isaiah predicts that Jesus is numbered among the transgressors, it's his close followers that he's also referring to. For all have sinned and fallen short, including the apostles, especially us. I mean even in this case of Jesus the rest, one betrays Jesus, one denies Jesus, and the rest flee when Jesus is arrested. But the Isaiah passage does not stop there. Right after declaring that the Christ will be numbered with the transgressions, transgressors, Isaiah sees redemption for those very same transgressors. That's why I believe that this line, he will be numbered among the transgressors. When we look at the Isaiah 53 passage, the transgressors certainly seems to be Those around Jesus. Because look what Isaiah says. He was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sins of many. and makes intercession for the transgressors. Ah, what a beautiful prophecy. It's us. We are the guilty ones. We are the ones who have transgressed. And yet, Christ bears our sins. That we may not have to. And he intercedes for us even now at the right hand of the Father, praying on our behalf. Christ, Jesus Christ, the perfect one, has sided with the transgressors. He's taken up the cause of the rebels. You And as former rebels, now rescued and redeemed, now fighting on the side of Christ, we must be ready, not with swords necessarily. But with prayer, there is a war being waged, and the disciples in this text were woefully unprepared for battle. Christ takes them up to the Mount of Olives, tells them to pray, not just for anything. He tells them to pray that they may not enter into temptation. Now that's interesting, enter into not that You may fall into temptation or that temptation may befall upon you. It's enter into. It gives a sense of an act of willful volition. walking into temptation or at least circumstances that may tempt, and the disciples fail at this They could not stay awake. They cannot pray. On the eve of the greatest battle of the history of the earth between Jesus Christ and death The spirit was willing in the disciples, but the flesh was weak. But their failure here And your failure, and my failure every day to follow the Spirit, a failure to do so , is in part to show that the victory belongs to Christ alone. None of these apostles contributed a fraction to Christ's redeeming work. They were asleep. They've all been asleep. When Christ works at redemption We're asleep. We recall the story with Abraham when the covenant of grace was made with him. Where was Abraham? Asleep. Even in this feast, this very feast of the Passover to commemorate God's life for Israel, where were the Israelites when the angel of the Lord protected the Israelite home? They were asleep. Even Moses went on his way to Canaan The angel of the Lord comes to visit him. It's when he's asleep. They've all been asleep. God does his miraculous salvation without us. He initiates it, and we merely respond. It's Christ who drops sweat like blood. It's not that the apostles. It's Christ. Christ calls the disciples to pray that they do not enter into temptation, and then he himself faces the greatest temptation a man has ever faced in the world. And it's a temptation that goes right back along with what Christ has been saying. It's a temptation to rebel against the will of God. And Christ clearly did not want to endure. The cross. He sweated drops of blood. He had an angel come and strengthen him. In his human form, Christ was pressed beyond recognition And he could have easily bowed out at this point. He could have easily done his will. But what does he say? Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Cup of what? Are you the cup of suffering or the cup of wrath? Those two are together. Christ is going to suffer because of God's wrath poured upon him on the cross. Remove this cup from me. If there is any way. That mankind can have forgiveness of their sins without me suffering in this way? Remove the cup from me. And yet, not my will, but yours be done Christ's response, unlike our response, unlike our response if we would have been there Christ's response is not rebellion to God's will. It's submission to God's will. Our response is rebellion. We see God's will, we push, we resist, there's conflict, we're numbered among the transgressors. We are one of them. Christ 's will is submission to God's will. And praise God that Jesus fought this temptation. If he would have given in, it would have been over. There would have been no hope for us. But Christ was victorious, not only in this temptation, but against sin, death, and the devil. And our victory, Liberty Church, our victory is sure, not because of our preparedness, not because of our possessions , not because of our performance. Our victory is sure because of Jesus Christ and his finished work upon the cross. So as we think about protection, the protection that we need from all types of things. Let us not look to the things that God's given us as the ultimate means of that protection, but let us look to the God who loves to protect his people, has done so time and time again throughout the history. Of Redeemed Church. Let us pray