Great job, kids. Wonderful. Good morning. Merry Christmas. If you are visiting us for the first time, welcome. I invite you to, as Barry said, fill out one of those visitor cards. I would love to get to know you more. tell you a little bit about Liberty Church. Also we have a welcome bag in the very back, the blue bag. So if this is your first time, please grab one of those bags that has Some information about the church as well as a book from us to you. So please don't forget to grab that on the way out. This morning on our last Sunday of Advent. We are looking at perhaps the most well-known or famous story of the entire Bible, and for good reason, it's because it's the birth of the hero of the Bible, Jesus Christ. Our text is Luke chapter 2. And from the time of childhood and to our early youth, We have heard this passage. It's been ingrained in our minds. We see it and hear it everywhere we go. You might have memorized this entire chapter as a child as the Children of Liberty Church and the Children of Liberty Christian School did for the Christmas gathering and Christmas pageant a few weeks ago. And what a great job they did, by the way. The story Of Luke 2 and the birth of Christ is popular even among nominal Christians. People who do not go to church regularly know the story well. It's found in social media. It's found in pop culture. It adorns signs and postcards, letters and pictures. Luke chapter 2 has even found its way into the very popular Charlie Brown's Christmas. If you recall, the very end of the show, Linus gets up and he recites the entire chapter almost of Luke 2. It's perceived as a a touching and a heartfelt story. There's a sense of innocence. To the chapter, as exemplified by the nativity scenes that adorn countless front yards And for this reason, the birth of Christ, the birth story, is far more common in our culture than the death of Christ. An entire industry has been created to celebrate Jesus' birth and the and the giving of gifts, but nothing is ever bought or sold that pertains to Jesus' death as far as I know, uh except maybe cross jewelry, but I don't think that has anything to do with it. But as we will see this morning Though the story found in Luke 2 is heartfelt and touching, the birth of Jesus Christ is far from innocent. It's neither gentle nor mild. It's a story of war. It's a story of a hero born behind enemy lines. A king who has come to rescue a people who are hopelessly lost. And that people are you and I. Rather than mistletoe, Christmas is about mission. The mission of the Son of God to be born of a woman, to be born as a sacrifice, whose purpose solely was to suffer and to die. for all of us. And though it's not merely sentimental, this story is most certainly good news. So let's take a look at Luke chapter 2. If you have her Bibles, please turn there with me And Luke opens the scene with this historical marker. In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus. It was a census ordered by the Caesar himself. And to further narrow it down, Luke mentions that the census was during the time of Cyrianus the governor of Syria. Now this census has caused a lot of problems for many people because of the historical realities associated with it. In fact one well known commentator says that this is the biggest historical problem in the Gospel of Luke, if not the entire Bible. The problem centers around the dating of the census and this governor Cyrene. It is well documented documented in ancient records that there was indeed a governor named Cyrus, and that he indeed did take a census. Except his census was in 6 A. D. instead of 4 BC, which is when Christ was born. And Christ had to be born around 4 B. C. because Christ was alive during the days of King Herod. And Herod died late 4 B. C. Now, I don't want to get too technical about this this morning, but it's important to consider possible solutions to this so-called problem because a lot of people point to this As evidence to invalidate the entire Bible. They point to this as a prime example of how can we trust the Bible when they get their dates wrong. If the dating is wrong, how do we know that the virgin birth is right? How do we know that the resurrection is true? But there are a lot of solutions To this problem. I just want to point out two very briefly. First, when Luke says in verse 2, this was the first registration when Cyreneus was governor of Syria, that word first can also mean before or prior to. This is exactly the way Luke uses it In his other book, the book of Acts, in chapter 1, when we tell Theophilus that I wrote a book prior to this book, which is the Gospel of Luke. In other words, Luke is merely saying that there was a major census taken. But it was before the governorship of Cyrene 's. And the second solution is that there was indeed a local Palestinian census that was taken as part of this worldwide Roman initiative to get a census done. And this census was during the time of Jesus. But the results of that census We're not fully established until much later, until the time of Cyrinus, about a decade later Now, this last one is not too unreasonable. Even in modern America, our census takes so long and so difficult to calculate all the information that we only do it once a decade. Before the advent of tabulation machines in the late 19th century, the time it took to process all the census information was eight years. Even when we invented this automatic tabulation machine for the 1890 census, it still took six years to process all the information that was gained. Can you imagine what it took in ancient times? So what I'm positing is that the census that was taken at the time of Jesus' birth was not fully established, and the records were not fully established until the time of queerness, much later. All this to say, the Gospels are reliable. You can trust them. We can be confident about the events written down, especially the events of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Luke was much closer to these historical events than we are. And we can trust the Gospels and what he wrote. And Luke's mentioning of Cyrene is to give a historical timetable for the events. And Luke also mentions Caesar Augustus. And it's a very important detail. Why does Luke mention Caesar Augustus? It's because of this. He wants to show who the true Caesar really is. When Caesar Augustus was born, Caesar is also known as Julius Caesar, when he was born, he was proclaimed to be a god. News of his birth spread throughout the Roman Empire. It was good news, which is what gospel means. It's the announcement of the arrival of the king. And there's an inscription that's been found, known as the Priene inscription. It describes Caesar's birth this way: the birthday of the God. Caesar Augustus has marked the beginning of the good news or gospel throughout the entire world. During his reign, Caesar Augustus established what's known as Pax Augustus, the Peace of Augustus. And this peace spread throughout the Roman Empire during his rule. This was the gospel, according to the Romans. And what Luke is trying to convey is that the true gospel, the true good news, is not that a Roman emperor tried to establish peace, but that another king. far greater truly did pre bring peace upon the earth. Caesar's peace would not last. In just a few years, Caesar himself would be assassinated, Rome would be in upheaval, and eventually the entire Roman Empire would collapse. But in this obscure town of Bethlehem, Far from Caesar, the Prince of Peace was born. And the peace that Jesus Christ brings is an everlasting peace. Because it's a peace between you and God. In our rebellion against God, we have become his enemies. And the good news of Jesus Christ is that this war can finally be over through Christ. He is the gift of God that surpasses all other gift. For he brings forgiveness and peace to all. This is why the angels proclaim in Luke chapter 2, verse 14, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. Luke is stressing the contrast between Caesar, the greatest ruler in the world, an empire that stretches across the entire known world. And the King of kings, Jesus Christ. And Luke is also stressing another contrast between Christ and the greatest king Israel had ever known, King David. Look at the text. Luke says that Joseph, who was the adoptive father of Jesus, is of Judean descent. He's from the line of David. And he was from the same town from which King David was born, the town of Bethlehem. And why is Bethlehem so important? Well besides being the birthplace of David, there is tucked away in the Old Testament an ancient prophecy that says that there's going to be a great ruler that comes from Bethlehem one day to shepherd his people. This prophecy is found in Micah chapter 5. And it says this. But you, O Bethlehem Who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth from me one who for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. Hundreds of years before Christ even stepped foot on earth, the prophet Micah envisioned a ruler from Bethlehem. A ruler who would bring peace to the ends of the earth. A ruler who would shepherd his people who have gone astray. Just as David was a shepherd, so too this ruler from Bethlehem would be the greater shepherd. And this is why the angels appear to the shepherds in Luke chapter two, verse eight. Certainly it was also because these shepherds were Kind of the lowest of lows, they were the least of men, and and that's who the gospel message is for. But more importantly, a bigger reason is this connection. To the ruler of God's people as a shepherd. When we first meet David way back in the Old Testament, in the book of Samuel, Where do we find him? Samuel comes to anoint the next king. And Jesse, the father of David, says out in the fields with the flocks. Just as our shepherds are doing in the story of Luke. But rather than the shepherd in the field being anointed the king, these shepherds come to worship the king. And Jesus is that King. Jesus is the greater David. Jesus is the greater Caesar. Jesus is the greater shepherd, and he is a king. He is a king that demands worship This Christmas season, we are so busy with much to do about Jesus only on the peripheral. I confess this is the same for myself as well. We give gifts, we attend various services, we go to holiday dinners, we sing Christmas songs, we watch Christmas movies, but the greatest question is this. Do you worship the king? Do you recognize Christ's kingship over your life? And if Christmas can remind us of anything, is that Jesus Christ reigns in heaven as your King and your Lord. And Jesus demands worship. And he demands it now. The time has come for us to give Jesus Christ the glory and honor that He's given us Do. The time has come to recognize that Jesus Christ is the rightful King, the ruler of the universe. The time has come. And Luke uses this phrase, the time had come pointedly in verse 6 Everything in the Old Testament was leading up to this moment when Barry when Mary was to give birth to the king. Luke's mention of firstborn in verse 7 is another implicit reference to the virgin birth, firstborn child. This child was born by no ordinary means. He was born of a virgin. This child is actually the creator of heaven and earth. And when Jesus was born He most certainly was just placed then upon his rightful throne because he is the king of kings and he is the ruler of the universe, right? No. He was born and placed in a manger, a feeding trough for animals. And this manger was was probably in uh in a stables or or in a barn. And Some of you may not know this, but our old sanctuary was actually a barn at one point. And now we use it as a church. And the manger probably was right around where Chuck was sitting. The goats maybe over there by Andy. That's there's nothing intended by that, Andy Why was Jesus the king born in a manger? Well, Luke says, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now, this inn was probably a guest room of someone's house, like an ancient bed and breakfast. Alright? The same word is used in Luke chapter 22. When Jesus is preparing the Passover and he asks this. Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? So rather than thinking of a holiday inn that's all booked up, you must understand that there wasn't even a guest room available. Now think about this. You have a young married couple with the wife about to give birth any moment. In the dead of winter, in the dark of night, and no one gives them a room for her to deliver. That is unfathomable. My wife is eight months pregnant, and if we were in that situation, I'm sorry, but I'm kicking a door down or something. And I know Steve Vega would have done the same thing. Why is this happening to Mary and to Jesus? Is the point of Jesus not finding room in the end just to say that it was busy that day? That there were a lot of people traveling and they kind of booked the rooms before Mary and Joseph could, or that Mary and Joseph were poor and they couldn't afford a proper place to deliver. Is that the reason why this is included in the story? No. It's to communicate something much deeper. The fact that there was no room for Jesus to be born points to the fact that they were rejected. By their own people. It's not that there was no room, it is that no one offered them room. Not a single Israelite opened the door. Not a single Good Samaritan said, come in here, quick. No, throughout the city of Bethlehem, the city of David, the greater David met with only closed doors. His own countrymen rejected him. And this was the first rejection of many that Christ would receive from his own people. And long before Christ stepped foot on earth, the prophets told of this rejection. In the book of Isaiah, he writes, He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. In another gospel, John writes, Jesus came to his own, but his own did not receive him. In that same gospel, Jesus later declares, I have come in my Father's name, and yet you do not receive me. Rather than with open arms receiving their Savior, the Israelites have stiffed arm the Christ. And this theme of rejection is essential to Jesus' life and ministry. It's found everywhere. Jesus says in Luke chapter 9, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected. By the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised again. Rejection came before resurrection. Before Jesus could rescue, he first had to be refused. He was rejected as an infant. He was rejected when he began his ministry. He was rejected when he healed people. He was rejected when he performed miracles. And he was rejected at his death. Rejection was the most common response to Jesus in his day. And it's also the most common response to Jesus today. Not only did the Israelites reject Christ, but we have rejected Christ as well. Every single one of us have turned our backs on God We have gone our own way. We have stiff-armed his authority in our life. We have sinned against a holy, holy God. And that sin demands punishment. And that sin demands rejection. For just as we reject God, so too God rejects those who sin against him And this is the bad news of the gospel. There's good news, there's got to be bad news. Our sin separates us from God, not only in this life, but in the life to come. But there is greater news. Praise be to God. Although Christ was rejected by us, and God rejects us because of our sin. God also rejected Christ on our behalf. After Isaiah writes about this our rejection of Christ that we just read, he immediately follows up. with this about the Christ. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken by God and afflicted. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the punishment that brought us peace, and by his wounds we are all healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord, the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Isaiah was talking about Jesus. And it's God's rejection of Christ and the placing of our sins upon him at the cross and the pouring of God's wrath upon This is the only means of salvation. This is the only way to be right with God. This is why Christ was born, to be a sacrifice on our behalf. And therefore the angels say to the shepherds, Unto you is born this day in the city of David, who is a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Liberty Church, friends, visitors, what we need desperately is a Savior. One who has come to rescue us from our sins. This language that Luke uses unto you is somewhat odd. Unto you, talking to the shepherds. What does the angel mean by Jesus being born unto The shepherds. Well, it's another direct reference to an Old Testament prophecy, a promise that God made that He would deliver His people. Isaiah 9, chapter 6 says, For unto us a child is born. To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And Luke says that after these shepherds heard this amazing news, this great news, they went with haste to Bethlehem. to see the Christ with their own eyes. And for the first time in the story of Luke, we have someone not related to Jesus. Who does not reject the Christ? We have someone who comes to Christ by faith. The shepherds are an example to all of us. They hear the good news and they respond to the good news. They respond by faith. They go. They see the Christ for themselves. And the same happens today. Some in here have heard the good news of Christ every single Christmas. You follow traditions. You sing along the songs You know the story well, but you've never responded by faith to the gospel Rather than leaving your flocks and going straight to Jesus for forgiveness, you stayed behind with your possessions. Yet Christ calls you to leave all and go to Him. Today is the day of salvation. God is beckoning you to come. And just as the shepherds went at night, probably not seeing very well, not knowing where they're going, unsure of what lies ahead. So too we go towards Christ, not quite seeing everything, not quite knowing everything, what's going to happen, but believing He is who He says he is Come to Christ by faith. Repent of your sins. And when you do, the angels will sing. Just as loudly over you as they did sing over those shepherds that night. Luke chapter 15, Jesus says this: there is joy With the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Why do they rejoice? They rejoice because you who once were rejected by God are now accepted by Him. You who once were alienated from God are now brought near to Him. You who once were enemies of God are now an adopted child. And this is the glorious gospel. This is the news of great joy. This is the story of our hero, Jesus Christ. This is the story of Christmas. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you sent your Son as a gift for all mankind, and no other gift compares. The Savior of the world was born in a manger, born to be a sacrifice, to atone for our transgressions and our iniquities. He stood in our place, the righteous for the unrighteous. The Son of God for a rebellious sinner. Your birth into this world is our hope, and your resurrection is our Our promise. Those who place their faith in you will be with you for all eternity. And you will gift your children the Holy Spirit to change us, to transform us. Father, let your church be the light of the gospel to those around us. Let liberty be a place of refuge for those who are spiritually hurting, those who are desperate to know you, those who need to find grace. If there is anyone in here who does not know you, Jesus, as Savior, O God, I pray that you would open their blind eyes today. Move in their hearts to see the wondrous beauty and glory. Of Jesus Christ. Let today be the day of their salvation. And God, for all of your children, some who have walked with you for many years and have been through many Christmases, may we always remember that Christmas is to point to our King, Jesus Christ, to his mission and to his grace. We are yours, O God, the sheep of your pasture. And we worship and honor you as our rightful King. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let us respond to this glorious good news with singing. Please stand. Hear now the benediction of the Lord. May the Christ, born of a woman, born a man, in a manger, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Lift your eyes up to him this Christmas season. May you worship and glory and honor him for the rightful king that he truly is, and may he bless you and your family. This Christmas. Merry Christmas.