Amen. Thank you for that. And if you turn, please, to the Gospel of Mark, chapter fifteen. And as we turn there Gospel of Mark, chapter fifteen. We'll begin at verse fifteen and read through verse thirty-two. So Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them, and he delivered Jesus after he had scourged him to be crucified. Then the soldiers led him away into the hall called Praetorium, and they called together the whole garrison, and they clothed him with purple. And they twisted a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and began to salute him. Hail, King of the Jews! Then they struck him on the head with a reed and spat on him, and bowing the knee They worshipped him. When they had mocked him, they took the purple off him, put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify. Then they compelled a certain man Simon, a Syrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was coming out of the country and passing by to bear his cross. And they brought him to the place Golgotha, which is translated place of a skull. Then they gave him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but he did not take it. And when they crucified him, they divided his garments, casting lots for them to determine what every man should take. Now it was the third hour, and they crucified him And the inscription of his accusation was written above the king of the Jews. With him they also crucified two robbers, one on his right and the other on the left. on his left. So the scripture was fulfilled which says, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. Come down from the cross. Likewise, the chief priests, also mocking among themselves with the scribes, said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see it believe. Even those who were crucified with him reviled him. Let's pray. Oh Father, once again, we are treading upon holy ground. We ask that you will help us to come to this passage with the solemnity that it deserves. Focus our minds and our hearts. Keep our thoughts from being distracted. Lord, I pray for your children who are here that you would drive these truths home to us afresh. And I pray for those who might be here outside of Christ, still dead in sins, without hope. That this would be the day of salvation for them. Please, Father, as you had mercy upon so many of us, have mercy upon them this day. We ask in Christ's name. Amen Well, we have come in our study of Mark's gospel to the darkest day in the sordid history of mankind. Betrayed by one of his own, arrested by the religious leaders of Israel, found guilty in a sham trial conducted in the middle of the night Declared to be a blasphemer worthy of death, Jesus was mocked, slapped, spat upon by those who believed themselves to be the most spiritual of the Hebrews. The people of God. Having blindfolded him, they beat him, and then they challenged him. You're a prophet. Tell us, who is it who's striking you? But apart from the occasional sham trial and beating and mocking of falsely accused prisoners, the spiritual leaders of Israel were very careful to do all things decently and in order This meant abiding by the laws of their Roman occupiers, and one of those laws is that only Rome maintained in Israel the right of capital punishment. Well, they were under some time constraint, because even though they had been careful to arrest Jesus in the dead of night, place him on trial as most people slept. They must have thought it was only a matter of time before the eleven disciples regained some courage, and word began to spread to the multitude of disciples of Christ in Jerusalem. That he was being tried and executed. Those would have been the masses who cried out as Jesus rode into the city a few days before. Hail to the Lord's anointed! Blessed be he who comes in the name of the Lord. Save us, Hosanna. Save now And if the multitude of disciples of Christ who were then in the city got wind of what was happening, the religious leaders might have a real mess on their hands. If they were to fulfill their intention to have Jesus executed without causing a general commotion, They knew they had to act quickly. So immediately, in the early morning, after arresting Jesus, the night before, They bound Jesus and led him to the Roman procurator Pontius Pilate, who had the authority to execute evildoers. Their problem was the fact that they concluded that Jesus had committed blasphemy by declaring himself to be the Son of God, the promised Messiah, that would not carry any weight with Pontius Pilate. In order to coerce Pilate into executing Jesus, they had to cook up a charge that Pilate would consider serious, a charge such as treason And so they said to Pilate, We found this fellow perverting the nation and forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar. Ever vigilant as they were to defend the Roman Emperor's honor, they were watchful to ensure that none of their Jewish citizens undermined Rome's authority. This is What they evidently expected Pilate to fall for. It was the best they could come up with. This Jesus, he he claims to be a king himself, Pilate. Now Pilate was shrewd enough to see through this charade. He knew they had delivered this prophet to him because of envy. But every effort he made to release Jesus was thwarted. In this high-stakes chess match, the high priest outplayed him. And when they finally subtly threatened to report Pilate to the emperor as a supporter of arrival to the throne, Pilate knew that it was checkmate. But even so, he wanted it clear that he was only standing back and permitting the Jews to do as they pleased. When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but that rather a tumult was rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. You see to it. The people answered with those terrifying words, His blood be on us and on our children. So Pilate released Barabbas, a real insurrectionist and murderer, and delivered Jesus to his soldiers to be crucified. But not before having Jesus scourged, that is, whipped. The Roman scourging was barbaric. R. C. Sproul explains it. This way. The prisoner was tied to a post and his back was bared. Then a guard began to lash the prisoner with a braided leather thong that had pieces of bone and metal inserted in the braids. The lashing literally ripped chunks of skin off the prisoner's body. Before taking Jesus and the two other condemned prisoners to the place of crucifixion, The soldiers entertained themselves. Look at verse 16. Then the soldiers led him away into the hall called Praetorium, and they called together the whole garrison. And they clothed him with purple and twisted a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and began to salute him. Hail, King of the Jews! Then they struck him on the head, the head they had the crown of thorns placed upon it with a reed and spat on him and bowing the knee they worshipped him. When they had mocked him they took the purple off him, put his own clothes on him and led him out to crucify Now, I suspect this mockery was not so much directed at Jesus because of any animosity toward him personally. It was rather directed at Jesus as a representative of the nation. In a similar way, foreign soldiers who hate America may mock and berate and taunt and torture an American soldier who falls into their hands because he represents the nation they believe to be the great Satan. Not because they have any personal animosity toward that particular soldier above all others. Keeping order among these Palestinian Jews with their strange customs, their strange manner of dress. And what was surely perceived by the idolatrous Romans as a holier than thou attitude was no doubt a despised assignment for these soldiers who were so far from home. It appears they took this opportunity to let off some steam on this Jewish prophet who reportedly claimed to be a king. They led Jesus into the hall called the Praetorium, which evidently adjoined the governor's palace. And the scripture says they called together the whole garrison. In the Greek, the spheron. It was a technical military term that referred to a large body of men, a body of men also called a cohort. About six hundred soldiers commanded by a tribune. It formed then one-tenth of a legion, a legion about six thousand. This entire band of Roman soldiers was called together to have some fun with this Hebrew before the crucifixion. Now, as you know, Jesus had already been mocked and slapped and spat upon by the high priests. He had been further ridiculed by Herod's soldiers. Remember, Pilate discovered Jesus was From Galilee, Herod's jurisdiction, and knowing that Herod was in Jerusalem at the time, he sent Jesus to him, hoping to rid himself of the problem. That was one of the attempts that Pilate made. Luke 23. Jesus had already been scourged, as we just saw, so he had probably lost a lot of flesh and a lot of blood. Now a wreath of thorns was placed upon his head as if it were a crown. He was clothed in purple, a color usually reserved for royalty because it was quite rare, and they struck him on the head with a reed. Driving those thorns into his head. They took the opportunity to show their contempt by spitting upon him. And then they played at worship, bowing the knee before him as they would bow to a king. Or as they would bow to a god. Then they took that purple off him, clothed him again in his own garments, and lent him away to be crucified. Verse 21, then they compelled a certain man, Simon, a Serenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was coming out of the country and passing by. to bear his cross. And they brought him to the place Golgotha, which is translated place of a skull. It was the practice of the Romans to require the condemned prisoner to carry the post that would become the horizontal cross beam to which his hands would submit. soon be nailed. If you picture an old railroad tie, one which one might use uh as a border in a garden, you might get the Idea. It doesn't seem to be the wisest plan to expect a condemned man who's just been scourged to carry on his back a huge beam that might be four to six feet long and weigh thirty to forty pounds Not surprisingly, Jesus was unable to carry it all the way to the place of execution, so the soldiers compelled a passerby to carry Christ's cross. The name of the man would probably not have been known by Mark or recorded for his readers, if not for the fact that he was the father of two men who were evidently known to the early church, Alexander and Rufus. Mark names him as the father of Alexander and Rufus. Perhaps he's the same Rufus to whom Paul refers in Romans 16. Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord. The new Reformation study Bible notes chosen may reflect the unique circumstance that brought his family into contact with Christ. The Roman soldiers ordered Simon to carry the cross, and when ordered by a Roman soldier to do something, it was prudent to obey. Simon was an African. Siren was in what we now call Libya. One of our missionaries who was here earlier this year, one many of you would know, but one who does not want to his name printed or recorded because of the sensitive nature of his ministry to Muslims, said it is likely that Simon was among the people group known today as the Berbers. Look at verse 22. They brought him to the place Golgotha, which is translated place of a skull, and then they gave him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but he did not take it. It shouldn't surprise us that the place where crucifixions took place might be called by a name such as the place of a skull or the place of death. Perhaps the hill had rock formations or outcroppings that gave it from a distance the appearance of a skull. They offered him wine mingled with myrrh. This appears to have been used as a first-century painkiller. If so, it would seem to be a mercy out of character with the barbarism of the crucifixion, right? Why give uh condemned prisoners something that would dull his senses. Perhaps its use was more pragmatic than compassionate. One purpose you'll remember of this form of execution was to serve as an object lesson, and for that purpose a slow, agonizing death was preferable to a quick one. And perhaps the deadening of the pain helped to rev prevent premature death from the trauma of the pain. crucifixion. In any event, Jesus refused to take it. He didn't take the wine and myrrh. He would bear the pain without any deadening of his senses. Look at verse 24. And when they crucified him, they divided his garments, casting lots for them to determine what every man should take If Roman soldiers far from home spoke together of their least favorite duty assignments, and I suspect they did. I'm sure that driving spikes through the hands and feet of condemned prisoners probably made the list. But one of the perks that made this grisly duty slightly less onerous was that they got to divide among themselves the clothing that they stripped from the condemned man. If they couldn't wear it themselves, they could perhaps sell it for a few coins. To decide who got what item, outer, inner garments, robes, tunics, etc. they cast lots, not unlike drawing straws or rolling dice today. But John tells us that after dividing Christ's garments Each of the four men who were assigned cross duty, receiving one, there remained a tunic. They might have simply torn it and given each man a part But as it had no seam, but was woven in one piece, and tearing it would just ruin it. They thought better of it, and they cast lots for it. Better that one received it intact than that they destroy it and give it give each man Apart. The casting of lots for Christ's garment was prophesied about a thousand years before, in a passage which so clearly describes the crucifixion. that it seems to me impossible to explain apart from divine inspiration. It's the passage that uh we read There we read, hundreds of years before crucifixion was practiced, dogs have surrounded me. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Psalm 22, verses 16 through 8. 18. Now again, if you wonder why the multitude of Christ's disciples, those who had witnessed his miracles, many of them had come down from Galilee, they thought this might be the time when he would assume uh his uh reign as messiah and uh and sit upon david's throne there was a fever pitch in jerusalem if you're wondering why the multitude of Christ's disciples Those who had heard his teaching and witnessed his miracles didn't storm Golgotha and take him down from the cross. attempt to overwhelm the soldiers, hazarding their own lives to deliver their Messiah. I think part of the answer is found in verse 25. Look at it. Now it was the third hour, and they crucified him. It was, in other words, what we would call about 9 a. m. The city was only now beginning to stir, and most of Christ's followers surely had no idea that he had been arrested late that previous night, much less tried, convicted, and sentenced to immediate execution. And the scripture says, they crucified him. Verse 25. If there is a more cruel way to put a man to death, I'm sure that you, as I, would rather not know about it. Crucifixion was reserved for those who were considered the vilest of offenders. And the public nature of the gruesome death was meant to deter potential lawbreakers. The New Reformation Study Bible describes crucifixion this way, of Persian origin and adopted by the Romans, this cruel and shameful form of capital punishment was used mainly against rebellious slaves and insurrectionists. Metal spikes were driven through the wrists or hands. and heals of the victim who suffered terrible pain. Death usually resulted over the course of days from the effects of the injuries, hunger, dehydration. And exposure. It's interesting that the term robbers in verse 27, with him they also crucified two robbers, one on his right hand and one on his right, and the other on his left, the term robbers, which often means, as we would use it today, one who steals openly with violence. Right? Uh committing a crime, perhaps with a with a weapon. Uh one who steals openly with violence, it can also mean an insurrectionist. And since robbers uh were not generally punished by crucifixion, it's likely that the men crucified on either side of Jesus were rebels seeking to overthrow the Roman government. Perhaps men who were captured along with Barabbas. Look at verse 7. And there was one named Barabbas who was chained with his fellow rebels. They had committed murder in the rebellion. Barabbas was set to be executed, would have been executed had he not been released. It's quite likely, it seems to me, that these two men were insurrectionist followers of Barabbas. It may be that the one we've been calling the thief on the cross all these years might better be called the rebel on the cross or the member of the Jewish resistance on the cross. It was Roman practice to have a placard carried in front of the prisoner and then nailed to the cross above the criminal's head, a placard which declared his accusation. the crime for which he was being executed. Pilate ordered that the placard above Jesus, Jesus should read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And he had it written, John tells us, in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. The fact that Jesus was executed in the midst of men viewed as criminals fulfilled a portion of the great messianic prophecy In Isaiah 53, referring to the Lord's servant, he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bore the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. Isaiah 53, 12. Now one would like to think that seeing Jesus scourged, mocked, slapped, spit upon, nailed to a cross would be enough to satisfy and pacify his greatest enemies. But their vitriol was not exhausted, and even on the cross they continued Look at verse 29. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, shave yourself and come down from the cross misunderstanding or misapplying a prophecy Jesus had made, a prophecy in reference to the temple of his body. that it would be raised after three days, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. These lackeys of the chief priests, presumably the same lewd fellows of the baser sort, who were in Pilate's courtyard early in the morning , those who demanded at the instigation of the priests that Barabbas be released and Jesus be crucified. Now mock Jesus. If you can destroy the temple and build it in three days, then surely you can come down from the cross. The chief priest picked up on the theme. Look at verse 31. Likewise, the chief priests also mocking among themselves with the scribes said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see and believe. Even those who were crucified with him reviled him. They did not believe when they heard he had fed thousands with a bit of bread and fish. They did not believe when he healed the lame, the blind, and the deaf. They did not believe when he healed lepers, when he cast out demons. They did not believe when he raised from the grave a man who had been dead for four days. But come down from the cross, we'll believe. You claim to be able to save others. Now save yourself. As a further indignity, the robbers or the rebels on either side of him reviled him as well. Although, of course, one of them later repented of that and asked for mercy. Now, let's uh pause here at verse 32 and resume this uh horrific account next Sunday. The Lord willing, but let me leave you uh some things to think about today. First of all, we read, Then the soldiers led him away into the hall called Praetorium. And they called together the whole garrison. That is, the whole uh cohort, about six hundred men, as we said. Over twice the number of people who usually gather here on a Sunday morning. morning. That'll give you some idea of the number of soldiers who were present to watch these and participate in these indignities The crown of thorns, the mockery, the uh striking with the reed, the uh stripping of his clothing and robbing him in purple, the uh spitting upon him and bowing down before him. In feigned worship. All of this took place in the presence of about 600 men. Well, what's so striking to me is that there's no indication in the gospel accounts That any man in that hall stood to defend Jesus, a man who had done nothing to incite such cruelty. No indication that anyone had the courage to intervene or intercede for this unarmed man being ridiculed and abused by those in a position of power over him, or so they thought. Now it's true, these men were not followers of Christ. Presumably none of them had embraced Jesus as Lord and Savior But surely at least one in that crowd had a conscience, a conscience that had not been completely defiled, completely seared. Surely at least one of them saw this behavior for what it was, simply cruel and revolting and excessive and evil. And yet, as far as we know, not one raised his voice in defense of this Hebrew. What a reminder to me of how Easy it is to go along with a crowd. How easy it is to keep silent in the presence of evil. Whether it's taking place in Auschwitz or Siberia or Milai , Or Birmingham, or on the school bus, or in your office. May God give us the courage to defend the oppressed and to speak the truth, whatever the consequences. And then let me point out two things that we might miss. First of all, as a result of Adam's sin, you'll remember, the ground was cursed. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, Genesis 3. 18. Jesus symbolically bore that curse when he died for the sins of Adam's race bearing a crown of thorns. And then Jesus was offered wine mingled with myrrh, and as you know, after his death Nicodemus would bind his body with a mixture of myrrh and aloes. And so the gift of myrrh The ointment brought to the infant Jesus by the mysterious travelers from the East foreshadowed the sacrificial death that Jesus came to offer. Note something else. The precise fulfillment here of both Psalm 22, written approximately a thousand years before. And Isaiah 53, written approximately 700 years before, those things cannot be ignored. No objective, rational man or woman could read Psalm 22 And Isaiah 53, and then read of the crucifixion, the account given to us in the Gospels, and not conclude, number one, the Bible is in fact the very Word of God. Inspired by God, breathed out by God, secondly, that Jesus is indeed the promised Messiah, prophesied throughout the scripture And thirdly, that the only reasonable course of action is to fall to my knees and confess Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. Problem is, there is no objective, rational man or woman. We love darkness rather than light because our deeds are evil. John 3. 9 nineteen. Our minds and hearts are defiled since we rebelled against God. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Jeremiah 179 The problem is the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness to him, neither can he know them, because they're spiritually discerned. 1 Corinthians 2. 14. Yeah, any rational, reasonable man or woman reading Psalm 22 and Isaiah 53 and the gospel accounts of the crucifixion would have to conclude. The Bible's the word of God. Christ is the Son of God, and the only rational thing for me to do is fall to my knees and worship. But we're not rational. We're not reasonable. Not anymore. We're spiritually dead, Ephesians 2. 1. And our only hope is to be born again, John 3. Unless God breathes upon the dry bones, they will not live. Ezekiel 37. This is why Jesus said it is the Spirit who gives life. John 6:63 And this is why Jesus said, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up at the last day. John 6, 44. Note, Jesus said all he said in effect, all who are drawn by the Father will come to him, and all who come to him will be raised up at the last day. Listen to it again. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And if the Father draws him, I will raise him up at the last day. If you're a believer today, it is because the Lord took away your stony heart and gave you a heart of flesh. He took away your blind eyes and he gave you sight. He breathed upon your dry bones and they lived. He deserves all the praise. Amen. As William Temple put it so well, the only thing of our very own which we contribute to our salvation is the sin which makes it necessary. Do you want evidence for the depravity of the human heart? You don't need to look any further than the account of the arrest, trial, and crucifixion. of Jesus. You want evidence for the spiritual blindness of the human mind, then read Psalm 22 and Isaiah 53 and ask yourself, what more could God say To convince someone that the crucifixion of Christ was his plan of salvation from all eternity. You want evidence for the Lord's love for you? You need only look to the cross. There's no greater expression of love than to lay down one's life for another. Do you recognize yourself as a sinner? Do you realize you've rebelled against the holy God? And you believe that Jesus lived that perfect life and died as your substitute, taking your place, paying your debt, then the Lord is evidently drawing you to himself. He's doing just what Jesus said he would do. And you can come to him today. Just as you are: a sinner, a rebel, you fall down on your knees And you say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Lord, I've broken your laws. I know it. I've disobeyed my parents. I've lied. I've coveted. I've stolen. I'm proud. I'm selfish. God forgive me And save me. You come to God that way, you pray that prayer, mean that in your heart, on the authority of God's word, I declare to you your sins Will be forgiven, just like the thief on the cross, this day thou shalt be with me in paradise. That man had done no good work. He just believed. He just believed. Our prayer for you, the prayer of Christians here, is that this will Will be the day of salvation for you. No man knows what a day may bring forth. Don't put it off. God, save me Lord, I believe. I believe. Help my unbelief. Let's pray. Father , those of us who are yours, we cry out for those who might be here still dead in sins. Please, Father. Open their eyes. Open their hearts. Lord, draw them to yourself. It's not of him that willeth or of him that runneth, it's of God that showeth mercy Lord, as you opened Lydia's heart so that she attended unto the things that were spoken of Paul, we pray that you open hearts here this day. And Lord, those of us who are yours, drive these truths home to us again, afresh. Remind us, it's not by works of righteousness which we have done But it's according to your mercy that you saved us. Please, Father. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.