Well, the Lord has brought us uh thus far to chapter five of Matthew verses one through twelve, the entirety of the Beatitudes. The encapsulation in very short, concise, beautiful literary phrases, Jesus has called to his people throughout the generations. Uh the Beatitudes are different than the rest of the chapter, and we see them in this in this short, concise form as being written in such a way that they stick easily in the memory. because they are written in order to guide us in our everyday walk. And what a blessing it is for our Lord Jesus to have provided this for us. I would ask that you stand as I read our sermon passage today, Matthew 5, verses 1 through 12. And seeing the multitude, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and he taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you. When they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And may the Lord have his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The sermon title for today is an exceedingly great reward. Please be seated. Oh, what an image it was back. It's hard to believe almost 40 years ago Ronald Reagan stood in front of a crowd in Berlin and he said, Mr. Golberchev, tear down this wall. Some of you guys weren't even born yet. The rest of us who certainly were born remember it well. It was 12 June 1987 Ronald Reagan laid down the gauntlet for the Soviet Union, an entity that no longer actually exists And after that call, a world-altering event happened, transpired shortly thereafter. That wall came down. East and West Germany were reconciled. And that wall symbolized the enmity, if you will, that existed between the geographical and political entities known as the East and West A division which had resulted in a Cold War which was all too hot in many occasions and all too deadly to be a merely intellectual difference. That wall came down. In every sphere we see what that may symbolize What a wonderful metaphor about what is possible in this world. Now what was present in a macro sense in that day encompassing nations and divisions across the span of the earth, what was present there illustrates for us what is Present in the microsphere also. Just as a wall came down between nations, so can walls come down between people. In those micro circumstances of alienation and strife which exist outside both physically and in the hearts of people , In every sphere of life, brothers and sisters, in every sphere of life, I'm not leaving anything out there. In every sphere of life Between individuals, races, and social status, those walls that separate people could come down. Now I hope to show you today how the church is to be God's instrument for that very thing to happen. I hope to convince you that it is not only possible, that it is required. By way of introducing our passage, I'll give you a quick overview. Verses 10 and 12 should really be viewed as a unit. There's really not two beatitudes there. There is only really one. And when we look at it, verse 12, then 11 and 12 are an explanation of what's happening in verse 10. The explanation of the blessedness of verse 10 actually points back to verse 3, as is outlined in your bulletin, and that highlights the fact that those people who inherit the kingdom of God are not just these one class of people that are seen here, but rather it substantiates the fact that all of the the beatitudes, all the beatitudes talks to all people in God's kingdom. It also explains the nature of the premise that theirs is the kingdom of heaven, is fulfilled And that we see in verses 10 and 12, 11 and 12, that there is to be great reward in heaven, in the kingdom of heaven And so those things come together in this summary view of these verses. But we must take into account the relation between verses 9 and verses 10 and 12. It might look like they are separate ideas, but they stand in relation to each other because it reveals the tension, brothers and sisters, the tension that church Christ's church faces in this world. It is the idea that the church is to be an agent of peace. Blessed are the peacemakers. Okay, the church uh is to be are to be peacemakers, is or we'll put that right. But when we look at that When the walls of enmity are being broken down within its precincts, and how it is to appeal to troubled hearts outside of its precincts and bring them in. We see there that in the very nature of doing that, it also excites animosity. Animosity for those who are not sons of God. This reminds us of Genesis 3. 15, which you have heard me refer to back in the book of Revelation just countless numbers of times, but it is a pivotal verse. Where we see that after the fall of Adam, that in the curse, a condition of enmity, which is warfare, hatred , ill desire. That exists between the offspring of the serpent and the offspring of the woman. And that tells us that, brothers and sisters, Christians are born into conflict. We're born into a situation where we are already the object of warfare. Even in the womb, even before our first breath The forces of Satan, his seed, are arrayed against us. Newspaper just this morning. Great big picture and headlines about how the change in the country and the culture is such now that the wave of uh mass opinion is shifting uh now in favor in majority form. of those who want to reinstate Roe. It seems like the desire to go babies just can't be snapped out. So we look at that and we see that Christians are indeed born into a conflict even before they leave the womb. Throughout their life, to a greater or lesser extent, the war against them will be obvious, and especially when they undertake to make peace In the world, in the church. So by pursuing peace, on one hand, this is that tension I was talking about, By pursuing peace on one hand, in the only manner in which it can be found, the church is subjected to warfare. And maybe it will register in persecution. Now, it doesn't take a rocket science to see that this is all part of God's plan, his sovereign plan for his kingdom. None of this is outside of his sovereign will. Jesus stated plainly, and we'll get back to this a little later, so you can just file it away in the recesses of your memory. That he said plainly in Matthew 10, a few chapters down, that he didn't come to bring peace. He came to bring a sword. That strikes us as a bit strange. I mean, this is that baby Jesus, right? Yet it is Jesus who here declares in this verse That Christian peacemakers will be called the sons of God. So in a sense, he did come to bring peace. Thus, this sermon proclaims that the church must joyfully embrace both roles. We have to rejoice in our privilege to bear the message of peace and to rejoice in the opportunity to do works which contribute to peace. And promote it. But then there's the other side. We're also to rejoice in persecution. The persecution that comes upon us, not because of things that we have done that should be punished and persecution being God's chastening hand on us. But persecution that comes on us for pursuing righteousness' sake. That's what this passage says. That pursuing righteousness Will alienate and bring about persecution in some instances. So let me see if I can show you a little more definitively how I think these come from this text. No, I'll say that differently, how these things are from this text. First, let's look at the peacemakers. And we see that they are they who shall be called the sons of God. As I've said before, all of these beatitudes are about the same group of people. You don't have different groups of people there. We're all supposed to be what these groups are are talked about. And the peacemakers are indeed those who are poor in spirit, the meek and those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, or else they wouldn't be Peacemakers. And certainly they are the same as those who will be persecuted among them for pursuing righteousness. So, though not all Christians will face persecution in the in the literal, explicit, very externally painful sense. Yet all Christians must prepare for it. Therefore, peacemakers who are lovers of Christ and who serve him in the world will understand that peacemaking is a big part of their calling. I'd like to briefly review our call to be peacemakers. You accept the fact that this verse In order for us to be called sons of God, we have to be peacemakers. Then if you accept the fact that that's part of our calling, then let's go through what that means. What is this thing called peace which Christians are to endeavor to bring? To get an overall sense of it, I want to go to what might be an interesting parallel to it. I want to go to Jesus on a boat calming the sea. Mark gives us the actual rebuke that he rendered to the winds and the waves. Mark 439, where he commands, and it wasn't just a little whisper. Our Lord stood up in the goal in that he was a bit irritated. He had been raised up from a deep sleep. uh his, as I call them sometimes, brain dead disciples are are bothering him. And he says, peace, be still Woof. Yes, sir. I was just waiting for you to say something. Now when we think about that, what is going on? I submit that what happened is that when he brought when he commanded that The wind and the rain and the oceans or the sea ceased their turmoil and transitioned from chaos and strife To harmony. The absence of strife and chaos is the first evidence of peace. But when we think of that, peace is not just the absence of those things. Peace is also a positive thing Peace is the substitution, what I mentioned there, of harmony for chaos and strife. Peace is not truly present when there is external absence of conflict. But men's hearts are rebelling against their condition and they are in a sense in chains. to the idea of not being able to do what they really want to do, which is bring about strife and chaos in some sense. The outward absence of those things is not sufficient for biblical peace. What is needed is harmony. Harmony where people live in harmony. Then we must ask, is such a condition of harmony possible? After all, we all know and often tend to gleefully profess that a man is born into this world with a heart that is desperately wicked even in his youth. It explains a lot. When we look on the world and some of the things we see there. That's Genesis 8. 21. So man's natural condition in such a situation is to see the chaos and the the turmoil that sin brings into this world. And I tell you, brothers and sisters, sin brings turmoil and the lack of peace. Righteousness brings peace and ends that. It's a difference between what do you want more? Because sin always brings about difficulty. It brings about discord. And therefore, when we think about it that way, we see that man here sees the world around him in discord and sees the dangers and And all of the things that are about him and something inside of him says, I don't want that. I want peace. My brothers and sisters, apart from Christ, when a man says that, he wants it only for himself. He is not thereby in that desire for peace, wishing it automatically for other people. He is naturally content to oppose other people in his heart and oftentimes to oppose them. even when he says he's for peace. If that's the natural condition of fallen mankind, how in this world can we say that peace and harmony is possible? And that brings us to the call to be peacemakers. Jesus says, note it carefully, that those who are peacemakers Are the sons of God. Brothers and sisters, take it to the bank. The certain truth of what this passage proclaims is that peacemaking is possible. Because if it wasn't possible, there wouldn't be any sons of God. And we know there are. We even claim to be so. So this opens up to us, what I am hoping is maybe bubbling a bit in your heart, a wonderful and exciting sense of duty. Peacemaking is possible, and we, his church, are to be the instruments of it. It's not like God has not made this clear to us. Not only this verse, but let's just take one example. Peter's words in Acts Acts 10, 34 through 43. Now you remember what's going on there. I'll remind you, even if you haven't matched it up with a passage, that this is the time when Peter has received a vision while he's in Cornelius' home. And he learned that what God had made clean no man should call unclean. And he concluded that this meant, as far as God's concerned, That Gentiles were no longer to be considered unclean. And Peter goes on to make this beautiful statement. I herefore perceive, therefore perceive, that God shows no partiality. But in every nation, whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. That is the word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ. Preaching peace through Jesus Christ. Now please note here that those who fear God are to work righteousness. That's what it says. Those who fear God and work righteousness. Now that's important when we move on to the next verse or so, and we'll come back to it. But the point is this: God sent Jesus in the world to preach peace. And on the basis of Jesus Chr on the basis of Jesus Christ, in line with the gospel he proclaimed and the work that he did, peace can be proclaimed, and brothers and sisters, peace can be accomplished. If we can get you to believe that, we're halfway home. All right. Peace can be proclaimed, and peace can be accomplished. And that, brothers and sisters, is the work of the church We are to proclaim and to make known the reality through our witness that peace through Jesus Christ is possible. There's a proclamation and there's the witness of the reality that validates the proclamation. Not only in the external actions, as we have said earlier, that people do by not overtly killing each other. But in the internal condition of having hearts that are at peace with others In the Church of Jesus Christ, the world is to hear the message of peace and see the actuality of it. And I submit that this is the most powerful witness the Christian Church can make. And we can stand up all day long and we can get all kinds of visible podiums and we can make our way into the media and we can we can talk about, you know, how Peace comes through Jesus Christ, or we can argue against those people who are promoting discord and and all kinds of stuff. We can go on the media and we can make all of that stuff happen. And apologetics is important. But the major arrow in the quiver of the Christian Church is that peace is proclaimed and peace is accomplished So that the people see the witness of peace being true and real and manifest in the people of God, and it validates their message. And I submit to you that there is nothing out there that the world around us wants more than that. And if we make an appeal to it, if we can show that. I think that that is where God will f uh build his kingdom. Well, this message, though, of peace, even in the face of this wonderful witness that the church is to make of having it It is not universally believed and accepted. That doesn't mean it can't be accomplished. The fact that men can uh choose not to gain this peace and actually to to be angered at it. Is the dividing line that Jesus draws between his people and the people in the world around him The message of peace, as strange as it may seem, works to incite warfare or antagonism. And that brings me to the next truth we should consider. The second main point is that, as I said before, Jesus didn't come to bring peace, but a sword. The incredible sovereignty of our God is fully displayed in this statement. Peace among the whole of mankind is just simply not part of his plan for this world until his son returns. We spent an awful lot of time in Revelation. If you go back to it, there wasn't a whole bunch of it that said peace is going to reign on earth. Right? Yeah. So it's not like this is anything new to you But pride among the whole man of mankind is not, peace among the whole of mankind is not part of his plan. For this time we're in. And here's that tension I mentioned again. The church is to strive for peace in the face of God's ordained warfare against its message. Now this pivotal passage that teaches these records the words of Jesus himself. I mentioned earlier. It's Matthew 10, 34 through 39. Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I came not to bring peace, but a sword. Now these are Jesus' words. This is the same Jesus that spoke these words of this beatitude to us. And they're just a few chapters down from where we are in Matthew. Jesus therefore is telling us that it is his plan to make a distinction between his people who are truly his, who are sons of God, and the world around them. Like the children of Israel in the land of Goshen, when God tells Pharaoh through Moses, I will make a distinction between my people and Egypt. I didn't pray I didn't remember that exactly right, but it's there. So the the bottom line is that he's saying, I'm not going to treat these people over here. Like I'm going to treat you. And therefore you will know that these people are my people. And how what is the outcome of that? It leaves these people over here without excuse. They hate and persecute those whom God, by his marvelous acts among his people , Vindicate them as his people, a separate people, a distinct people. A group of people who can be identified by their separate reality in the world. A separate people who in that separate reality show forth peace. This is our calling. We are to make peace and to show forth peace, such that the heart attitudes that separates people from God's people And those who bring chaos into the world are shown to be overcome. All of the things that they work to do to raise up strife and to bring about heat and discord That's shown to be overcome in Christ's church. Imagine it, Jew and Gentile living together and loving each other in harmony. Slave and free, male and female, people of color and white people. They are to discover that they can live and rejoice in harmony with each other. What a witness that would be. And what a witness it must be. To be a separate people on the earth, a separate social order. We're ordinary people of all different types of national identity, ethnicity, social status, etc. etc. can come together and live and and exist and work together in love and harmony Is that not how Jesus' words on that boat apply to us? He commands us. I don't think with the same degree of heat, but I think he commands us. Peace. Be still. And therefore, as you show forth the power of the Holy Spirit in bringing that condition to pass. I submit to you that this undertaking is to seek the kingdom of God and its righteousness, or in the words of these verses. to live for righteousness' sake, as the next few verses teach. I'll briefly recount those to you Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those that revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Now carefully note the persecution and the reason for it that is given here. Jesus says, when they revile and persecute you, he does not say if. They revile and persecute you. But he grounds that such a persecution is for righteousness' sake. And that needs to be explored a bit. Multiple verses in Scripture proclaim that persecution is part of the status quo for Christ's church. The Bible teaches that establishing a church will be a painful thing. Painful for Jesus, painful for his followers. And Jesus' explanation, teachings here in Matthew, state this more than any other of the Gospels. Matthew hits it hard The Beatitudes allude to it. Those who are poor in spirit and those who parallels the persecution for righteousness' sake Matthew 5, 44 says we're supposed to bless those who persecute us. I say, what? You know? Okay , uh have uh any of us ever really looked at that and said, you reckon me really means it Matthew 10, 23, you'll be hated for my name's sake, even by your family. Matthew 13, the third seed, withers when it faces persecution Matthew 23 prophesies of a great persecution that will be coming on this generation. Matthew 24 talks about a great tribulation, when many will be killed and hated by all nations. For his name's sake. All these point right back to these verses. Obviously, the Church of Jesus Christ must expect possible painful opposition. That doesn't change our mission. We must pursue righteousness, and that certainly includes and perhaps centers on the idea of peacemaking. And the point is it's an active thing. So let's talk about the grounds for persecution, for righteousness' sake. Persecution simply wouldn't arise if the church is sitting on its hands. Therefore, the ground of persecution must arise from the church making a difference in the world around it. Now, we certainly see this in the persecution that affected the early church. Several months ago, several of us held a book study and discussion, and we used Larry Hurtado 's book entitled The Destroyer of the Gods. I can't give a detailed account of that book. I recommend it to you. But if we read that, we read in that book that the early church was persecuted for these very dastardly things. It posed a threat to the existing social order because these Christians rescued babies that had been left on the dumps, on the trash heaps and raised them as their own and brought them up as children, as their own children. This these crazy people out there elevated women, common women, not just the noble women, but they elevated women within their ranks to a higher social or a social uh position with a degree of with respect and privilege than existed in the uh major pagan Uh areas, mostly the Gentiles. There's a difference between the Roman culture and the surrounding pagan culture. They rejoiced in integrating different social groups. They provided medical care for their own people. They helped out those among them who were impoverished. Isn't that dastardly? They pursued righteousness. And what happened? They grew rapidly. On one hand And were increasingly perceived as being seditious, I'll get it out in a minute, on the other. The tension was there from the very beginning. The point is they were not only righteous, they pursued righteousness, and they were persecuted for it. If they had not made waves they would not have been toler they would have been tolerated. And I submit to you that the Church of Jesus Christ, including Liberty Church, needs to adapt the same attitude about pursuing righteousness. We need to make waves. And when we do, we shouldn't be surprised at the reaction. In fact, if we don't see some kind of reaction, we have to wonder whether we're making any headway or dog. Our culture is big on reviling and saying all manner of evil things falsely, as Jesus mentions here. People organize boycotts and protests and they call for government actions at the drop of a hat at this thing or another thing. And sometimes they shout about Christians. But what is of concern in that situation is that many of our Christians seek to compromise on their beliefs and try to hide from possible repercussions. The modern church often just says, let's just concern ourselves with spiritual things and preach only about how a person can be saved. And I'm not at all saying that the gospel is not about being saved, but I am saying it's also about other stuff That it's more than that. Go back to the words of Peter that I mentioned earlier. Peter said those people are accepted by God. Are those that fear him, okay, we we'll go along with that. But he adds the the uh corresponding idea and work righteousness And that's where the modern church has difficulty. In other words, those who understand the call of God is to be active in making known the righteousness of his kingdom. And that has more in common with the early church than it has with many evangelical churches today. Brothers and sisters, I submit to you this is the unburnished truth, and I don't think any of us can deny it. So we have to ask ourselves. Why should we, how should we show ourselves to be different? I think we should do, I think what we should do. is proved, first of all, that we're energized by the promises. In these verses, Jesus says this. He says, those who make peace will recognize be recognized as sons of God. And he further says that those who encounter blatant opposition and various forms of persecution will inherit the kingdom of heaven and that they will receive a great reward. Now my question to you is how do you respond to that promise, those promises? Do they sink deep into you and say, yeah, I want some of that? Is that a good deal? Well, notice what he says. He tells us how we're supposed to respond to it. He says, rejoice and be exceedingly glad. We are going to be peacemakers and we may very well experience persecution. Yay! Obviously, it's not exactly that what Jesus means here, nor is it what James means in chapter 1, where he says, rejoice when you encounter various trials. Our joy is to be registered in the confidence we have in what we're doing. We must see our lives as the disciples did in the book of Acts. They were leaving the council, and they rejoiced that they had been counted worthy to suffer in Jesus' name. Suffering for his name is identical to being persecuted for righteousness. Dave read to you a pivotal passage from Philippians this earlier, in which Paul said most of the same thing, that they were privileged to suffer as he suffered. Brothers and sisters, opposition to our message and actions validates them. And when we make a difference, it gets noticed and we can expect opposition, but not only opposition. Christianity is not something in which we say , I've got to get up and serve God. No Remember the stories in Acts? When all of this was going on, it says God was adding to their numbers daily those who were being saved. When we are true to our calling as peacemakers, God will bring fruit from it. The world is dying all around us. God told Paul at one point he still had many people in that city, and so therefore don't give up And I submit to you that God has many people in this area around Liberty Church. People who are not tied are tied into another church. People who are suffering from the chaos that is in this world all around them. People who are living in fear of loneliness and alienation from others. Even if they express it by having an attitude. We must remember That we have what these people long for in their hearts. And we must be willing to show them how to have the hope that is within us. This means we can't sit on our hands. How can they hear the words of God if no one proclaims it to them? Are we going to let them simply waste away in their sadness without trying to reach out to them? So what if they don't look like us? So what if they don't even think like us? Peacemakers overcome those kind of obstacles by showing that they're not really obstacles at all Those who don't look like us still bear God's image. And we must reach out to them to discover if he is calling them to himself. And calling them to our church. Those who don't think like us may show us in discussing with them how to bridge the gap. The Holy Spirit can come in and we can proclaim the truth of Christ to those whose cultural conditioning has won has resulted in corrupted thinking. And also we might just learn something ourselves about where we might think differently. But what it does is to show them that in their concerns and even in their anger, how God's word addresses both Brothers and sisters, I ask you quite honestly, do you long to be recognized as sons and daughters of God? If you do, we must be peacemakers. Do you long for the great reward that Jesus promises here that comes in his kingdom? Then we must place ourselves at risk of opposition, so that we may open the door for works which will bring a great reward. This is our challenge, and it's also our opportunity I in the session are more than open to any thoughts, suggestions, or ministries you might wish to discuss in this regard. But here's what I want you to leave with today. What we must not do is do nothing. Our Christ is worth our service Here in God's words. Pray with me. Lord God, I thank you for the blessing of your word and the Clarity with which it brings to our lives. I thank you, Lord God, for those things which come through it to show us our pathway and to guide us in it. Help us, Lord God. to overcome hesitancy, help us to overcome any sense of perhaps weak knees. Help us to overcome any sense that we're not um uh equipped to do this and how in the world could we do these things? being just the people we are. And then Lord God, show us how. Open the doors. Give us a vision. Grant us, Lord God, the joy of seeing your kingdom and its righteousness, so that we may pursue it. In the name of our blessed Savior, I pray. Okay, man