And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying , Blessed are the poor in the spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are they are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. For they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. And blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The sermon title for today is Purity, Righteousness, and Mercy. Please be seated. God just wants me to be happy. If I've heard that once, I've heard it a thousand times. in various counseling situations. If I'm not badly mistaken, I think we heard it on the floor of GA this week, Steve. Perhaps you might remember. And there's one sense in which it is indeed true, and there's another sense in which it is very wrong. And let me take the wrong view first. I don't intend to spend much time on it. If we think the happiness that God desires for us will basically mean that He is going to give us anything our sinful, impulsive desires might be focused on at the moment, such as obtaining an unbiblical divorce or if but just because we're unhappy in our marriage or something on that order. Well, in the immortal words of my mother, you got another thing coming. That's not how he wants you to be happy. God never desires for us to seek happiness in ways that are contrary to his word. Ever. Now there are a couple of reasons why this. First, it's wrong-headed. Sin does not bear fruit in happiness, just the other. The wages of sin is Yes, absolutely. Second, it's an erroneous view of happiness. It uh takes happiness and and streamlines it and con causes it to conform to earthly pleasures. The pleasures of sin are simply not what happiness is all about. So, what is the right view of happiness that God desires for us? Happiness, properly defined, is life characterized by a sense of blessedness. Living one's life, knowing and apprehending, and having as a fundamental comfort the idea that I am blessed. I am blessed. And to the degree that we are blessed and that we know we are blessed, that is happiness, no matter what we're going through. It is the overarching embrace of the fact that we are right with God. Now think about it. Think about that. If we really believe that, if we really do believe there is a God in heaven And he is above all things and governs all things. Well, he he's a pretty impressive guy, you know And second to understand that this God, who created all things, who is the who is beyond all things, who transcends all things, has power over all things such that not even an atom Or an electron spinning around an atom, I just have to throw that in, is is there apart from his absolute will that it be there and his governing rule for it And that God, for us to be right with Him and to know that He is pleased with us is pretty important to us, or ought to be. Will it not produce in us the deepest sense of happiness? No matter what temporary difficulties, even grief that we may face, to know that we are, in fact, right with God. Which brings me to the primary point I wish to make with you today, theologically. The essence of biblical happiness The essence of biblical happiness is the unshakable conviction that we are right with God. The Bible calls this the state of righteousness. Now I can see all of you squinty-eyed theologians out there going, well, that's not precisely righteousness. You know, arch. And I recognize that righteousness is related to justification, and there is more depth to it than just the idea that we're right with God. But I commend to you the idea that knowing that I am right with God produces in us the essence of happiness. That is indeed what we're driving at in this context. And we can talk about that, the further extension of righteousness, when you come and sit down with me, and we have a couple hours to talk about stuff. Now, this state of righteousness that we're talking about can and should bear fruit in our affections, our emotions, our feelings. There's an old song that we used to sing at VBS or at a youth group when I was coming up in the Methodist Church, MYF, I don't know. Many of you guys know that. But anyway, there was this kind of silly song we sang, if you're happy and you know it, do what? Clap your hands, right? It's a silly song, but underneath it is a deep truth. Knowing that we are righteous should cause us to want to clap our hands in joy. We are happy and we know it because we know we are righteous before God. And therefore, we are happy because we are blessed by God with that status. And every one of these beatitudes, brothers and sisters, especially the one before us today, is grounded in this precise understanding of blessedness. We are blessed with God. We are blessed by God because we are right with God and we know it. Now what greater past greater happiness could we possibly gain than knowing that? Let's look at verse 6 as it is put before us today. And I commend to you that it only makes sense by viewing it through the lens of biblical righteousness as I am presenting it to you. Matthew 5, 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Now notice here that biblical righteousness is the whole thrust of this verse. It is that for which those who are blessed in it hunger and thirst. And it is the condition which in itself actually constitutes their blessedness. They will be filled. They will get that for which they hunger and thirst. And they will be satisfied. They will essentially not hunger for anything else. They will not hunger for anything else because they know They are righteous. Let me develop that a bit. As I am using it, righteousness in the sense of being right with God is a relational term. If I am right with God, that puts me in relation to God, right? Not rocket science. I'm right with this other being, this magnificent terrible, loving, wonderful being called God, I'm right with him. There's a two-way street there. It's a relational term. And as a relational term, by definition, it is a covenant term. Righteousness is a status. Given to us by God by being included in His covenant, the covenant of grace. It is a status It is not a statement about our purity or carnal sinfulness or even our piety. It is not. We are righteous because we are righteous, or we are not righteous And that is simply a fact of whether we are in the covenant or not. And that, brothers and sisters, first, middle, and last, is a gift. It is a gift of God. We don't deserve this fact, this status of being righteous before God, not a bit. We don't deserve it. We never did. We never will. It is a gift. And it is rooted in And the reward of the entirely selfless work of Jesus Christ. His life, his substitutionary death, his resurrection, his ascension was rewarded. And what was he rewarded with? by God, his father. What did God give him in return for the magnificent work he did? Look around the room, brothers and sisters. God gave him us. You and me. Look around. We are God 's reward to Jesus Christ. Plainly taught in Scripture. particularly the book of Hebrews, the letter of the Hebrews. But his life, substitutionary, death, resurrection, and ascension was rewarded by God by giving us the gift of righteousness. Jesus was and is glorified by God as Father by declaring that we are righteous. We are among those included in the covenant of grace, and therefore we are by definition right with him. This is the only foundation I submit to you in which true happiness in this life can be found. Look at all these beatitudes. Especially the ones we've covered so far. The blessedness of each is grounded in the fact of righteousness. Because they are righteous, the poor in spirit, in the spirit, receive the kingdom. Because they are righteous, those who mourn will be comforted. Because they are righteous, the meek will inherit the earth And the same goes for those that follow. Look particularly down at verse 10 if your scriptures are open. Those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake We'll inherit the kingdom. If God gives us the opportunity to preach on that, we'll hear how being persecuted for righteousness is actually being persecuted because we are in covenant with God. All true joy and happiness is rooted in and made available to us only through the righteousness that has been commended to us and given to us by God. It is not only available to us, but it can be found by us here. Now, here building on this, we must realize that where joy, where other joys and sources of righteousness, the other joys and sources of happiness that make life worth living actually flow from this prior condition. In other words, there are other things that we are happy in in this life. There's a brand new newlywed family back there. And I imagine that they're probably happy, at least for a while. So you know. I went back with him today. He said, you guys still together? Good. So but there, you know, they're those are things that make us happy. We rejoice in our marriage. We rejoice in our spouses. Those are things that are added to us. But the true happiness that is associated with those things stem from our righteousness. To make this plain, let me refer to a central text for understanding happiness in terms of being right with God in this context. Matthew 6, verses 31 through 34. Therefore, do not worry saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knows that you need these things. But Seek ye first the kingdom of God and its righteousness And all those things shall be added to you. All those things that add to your happiness will be added to you if you seek the kingdom of God and its righteousness. Now pay close attention, brothers and sisters. This is a pivotal verse on righteousness as we are considering it within the context. Jesus says here that all other things we will need will be added to us if we seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness. True happiness, true sense of blessedness is found in the kingdom of God and there only. The kingdom of God and his righteousness are not two different things. We should not read this that we're supposed to seek the kingdom of God and also seek over here his righteousness. No. They are together. The kingdom of God and his righteousness are one and the same. Seeking the kingdom of God is identical to seeking his righteousness. For only those who possess this righteousness make up the kingdom of God and in fact enter into it. All else we need, then, all else that is necessary for us, will be added to us if we seek it and find it. So all those things for which we ultimately are able to find biblical happiness find their cure here. Hope. Peace. Assurance of salvation. Fellowship with God and fellowship with man Everything that makes for a blessed life flows from this condition of righteousness. And therefore Jesus says, seek it first above all else. Start there. A brief anecdote this week as has been true for previous GAs also, but which I was delighted to have Chuck for the first time experience it and Steve experienced it for the last our last GA. But there's that special time of fellowship. Where brothers gather together and they sit around and they just talk about their lives and their ministry. And what God is doing in their churches and and yeah, it would laugh and we have a great time and yes, there is tobacco smoke and other stuff. Yes, that's true. But at the town there is a bonding there, there's a sense of fellowship. That is completely intangible, yet absolutely felt. It is understood. It is a union of souls. And it is the manifest reality of the Holy Spirit. Is that right, Stephen? Brothers and sisters, that's the kind of thing That you have in the kingdom of God. And there were brothers there who with tears. Steve and I were among them Who have very difficult things that are going on, and yet at the same time, the sense of blessedness pervades and therefore unites us I submit to you that what Jesus calls seeking first here is identical to what our Beatitude calls hungering and thirsting. For righteousness. A flourishing life begins with hungering and thirsting for righteousness. A flourishing life A life in which there's a hope of happiness begins with hungering and thirsting for righteousness. It is the condition of such a life. Using Jesus' words, we're to seek the kingdom of God first in all that we do. And what does that mean? Well, it means to long and to desire to uncover righteousness In every aspect of our life, no matter what life brings to us, whatever we're facing. Our desire is to uncover how that can be understood in terms of righteousness and how we're to respond to it in accordance with righteousness. We seek the kingdom of God first in all that we do. We long and desire to uncover righteousness. We desire, because we're poor in the Spirit, to submit our lives to Christ. Because that is what it means to live in the kingdom. A kingdom's got a king. It wouldn't be a kingdom. And to seek the kingdom and to enter into it is enter into it in such a way as to display the righteousness of that is our status By our total allegiance and willingness to serve our Lord Jesus Christ, no matter what he brings in our way. So, that doesn't mean that our righteousness depends on how well we do that. As Paul says in Romans, righteousness is not according to the principle of law. Law does not determine our righteousness. Righteousness depends entirely upon having received the gift of faith. If the faith is present, we are righteous. If faith is not present, we've got to be worried a bit. Seeking the righteousness of the kingdom, then, is to seek to live by faith and to act according to the righteousness of God as it has been revealed to us According to the passage today, that's what we should want to do. That's what we, in fact, hunger and thirst to do We long for God's righteousness to be displayed in all things, in every aspect of our lives, and in every aspect of the world around us that we encounter it. We want to live in accordance With the to the status we have been given. We want to live righteously because we are righteous. But we may say I hope you don't, but we may say there are times I don't want to live righteously There are times when I won't do what I want to do because I want to do it Perhaps I want to be in a relationship with someone that is a danger to my own spirituality. Perhaps we want to pursue earthly ambitions that do not glorify Christ. Perhaps we want to gain earthly riches not for the building of the kingdom of God, but for building the kingdom of me. Perhaps we entertain ungodly sexual desires, and even perhaps pursue them. There's a very deep and complex theological word for that kind of condition. It's called sin. And it is not in accord with righteousness. The only answer to turn, the only answer to them And those kind of thoughts as they come in is to hunger and thirst for righteousness. To hunger and thirst for righteousness more than we want those things. In such instances, we must remember two things. First, the presence of those sinful desires in us does not strip us of our righteousness. We may feel like it, but it doesn't. We are declared righteous by God, and brothers and sisters, he doesn't change his mind. Sin does not mean in our lives, does not necessarily mean that we're not righteous. It means that we're not acting or thinking or feeling in accordance with our righteousness. And faith is the antidote for that. Growing in faith is how we find victory over those kinds of sinful desires and feelings. So, secondly, we must grow in hungering and thirsting for righteousness. And that means turning to God through Jesus Christ It means immersing ourselves in the means of grace. And if you have any doubt about what it means to immerse yourself in the means of grace, talk to your elder. If he can't answer you, tell me. But that's what it's all about. Well, what we must want, we must want that To be righteous, to act and to live and to experience the righteousness that we are in our lives, we must want that more than we want those sinful things. And if we do, we will have victory over them. And that brings us to the last part of this verse. The promise that those who hunger and thirst for righteousness will be filled, which means satisfied. This promise means nothing if it does not mean that grace will be supplied to sinners. To those sinners who value righteousness before God above all things, because they are filled, means that they will get to live in accordance with their righteousness. Think about it. If something in our life is not in accordance with our righteousness, with godliness, as it is submitted, then I submit to you that our conscience will never be at peace. If we are living ungodly lives and our conscience isn't driving us crazy, we got a problem. And we have to deal with that problem. We will not be content, we will not be satisfied, we will not feel blessed as long as that is the case. These things that we are doing will offend us. They are obstacles to true happiness. And let's look again at the words of Jesus. A few verses down from where we are now, Matthew 5, 27 through 30. You have heard it said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. Here's the point. If your right eye causes you to sin , walk it out. Cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off. Cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish. Than for your whole body to be cast into hell. That hunger and thirst for righteousness means having a heart That is willing to pluck out our eye in order not to violate the righteousness that we have been given. Now that's hungering and thirsting after righteousness. And it's the same as seeking the kingdom and his righteousness. What Jesus here promises is that hunger for righteousness in these cases will result in victory. We may lose a metaphorical eyeball or right hand. but we will be victorious over our sinful desires. And not only is that the pathway to true happiness or biblical happiness, But we will find the joys and blessings that make all of those things appear, as Paul says in another context. It will make those things appear as rubbish. Literally dog dung. in our eyes. All of those things for which we sinfully desire that we think are going to make us so happy when we understand them in accordance with the righteousness of God. And the joys that come with that, they will appear to be rubbish Brothers, no one in his right mind will tell you that what I am preaching here and teaching is easy, is always easy If you hear some pastor or some shining light in theology say that sanctification for believers is as easy as a turtle falling off of a log, then run. That person doesn't know sin up close and personal in its own life or in the lives of others That is not to say that all such challenges to our righteousness is equally or equally difficult. There are some challenges to righteousness when faced or overcome relatively easily. I tell people that I don't have any trouble not eating rutabeggers. I thought eating rootabuggers is sin. It's just a silly example. I don't want to eat them. And so therefore that's not a threat to me. However, there are some sins that on the surface may seem to be appealing, but when we look out of scene, nah, I'm not going there. But there are other sinful challenges that are deeply rooted in us. There are some sexual temptations. I'll even go so far as to say perhaps that we're born with. There are always some habits that have been inculturated into us by our surrounding culture and perhaps in our own families that are sinful to the core And yet that's the life that we understand. And these things pose tremendous difficulties. But what else could Paul mean when speaking of things when he said he could do all things through Christ Jesus who strengthens him? It simply means that even when the challenges are that deep, brothers and sisters, sin does not have dominion over us. And therefore, it can be overcome. I'm going to sum up this particular beatitude, brothers and sisters, by actually looking at the following two. Let us take this to heart as we do so. God does indeed want us to be happy. He wants us to find happiness in the status of righteousness that we have been given. He wants us to know the power of the gospel that Jesus came into this world to purchase this status for us And that like the pearl of great price, when we have, when we truly understand this status, it is our most precious possession. And if we hunger and thirst for it, he assures us we will be filled. All our desire to live in accordance with righteousness Can be gained. Even continuing episodes of sin will not prevent it. We are blessed And we are, and we will be blessed, by growing more and more in true happiness. Even in the face Of the trials that these beatitudes tell us are part of our normal lives. Our inheritance Is that we get to live in the kingdom of God even as we face the difficulties that each one of these beatitudes highlight is present in us. And since that's the case, let's look at the following two Beatitudes, realizing that what I say here is applicable to all of them. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. To live in accordance with righteousness, brothers and sisters, is to be characterized by mercy. It is to have the mercy that is in your heart evident to all who know you. Mercy, not vengeance. Not the impulse to win an argument at all costs, which is one of my favorites. Okay. That's not always what we are supposed to do Our mercy is the desire to show love to another person, and particularly to show love to a person who desperately needs it. And it is an essential quality of godly righteousness in our lives. It is at its root a desire to share with others the fruits of our own righteousness. And Jesus proves true in his statement that all else will be provided to us. Since all else is provided to us, we'll have enough to share. So we will desire to share the things that He has added to us, both in substance and in quality, physical things that we may need to share someone with who needs it. Spiritual things. From those whom we encounter who desperately need to hear it. In other words, mercy here is a heart that longs to help. To minister in Christ's name and for his kingdom. And that will move us to do what we can in accordance with godly righteousness. In doing so, Jesus says, we will be shown mercy. The power of God will flow into our lives. And that will help us with difficulty. And as it does, it will be enabled more and more to live with righteousness. I'm going to go ahead and bring up an example of what I'm saying, but don't think I'm shifting the subject. I'm going to talk about tithing. Nobody, in my knowledge, to my knowledge, has ever gone broke by tithing. And I'm not preaching on tithing here. I'm illustrating the point that when we live in accordance with the righteousness, when we do things in accordance with the righteousness, then God brings what we need back into our lives, perhaps in other areas so that it offsets any uh sacrifice that we may have to make. And that's what I mean, that we will receive mercy When that widow went up and deposited her last penny. And Jesus said, she went down justified. What he really, what that word there very easily translated. It is, she went down from that place, righteous, declared righteous. So the power of God will flow into our lives. By God 's mercy, and as it does, we will be enabled more and more to live lives of righteousness. In helping others, we help ourselves In helping others, from mercy, we help ourselves. To live in accordance with righteousness is to be pure in heart. To be pure and hard is the goal of living in accordance with righteousness, because godly flows, godly righteousness Get it right in a minute. Godliness flows from what theologians call godly affections. Now, it is first and foremost to be governed by love. Paul says in Corinthians, apart from the love of God, no good thing that we do is worth anything. And so therefore we have to realize that when we are talking about being pure in heart, we are talking about the idea of an essential quality of love that is part of us. We are righteous not because we do good deeds. We are righteous because, first, God loved us When we were yet sinners and sent his son into the world to do all that was necessary to bring us into the state of righteousness that he has given us, such that our righteousness is a gift of God's love. And if we know that, I submit it to you that it transforms us. The love of God transforms us so that it changes our stony hearts into hearts of flesh that can and will inevitably show forth love. It produces in us the quality of being pure in heart such that we can be merciful. so that we are poor in the Spirit, so that we are meek, so that we hunger and thirst for righteousness. It produces a godly mourning into which God provides comfort. Therefore, having a heart of love, we are motivated to live in accordance with righteousness. And God promises that without fail, we will, with our very own eyes, see him. We will see his son. We will see him in this life. When our our lives or our hearts are made pure in love. We will see him by becoming instruments of his spirit to work in the lives of others. And in the fellowship of love that comes about when we have Christians who are absolutely blown away by the fact that we are righteous before God. will create a community, a fellowship of love, that in which we will see Jesus being present among us. As he said he will would be. Not with our eyes, physical eyes, but with our spiritual eyes. But most emphatically what this prompt this passage teaches us We will see him when at last, in the words of Job, with our very own eyes, we will see our Redeemer. Hearts made pure in love will have their reward. Now, if all of these things are true, brothers and sisters Can we not see that they are all essential to happiness, true happiness in this world and the next? Can we see that if our lives are transformed in this way, what should we fear that might rob us of our happiness? In the words of Paul, no created thing is able to, not even death itself. Because, brothers and sisters, We will see God. This, brothers and sisters, is the word of God.