Well as we work through the Sermon on the Mount, for as long as the Lord gives us together to do so, we arrive at Matthew 5, verses 31 to 32. And what I'm going to ask you here today is to recognize the difficulty that may confront you as we go through this. As we read these words, the question might be, does Jesus really mean this? Or does Jesus really mean it today? Throughout the evangelical world, there are those who believe that Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount was basically speaking. to the church as it existed then among the Jews pre-cross, before the cross. But after the cross, things changed. We in the Reformed faith do not believe that, but it still remains when we get to questions and teachings That can be a bit hard, that we wonder, does Jesus really mean it? And so recognize that as we hear these words today, and also as we begin to develop them, And I hope that you will see our Lord is teaching the basic will of God, the Father, in his unchanging eternal So please stand as I read our passage for today, Matthew 5, verses 31 through 32. Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason Except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The sermon title of the day is Dangerous Emotions, Part 3, very predictable. I would ask that you please be seated. I know how devastating divorce can be for those individuals who go through it. Even if today the social consequences for divorce are not as difficult, not as uh shall we say, uh strong as they were when even when I was growing up , but they are still present to some extent. And when I was a ruler at uh Severn Savannah Park EP, I had not yet retired from the Navy, and as a ruling elder, I was the shepherding elder in charge of the separated and divorced group. And retrospect, I see the hand of God in this preparing me for my ministry, because folks undergoing separation and divorce are often in very difficult spiritual emotional turmoil. And I have to grow in my understanding about how to speak into that circumstance, how to counsel into that situation And I also had to learn the limits of how far spiritual or how far counseling in and of itself can go. In retrospect, that's what I see happening. What was often hard to take, though , was the callous nature of how some divorces were initiated. Usually in a divorce situation, one party has often been thinking about it for quite a while. They've uh They've been it maybe it just crossed their mind and then as it once crossed their mind it began to cross their mind more often and and then they begin to grow in it because they're unhappy with their spouse Unhappy with where they are. And so as a result of that, they have already hardened themselves to what it's going to take when they what it's going to cost when they tell their spouse. And and the spouse who hears this may have noticed that the other person had been having difficulties, but when when they speak to it, what do they say, oh I'm fine, I'm just going through a tough time, or I'm having a tough time at work or you know how those people are on the road when I drive home. So some something is said, but not to the heart of it. And then that person is already, like I say, hardened to it. And so when they finally do tell their spouse that they are going to divorce them , They usually take the position, hey, life goes on, just get over it. And that's the way it goes. Uh One particular example I remember was that a woman was cooking breakfast after having spent night in bed with her husband, and he walked into the kitchen. Told her he was leaving her. He said he would be in touch, turned and walked out the door, and that was it. Brothers and sisters, that's a living example of what Jesus is talking about here. It shows you how a supposedly Christian person, that spouse who walked out, called himself a Christian. And it can shows you how that person can selfishly bring incredible shock You're what? You're divorcing me. Takes a day or two just to let that sink in. And then there's the pain and suffering that comes upon the other person as their whole life is upended from what they expected to happen. Even the spouse that as a Christian promised to love, honor, and cherish until death do us part, walks out the door to whatever life that person has plunged. You know, the spouse in that instance embraced the modern cultural notion that as a Christian, God wants us to be happy. And he interpreted that through the lens of what modern culture thinks happiness is And therefore, inevitably, once you adopt that, if God just wants us to be happy, then when we do things, even if it's against his word, but it's what makes us happy, then God doesn't care all that much. Brothers and sisters, that's what the culture can breathe into us, and it is deadly. So let's look at what Jesus has to say about this. in this passage as far as divorce goes. It's actually more than divorce, as you'll see as I develop what we've got, but divorce is that which kicks it off. Now this entire s section of the Sermon on the Mount is composed of examples that Jesus is using to illustrate and make plain how the righteousness of the kingdom of God is supposed to break out in our lives and the lives of all who follow him. And Jesus here is actually building on the passage that we spoke about last week, the previous verses, in teaching on adultery. So you cannot separate adultery from this Teaching and what we said last week, because as you see, this passage speaks of adultery also. And so they're tied together, and you have to see that this is a development of the previous verse And he expands that teaching into the case of an unbiblical divorce. Now, I'm not going to go a great deal into what constitutes a biblical divorce. I just don't have time. But the idea here is that there is such a thing as biblical divorce, and you see that it's called out here in the so-called exception clause, where Jesus says that anybody who divorces his wife except for the sin of sexual sin. And the word there is pornea. It is not the word for adultery. And basically it just means a uh a really licentious or Sexual sin that is so egregious that a person cannot take the other person back into the capacity of their spouse. There is a biblical divorce for that. There's also another biblical divorce allowed for people when they're when there's extreme cases of abuse and things like that. I'm just not going to go into them. I don't have time to do so. So make sure that you understand what I'm speaking of today is an unbiblical divorce. And what we must see here is that as Jesus is direct is is making these uh comments or these this teaching, He is speaking into a revolutionary system. And it was revolutionary for his day. It's revolutionary for our day today. Jesus is entirely uh counter, his teaches an entirely counter to the attitudes that I illustrated in my introduction. Here, Jesus is opposing the bare legalism of the Pharisees. Now, the Pharisees at that time, mostly They were saying that, look, if any man wants to divorce his wife, this is what he must do. He must issue her a certificate of divorce. Now, that means that they were saying, hey, you can't just put her out the door. You can't just throw her and her luggage out into the gutter. You've got to do it right, you've got to give her a legal document, and you must leave her with a token, if you will, in that culture of respect. This was to some extent much better than the surrounding pagan countries because at least in many of those pagan countries the man could do that. He could say, I divorce you, I divorce you, I divorce you, and you're done. You know? And they didn't have to give account to it for much of anybody except her older brother who came after him with a stick. But that's the kind of thing that might happen. But the Jews at least made it a legal situation, and that gave some degree of mercy in it. So, our text flows directly, though, from our previous teaching on adultery, as I said, and we can see that basically he's saying, furthermore, it has been said Now this links to the teachings of 27 and 30, and he goes back and quotes the rabbinical teaching, what he's talking about here. is a development of rabbinical teaching on Deuteronomy 24. 1. Now you need to have Matthew 19 in your uh Bible marked because these two teachings, Matthew 19 and this teaching today, are so closely related that you can't understand either one of them without the other one. So, in Matthew 19, we see this exact situation, an example of just what Jesus is talking about in this passage. The Pharisees come talking to him and testing him on the question of divorce. And they quote Deuteronomy 24, which is what Jesus quotes here. And they s they said that if Moses allowed a man to uh uh ref uh divorce, and they said simply because he found something in her he didn't like And a little background. There's some history in here. There's two rabbinical camps that are teaching different things, if you will, about this passage in Palestine at that time. One of them, under the heading of Hillel , taught basically that a man could divorce his wife for anything he doesn't find that he likes in her Yeah, that could be virtually anything, and Hillel actually says, even if you you don't like her cooking I thought that that would get a greater reaction, but I'll settle for what I get. I know that since Liberty Church has a great reputation for the way it cooks, but that's there's not a problem for you. But anyway, uh spoiling the cooking would be sufficient according to this guy's teaching. The other guy was uh a teacher by the name of Shemmai And Shemai's teaching is very close to what Jesus here teaches. So in essence, Jesus is coming down on the side of Shemai, but making it more definitive. Matthew 19, Jesus takes this question that is before us in our passage for today in the same way, and he answers it by going back to first principles. He goes back to Genesis and he teaches that marriage must be understood in terms of a creation ordinance. Now what is a creation ordinance? A creation ordinance is something that God put into place In the time of creation, that becomes a fabric of moral, social, and natural law. SIN alters that, but doesn't change it in the sense of obvious uh of of uh uh countering it. And this was expressed again in Genesis talking with the Noaic covenant. But the bottom line of it is that marriage and God's institution of marriage. . goes back to creation . and brothers and sisters his purposes in marriage has not changed. That's what we must understand. Jesus goes back and teaches that it is in terms of a creation ordinance because God gave uh woman to man And as a result, they became one flesh, one unit. They became the basic building block of society. That basic building block that God was going to use. to fill the earth with godly offspring. Malachi in chapter 3, I didn't read that today, but God hates divorce. That's what he says. And the reason why he says he hates divorce is because his purpose in marriage is for godly offspring. Now Jesus has all of this in mind as he's approaching this passage today. And as he explicitly states in chapter 19, God hates divorce because it undermines his whole creation purpose for humanity. It breaks a covenant that he institutes at the marriage ceremony. At the marriage ceremony , A man and a woman are declared one flesh positionally, and then are told that what God has put cast together has established, let no man cast asunder. Brothers and sisters, anyone who hears Jesus' teachings might ask As his disciples explicitly ask in Matthew 19 , boy, if God takes it that seriously, maybe it's best we don't get married at all. Because after all, you might get into a marriage and find out that that person you married that you thought was so great became a real jerk. Um it happens. And so they said, maybe it's best not to get enter into marriage if it's I don't if God says you can't divorce it. And Jesus doesn't let them off the hook. He says, look, if you can live without sex, if you can live like a eunuch, Then maybe that's the choice you ought to make. But if that's not your lifestyle, then you must marry and you must not divorce. In this passage, Jesus comes at the question a little bit differently and winds up teaching another main point. He speaks of two married people who are not able to live without sex and who are, as we understand it today, both Christians. There's a different situation when a person is married to a non-Christian. We're not going to go into it. I'll refer you to 1 Corinthians 7 and I'll just let you know that that there's a very clear position to be taken when there's a unequal unequally yoked marriage. But we're talking about two Christians And so he assumes that both are heterosexual, or else they wouldn't be married. And here he says that if a man in that marriage does not want to remain in the marriage, And he looks back or he opens up the possibility that he's looking back at the previous verse and saying, maybe he's lusting after another woman in his heart and he wants to go marry her And so he in fact takes and divorces his wife so that he can go marry her. Now clearly that idea applies here directly. And therefore, he says that in such a case you commit adultery, not just in your heart, but but uh in your uh actions But it's not limited to that case. Certainly, it is clear that in that case he would be committing adultery, even though it would not be legally adultery in the old uh a social order or in our modern social order. But with reference to God and his law, it would be But the man also in this situation might not have another woman in mind that he's particularly thinking about marrying. He might want to be just free to do his own thing. Go have fun. Live the joyful life of a s solo uh of a s of a uh a guy who's not married. Bachelor, thank you. It's pitiful, isn't it? It's just pitiful. But maybe maybe he just wants to be the old bachelor, you know, running around doing bachelor 's things. And what Jesus says to this is, forget about it. Forget about it. Not only would you be committing adultery, Jesus says here, but your spouse, who like you Is not equipped to live with in complete chastity Like Paul says in Corinthians, who might be a person who burns, and if a person burns, then let them marry. Then if that if your wife is in that category and you push her out the door then she's going to wind up marrying or entering into a relationship that would ultimately be called adulteress in one sense. Now, that's tough. It's a tough teaching. It's tough then, tough now. But the point of what we're getting at here is this is what Jesus said. So, Jesus says that if a man does cause his wife to commit adultery, as he does here , Then that man, with full knowledge of who his wife is, knowing that if he kicks her out the door, back in that category in those social days, to be a woman who is divorced. was to undergo great shame. Other m men who were, quote, desirable uh marriage partners wouldn't even look twice at her Uh if she is kicked out by her wider family that and they don't allow her to come back home, she might wound up to be a prostitute. Uh the cultural situation then was much different than today. But if that was the case, that's what the man is doing. And what Jesus says here is that that man who does that is going to give answer to God for how he treated his wife. And it makes up for this whole idea of just giving her a certificate of divorce. He's speaking to the heart attitude of someone who says, hey, I just give her a certificate of divorce and everything's fine after all. I made it all legal. Now, Jesus is essentially asking them and asking us, do you think that's what God matters? That's what matters with God? Do you think do you think God's got a great big oh okay you gave her an attitude uh a uh a letter of divorce? Okay, well you're home free You think that's what God calls righteous? What I want us to see here is that it is this same very casual attitude towards marriage and divorce that Jesus here so strongly condemns. To treat it as just a matter of form, of being nothing more than a legal arrangement Something that a person can take on or put down at one's whim is absolutely, fundamentally, irrevocably out of line with the righteousness of God. No. Christ demands that we who bear his name show a due reverence not only to our wives and husbands, but to the institution of marriage itself. Of what it means and how it is to be understood. Reverence for the institution of marriage is to extend into our daily lives On the positive side, in the way we honor our own marriages, if we are married, or our ideas about marriage, if we're considering it. But also negatively in the way we view others and treat others who abuse the institution of marriage. And we'll develop this a little bit. Jesus says that an unbiblical divorce transforms the status of people pursuing it into the category of adulterers. In other words, unbiblical divorce Two covenant people are now divorced, the church should view them as adulterers. Widespread public and social consequences were attached to this in the days that Jesus spoke of this It has carried over into our culture today in many ways, though not as strong now. I would remind you of Nathaniel Hawthorne's uh book, novel, The Scarlet Letter, which if you're as old as I am, you probably had to read when you were in high school and you probably hadn't thought about it since. Yes? Yeah. Uh powerful book, very emotional, but it's the story of a woman, Hester Pride. who thought she was a widow because her husband had uh had left to go somewhere, I forget where, and he had never returned, been down for years, and so she thought she was she was a widow, thought he was dead, and she became pregnant by another man. Technically, in her mind, she committed fornication, not adultery. And I'm not going to take time to lay out the whole story just jumped to the end where the Puritan judges required that she embroider a great big scarlet A and hang it about her neck And then, as a result of that, wearing it for the rest of her life, she was to be subjected to a great deal of contempt and somewhat abrupt. discourteous behavior, maybe even more. Kids making fun of her, throwing mud at her and stuff. You see, shame was part of the social contract. And it was there intending to discourage further sin. Now in that novel, as you can readily expect, the people in the town were blatant hypocrites There's no yeah, I don't care if they were Puritans or pilgrims or whatever, it was that was the way it was. And like the men who were going to stone the woman caught in adultery in John, the Gospel of John. That means that the social consequences for adultery intended to discourage sin can be abused and can in fact themselves become sin in and of themselves. And please take everything that I say in light of what that that point The idea of having social consequences to divorce and adultery is part of God's plan, but it can be abused. Now the disciples must have been just as amazed at what they heard here as they were in Matthew 19. You see, to be classified as an adulterer, and then at the very least you were going to get kicked out of the synagogue. And yet that's what Jesus is teaching here about an unbiblical divorce. Both parties Get kicked out. Now marriage was viewed as a cornerstone of the social order, and all adultery that was rightly understood to devalue the honor and integrity of the family which is the core of the social order. And if you disrupt the hell the husband and wife relationship, it's not just a personal thing. It's a social thing. It tears at the fabric of the social order and as such is to be viewed with great alarm. It was to do, strike a blow at the essence of a social contract, and it, if widely practiced , Is deadly to the hope of stability and peace in the community. Thus, adultery was considered a deadly sin of far-reaching consequences. And Jesus says that unbiblical divorce is the same thing as committing adultery. And the point is, though today we don't automatically read in here , these verses and understand them as having the same impact as they were in Jesus' previous statements about how When you are lusting in your heart, that's the same as committing adultery, or when you hate somebody or call them a fool, that's the same thing as murder. Those may have really struck us. But when we're thinking about it here, it's hard for us to come to grips with that same same degree of application. But yet in the words of the in the hears of the first hearers, they knew what Jesus was saying, and they knew that this was a tough teaching. Jesus was commanding an obedience and a self-sacrificial attitude towards marriage at the same level and degree as his previous teachings. Now, brothers and sisters, let me just give you an example of that. Jesus is not saying here that a woman has to live with a physically abusive husband. He's not saying that. Okay? And it's possible for two Christians to be in such an abusive situation. However, the church doesn't allow it to continue. In a physically abusive situation, the church's first responsibility is to remove the person who is in arm and to get them out of it. And then to seek if there's any way to restore the abuser. And to see whether or not that abuser is able to love his wife usually in such a way as to have reconciliation go on. But brothers and sisters, if that guy does not repent, if the woman is such that she does not see true repentance in him and is able to restore it, the church has to excommunicate him. You cannot be an abuser in a situation like marriage or in the family and claim the title of Christian. Yes? And so there you see that in a situation such as those, there's a way forward to sort through it. And I've sort and I've sorted through several of these. So the idea is to understand that what we're talking about here are two people who call themselves Christians and who we can see them as being Christians. But they are committing a grievous sin. And notice how far removed Jesus' teachings here are from our common culture. Brothers and sisters, today adultery is not that big a deal. You see it on virtually every thing, every show that you watch on TV. I remember a president of the United States who was one of the most flagrant and salacious, salacious lectures that was ever put in office. And people just kind of laughed it off. Well, boys will be boys, you know. Movie stars and famous people changed their marriage partners seemingly on a weekly basis Some of them proud of the fact that they've had six or seven marriages. And the rest of society keeps paying them to do it. They continue buying their records, paying tickets to watch them on the screen. There are virtually no social or legal consequences to divorce or adultery in our world. Particularly in Maryland, which is a no-fault divorce court. Not so in Jesus' day. There were serious consequences to being branded and adultered, as we've said. And Jesus does not here condemn those social consequences. He doesn't. As a matter of fact, he speaks into them and expands how they should be applied. In his radical statement, unholy divorce is the same as adultery, and it was shocking to the people then to say, we got to treat people who are divorced as if they're adulterous. And maybe it's to our shame that it's not as shocking to us today as it was then. So when Jesus taught that an ungodly divorce placed a person in the same category as an adulterer, he was making a very strong statement. And the only reason it didn't come across that way to us today is because we are so used to the sins of ungodly divorce and adultery. That is not just not that big a deal. And we actually sometimes feel sympathetic, oftentimes feel sympathetic to the person who was just unhappy in their marriage And therefore, they want to get out of it. Jesus wants us to stop thinking that way. What God and Jesus wants us to do as we bring this to a close, is to view marriage as God the Father and God the Son view it. He wants us, they want us to get back to basics They want us to show reverence for marriage through our daily lives. We need to go back Back to God's glorious vision for humanity in Genesis 1 and 2, where man and woman are to work at becoming one flesh in reality what they were positioningly declared to be in the marriage ceremony. So as, as Malachi says, to fill the earth with godly offspring. God Jesus wants us to remember That our goals are to mirror the relation that Jesus has with his church. A man is to pattern himself in relation to his wife. As Jesus patterns himself to his church, to love her and to give himself sacrificially to her and for her. And the wife is therefore to respect Honor and embrace your husband as the church respects, honors, and embraces Christ. Now I ask you. On either side of the pulpit here. Where would we be today if Jesus thought about his marriage to us The way this man thought about his marriage to his wife. Where would we be today if Jesus said, you know , Yeah, I've just about had enough with you, Archie. You're out of here. I'm issuing a certificate of divorce. Would there be any of us in the pews that were not divorced? We know it. God knows it. So if God's putting up with us and working with us so as to Increase our sanctification and to overcome things that perhaps we are doing that are dishonoring to our marriage and to him If he's willing to send his Holy Spirit to work with us and to make that happen, why cannot we, through our marriages, use that, the powers of that same Holy Spirit? to bring about transformation in our own marriages. Do you think it's possible? Well brothers and sisters, I could tell you it's possible. I've seen the most amazing things. I've seen situations where the woman had more than enough grounds for biblical divorce. And yet, she committed to loving her husband, and it took a while But she restored, they restored relations, and the family was healed. Like I said, I was the court-appointed counselor for that situation So I was eminently involved in it. But it was an amazing thing to see what God could do. Astonishing. And I have that was not just a single event. There were many of those. When the parties in a marriage seriously undertake to be the faucets of God's love into that marriage and to sacrificially give themselves to bring about the sanctification of their spouse. Brothers and sisters, there's no limit to what God can do. Do you believe that? Let's live that way Obedience is not always easy, but it is the pathway for discovering the power of God. And I can tell you that even in cases where biblical divorce is available, a spouse who chooses to forgive and to reconcile can discover the power of the Spirit of Christ far beyond anything he or she could ever hope or imagine. Such that the final state of the marriage is even better than that at the time of their honeymoon. We Christians need to stand for the holiness of marriage as it is viewed by God and by our Lord Jesus Christ. And we need to do so in our attitude and our actions. And God help us to so do. Let's pray. Lord and God, as we stand before you, we do confess that sometimes we wonder Uh if your blessings are really blessings. I mean you give us the blessing, many of us here, of of marriages and we're supposed to feel all just gr great and joyful in them and sometimes Lord and God It just it's just hard. Two sinners living together, what could possibly go wrong? And yet, Lord, it does. And so we stand before you. Help us in our own strength to live up to the institution of marriage that you have given us and to strive for. And yet we know, Lord God, that you have not left us alone , that you have promised to be with us and to provide your Holy Spirit in answer to prayer to do and to give us those things that we need to live as you would have us live. And so, Lord God, let us take these words from Jesus today. Let us take them in all their difficulty and embrace them. And grant us, Lord God, that in our efforts to live in accordance with them, Liberty Church will stand as a gleaming emblem before the eyes of the world. Not only in marriage, but definitely in marriage. And Lord, we ask this in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.