Again you have heard that it was said to those of old you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. But let your yes be yes. Your no, no. For whatever is more than these is from the evil one. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word Our sermon title today is As Good as Our Word, and I Ask That You Please Be Seated. As I look out on you today, I ask a personal question. My friend over here on the left keeps telling me I'm meddling in his life, and I intend to keep it up. But I'm going to ask you a personal question. What is really most important to you? As you scan over your life and as you think about the things that are important to you, and there's a lot of them, what is it Would you say it is my salvation? Is it life after death? Is it your inclusion in the redemption of Christ? It may or may not be, though perhaps it should be if it isn't. If it's not your ultimate salvation, then what is the most important thing in your life? Perhaps it's your life situation. You're focused on things that are happening in your life, your relationships, perhaps your job, perhaps your finances are a burden to you. Perhaps it's your kids and their future. Something that I increasingly a concern about for my grandkids. Maybe as a young person the future stretches out for before you like a long sandy beach and you can't wait to get started down it The point is that each and every one of us has something that is of serious concern or hope or focus in our lives. Something that occupies our minds and that as such we are thinking about it for better or for worse, whether it's sinful or righteous, often We have something that concerns our minds. And now, as you are perhaps reflecting upon what is the most important to you at this moment , I ask you, what is your only sure hope about whatever it is that does concern you today in the face of it? If it is your salvation, what is your only sure hope? That all the benefits of Christ are yours. If it's your future, where your children are headed, if it's those relationships, or your loneliness, or your kids. Perhaps you're concerned of your marriage, or perhaps you're concerned that you want to be married and are not. What is your only sure hope in the face of those things that concern you, that they are going to somehow work themselves out? What is your only hope? Now the answer that you probably think I am looking for is Christ. Christ is our only hope. He is indeed our hope in this life, and he is the one who will raise us up with him forever, and he is indeed the rock on which we stand as we face life and comfort all things. But let's go back one step beyond those statements and say, how do we know that? How can we know that? How can we assert those things? How can we state that and build our lives on it? Why do we have hope in Christ for anything? Our hope in life and eternity is entirely dependent on one thing. It is dependent on the fact that God does exactly what he says he's going to do Duh, okay. It's true, isn't it? What God says, when God says yes, the answer is yes. Yesterday, today, tomorrow, and forever. When God says no, the answer is no, yesterday, today, tomorrow, and forever. And this is our ultimate most basic hope. The first and most fundamental principle on which all else And our life is built as this. God is faithful to his word. He does what he says he's going to do. Now God spoke to Abraham. We read that passage earlier as it was recounted in Hebrews. And he was back in the Old Testament days, and God said, Abraham. I intend to bless you beyond your wildest imagination. I will multiply you Those who bless you, I will bless. Those who curse you, I will curse. And in you, all the families of the earth will be blessed. And then later on, a few chapters down, comes this glorious verse. And Abraham believed in the Lord. And he counted it to him for righteousness. Abraham believed in the Lord. Abraham believed and trusted that the Lord would do what he says. Abraham put his whole life on the line based on that one particular point that he would do it. And in trusting God this way that he was going to do exactly what he said he was going to do, God counted it to him for righteousness. Now think about that. What is the faith in your life that counts for righteousness? It's that you believe God's going to do what he said he will do. The life of faith is a life of trusting God that he will do what he says. Why do we do that? Because that's the kind of God he is. He's a God who keeps his word. You can And you must trust your life to that principle. I'm not giving you options here. This is not held up to you to consider and say, well, okay, maybe. You can and you must trust your family, your relationships, and your future to this basic principle. Brothers and sisters, there's a God in heaven and on earth. And this God is trustworthy. He does what he says. And though all else around us may fail us, though friends may disappoint us, and though health too soon or on at the appropriate time begins to fail us, though the economy at time uh though the economy at times prospers And at times it falls into the pit, though wars come and go, though peace may be fleeting. Yet this remains. There is a God in heaven and on earth. And brothers and sisters, he does what he says He doesn't swear by anything higher than himself because there's nothing higher If he swears it all, as he sometimes does, he swears by himself, as he does in Genesis 22:15 Where he says, by myself I have sworn. Blessing, in blessing I will bless you. And do you see that God guarantees His oath, as the writer of Hebrews says, he guarantees his oath by pointing to himself. He is God. He alone is God. And there's nothing more certain than that. Think of this when we ponder Paul's words. If you confess with your lips. That Jesus is the Lord. And you believe in your heart that He has raised from the dead, then what? A few of you said it. You will be saved. Now ponder that. Brothers and sisters, that's what's going to happen. If God says, and he does, fear not. For I am with you to comfort you and to keep you. And brothers and sisters, whatever we're facing, fear not, for God is with us. He will comfort us and keep us. Remember that as we go through the transition and become under the headship of a new pastor here in a few weeks. God does what he says. And he only asks that we take him at his word. For his word is trustworthy. And that's the fundamental truth that lies behind this passage we're looking at today. What Jesus is really teaching in this passage is that if we've been born again , through the Holy Spirit of God, so that now we have been recreated in the image of God. then we ought to bear his likeness before the eyes of the world. He is a God who does what he says. And then we, to the maximum of our fallen abilities, should be like him. We are to be men and women of our word. Our yes should be yes. That's it. Our no should be no That's it. Now you may couch it with a little more uh a social type of of uh Characteristic than just being blunt and tick people off by being sharp with them. But the bottom line of it is that that's all we say. Because that is how God is. And it's an important way that we're to show forth his image. Anything more than that is not of God, it's of the devil. And that is what Jesus teaches in this passage, and we hope to look at it more closely now. So the first thing I would want you to do is to notice carefully the form of Jesus' words. Again, you have heard that it is said of those of old, you shall not swear falsely. but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. Now, unlike the previous verses in this section, when Jesus uses this form of his statement. He's not actually pointing to a specific teaching, a specific verse in the Old Testament. It's not in the Old Testament, in Hebrew, or in the Septuagint, which is Greek. And I think what Jesus is here doing is summarizing several Old Testament teachings and bringing them all together. Because what he says here is in fact what the Old Testament teaches, though not in any one specific verse. The principle is what he states, and it's very much present in the Old Testament The key commandment is the commandment not to take the Lord's name in vain. That's what's underneath this. Taking oaths and not keeping them definitely violates this command. If we say, by God, I'm going to do that. then we have just taken his name in vain if we don't do it. And that's one of the points that we're talking about here. And the uh there's another passage, Numbers uh 30 verses 1 and 2 For Moses definitely commands that if a man swears an oath, he shall definitely do all according to the words that he has made. So as you can see here, the general position that Jesus is addressing is an Old Testament teaching, though we can't point to a specific verse. So, remember, Jesus is focusing here on teaching a greater righteousness that is to be present in the kingdom of God among the people who are in the kingdom of God. than what the scribes and Pharisees were teaching. Now that's critical to understanding this and all of the verses we've been looking at. He is pointing out, or he is not replacing anything in the Old Testament with his own teachings. Rather, he's pointing out how those Old Testament teachings have been somehow corrupted. and have lost their true intent in God's purposes by the way the teachers have applied them. And we see that in clearly in the application that he makes here During the intertestamental period, the rabbis who had been intent on putting bridges around God's law came to the one about taking the Lord's name in vain, and they had guidelines then about how to make an oath so that you do not take the Lord's name in vain. Now, here's what they essentially said. Don't take the Lord's name in vain. That is forbidden. But if you swear by heaven or by earth or by Jerusalem, or you even swear by your own life. Now that last one seems a bit precarious. I just really don't understand how anybody might teach that they might do that. It's a bit of blasphemy because what they're saying in such an instance like that is that you're like God. You can guarantee your own works. And that's what Jesus is here taking to task. So let's deal with these erroneous teachings. Jesus must have thought this important to bring it up here He's teaching about the trustworthiness of our word, our promises, our oaths, and our vows. And what we have to see here, we might not have thought this. But this is in the same category, in the same context, among the same teachings that he talks about adultery and murder. Keeping our word is as important as harboring bitterness in our heart, which is murder. Keeping our word really under uh lies the idea that we're not to commit adultery, either in practice or in our thoughts, because it violates the vow we made. To our spouse. And he's doing this by saying it's important what we say and how we treat ourselves what we say. as the first measure of our character. I remember coming up, it just occurred to me that it was pretty common to hear people say something like this. A man who will lie will steal. And I don't know if you've ever heard that before. Anybody heard it? Yeah, it must be a southern thing. But the bottom line of what they're saying is true that if you can't trust a man's word, then you can't trust him in anything else either, including stealing. Because that, keeping your word, is the most immediate reflection of the character of the person you're dealing with. And so as a result of that This has to be important in the life of God's children and Christ's followers, and that what the scribes and Pharisees have been teaching is not sufficient. And not only not sufficient, but could lead us into error. Now there's fundamentally nothing wrong with the stated position that they were teaching upon. You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. Yea and amen. It's clearly taught in the Old Testament, as I have said, though it not in this form. God says we must keep our promises and oaths, especially the oaths that we make to Him. The vows that we take for church membership, for example. Have you ever stopped to think that those vows are just as important and can be arguably said are more important than our wedding vows? They are just that important. So God says we must keep our oaths and promises, even those we make to Him, especially those we make to Him. But as we turn to a later chapter, Matthew 23, verse 16 and following, there Jesus is pronouncing woes on these very scribes and Pharisees. And they were and in that context were making the exact same positions that uh Jesus is talking about here. He's talking about, they're talking about swearing by the temple or the altar or even the hairs on one's head. The question they asked about this, and the reason why they are in fact Pharisees were doing this, is that they were concerned to say what actually makes, what constitutes a binding oath One that has to be kept no matter what. And I think we can all see that that's a fairly important question to ask And they were certainly not wrong for asking it and inquiring about it. Let me give you an example, one that will readily come to your mind. In the Old Testament, there's a fellow by the name of Jepta. And he made a vow to the Lord once that if God would give him victory over those pesky Ammonites that kept bothering him and not allowing him to do stuff he wanted to do. That he would sacrifice the very first thing of value he saw when he returned to his house. Well, God gave him the victory And the first thing Jephthah saw when he came back to his house was his own daughter running out to create it. Now, Jepto was definitely between a rock and a hard place. But his word came first. And it's not entirely clear from the Old Testament, and theologians actually talk about this a good bit , That's what theologians do, but he's talking about a good bit, and it's not absolutely certain that he sacrificed his daughter's life and killed her It is possible that he sacrificed her by committing her to the Lord and a life of chastity as essentially what we would call a nun. It may be the case. People are on both sides of it. But we must remember here that Jephthah's faith is commended in Hebrews. He's one of the paradigms of faith that we're told to parent our life about. Now, we looking at what Jepha did say, well, isn't that a bit much? God required him to follow through on such a stupid vow that he made. Is there not some flexibility in vows before God? And the lawyers and the scribes were, of course, happy to oblige. They came up with rules and distinctions, a whole bunch of stuff If you swear by the temple, you can keep it, but if you swear by the gold in the temple, no, you don't have to keep that one. Here in Matthew 23, Jesus is looking at saying that entire approach to the question is wrong. If you give your word about something, keep it. Because you have given your word. That's it. Make the integrity of your life Constitute the guarantee for the trustworthiness of your word. Don't swear by anything else Because, quite frankly, those other things are not subject to your guarantee. See, the key to Jesus' teachings here lies in the reasons he gives for telling people that not to presume to swear by anything above themselves or outside themselves Jesus says, do not swear by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is this footstool, nor by Jerusalem, not even your own head. He's simply saying that swearing by heaven or on earth Or saying things like this, well as sun, as sure as the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, I will do such and such. Jesus says, who are you to guarantee the sun 's going to come up at all? Or to set where you say it. Who are you to speak to of these things as if you can guarantee that those things are going to happen You can't guarantee that your hair will be the same color today, tomorrow, as it is today. Or even that you have any Jesus says, what's the value of your word based on these things? Not one bit. It's God who makes the sun shine or not shine at his pleasure. How dare you presume to enter into his sphere of sovereignty? God does not exist to guarantee your word. He doesn't. He guarantees his own word, and that is it. Now you cannot add any more security to your promises than the testimony of your own character and subject to your own limitations. James talks about this and he says, it's better to say, if God so wills, I will do this. I'll go there next week or go here next this tomorrow or whatever. And what that means is that to the very best of our abilities, we will keep our vows, but only if God makes it providentially possible for us to do so. You will keep your word, and you will do so with integrity, unless God doesn't will for you to do so. Psalm 15 teaches what our general thought process must be, the way that we look at it. He says, blessed is the man who keeps his vows. even to his own hurt. Now think about that. God, as with Jeptah, will often put us to the test when we make statements like that. And he will, particularly if we find that we have spoken foolishly, God may test us By giving us an unpleasant choice, like he did with Jephthah, by saying that if I keep what I said I was going to do, I might lose something precious. to keep our word in order to prove our integrity, as he did with Job. Think about it. What if you made a statement, the vow of which you were unwise in making, and the result was that if you don't keep your vow, you're going to lose your job. Now it'd give us pause, wouldn't it? Those kind of things are difficult choices, but the underlying principle is the same. We don't control anything outside of ourselves, and so we're not to be arrogant nor presumptuous We are not to take away from our word, nor are we to add to it. If asked to do something, if it is within our power and choice to do it, we say, yes, I will. Or if we choose not to, we say, no, I won't. If someone falsely accuses you of doing something , Simply say, no, I did not do that. You don't add to it or take away from it. Your word is all that you have. So guard it. To the very limits of your ability. Gain the reputation of trustworthiness Now notice the importance that Jesus places on this. He says, let your yes be yes and your no no, for whatever is more than this is from the evil one. Any more than that is from the devil. Hmm. Now, this is a somewhat perplexing statement to me, has been for quite a while. This is how I reconcile it. It's not readily clear just on the surface how Satan is at work when we add to our words in order to make them more apparently trustworthy. What's going on here when we feel compelled to add to our words and we say things like, Mom , saying to her child , Okay, I lost my point. Oh, here it is. Well a mom says to her child, I really mean it this time. Clean your room Strikes home, doesn't it? I mean it this time. Which means we didn't mean it last time Or we say things like this, you have to believe me, this is important. Why? If it's important, say it's important Or we say, I'll swear to that on a stack of Bibles What is Satan doing when we say things like that? I think the answer lies in this. It's from the evil one. Because it means that he's already done his damage in us. The reason why we keep coming or are compelled to say things like that is we have, because we've given reason for people not to trust what we say in the first place. It's as if we're saying, look, I said this once before, but this time I really mean it. And when we say that, we're saying that what I said before was not true Or when we're saying things like a stack of swearing on a stack of Bibles, the reason why we're saying that is because previously we have said things And it is proven that what we said is not true and that we were basically talking out our ears, if you know what I mean. And when we think about things like that, it has undermined people's confidence in us that they can't accept what we say. So therefore we say we're going to swear on a bunch of Bibles. It means I'm not lying to you today like I have lied to you in the past It's almost as if our word, the integrity of our word at any given point in time was not an indicator of our integrity as we have lived it and have lived it out And Jesus says, therefore, Satan has already done his work in you to undermine your integrity. As we close, brothers and sisters, the integrity of our word and the value we place on them reveals how we view ourselves. And the bottom line is this. It's a measure of how much we actually want to be like God, to be like Christ. When we find ourselves having to back up our words and our promises by pointing to something outside ourselves, that means Satan has already led us astray in some degrees. That to some degree we're already just like the rest of the world because we cannot trust unbelievers to keep their word. Some of them do, more or less. But there's no guarantee for it, for they have nothing in their lives as unbelievers to prompt them to be that way What it is that Jesus said in the Garden of Gethsemane for his disciples He says, sanctify them, God my Father, by your truth, because your word is truth. And brothers and sisters, we are sanctified by God's truth and through God's truth. We are to be people of truth because that is why we have been sanctified and saved. Because God is true and he alone is perfectly true, and our lives are to point toward him. Because his truth, the truth of his word, his faithfulness to his word, is the foundation of our most basic hope. Our lives should be lived in an ongoing, continuous witness to his truth. Brothers and sisters, let us from this day let our yea be ye and our nay nay For anything else is from the devil. Let's pray. Lord and God, I thank you that you have given us clear instructions. I thank you, Lord, for the blessing of your word, your infallible and errant word. The word that you have promised to honor, the word that you have obligated yourself to fulfill, the great promises and also the great threats that are contained within it. This is the ground of our hope it is also that which causes us to fear for those that we love who are not of your kingdom. Everything, Lord and God, depends on you. And your faithfulness to your word, and we wouldn't even know you if it was not that you had given your word to us first. And so our Lord and God, we thank you for that, that you have shown yourself to be utterly faithful and therefore utterly solid as the foundation of our trust Grant us to see this, Lord, in terms of the mighty fortress that you are for us, even as we turn to sing these great words from Martin Luther. We ask this in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.