Today we get to Matthew 5, picking up with verse 43. I would ask that if you would please, and as we hear these closing words of Matthew 5, which in many ways close out. The first section of our Lord's Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, verses 43 through 48. You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, Love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Do good to those who hate you. And pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you That you may be sons of your Father in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do so. Therefore, you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven. is perfect. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Today's sermon titled As Being Sons of Love, please be seated Now what I want to do this morning is start out this way. I want us to conduct a thought experiment. Not a mind game, but an experiment. Suppose Jesus and Matthew suddenly appeared here today, and let me tell you, I would be out there immediately. But Jesus stands here in the pulpit. He shows us his hands and his side. He says, it's me. Believe it. I am here. Now here's what I have to say to you. Love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Do good to those who hate you. Pray for those who spitefully use you. By doing this, show the world that you are sons of your Father in heaven. Brothers and sisters, what difference would it make to you here today if you heard it from his own lips? Rather than just reading it in the Bible or hearing me speak those words But let's build on that thought experiment for just a little. After speaking to us, both he and Matthew, as the pastor usually does, go back and stand by the door back there. and waits for us and we all form a line to go through the door and uh we walk right up to him. He reaches out to us before we can ever say anything and calls us by name. He knows exactly who we are Reaches out, hugs us, tells us how much he loves us. And then before we move on, he would say to us, remember now, I want you to be perfect. Just as your Father in heaven is perfect. And with one last squeeze of our hand, he turns us over to Matthew. Matthew also shakes our hand. And he says, remember what he said. Be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. Now with that final, those final words ringing into our ears, we went through that door out into the world again. Brothers and sisters, how would that experience affect you? Would you take it seriously? Would it be important to you, maybe more so than at any other point in your life? Each morning, would you remember Perhaps seeing Jesus' eyes filled with love as he speaks with you, his joy in you as being part of his brethren. And would you feel like he's entrusted you with a very important mission? Would you dedicate each day to doing what he said? For example, do you have anyone in your life that you would consider to be an enemy? I doubt many of us in this room, no matter what we have in our life, I doubt few of us actually have real enemies. There are people we like, there are some people we don't like, and there are others we actively avoid. But we probably don't have anyone trying to undermine us and really working against us Or anyone deliberately trying to seek harm to our person or to our family and bringing us down. But how would Jesus change the way we view the relationships we have? Would we consider then all of the different categories of people that are in our lives as being an opportunity then or a privilege? And interacting with them, whether they're part of the folks we like, don't like, or those we've been trying to avoid, uh is there when we interact with them, do we see that as a golden timeless opportunity To actually do what Jesus told us to do. A time of pursuing the goal of being perfect. Like he's perfect. Ask yourself, is that how I would respond? And then I want you to face the answer. Look at yourself and say, having seen Jesus, having heard from his mouth what he wants me to do , Would I do those things? And brothers and sisters, if the answer is no, we need to talk. Soon But if the answer is yes , if that actually happened, then hearing Jesus made it such that it radically affected the rest of your life So that being a true son or daughter in heaven, of God in heaven, becomes the focus of your life from that point on. By seriously undertaking in one way of doing that to actually love your enemies and doing good to those who hate you. And praying for those who spitefully use you. If actually hearing those words from himself would elevate that , Then why does it not hear the same when we read it in Scripture If not, why not? And how would Jesus Himself view your answer? Now that's just how important these verses are. Jesus is closing out this section of this scripture, and he said some incredible things in chapter 5 And now he's bringing it down, if you would, to a real time of self-confrontation, because that's what we're doing when we read these verses. Brothers and sisters know this. Jesus and Matthew both are speaking to us today. They're not visible here as We wait his visible return. He's not come back yet. Lord haste the day. Maranatha and all that. But What I've described to you is happening. Our Lord is talking to us, each one of us here today, and speaking these words to us. As I've said, he's closing now the first part of his sermon. And it is his sermon. This is our Lord, as we've said over the past few weeks. And he's addressing each one of us personally, going over and giving us some overarching instructions. He is summing up in these verses all that he has said before in chapter 5. The beatitudes that we covered up front and those case issues which we took up after the Beatitudes as being instances for what Jesus is calling out They describe the big picture of our life. And Jesus is essentially saying here, calling on us to remember that he When he sums up these words, be perfect as your father in heaven is perfect, he's saying, be poor in spirit, be meek, be hungering and thirsting for righteousness. Fulfill God's plan, God's law rather, in your lives, as I came to reveal it to you to fulfill. You know, it's not just that you don't actually kill somebody, but that you don't have murder in your heart. It's not just that you don't commit physical adultery. It's not lusting after someone else in your soul. Remember this. I want your righteousness to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. I want you to strive to be perfect. Even as your Father in heaven is perfect. You see, that's my plan. That's my plan for you in your life. The main point of this passage, and in fact this entire section, is that we Christians in this world are to be a blessing to the whole world. We don't live for ourselves. Our life is dedicated to a higher end. We're to pursue a higher goal. We're to pursue the actual possibility and potential to be a blessing to the world around us. Not only to the guys we like. But to those other guys, the ones we don't. And by doing so, by being a blessing to the whole world, we're to make known to the whole world that, brothers and sisters, there's a God in heaven. And he is a blessing to the whole world. He's the one that causes the sun and the rain to fall on everyone, the good and the bad. And as sons and daughters of this Most High King, we're to seek to be a blessing to the world also, as he has shown us he is. Jesus himself is here today speaking to us. In the essence, he's calling us by name through his Holy Spirit. And he's giving us this charge. So let's play close, pay a little bit closer attention to what he says here. And let's keep in mind, let's think about what he's saying, even as if it was he standing here saying them. First, Jesus says that his desire is for us to live in blatant contrast to the rest of the whole world. The way we're going to be completely different. He starts off in the usual way. He says, you've heard it that it has been said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Well, brothers and sisters, that's not a quote from the Old Testament. You're not going to find that there. It's not part of the law of God. That's just not the way God acts and operates. As Jesus' life demonstrates, Jesus gave up his life for his enemies. All of us. While we were yet enemies of God, Christ died for us. Do we believe that? Both sides of it. He died for us while we were enemies. That's love. That's loving your enemies. So Jesus' life demonstrates that he loved his enemies, and we can bear witness to that. Jesus is not contrasting the Old Testament with the New Testament. You don't see this in the New Testament either. But rather he's contrasting this word with the traditions of men. He's contrasting it with the way the world, the wider world, thinks and lives. Now, I'm not aware of any scribe or Pharisaical rabbinical teaching that says this in specifically previous uh passages. I've told you when the rabbis would say something specifically, just like what Jesus said, I do not know of any rabbinical or pharisaical teaching that says this this way. So Jesus is here rather speaking not against particular precise teachings from the rabbinical community. But rather he's teaching us about what passes for common sense, which the rabbis would have adopted. That which was and is de facto taken for granted by the world around us. What do I mean? Well, it's just common sense. It's common sense for a man or a woman to take care of themselves, to take care of their family, and to try to get along with folks the best they can, at least most of us. Some of us really like being jerks, but you know, we're told most of us we like to get along with people as best we can But if people treat us like dirt, then all bets are off. Sometimes on Facebook, which is I am and understand from the young folks, is where all the old folks live. But sometimes on Facebook I'll see statements like, well, I don't have any room in my life for negative people. If you're going to be negative, just leave me alone. I'm going to ignore you. Well, brothers and sisters, just off the face of it, toward Christians, if we take that attitude towards everybody that's negative, how are they ever going to hear the gospel? How are they going to see the gospel in us if our whole intent in life is to avoid negativity in other people? Jesus says, don't turn your back on them. Don't put them away. Don't hate them by not loving them. Don't go around giving tit for tat as your goal. Don't make them pay for treating you with disrespect. It was not explicitly taught, as I said, but Jesus is speaking against that idea and that attitude. And he phrases it in broad, encompassing terms. Now, you Greek scholars out there, you know who you are. I'm not going to make you stand up, but pay attention to this statement. It is framed in the aeros tense. And what it says is, in this way, you are to become sons of your father. In other words, he speaks using that tense as an overarching life focus. He's not talking about the daily life activities. He's talking about the big picture. This is what you're to do. And you're to do this by continuously displaying love for your neighbors and your enemies, which is under different tense. You're supposed to show them love day in and day out and using every opportunity, blessing them continuously, even as they are cursing you. This is the overarching goal of your life. You're to do this in every moment when it happens. This is when they are demonstrating hate. You are to demonstrate love. And how are you to do this? By praying for God to do something good for them. As he has done good for you. Now this is the process, Jesus says, by which we are to become and to embody the living witness of our Heavenly Father. This is to be the organizing principle of our lives, in our personal life, in our families, and especially in our church. It is the active, conscious intent to be a blessing to both friends and enemies. Now look at how Jesus gives us the pattern for how to go about doing this. Verse 45. That you may be sons of your father in heaven. Now I translate this as saying that you may become sons of your father in heaven. And when we talk about that, Jesus is using words of potential, saying this is a possibility, this is what's out there, this is what you can do. He's pointing out something towards which or which is to be the life goal that we are to orient ourselves to. Now I've got to do this up front. Jesus is not here talking about our eternal status. We are not adopted into Jesus' family based on how well we love our enemies. We don't become sons of God in an eternal sense by doing this, not even by repenting of not doing it. We are adopted into God's family based entirely on what God did for us. We are born into that family by their work, and for all eternity we are adopted into the status of sons and daughters of the Most High God. Ephesians 1. Read to you earlier. Now that is ours. By that and that alone, we are his actual sons and daughters. Neither height nor depth nor any other created thing can ever take that away from us. It can't separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Now, not even our failure on occasion to love as we ought to will separate us. Now, if you are born again then your reaction shouldn't be, oh good, I don't have to do it then. Living by grace does not mean that we do that we don't have to do what God commands. It doesn't work that way. What Jesus wants is for us to show forth on the earth what is already true in heaven. He is telling us that we're to become on the outside what we are already on the inside. We are to demonstrate and live in accordance with our family heritage. We are to live in such a way as to manifest that truth. God is our Father. We bear His image. Well, brothers and sisters, it is a great privilege when God lets us into his eternal counsel. It's a finger of when in a figure of speech he puts his arm around us and says, look, this is what I'm doing and this is why I'm doing it. In other words, God opens up to us his inner heart, his inner plans, how he wants to do stuff, how he's doing stuff. I told all my Greek students, always pay special attention when God gives us a purpose statement. And that's what this is. Jesus is giving us a purpose statement here. He says that we may become sons of God. That's his purpose for telling us what we're to do. We're to love our enemies, bless those who curse us, do good to those who spitefully use us, the overarching purpose of will for which is that we may be like God. doing it. Every born-again Christian in this room knows that God loves his enemies. Because every born-again Christian in this room was once God's enemy enemy. Well doubt God didn't give us what we deserve. He loved us instead and he showed us grace And he sent Jesus to take on our sins and cleanse us of every unrighteousness. Now that's how God votes his enemies. He blesses those who cursed him. Jesus prayed for those who spat spit in his face. Brothers and sisters, that's the God we serve. And guess what? God delights in being that kind of God. He doesn't sit around in heaven. Jesus is there saying, Oh gosh, I gotta love those people What a horrible thing. Life is miserable. Sometimes I wish I wasn't eternal. That's not how God says. That's not his way. He loves his life. He's perfectly happy with his life. He is eternally content with his life. And you know what? He wants us to share in that same delight that he has in his life. He wants us to participate in his eternal contentment. Because that's the life we're going to share with him for eternity. To be like God is to enter into life with him, into his life, to live with him and in him now. Now when we think about that, it's far different than being like the sons of the Israelites when they left out of Egypt. Some of them were always looking back over their shoulder, wishing they could go back into slavery. Some wanted to act like the Egyptians, even though they were no longer in Egypt. As a result, they could not be content How many times does Moses say, all these people do is complain? You know, what am I going to do with them? So as a result of that, you could not say that contentment was widespread. They could not find delight. When God brought trials and enemies their way , and so it is with us, when we try to deal with life, in the presence of enemies, the way the world lives with life in the presence of enemies. When we live with the intent of giving tit for tit, tit for tat. Or slap for slap. Or hate for hate. We cut ourselves off from the joy of God. We cut ourselves off from the life of God and from the power of God. But if we, as Jesus says here. begin to live like God if we follow God's lead and set about the business of being a blessing to all the world we're in. that as God makes the sun rise on both the evil and the good and sends rain on the just and the unjust, then we can be a blessing to the world around us as we encounter it. And brothers and sisters, it's a better life. Would you not rather be a blessing and have that as the sense of the daily experience of your life? Than to have anger or resentment control your life. We can be a blessing to the guy in the other car. Now that one's hard. I confess. We can pray for those who take advantage of us or ignore us. We can pray for those folks who think the entire universe spins around them. We can do good things just for the purpose of doing good things. We can show little kindnesses and big kindnesses. Even if we don't get credit for it, even when we see that it is beginning to be taken for granted that we're going to do that , Because, after all, isn't that how God is? And don't we often just take Him for granted? Brothers and sisters, we must believe that this is not the pathway of misery. This is not living like a doormat This is the active, powerful, positive life that is truly a life worth living. In fact, it is the only life when you get right down to it that is worth living. Because it is a life in pursuit of perfection. I have one last point. I don't have time to do anything more than just Bring out a few points about it, and that's about that perfection thing I just spoke about. What is this life of perfection to which Jesus points us? Now, Jesus is not talking here about sinlessness. He's not talking about perfection as in never making mistakes Or stumbling. Jesus knows our weaknesses. He knew our weaknesses when he said these words. And he knows that our life is a spiritual battle because it's in the midst of a spiritual battle that his power is made known in the world And of course we're going to have spiritual battles. He is not setting an impossible standard before us. He's pointing us toward a goal. He's saying that if you dedicate your lives to this task of showing forth that you are a son or daughter of God, then more and more you will be perfected in achieving that goal. And what does this mean? How does this taste and smell like and feel? What kind of life am I talking about? It means consciously looking every day for the hand of God being present in your life, leading you in all things, leading us. Jesus himself said this in John 5. 19. I don't do anything of myself, but whatever I see my father doing, that is what I do. That's the spiritual discipline that Jesus wants us to develop. You've heard me said that I really don't do anything other than just show up. Well, when I say that, what I say is I show up and try to see what God is doing and then get on board with what He's doing rather than get in His way. And that's really throughout my life has been the thing that has helped me the most. I can't figure out ahead of time what God's doing. It just doesn't work. But if I show up and see what he's doing, then I can see it to some extent and get on board with it. That's the spiritual discipline that each of us, I believe, ought to develop. To build into our lives the practice of prayer as an ongoing, continuous part of our lifestyle. You remember Nehemiah, that guy back in the Old Testament He was a royal cupbearer and he had some things on his heart he wanted to do. So he goes in to see the king who is all powerful in his day. And he shoots a prayer called an arrow prayer. That's the way it's called in sc in uh in uh biblical teachings. He shot an arrow prayer up to God. He didn't get down on his knees and pray for fifteen minutes He just said, God help me, give me the words to say. Even on it. So he begged God to give him the words, and God did. Brothers and sisters, that's the everyday practical discipline Jesus wants of us. To ask the Spirit to show us how God wants us to do stuff. He wants us to be completely dedicated to seeking his hand and being guided by it. If you're taking notes, write this down. He wants us to be ready, to love the unlovable, and to see past what they are doing to what they need. He wants us to love the unlovable and to see past what they are doing to what they need. Brothers and sisters, this is the great power that God has let loose in this world. This is the great power He has put at our disposal. It is the power of loving our enemies, of doing good, not for self-benefit, but unto the end of being perfect and complete in all things. even to the point of loving our enemies. That is the perfection to which Jesus points us. It 's the perfection of a life devoted to being a blessing to the world around us. It's the life of a true son or daughter. That a true son or daughter strives to exhibit. And it is the lonely life I would suggest to you that is truly worth living. And may God give us common cause and common heart to make Liberty Church a place where it is vibrant. With this kind of life and this kind of love. Amen. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, I thank you for the clarity of the words that you have given to us. Lord God, it's as we stand in the face of such amazing ideas to actually love people that uh that we could truthfully say are enemies, the ones that hate us, that despise us, do actively uh oppose us in so many ways that we're to love them? God our first thought is uh must be somebody else. But like Jonah running for a ship to carry into Tarshish, we discover that, no , that is what God wants us to do. And we need to get on with it. So, our Lord and God, I pray for us as a people, as common brothers and sisters in Christ That you work in each and every one of us to give us a heart that loves like you loves, like you love, and is a blessing to the world, as you are a blessing to the world. Grant us that overall attitude. I ask it in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.