Well, as we are processing our way through the Sermon on the Mount, we have reached the passage now in chapter 5, starting with verse 38. I would ask that you stand, please, as we read together, the words that are printed for you in your bulletin. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but I tell you not to resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks you. And from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Our sermon titled Today is Submissive Pride. Please be seated. These words today are some of the most famous that Jesus ever spoke. Turn the other cheek has kind of become synonymous in the world's eyes with what this man Jesus did. And a byword for Christian ethics. People who have never picked up a Bible nor heard a sermon. Upon hearing uh that sentence we'll say, oh yeah, I've heard that before. It's in the Bible somewhere, right? And yet, even by Christians, one thing that we discover is that these words are almost universally ignored. Say you're having a discussion and the other person suddenly gets angry and he backends you across the cheek. If you want to get some your eyes opened a little bit sometimes, go on Google and just uh check for the number of times that Duels have been fought over the last two hundred, three hundred years. It's usually started by someone slapping you across the cheek And then you go out and find out about it. Abraham Lincoln was in a duel at one time, which is interesting. So was Mark Twain. When you stop and think about it, duels have a long and uh not so glorious history. But if someone backhanded you across the cheek, They didn't knock you down. They just intended to humiliate you by doing that and just slap you. Would turning the other cheek be your first instinct? My dear Army brother said no. And the Navy joins you in that response, brother. So when we think about that, the to physically offer him the other cheat just doesn't jump into our consideration as being where we would immediately go. And far from the idea of not only turning the other cheek, but consciously intending to orient ourselves so that we do something good to this guy. When you stop thinking about start thinking about that, let's go one step further. Would you seriously consider continuing in a relationship with this person? Would you seek out ways to build a relationship with them and perhaps restore and repair whatever was there When we stop, stop and think about that, I think we run face to face with the question that the first thing that would go in their mind is, I am not going to give that person another opportunity to slap me. And that 's a viable consideration. However, what is it our Lord says? I tell you, as for me, Lord willing, I would try. I have failed miserably in keeping these kind of commandments But I would try because I know it's what the Lord requires of us. And it would be difficult because my first instinct, like yours probably, would be a little bit more direct in my response. And through the power of the Holy Spirit, perhaps I could obey these commands somewhat. But let's face it, these commands are just plain difficult. They were even tougher to hear back in the day when Jesus first spoke them. The circumstances that he describes in these verses were not all that uncommon. Luke tells us that even the people of Jesus' hometown in his synagogue, when he said some things they didn't like, immediately got together and decided that they were going to kill him and haul him up and toss him off a cliff. It was also not uncommon for powerful people, greedy, who had power over poor people, would sue them into poverty. Israel was an occupied country. That means there were Roman soldiers tramping around. And if they were marching through a region, they could command people to carry their stuff for them. They might compel them to walk a mile or two miles or ten miles with them to carry their armor and their food and stuff. Remember the ordinary uh Roman legionnaire were was marching with about sixty pounds of stuff on his back. And so getting other people to carry that would become very attractive. So these kind of things happened. And the people who were called upon to bear up to being struck on the cheek or to haul be haul somebody's stuff for them, they didn't like it. Imagine that. And to be slapped on the right cheek was to be backhanded. And this was a very common way of expressing contempt within the Jewish society. It was not a deadly blow. It was an insult, an expression of contempt. And in that society, like ours today, there was plenty of arrogance to go around. People were touchy. And when some guy said something or did something that a person didn't like, passions would get out of hand, and being slapped was not out of the question. To sue a person for his tunic was literally trying to get the shirt off his back Basically, the tunic was the garment that was worn underneath the cloak and above the underclothes, the loincloth. The cloak was the outer garment, and it was far more important and far more expensive. People slept under their cloak. at night, or used it as a blanket if they were sleeping out in the uh uh on the ground in order to shield them from the ground It protected them from the blowing s uh sand and and all of the burning sun during the day. The cloak was a very important garment. It was essential Mosaic law actually protected the cloak for that reason. Even if given as a pledge under the Mosaic law, the cloak had to be returned at sundown to the person who rightfully owned it. Because he needed it to survive. So to give up your tunic and your cloak was to essentially be naked. That's what's being asked of here. And then there was the issue of people asking for money or a loan. Now Galilee, as we all know, was On the whole, a poor country, poverty in those days, brothers and sisters, was deadly. It was like a cock pistol pointed at your head It was uh it was indeed a threat to your very life. There were no relief agencies out there other than the temple and the synagogue. And they did somewhat to relieve by giving alms and giving it to the poor, but it was nowhere near enough. Excuse me. And one reason Jesus was so popular was that he fed the hungry and he healed the sick. And therefore, these poor people that were out there flocked to hear him and see him. He helped people who could not help themselves. And there were a lot of people around in that category. Now the question was, for each of these very common situations, what is it that Jesus is telling his people to do? What righteousness are they to display in the face of these cultural conditions? And I would submit to you, though we are nowhere near as poverty-stricken as ancient Galilee was, yet there are still poor people around. But on the whole, we're facing these same issues today. And how is their righteousness that he was calling upon them in that time to be greater than the scribes and the Pharisees? How is the kingdom of God to be made known in their lives? Jesus is here teaching the answer to those questions to them And I will submit to us. First, he's driving home, I'm not going to dwell on this, just how different our righteousness must be. We've already talked about how these Pharisees and Scribes that this whole section is talking about how our righteousness is to exceed theirs. But remember, the scribes and Pharisees were both teachers and religious lawyers. The best of them, and there were good scribes and Pharisees. We know of a few in Scripture. So the best of them sincerely tried to interpret the Old Testament law because They saw, as the people saw, that how to understand what God wanted them to do in very complex ethical situations is not straightforward sometimes. Now the worst of them, which actually we Christians are more familiar with, they valued their own ego more than the truth. And so as a result of that, they indeed misled God's people a great deal. But there was a common thing that united both the good Pharisees and scribes And the, shall we say, bad Pharisees and scribes. All of them knew that God 's law taught that there was a balance between two major principles. First, there is the Old Testament principle that vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. In other words, revenge, taking matters into our own hands, getting back at people just for the sake of getting back at them, was not to be the rule for God's people. That was the rule that we see displayed in the life of Lamech back in Genesis. That's the law of the Godfather, all three of them. That's the rule that we see in the streets of downtown Baltimore. Where when a man feels like he has been disrespected, He thinks nothing of grabbing a pistol and going back and shooting twelve people. That's all because of perceived disrespect. God 's people are to leave vengeance to the Lord. Moses plainly taught it. Jesus reinforces it. But then there was the other aspect of the law that had to be kept in balance, and the scribes and Pharisees do this very well also. There's the theme of earthly justice. Here, expressed as an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. After the flood, in the Noaic covenant that was instituted after the flood, God looked at men He remembered what man had been like before the flood when every man did evil and did what was right in his own mind. And he said, you guys have got to start taking care of yourself. You've got to start regulating your behavior. You're going to have to make sure that you Pursue that justice is pursued in your society, and we take that as being the institution in the Noai Covenant of government That government is supposed to be the magistrate, the one who has the sword in order to enforce righteousness. So, as a result of that, the violent man who is among you and the murderers who are among you have to be dealt with. If a violent man goes on around and about fighting with people and he breaks a man's tooth or gouges the eye out , Then justice requires that it be done to him what was what he did to others. It's not vengeance, it's justice, even to the point of a life for a life But notice here, and we'll touch on this later , in this situation there's nothing beyond the eye for the eye. It doesn't say if you're if you lose an eye, take out both of his. There was actually mercy. There was a sense of justice in what's called the Lex Taliona. the rule of law. But how is one person to live in the light of these two themes, the scribes and the Pharisees who are dealing with people who are asking questions? How do I balance this old business of vengeance in an eye for a knife? Now, they knew that not everything that happened in God's people has to be taken to the courthouse or into the brought before the scribes and the Pharisees, or in your case, not everything that happens needs to be brought to the session. People would show respect, people sometimes show respect and act provocatively in some manner. And the question is, how are people to respond when that happens? The scribes and the Pharisees came down more on the side of an eye for an eye. If someone treats you badly, then respond at the same level. Don't escalate it. Don't take vengeance, but treat others as they treat you. In other words, if someone slaps you, slap them back, but don't hit them with a club. And if someone takes you to court and takes your shirt, we'll fight back against that hard. But then again, if you can sue that person. counter suit, then go ahead and do so. Have at it. So you see, given the two principles that we have here between vengeance belongs to the Lord and the and the idea that we're to pursue justice, the scribes and the Pharisees came down far more on the side of an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. Than to make sure that we're leaving vengeance up to the Lord. And they taught that this is the way you live. Now Jesus says just the opposite. He said, live your life this way. To the maximum extent possible as you live your life, leave vengeance in the hands of God. In the ordinary things of life, and here we're not talking about self-defense. We're not talking about warfare. We're not talking about Some guy breaking into your house in the middle of the night with evil intent in his heart, and yes, I'm gonna shoot him. It's not that. No, I may not shoot him. I'm just saying that for effect. All right. But the bottom line of what I'm getting at here is we're not talking about those circumstances. What we're talking about here is expressions of contempt and well below the idea of self-defense. And whether or not it's right for a person to join the military. In the everyday injustices of being treated with contempt, even within limits , Even when being taken advantage of by another person, Jesus comes down firmly on the side of living in daily dependence on God. And leaving it up to God to bring good out of evil. Jesus points to a life very well illustrated by Joseph in the Old Testament. Joseph's older brothers didn't care for Joseph very much, and quite frankly, we can understand it. He was a bit of a jerk. But throwing him into a well, that's a bit much. Selling him off as a slave to the Bedouins? Really? He's your brother. Joseph was thrown in prison. He gets some pretty hard knocks. But in every instance he saw his life in the terms of living in the kingdom of God. He was a slave. He was facing death in prison. His idea, God had placed him there. He didn't spend his nights Kind of sitting in a t uh corner, sucking his thumb, and saying how those mean, nasty brothers of his did this to him. It was his duty, he saw, to serve God first. And he saw the evil that he was enduring in terms that he would later choose when addressing his brothers He would say, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. I knew you guys would do it You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. In this passage, Jesus points his listeners away from the theme of justice. in everyday life and moves them to the theme of mercy. For the everyday issues, even to the point of being slapped, in the face or sued when we really shouldn't be sued. The greater good is to bear witness to the mercy of God in our own lives. To let God deal with the justice of it, leave vengeance to him, and live by faith that God will bring good. out of the evil we may face. I think that's the major point Jesus is making here. But historically, this passage has been the focus of a very large debate, and I'm going to move to closing by briefly commenting on that. The question of how far Jesus actually expects his followers to abide by these commands has been hotly debated for 2,000 years. Now, people have often wondered here and thought that maybe Jesus was in fact teaching that Christians are not supposed to use force or violence in any situation. Period. Christians are nonviolent. They do not use force in any situation. Now the Amish and their like-minded brothers and sisters believe that to this day. And by the way, I have great respect for the Amish. They have been pretty true to this teaching for a lot of years, and I respect people who are sincere like that. But they believed that Jesus instituted a new law for God's people. In other words, Jesus completely superseded the Old Testament law And he put a new law of love in place of the Old Testament law. And therefore, Christians are not to participate in war. They are not to take a violent action to defend themselves and their property, or to participate in the government, because the government has the power of the sword, and they're not to be part of that. In other words, for these folks, violence was evil, no matter who does it, or for what reason. Now others, and here I'm going to bring up Martin Luther. They took somewhat of a halfway position. Christians come in two types. There are those who are true Christians, and in his own words, there's about one in a thousand people who make a profession of faith that are indeed true Christians And for them, these words are descriptive and truly descriptive. This is the way that true Christians, those that you find so few of in your ordinary churches will act because the Holy Spirit has changed them. They don't desire to do anything but show love, even to their enemies. Now for Martin Luther These words describe very few Christians, because they're the true ones. And in them there is no law but rather they are taught immediately by God, and therefore they have no need of law. The Holy Spirit will just automatically work to bring this kind of life out of them. But for the rest of us, for those nominal Christians and those especially who are outside the church, the law of justice is still necessary. Evil has to be restrained. And the way you restrain them is that true Christians will in fact not only defend themselves, but in fact that they will act through the government to execute justice. And then what he also taught is that therefore the law is necessary. And it is very necessary. Here was a big point that he made. The king or the magistrate had to act this way in order to protect the true Christians who can't who don't protect themselves That was the whole point of it. The government and the king were to do this so that the true Christians would be able to survive. Luther said the Mosaic Law was necessary to keep evil at bay, and it was only there for people who were not truly Christians. Now he illustrated this work. I read his book on civil government years and years and years ago, but this example stayed with me all of that time. He said, the reason why this is the case is because frogs need storks. Now, storks eat frogs. And so he said frogs need storks Because if they didn't have storks, then they would overrun their food supply and everybody would suffer and die. So what he's referring to here is that the storks are the civil government executing, you know, even repressive. He was he said that even if the civil government was oppressive and and evil to its core, yet we still need it. And so therefore he's referring to harsh measures taken by the authorities. And they are there to control the frogs who are non-Christians. Now Calvin and all who follow him thought that Luther went too far Calvin saw that true Christians, even born again Christians, live in a spectrum of sanctification. And the law of God is just and holy and good, and it not only restrains evil, but it points people towards The goal of holiness. Christians will never attain perfection in this life. And the law and teachings such as Jesus gives here in this passage provide the goal towards which they are to strive. They do that through repenting of their failures and asking for more grace and more power to be like Jesus. More and more people of this are transformed in their daily life into the image of God. And brothers and sisters, that is our goal. It is the goal in our life to be more and more forgiving, more and more generous with our goods. And less and less inclined to vengeance and resentment, even when we're taken advantage of by others. That's Calvin's view. And it's the view that I hold. But I do need to go through one more way of looking at this passage, one that is very prevalent in the church today. And now it's usually associated with those that we call progressives. Everybody goes, ooh, but this is the way that much is said there. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount holds up to us, in their view, an impossible standard. Jesus knew it was impossible. It's a standard set so high that we not only can never achieve it in perfection, really we can't even make any progress in it. Jesus, and only Jesus, fulfills the law, and all the rest of us are just too broken. To do anything good in it, to be at all righteous. And all we can do is cry out for mercy. Now there's some truth in this, obviously. But in the modern application of this thought, and we see it written by common preachers and by very learned theologians across the board. It means that Jesus here is intentionally, in a sense, deceiving his hearers. He says, I'm telling you this, but you really can't do it Well, if that's the case, what he's really saying is there's no point in even striving. This teaching, when taken to its extreme, brothers and sisters, is deadly. And it's why the modern church is so little concerned with earthly righteousness. Little is expected of God's people in the sphere of living like Jesus, of living holy lives. They teach that we're broken and that we will live like sinners all of our lives. I'm a sinner. What else can you expect? Nothing they do or want to do can change that. And therefore, no progress in sanctification is truly possible. God 's people can't be expected to turn the other cheek. They can't be expected to not return good for evil. They read these words and say, I can't be like that, so why should I even try? Brothers and sisters, Satan has a field age. The church is no different from the world, so why bothering by bother to listen to what the church proclaims? Now I believe this is the modern perversion that passes for the gospel in many churches. Brothers and sisters, what I believe with all my heart is this. The good news of Jesus Christ is that he has ushered in a new age of power. He has proclaimed the good news of the kingdom of God and a new covenant with his people. He has proclaimed that even pagans, people ignorant of God, who have lived in the very pits of depravity and violence and lust, can hear the good news and through the ministry of the Holy Spirit be born again into a new life that is filled with new potential. Do you believe that? It's a transforming thought. Through this, people can turn away from false gods and turn to the one true God. of that God who has been revealed to us in the person and work of Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God. And when they turn to him, they can in fact become his servants And they can bear fruits unto righteousness, and they can build his kingdom. They do this by living every day in total dependence on him. Not of my strength, O Lord, but yours. And they expect Him to furnish them with everything they need for love and good works So that's that more and more as they seek this and try to embody it, they become more changed and become more and more like him. It involves living in total dependence on him, such that the law of love becomes the characteristic feature of their lives. Their witness to the world grows in proportion to this You see, the Holy Spirit takes their witness and it magnifies it far beyond anything they could do on their own. And even in the face of continued sinfulness, yet as they strive to to s represent Christ and to speak his words and to show forth his heart and his passion as they touch lives in doing this. They show people another way to live, and you find up with exactly the passage that you heard Michael read to you earlier, that people say Why do you have this hope in you? Oh, those are golden words. Boy, talk about a door being wide open. For these people, the kingdom of God is seen as being real in their lives. And people respond to it. For those in whom the Holy Spirit is working, the witness of the different lives of God's people brings the opportunity to share the gospel. And God will be pleased with their faith, their work, and others through their continued witness of his life and word. Brothers and sisters, put it this way, we're called to be like Christ. Can you see anything in Scripture that says that's not the case? We are called to be like Jesus. And brothers and sisters, what did he do when he was slapped on one cheek Turn the other one. He gave up not only his tunic. He gave up his cloak also. And as they're being divided on the ground beneath his feet on the cross, he says, Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing. Is that my first inclination? No. But perhaps through the power of the Holy Spirit it might become mine. In reality, we are called to imitate Jesus, who gave to the beggars, and who gladly walked an extra mile with them. And he's still doing that today to all of the beggars here in Liberty Church. It is petulant arrogance to say, I can't do that perfectly, so I'm not even going to try. And so I exhort us here today, brothers and sisters, to let us listen to Christ and let's confront the sin in our own hearts. Let's cry out to him for grace so that we may be changed. He did he not teach that as a loving father will gladly give his child or his son bread, if he says that he's hungry, he's not going to give him a stone. So will not God, our Father, and the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, give us whatever we need to increase in our ability to be like him. That's how we show force gratitude for what he's done for us. That's how we bring glory to him who loved us and gave himself for us. And brothers and sisters, it all comes down to this. It means to change our idea of self-respect. It means to change our idea of personal honor. It means that we are to have godly pride We absolutely are. We're actually we're we're supposed to live with a sense of honor of our person, but we root and ground that pride and honor. by being in the basis of being in Christ. That Christ becomes in us the ground of our self-respect and the ground of what the world calls honor. And it doesn't matter, not as much , always will some, but it ultimately doesn't matter how we're viewed in the eyes of the world We are not people pleasers. We are God pleasers. And that's what we must seek to do. Let us live as those who are not driven by sinful pride, but submissive pride. We are the people of God And no backhanded slap in the face can take that away from us. Amen? Let's pray. Lord and God, I thank you for for bearing with us. To have live perfectly and to spoke speak so plainly to your people, only to have them turn and act as if they'd never heard it before. And yet you do bear with us. You bring about even the opportunity for us to do good in your name. And as a result of that, our Lord and God. Your church continues year after year to stumble along, but to stumble along, being guided by your hand Grant that we may grow in holiness and righteousness. And as we do so, Lord and God, be pleased to have your work in our hearts Bring fruit in the lives of others who come to see what is this hope that these crazy people seem to have. We pray that in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.