Well, we come to a very clear passage in Matthew in Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, 27 through 30. It pretty much preaches itself. I'm just going to show up. So I would ask that you stand, please, as we read these somewhat daunting but very clear teachings from our Lord Christ. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you, whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye offends you, if your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. Cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off. Cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And may the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The sermon title for today is Dangerous Emotions, Part 2. I would ask that you please be seated. Now back in 2012, the book Fifty Shades of Gray was published. And I hear you squiggling or wiggling in your seat already. It was immediately a bestseller. Now I'm not going to go so far as to ask you to raise your hand if you've read it. There are some questions that's just better not to ask. But I bet virtually everyone has heard of it. Now, what do you think made that book so popular? Yeah, if you're over If you're younger than, say, 15 or so, you might not have been around when the book was hitting the stage, but uh talk to your parents. But what made you think that book was so popular? Why do you think people got some kind of thrill just talking about it? That book has some of the worst kinds of sexual perversions in it that I think has been put to paper. And yet why did it sell so many copies? No, I haven't read it. I know you're thinking. Uh when it first came out, I was in Costco. And I went by and I saw it lying out there featured for it to be sold. So I picked it up and I thumb through the back to say about a hundred pages into it, read about a page and a half and I put it down. And then I started looking around guiltily to see if anybody had seen me looking at it. I said, Okay, that's enough. I'm outta here. I didn't want anyone to see it The point's this, what does it say about fallen human beings? That we will willfully, with full knowledge of what we are doing, buy such a book, and then read it. I think that there is some kind of titillation in it, some vicarious types, uh particularly for those who uh perhaps get that and have some kind of gossipy tendency about it. Uh Doesn't it teach us that at some level something inside of us enjoys evil? We get some kind of perverse pleasure out of it. For example, pornography on the computer. It tempts us to indulge in it. Now uh most of us, and I will say probably, well, you know, uh probably all of us, we we see these things, we read about them in a book or we uh come across them in pornography or something, and then we don't just we don't go do that stuff. But they do arouse a certain perverse pleasure in us. And then the biblical term for that pleasure is lust. And Jesus here does not commend it at all. Jesus not only doesn't commend it, he says that if it's present, it requires radical surgery to get it out. Till the harm that it causes us may be avoided us. Indulging ourselves in those kind of perverse pleasures Even if it doesn't leave to per lead to perverse action, is the same thing in essence as doing those perverse actions. Reading a book to get a thrill out of the description of sexual depravity is the same thing as engaging in those activities. Even and getting rid of it is necessary even if it requires radical surgery for a lifestyle. Because such pleasures, as we think about them, even at a distance, are absolutely incompatible with the glory, the honor, and the purity of our Christ. In other words, as some smart eloquence said, if you break your leg in three places, stay out of those places. Well, it's uh wordplay, I get it, but the point is the same. Let's look at this text now directly. Now when we look at this text, Jesus is very clearly, take this to heart, it's crucial to it. Jesus is talking about intentional sin. He's talking about something Where there's a purpose in it of exciting lust within us. We do it in order to excite lust We do this, he does this then by arguing from a general or from a specific case to the general whose His argument is this way. You start with a very specific example, then then he branches out to the general rule. And so he starts out with a specific act of adultery of the heart. And it is adultery of the heart that is intentionally pursued. Then he extends out in the rest of the passage from there to the general case of any sin that is intentionally pursued. Look at how he does this. You have heard that it was said of those of old, you shall not commit adultery, but I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery. with her in his heart. In context, we see that Jesus is contrasting the righteousness of the kingdom of God with the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, as we said before in verse 20. The Pharisees taught that you should not commit adultery. Well and good. But that's where they stopped they stopped with the legal definition of that rather than with the actual act. Now the word that is here is the actual word for adultery. It's not the word pornea that shows up later in the exception clause for divorce, uh which means sexual sin. Here he's speaking particularly of adultery, and so the general case in point, very specific case in point Of course he's speaking to men, because men th women never sin, right? But he he wants to men and he 's saying if you're looking on another woman in order to commit uh adultery with her in in your heart. You've already done it. So he's talking about the idea of lusting after someone that's not your wife and is most likely someone else's wife. And then he tells him that that act is just the tip of the iceberg. What the scribes and the Pharisees teach, for whatever reason , is just getting to the very basics. It is the rest of the iceberg that proves the true depravity of our sin. In the original text of Scripture, Jesus is very clear, and I'm going to read my own translation here so to kind of bring it out. Any person who is engaging in the activity of watching or observing or spying out a woman For the express purpose of raising up lustful emotions or exciting sexual desires for her or from her. It could be read either way. has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And we have a biblical example of this readily available. I will draw your attention back to King David and Bathsheba. Bathsheba, as we all know , was the common condition over her day, was out on her roof taking a bath. David's roof was such that he had a good view of it. And he enjoyed watching it. He indulged himself in that activity of watching her. He enjoyed it. And it was just like, if you will, watching pornography. It raised up sinful desires in him. And all as as we all know, to David's deep shame, he gave into it. David did not first commit adultery when he slept with Bathsheba. David committed adultery when he indulged in watching her from a rooftop When he intentionally dishonored her and dishonored himself as the as the representative of God's authority on earth when he took it upon himself. To do that. David was a peeking tongue before he was an adulteress. But as a peeping tongue, he was guilty of adultery. The key point here is the intentionality of the sin. It's very strong in the original language. It's perfectly natural and normal to notice and perhaps even remark upon another person who is attractive, woman or man. When they walk in front of us, for example, at the beach, and we notice them, it's a pretty good way to get a sharp elbow in the ribs from your wife But at that point, that's not what's being talked about here in this passage. It's when you indulge fantasy or even jealousy regarding another person. When that person's desirability begins to occupy your mind, whether it is real or whether it's entirely fantasy, and you've made it up. If you're married, perhaps it begins to so occupy your mind that it diminishes your regard for your spouse when you seek out opportunities, for example, to indulge in those lustful feelings. And then especially to act on those feelings. Or perhaps even to engage other people in that, in a in this kind of discussion, like talking about that book. And in doing so, get some kind of uh I can't think of the word right now, some kind of uh feedback on it uh from other people as they say, yeah, it wasn't that nasty, or boy, could you believe that book? That type of thing. It's one thing to notice the young ladies on a beach on a skimp outfit. It's another to be a lecture. And Jesus says here that even if it's just a fantasy A so-called private sin. It is still adultery. It is still lechery. And it is not a victimless crime. Jesus condemns it and teaches that we're to root it out of our lives. Now look at the radical surgery that Jesus actually commands in this case. Now notice that these are commands. These are not uh you know piety pio pious suggestions. Jesus moves from the specific sin of adultery to the general case of all intentional sin. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out, cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be sent into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish. Than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Now, building on the specific example of adultery, looking at a woman for the purpose of exciting the sin of lust, He says that if your sinning is with the eye is a problem, then radical surgery to correct the problem is needed. And then by analogy, he branches that out to include all other intentional sins, not just lasting with your eyes, but if your hand or any other part of your body it is a doorway to sin, then it means that you have to duh and you're having great difficulty avoiding falling into that sin, then you need to act in such a way that is essentially the idea of cutting off your other hand. Okay, so Jesus is speaking allegorically, of course, but it's a powerful analogy, is it not? He says, do whatever whatever you have to do to not give opportunity to raise up dangerous emotions like lust or hatred or anger, those things. For those sins that particularly have a pull on you. Now, this brings up what I call prevailing sins. Each of us has them on both sides of this pulpit. We each have some kinds of sin that we're more prone to commit than other kinds of sin. And more specific ways of getting falling into it. Take the senopornography, for example. It is prevalent in our culture. And many people fall into it Many Christians and non-Christians alike are powerfully attracted to it. The odds are that some of us in this congregation have troubles struggling with pornography. It's just a statistical thing. So when we think about that, we have to also realize that not everyone is affected by that particular sin of the pull of pornography. In other words, it could be anything. It could be gossip. It could be greed. It could be covetousness. Could be sloth. As I get older, I worry about that one a lot. Okay, it could be sloth. It could be alcohol abuse, substance abuse, it could be overeating or not eating enough. Each of us finds some particular sin which exerts a powerful influence on us, even a fascination for us, and therefore we tend to indulge in it. Paul, speaking of himself, spoke of it this way. In his mind, he agreed that the law of God was holy, just, and good. And he wanted to keep it. But then he found another law that was in his flesh. And he found himself doing stuff he didn't want to do. And not doing stuff he knew he ought to do. Now, brother and sister, uh if you've been admitted to the Lord's table, you've shown enough maturity to be able to get to the point where I know you know what he's talking about. Because the whole idea of being mature and discerning the Lord's body is recognizing sin. And so we know, we identify with Paul when he says that. It's a human condition. We all struggle with it So, there is a prevailing sin in particular that we often struggle with, maybe two or three, but usually one. Some may go so far as to incorporate that sin into their self-identity. A person may self-identify in a well-known way, for example, as a homosexual or an alcoholic. And simply because those particular desires exert such a powerful control on them. Now there's some value in doing it. Alcoholics Anonymous has done that for particular years and pushed it. I have dealt with many people who are struggling with alcoholics and were part of Alcoholics Anonymous. And so I'm not going to go into that, but there's also a danger in having that pushed. But what it does is it opens up a transparency. A person confesses their sin, they look their sin square in the face, and they say, This is who I am. One man that I was counseling who was a child molester, and it wasn't until I got him at the point of Tell when I was telling him, tell me who you are. And he finally got to the point of with great fury in his face, say that I am a blankety blank child molester. And when he said those words, his whole body shook and he just sunk into a slump. And then we started making progress. So we have to understand those things. And sometimes that sense of getting to identify ourselves where where we really face our sin in a safe environment. That can be done. But all too often, identifying ourselves like that is a way of giving up It may become so strong in us to sin that we just think it's who we are. God loves me just as I am, so that's who I am. That's the way he's going to accept me. Well, no. You won't find that teaching anywhere in Scripture. It even can become a sort of self-justification for continuing to do that. So a person would say, Of course I got drunk last weekend. I'm an alcoholic. Well, brothers and sisters, can you see the in the the the fault of that? This is simply not the case. Or they go to a gay bar and their offer is, well, of course, I'm a I'm a homosexual. The bottom line is with prevailing sins, as well as with all other sins , We do them because we want to do them. We're, in the words of Jesus, here exciting that lust inside of us. We're doing it in order to excite the lust inside of us. We that's that's what we want to feel or experience. So we at least Do it, and we enjoy it right up to the point where our conscience kicks in, and the thrill is not so great as it was. Jesus here teaches that any such habitual sin has to be rooted out. It may not be completely rooted out through the progress of your life, but you never accept that as an as a As an excuse, you strive to root it out. A person addicted to gossip is just as guilty as a person addicted to pornography A person who habitually exhibits malice and anger and vile language is no different than a murderer in Jesus' teachings. They're all sins of unhealthy and unholy passions and desires. And what must be done, however it shows up in our lives, is to take steps to remove them from controlling us wherever it is taken. Radical surgery. If we can't avoid road rage, stop driving It's that plane. Stop driving. It's better to take a bus Or an Uber, than to have your body cast into hell. Yes? Okay. If you cannot turn on a computer without looking at porn, stop using the computer. Or the internet. Jesus means it. It's just that important. Now Jesus here tells us that there is no excuse. But I can't give up my car, I've got to drive. I can't do that. Well Jesus says, if you can't control your anger when you're in it, give it up. Ride a bicycle. I know an engineer, I know you can start making engineer jokes, but I know an engineer who did this for as long as I've known him. Drove fifteen miles to road fifteen miles to work every day, riding a bicycle. I used to go into the church every day. I'd pass him on the road going to church. We'd hold my horn and wave. He'd wave back And uh he parked his bike on the front steps of the church. Now he didn't do that to avoid uh uh road rage. Um He he had other reasons for doing it, but he was in fact doing what we call here. Now, you may say I cannot give up the internet. Jesus says it's either that or find another way to avoid watching porn. It's that clear. It's that simple. It's that important. Now I'm going to ask you, even though you're Presbyterians, I'm going to ask you to respond to this question. Do you believe that that's what Jesus teaches in this this passage? Thank you. Presbyterian response is usually, hmm. So summary, intentional sin of whatever type is worthy of hell. And it can and it will strip the joy from our lives if it's productive of it. But the good news is that sin does not have to have dominion over us. Wherever we are tempted Our Lord Jesus will provide a way around that temptation. And whatever that way requires is what we must do in order to fulfill our calling. In conclusion As powerful as are prevailing sins, and they are, remember this, they are forgivable. All too often, for example, when working with drug addicts, and I've had my share, the despair of the addiction produces such a sense of self-shame and loathing. that the offer of free grace just doesn't ring true. It just doesn't seem like it could be possible. When a person hates themselves and thinks that they should be punished, the idea that they don't have to be punished does not sound like it's reasonable. Same thing with a woman who has often gone through an abusive relationship and she finally leaves her abusive spouse And after some period of time, perhaps even married to a person who is sweet and kind, she begins to actually look down upon him because he's not acting like a man. I've heard that too. She was only comfortable in an abusive relationship because she knew how to handle it. She was on ground. She knew what to do. I'm not saying that all women are like that. Don't even go there But the bottom line of is that these things are complex in how they're handled and it requires some insight. So when we are thinking about this, there are people who are deep in sin that when the offer of free grace is mentioned, they just don't think it works. It can't apply to them Now, as an aside, I'm not going to develop this, but there's a worse situation than that, and that is when a person uses the truth of grace as an excuse They don't even try to fight their sin. They are the most difficult to get on the right track because they don't know anything about repentance. And that's basically the the more difficult side. But this is Jesus talking to us here. Jesus is the same one who came to pay the full price of our sins, including those prevailing ones And he took it upon himself to cleanse us of all guilt, even those. Now that should be good news. When a person truly faces the power of their prevailing sin, when they finally come to the point where they look it square in the face like that child of Beatrizard did. And when they see just how deep Satan has his claws into our soul, then that person can begin to appreciate the height and the depth. Of Jesus' words and his actions on our behalf. It is the grace and love that lies behind this teaching here today. Why is he forceful in this subject? He doesn't want us to perish. He says it. He doesn't want us to perish. Now go back to what he told us previously in verse 20. Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will, under no circumstances, enter the kingdom of heaven. Now Jesus wants us to discover something. He wants us to discover the joys of the kingdom of heaven. And if a prevailing sin is keeping us out of that, we're hurting ourselves. Right? Jesus wants us to discover now in this life a taste of the beauty, not the fullness of it, but a taste of the beauty, the purity, the perfection of the kingdom of heaven. He wants that for us now. Most of all, he wants us to discover the power of the Holy Spirit Tell me, brothers and sisters, I would love to hear from you sometime if you want to do it. Have you ever experienced the joy of turning away from sin? Have you ever had that intense gurgling up relief that floods over your body when you realize that a certain padlock has been unlocked? And that you were free, you are truly free to cast off the chains of sin that have bound you for as long as you remember. There's a surge of relief that comes with that, a sense of freedom that descends upon us. And I ask you can ask any recovered alcoholic Or someone who has recovered from the cinopornography addiction, and ask them if their life is better without it than they had with it. Do they really would they ever really want to go back? Now that's not far. That is not to say that relapses don't occur. They do. But they will tell you what it's like to put down that bottle. And know, just know that they don't ever have to take it up again. This is the joy that Jesus holds out for us today. Through the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters, we can take whatever radical steps we have to take to avoid intentional sin. We can do that And this is not the pathway of more misery. It is the pathway of more joy. It is part of Jesus' unfathomable love for us that he provides this. And therefore we must undertake whatever radical surgery. I keep using that word because it's appropriate. Radical surgery so that we can be whole and complete as we walk in his kingdom. Brothers and sisters, this is what Jesus calls us to do. And may he who began a good work in us, a good work in you, perfect you in this life until the day of Christ Jesus. When the fullness of his joy becomes the fullness of our joy also And all of God's children said. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, as we stand before you, we recognize that we're a broken people in the sense that That we are still imperfect. We understand our Lord and God because that imperfect imperfection in us Shows us by contrast how perfect your love is. And so, our Lord and God, we thank you that you have worked with us and brought us to the point where we can understand your ways. And we ask, Lord God, that you do for us what you're calling for us to do. To take whatever steps we have to take in order to avoid willful sin. And grant, O Lord and God, that in doing so we may find padlocks unlocked, doors open. Strength returning to relationships. Love beginning to show itself in a deeper and ever more vibrant way. All of the stuff, Lord Jesus, that sin in our lives puts a damper on. We ask that you open that damper and sweep it out. And give us, Lord God, the clear, cool, refreshing breath of your spirit. We pray this, O Lord and God, because we know this is what you want for us. And we look forward to how you will answer our prayer. In the name of our Lord Jesus I have prayed. Amen.