Well, we come to we finished up chapter five of the Sermon on the Mount last week. And uh you'll notice that our passage today is a little bit on the lengthy side. This is uh difficult for me. I'm not uh I find that preaching long passages uh stretch uh uh my s uh skills a little bit Because I'm much better when I'm going through paragraph by paragraph, maybe even uh uh shorter than that. And so what we're doing today is Matthew six, verses one through fifteen, which is not the entire chapter of of chapter six. But it'll give us um a uh a sufficient overview of it. And then next week we'll do Matthew seven. And so though I won't be able to preach it through the entire time, uh the entire p uh ones Verse by verse, yet we'll have at least a sense of uh the sermon as the Lord presented it to us. So today, Matthew six, verses one through fifteen, if you will please stand as I read. The Lord Jesus' direct words for us, the Word of God. Take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise, you have no reward from your Father in heaven. Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. That they may have glory from men. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. But when you do a charitable deed, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing that your charitable deed may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will himself reward you openly. And when you pray, you shall not be like a hypocrites. For they love to pray, standing standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Assuredly, I say to you They have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you have shut your door, Pray to your father who is in the secret place, and your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions, as the heathen do. For they think that they will be heard for their many words. Therefore, do not be like them. For your father knows the things that you have need of before you ask him. In this manner, therefore, pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. For if you forgive men their trespasses Your heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Today's sermon titled is The Ordinary Life of a Christian. Please be seated. In chapter 6, Jesus is highlighting certain aspects or facets of what should be the ordinary Christian life. And just as a quick overview, we'll be getting into some of these. You see in verse 1 through 4 he says that it should have good works without hypocrisy. And then verses 5 through 8, you see that there's a private and intimate prayer life that is to be there. He gives us in verses 9 through 13, of course, the model prayer on which to model our prayer life. And then in 14 and 15, he calls us to develop a habit of forgiving others from the heart And then verses 16 through 18, which we're not covering today, he says that we are to have spiritual disciplines in the normal part of our life, such as fasting. to deepen our spiritual experience. And verses 19 through 33, we should have a godly view of wealth and of earthly goods, or conversely, the lack thereof. All of this is summarized as we see all the way down in chapter 7, verse 12, by the golden rule Now, Jesus is opening up for us here the righteousness which is of the kingdom of God that we have been speaking of for several weeks now. And what he is doing is informing And guiding our obedience in them. Now, I want you to pay careful attention to how Jesus emphasizes this idea. This particular idea is very important to Jesus. It needs to be important to us. How we live matters. How we live matters. I know you're sitting there saying, well, yeah, but that's important. Just for example, in verses 15, he says that a life characterized by forgiveness distinguishes true Christians from false ones. In other words, no matter how often we profess our faith in Jesus Christ and sing the songs with such joy that we sing , If that truth that we indeed profess had come to church to worship, if that doesn't carry over into our ordinary lives, then we must be seriously concerned If what we say is what we really believe. Now, in our modern world, and I think you've all had experience of this. Often Christians live what James, the author of the Epistle of James, calls double-mindedness. If you want to look at something that a good development of this, there's a Christian philosopher named Sarin Kierkegaard who wrote a book on it called the Unity uh oh a pure heart is having a a single mind. I I'm not quoting that right. I looked it up just before I came down here, but I forgot it now. Which is not unusual. But anyway, I did read his book, and it it is good. Uh and so I would recommend it, but he develops it based on this double-mindedness we see in James. And what that basically means is that we relegate our Christian faith to some aspect of our private lives. Now you might hear this in terms of having a personal relationship with Jesus, and of course I'm all for that. But oftentimes when we do that, it's just a cover, or can be a cover. for us to be religious the way we want to be religious. And therefore leaving us somewhat free to pick and choose how we live. Uh a common example of this in the evangelical church is keeping the Sabbath. It's kind of, yeah, I don't believe that part. Or I've heard people say things like, well, I don't like Paul. He's a misogynist, so I don't pay much attention to him. That's very dangerous stuff. You know, you just can't do that. So James in this uh in his letter is concerned with understanding that the gospel certainly must produce good works in us. And Jesus assumes that we will do this in the first few verses of this chapter. But what James is saying here about good works Is that it's not just an occasional thing that we do every once in a while. It has to be or should be a characteristic of our entire life It's one way that a life devoted to Christ and his kingdom is manifested. James sums it up this way. Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their troubles. And to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Now that's a life, that's a practical life goal That is a life that is aimed to have a purpose in it. And do you see how he's pointing out that the entire approach to religion as a whole is to be understood this way? It's to do good deeds, absolutely, visiting widows and orphans, etc. And in doing so, it draws a distinction between us and the world. The point is that Jesus in this sermon is entirely consistent with James, particularly on the necessity of good works, but he extends it further. Jesus here goes beyond good works. And basically points us towards every aspect of our life. That we as Christians are to be entirely different from the world around us in just about everything. We are to pursue a truly devoted spiritual life dedicated to love and good works. And that includes things like our attitude towards prayer, personal prayer. forgiveness, religious practices, all of which are not just to be added to our ordinary life, but brothers and sisters, he's saying that our lives are to be built on these things. That these lie at the core of our lives. And they influence everything else that we are doing. Now, if we don't embrace this comprehensive view of Jesus and his teachings here in the Sermon on the Mount, then we're falling way short of his whole purpose in preaching it. Jesus is only hitting some of the high points. He is hitting some of the important ones. I mean they're very important, and we do well to just think of the things he's saying. But as we do those things, we see that it goes beyond that to more. He calls us to exhibit an extraordinary righteousness in our lives, in everything. An ordinary righteousness. That is to exceed the scribes and the Pharisees, the religious professionals of his day, who took a lot of, who did a lot of stuff showing that they were supposedly righteous. He teaches us that true Christianity is lived, not just professed. As we transition this passage and turn to these verses, we have to see first of all that Matthew 5. 20 As Matthew 5. 20 unified chapter 5, that you can look down in your Bibles to verse 633, and that unifies chapter 6. Matthew 5. 20, which we covered in the previous chapter 5. It says, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. And in 633, unifying chapter 6, He says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all things shall be added unto you. Now, you need to notice two things here in Matthew, very important things in Matthew. There is what I call practical righteousness before God. That must be understood. That's what he's emphasizing. And then there is the present reality of the kingdom of God that we are to embrace. In both, Jesus assumes this present reality and possibility are possibilities for his disciples. Discovering and exhibiting righteousness, practical righteousness, is what he has called on us to show. And we are in so and due to enter into the kingdom of God, not only in theory, but also in practice, so that we experience the kingdom of God here on earth Brothers and sisters, eternal life doesn't just start when we die. Have you thought about that? Eternal life started when you were born again. The question is, are you experiencing it? Do we experience it? And that's what we're looking for. And so he is saying that these things are possibilities for us And Jesus is calling us not to think of the righteousness of the kingdom in just its spiritual propositions as eternal realities, which of course it is. that the Christian lives trusting in this eternal truth of righteousness, which we covered so much in Ephesians when we went through it. But the Christian life is also about experiencing the present reality of that righteousness and embodying it before the eyes of the world. It's essential to a true Christian. Witness And we must not settle for us. The Old Testament idea that I'm getting at here is the word shalom, which you're all familiar with, and its New Testament counterpart, the peace of God. Those are both held out to us, brothers and sisters, as possibilities. They are not mind games or what people call God words. They are held out to us as something that we can experience here and now and is pursued in the New Testament, particularly in the teachings of Jesus. as being the highest good, the theological term Somambanam applies here, the highest good that we can achieve. It is the highest good that we should aspire for in this life. And if we just discount that, then we are really hurting only ourselves. Paul commands us to let this peace that I'm talking about rule in our hearts. And Jesus in John 14 says he gives us his peace. to offset our fears. And in this sermon, Jesus is calling on us to find that peace, that shalom. By ordering our lives in accordance with and conforming to the kingdom of God. And he promises in one verse down here that if we pursue that, then all the things we need will be added to us. Now, brothers and sisters, I just ask you. And I know, stop being Presbyterians. I want you to actually respond. Okay? Isn't that what you want? Yeah, B2. That's what we want. To live in fundamental contentment no matter what we're going through. And that means we find it by pursuing personal righteousness, practical righteousness, and by living out the spiritual truth that we are the children of God. As we shift now more toward the verse, the passage itself, let's take an overview of it. As you look through this passage, notice Jesus' emphatic use of your Father in heaven. You find it in chapter 6, verses 1, 4, 9, 14, 15, and then later on in 26 and 32. Now this goes back all the way to last week's sermon on 545, where you are to love your enemies so that you may become sons of your Father in heaven. So he's continuing a theme. This is an important theme in Matthew that is indeed uh a characteristic of his. Chapter six now takes what we talked about last week in chapter five, and he extends this idea to our whole life And especially our disposition. And by disposition, I mean the way we order our emotions and the way we order our character. In chapter 6, verses 1 through 4, he talks about the manner and purpose of our charitable giving. In 5 through 14, our characteristic prayer life. In 16 through 18, by the way, we're to pursue spiritual disciplines, and if you ever need any help for that, I'm sure that Aaron will give it to you, but if not, I got books upon books on it And chapter 6, 19 through 33, in the way we lay up treasures in heaven rather than on earth. So Jesus here is really emphasizing this thing, this relationship we have with our Father in heaven. Something that we consciously embrace. Something that we're consciously aware of. Those of you who are married, are you ever not consciously aware that you're married? Probably not. I hope not. And the same thing is true here. He's talking about a permeate uh a an attitude of experience with our God and our Father that is to permeate our whole life. So as we think about that, each one of the things that we're talking about here is something that deserves a full sermon on its own, and all I can do is kind of guide us through them So let's look at verses 1 through 4. Doing good deeds is an essential part of the Christian life. It is not optional. Jesus is not concerned to command us to do charitable deeds. It's the furthest thing from his mind. Why should he have to command us to do that? Like prayer in the next paragraph, he assumes it's a no-brainer. As God has blessed you with many things, of course, then you are going to respond to God's blessings in your lives by doing good things for others. But Jesus is concerned to address the fact of how we go about doing it. And we should be doing good deeds as an expression of our relationship with God. Now, twice in this paragraph, he points out to points us towards our Father in heaven. And once he wants us not to put our reward in heaven at risk , But as with prayer falling up, he calls us to do good deeds in the presence of God. He calls us to do good deeds Good works, charitable deeds, as an expression of worship. If we look at this We see that we are to do this in such a way that points towards God and not towards ourselves. And we are to do that humbly. And not as the religious hypocrites do, but rather as quietly and as unobtrusively as we can. It is an expression of love for God. That bears fruit in loving others. But Jesus calls us to do good works in conscious fellowship with our Father And if we do, as I mentioned again last week, if we if we're conscious of God's fellowship with God as we're doing good works, Then God's going to lead us into the good works He wants us to do. You're not going to have to ask what good works should I be doing? Well God's going to say the ones I put right in front of your face And that comes in all kinds of ways. It can come when you're at Trader Joe's. And you see somebody that needs to have a kind word spoken, or perhaps even a few bucks on a plate. It can come anywhere in your life. But it doesn't happen by coincidence. And that's what you're up for. You're looking for those ways that God has led you to encounter specific ways, specific points in which he wants you to do charitable good works. Now of course there are those planned good works, supporting uh missionaries and doing things that we incorporate in our planning. I'm not speaking against those. But it's the others that are to characterize our lives. As we look past that to verses five through seven, we see that the same basic philosophy about giving, uh doing good works extends to dependence on prayer. Very much a commonality again. Now again, he doesn't command us to pray. Why should he have to do that? Is that if it is, of course you're going to pray. Now when you do then you should be that, do that even more consciously of being in relationship with God the Father than you do with your giving. You do so in the presence of your Father in heaven. And he makes this very clear in verse 6. It's a hard attitude of worship that he's seeking, as with good works. God is to be the focus of our prayers and why we render them. Now, in prayers, as he teaches us, it's not first and foremost about us. Most Americans think of prayers as saying, God give me. Okay? God give me stuff. And that's kind of because we're very practical in our lives and we're thinking that God's there to help us. And he is. But that's not the first focus of our prayer, and it shouldn't be the first focus of our relationship with him Now, other than those arrow prayers that I mentioned to you with Nehemiah when he went in to speak with the king, prayer is about talking with God as dad. Abba. It's an exercise in familial intimacy. As such is obvious in the model prayer he gives us to model, which we'll get to in a minute, it's not about flowery language or long speeches. It's about conversation and having a two-way conversation, talking to another person, even though audible voice doesn't only come one direction In other words, you're not just talking to the ceiling when you pray. Think of a son. Sitting on a log under a tree at a campsite, and his dad's sitting next to him, and he says, Dad, or as Jesus phrases it, our Father in Heaven. He says, I need to talk with you. And then he lays out his heart to his dad. If you had or have a good relationship with your dad. then you recognize that in that thing you're not just going to babble on. You wouldn't have Say the same thing over and over and over again. Your dad will look at you and say, God, uh son, I I get it. You don't have to tell me that again. So you don't have to do that You respect your father, and as such, you know that he knows what you're talking about. Your earthly father knows this because he's been around, he's been there He has hard-earned wisdom, bears the scars of it. So how much more do you trust your Heavenly Father to know all the things about you? So you talk with him privately as an expression of worship in full knowledge of that Notice how Jesus' model prayer here exemplifies this whole concept wonderfully. It flows directly from it. It's a simple, straightforward, short prayer without vain repetitions. And it assumes intimacy. Our Father who art in heaven, which I have learned and have never been able to not say. Or, as the New King James says, our Father in heaven. What that really means is, Lord God, I know you are here. I know that you're in heaven. But incredibly, you're here. You're here with me. You're here with me as my father, my friend, my God. And as such, we are praying in full knowledge and dependence on our covenant relation with God. Hallowed be thy name. God my Father. First and foremost Everything that I am to do in my life, and especially in this prayer, is directed towards your glory. To the end that your name be exalted in all the earth and particularly in my life. All that I am praying in this prayer is to that end, that I may show forth your glory in my life. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Use my life, O God, to usher in the fullness of your kingdom. It's here already. The kingdom's here. Your son Jesus established it on earth. That is the gospel he came proclaiming. But the fullness of it is yet to be. And God, I long to see that today. I want to see your kingdom established on this earth and everybody in the world, every knee bowing and every tongue confessing. So use me, Lord and God, to do your will on earth as it is done in heaven. Now that's my deepest desire, Lord, to honor you with my life and my conversation. Give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our debts. Lord God, you know my my needs. You know that in and of myself I could do nothing. I and my family stand in daily need of all kinds of things, of which food is just one. Lord God, reach into your storehouses and provide for our needs. And when I have fallen, Lord God, as I often do, when I stumble , When I incur an obligation, when I incur a debt of love to others, through sin or neglect or stubbornness Forgive me of those things, for they were first and foremost against you. And work in me, Lord and God. Work in me. Change my heart. So that I will be able to forgive others and their debts to me. Lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil, from Satan. Lord, I make my plans, but you govern my steps. I'm often too blind to see where my planes are taking me, and I don't have a clue as to what I'm doing often Lord, protect me from my own sin. And especially, Lord God, don't put me through the ringer with Satan. For yours is the kingdom, power, and glory forever. Amen. Just like when I opened the prayer and worship to you, my Lord and God, so I close and worship and praise. You, O my Father and my God, are magnificent in power and glory, and your kingdom extends to all things, and it extends especially to me. Please accept my heartfelt adoration and acknowledgement of you as my God. Amen. Let it be Now what I've tried to do by adding words to this prayer, and I'm very conscious of the fact that we said that we up in the verse that we're not to have many words in our prayers. But what I've tried to do is explain the heart attitude behind these words for you as they are given to us. The main point is that it is a personal, intimate conversation between two living beings. A loving son speaking with his loving father. And the point is that all of us can do this. And all of us must do it. If you possess the Holy Spirit, don't tell me that you're no good at praying. You may not be praying as well as you could, but you're good at it because that's part of your response to your God, is a heart that longs for intimacy with him. And so when we think about that, prayer is to be a characteristic of our ordinary life, not just something we do on occasion. Now lastly, I want to close with just how forgiveness of others is to be an essential and overt characteristic of our ordinary lives. Well, of course, this flows directly from the Lord's Prayer. I mean, that's what he said in it. Forgive us our debts as we forgive others. But notice how there it reflects an ordinary regular feature of our lives. Forgive us, Lord and God, of our debts, even as we are going about the life of forgiving others. We sin often. We require forgiveness often. And you forgive us through Jesus Christ our Lord. So Lord, show us how our love for others We show our love for how you have forgiven us by forgiving others against us. And that's what verse 12 really means. But Jesus draws special attention to this quality of forgiveness of others that should be in us. Now, what we have here is one of the few conditional statements about grace in the New Testament. It's a conditional phrase. Jesus says, if you don't do this , Then your father will not forgive you. And we go, oh, that bears some explanation of serious consideration. Let's be clear off the front so that you're not going to be reporting me to my brothers in the Presbytery. We are saved by grace through faith in this life and in the life and finished work of the Lord Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God. Yes? All right. This is the basic statement of the gospel, and nothing can be added to it or taken away from it. If we make any work we do or fail to do , Using our own resources, which is an important thing, as a prior condition for God saving us, then that, brothers and sisters, is another gospel. It is anathema to God, as Galatians 1 teaches. Even repentance or baptism, both of which are commanded by God, and both of which have an attached promise in various places that and you will be saved following uh after it are not to be understood as being saved as a result of having done those things. Faith is a gift of God. First, last, always. It is an expression of grace. First, last, and always. If a person professes that he will be saved by if he daily repents of some particular sin he has done in that day, but if he dies before he has repented of that particular sin. And he confesses that that means if he does that, he will be judged in the last judgment for it. And we've had occasion to hear that recently. And brothers and sisters, that's another gospel. And it is not a valid profession of faith. And as is true also with repentance. So is it also true with forgiveness. Forgiving others, lack of forgiveness for others is an egregious sin. But we must not interpret these verses in the light of that if we die without having forgiven someone then we're going to hell. So what should we read here? What does Jesus indeed say? Jesus says that like true repentance, forgiving others is a work of the Holy Spirit. That is essential to the ordinary characteristic life of a true Christian. Now that should hit to the heart hit us to the heart. Forgiveness does not come easy often in anybody. If we examine our hearts And we find in there some intractable, intractable, shouldn't have used that word , some intractable bitterness toward others For sins that they have committed against us, or sins that we perceive have been committed against us, such that we recognize in our own selves, I don't think I can ever forgive him Forgiveness of that person for what they have done is simply not possible. Then, brothers and sisters, we have to ask. Do we still have that heart of stone that Ezekiel talks about? Or has it been transformed to a heart of flesh? The author of Hebrews calls this attitude a root of bitterness, and he says that by it many are defiled. That word means marred or disfigured. And it puts it in the same number as people whose lives are characterized as adulterers or homosexuals, murderers, or others. And the Bible plainly teaches that such who have this characteristic of their life shall not inherit the kingdom of God. So the ordinary life of a true Christian must be characterized by the grace of forgiveness. I'm not saying that this is always easy, as I mentioned. And I'm also not saying that it is unforgivable if we are having difficulty with forgiveness. But it is firmly among those ways. That God tests us in order to prove true faith in us. So once again, understanding that forgiveness is a grace And one which we can clearly recognize, it shows us immediately what we should do. If we have trouble with this, brothers and sisters, we go back to prayer. We have to acknowledge that root of bitterness. We have to confess it. We have to confess it wherever it may be seen. We must confess it to God, and as God leads us, we must confess it to others Brothers and sisters, God has given us in his church people to whom confession of such things is indeed not only possible, but part of their earthly duties He has given elders and other mature Christians to help us, to be confidential hearers of the cries of sinners who are struggling with particular sins. Who pray for them and work with them until the point, as Paul says, Christ is formed in them. The first step is recognizing and admitting our need. Acknowledging that God has to do a work in us. And most importantly, that we want him to do that work in us. We are not clinging to our bitterness. So that we may be able to forgive as God has forgiven us through Christ. So, in humility and hope, then, that we have God as our covenant God , and that he will furnish his spirit to do with us whatever is necessary, then I can't help but end with the idea of what kind of joy is possible in this. Brothers and sisters, I have seen true forgiveness in Christians in the face of bitter sins against them. That simply was astonishing. I have seen the beauty of restored marriages, one in particular that had been devastated by heart attitudes for 30 years. And yet through the humility and work of one partner in that marriage, devoting themselves to the idea of being a faucet of love and to their marriage God transformed both parties, unto the end that it was the primary sinner who took his hand, took my hand in his I said, Arch, I never thought it could be this way. Because his marriage, as it developed, was far different than what it had been. Brothers and sisters, the power of God's love working through forgiveness is an undeniable miracle. Yes? God shows not only his power, but his presence in God's people. And in doing so, it introduces to the world a people who are truly at peace or kumbi. We have peace with God and with each other when the grace of forgiveness is fully active among us. And that peace is the fruit of many things. But an indispensable aspect of that peace is forgiveness. All these things we spoke of today are the elements of an ordinary life of the Christian. Perhaps I should say the ordinary life. that is extraordinary in its origins. For it is the life of those who live by and through grace in the kingdom of God. Amen. And with that thought in our mind, let's prepare our hearts for the Lord's table. Lord and God, I thank you for the clarity of the words that you have spoken to us. Lord Jesus, what an amazing, amazing man you are. Lord God, you have set things out so clearly for us. And yet even the very clarity of your words, Lord God, cause us often to tremble. Well we wonder how in the world can we live through that or be like that? And yet then, Lord God, is when you come to us. And you teach us and show us that it's not us, it's you, and that by total dependence on you and crying out for you and striving to work with you in and through our lives that we can be transformed to live in the very presence of the living God. Grant, Lord God, that that be the characteristic of our lives. And most of all, Lord and God, I pray that it is the characteristic of Liberty Church as a whole. Both now and forever. In the name of our Lord and Savior, I pray. Amen.