Well typically on Maundy Thursday, the church at large remembers the upper room event, the last uh night that Jesus had with his disciples before he went to the cross. And as Jared read earlier in the scripture readings from the Gospel of Luke, you know, and you've heard that they celebrated the last Passover meal. And Jesus instituted the sacrament that we call today the Lord's Supper, which you see in front of you in the table. That supper was a new covenant meal pointing to a new redemption. But Jesus and his disciples that very night were there celebrating an old covenant redemption. In fact, many don't know in the church today, and that's fine, I understand why, but many don't know that Psalms 113 through 118 go together. In the Psalter they form a s a single unit of psalms. They're often called the Egyptian Halel Psalms. You're wondering, well, what does the word halal mean? Well, it's related to where we get the term hallelujah. It's the verb in Hebrew that means praise. And by calling them the Egyptian praise Psalms, as it were Well what we find as we look at the pattern that the Jews practice even to this day as they celebrate the Passover meal, commemorating their exodus from Egypt. These are the psalms that are sung throughout the Passover meal. Psalms 113, 114, 115, 16, 17, 17 and 18 scattered throughout that meal, recounting the experience of God's people as they were coming out of Egypt. That's one of the reasons I picked Psalm 116 for our meditation this evening as we prepare our own hearts to come to the table of the Lord's Supper. This would have been a psalm that was on the lips of our Lord and Savior Jesus during that Passover meal. Now, admittedly, for the sake of our time, this is meant to be much shorter than Sunday morning, thankfully, we'll be selective in how much of this we're going to exposit for our time this evening. But the main idea is this. of this whole psalm. In light of God's deliverance from death, Christians are called to respond through love towards God and praise Let me repeat that idea. It's a very simple idea. In light of God's deliverance from death, in terms of our salvation, Christians are called to respond through love of God and praise of Him. Now it's that last segment there of praise towards God that I want to unpack this evening as we focus most of our time on verses 10 through 19, the second part of this Psalm. And when you look at verses 10 and 11, what you see is the psalmist 's faith in the midst of trial. His faith in the midst of trial. Not only about you, but sometimes trial, whether it's some external circumstance that's causing me distress or some internal issue, maybe like a health issue, it is very difficult sometimes to maintain faith during those times. And yet that's what we see with the psalmist. In fact, one of the things that's really fascinating about this psalm, when you look at this psalm compared to the other Egyptian praise psalms of 113 to 118, is this psalm is the most personal of all of those psalms. In fact, when you look at the verbs throughout this psalm, they're all in the first person. Just to give you one example, you can look at the very first verse of the Psalm: I love the Lord. Because he has heard what? My voice that's personal, my pleas for mercy. Therefore, verse 2, I will call on him as long as I live. It's a very personal psalm. John Calvin actually believed that this psalm was attributed to some personal experience that King David had in his life. Now I'll admit to you, it's very hard to actually confirm that. It's possible. It could have. But we don't see a superscription in this psalm that this is from David. And two, there's there's Nothing specifically in the historical record, in the historical books, that you can point to to say that definitively characterizes what is written in this psalm. It could be something David went through, but I think it's maybe a little more generic than that. The psalmist here, though, is recounting some personal experience. Now in verses 10 and 11, you see a parallel statement there, and the parallel statement kind of progresses the idea forward. Now, what we often miss in the English that a Hebrew reader singing this in Hebrew at a Passover Seder might grasp Is that in verses 10 and 11, the verbs, I believed, and then in verse 11, I said in my alarm. I believe and I said would sound very similar. It would be like English poetry where something rhymes, where it catches the ear. And it would draw the focus of the singer or the listener hearing this song to them. It would draw their attention in to what the psalmist is saying. And he's saying he's got faith in affliction. Notice he just says that point blank in verse 10. What does he say? What does he believe when he spoke? I am greatly afflicted. Now again, I don't know what specific issue was in the life of the psalmist, or if it was David, what specific event in his life led to this. But if you go back to verse 3, you can see the scope and the depth of this affliction that he was experiencing. Notice what he says here. The snares of death encompassed me. The pangs of Sheol laid hold on me. I suffered distress and anguish. You know, that sounds a lot like what Jonah said, doesn't it, in um Jonah chapter 2, when he's in the middle in the belly of the fish. And by the way, that is a psalm as well. Jonah 2 is written as a psalm. Of Jonah's pray prayer and praise to the Lord for his deliverance, but he talks about that like, you know, the snares of death encompass me, the pangs of sh Sheel, as I'm going down to the the bars and the gates at the foundation of the earth. In other words, he is at the point of death, and some scholars thought think that Jonah may have been dead. in the belly of that fish and then had been miraculously resurrected. You see the same thing with the psalmist here. Whatever he's going through, he's suffering pain and anguish and distress, even to the point of death Now that's a very, very, very profound sense and feeling to feel like death is crowding around. It's enough to make you feel like spiritually or emotionally or even physically and psychologically claustrophobic Whatever this affliction was, he's under the shadow of death, and it's at this point, he says, that he even believed at that moment. That God would deliver him. Even in his alarm, when he says that all mankind are liars, which tells you that this was likely not some illness he was dealing with. It was likely something external Again, maybe this had to do with David and Saul's men lying to Saul's, inciting him against David to lie and wait for his life. Maybe that was it. But he has faith in affliction, he has faith in his alarm. That's what that parallelism is meant to highlight. In light of this deliverance, if you go back and you look, you know, verse 3 talks about death encompassing him, but verse 4 gives way to his prayer. Then I called on the name of the Lord. Oh Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. What's the result? Verses 8 and 9, you have, notice the past tense there. You have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. Notice that pattern there that we see in the Psalm. Death and life. Death and resurrection. Despair and hope. Humiliation and exaltation. Okay, you get the point. You look forward to verses 12-14, what you see is the psalmist asks a question in response to this mighty deliverance Of his life being restored. There's a question, and then there's kind of an answer in verses 13 through 14. In verse 12, he asks, What shall I return to the Lord for all of his benefits to me? He focuses on God's response of deliverance. I can't imagine what Jesus must have been thinking In the moment when they're partaking of the Lord's Supper or or in the middle of the Passover meal and they're singing this psalm, he knowing, his disciples don't quite yet get it, but he knows he's going to the cross. He knows he's going to die. And yet he knows, as the author of Hebrews tells us, he despised the shame for the glory set before him. He went to the cross, knowing the resurrection was coming. You can't imagine how that must have comforted his own very soul that very night. What shall I return to the Lord for his benefits to me? Hmm. Well, I think the question shows a proper response to God's grace in our lives, right? But look at how he answers this in verses 13 and 14. I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord. In the presence of his people. Wow. Notice the focus in verse 13. I will lift up the cup of salvation. Notice that language there. You can understand why the Jews would have really prized this psalm during the Passover meal when they had various cups of wine. that they would have partaken of throughout the meal. If I'm not mistaken, it was four cups. The cup of salvation. And we want to pay attention to that because all throughout Scripture, in the Old Testament and in the New, we find this reference to a cup. In the prophet Obadiah, which is only one chapter of 21 verses, Obadiah 15 and 16 talking about the judgment that will fall upon the nations for their treatment of Judah at the Babylonian exile when they were undergoing judgment. God says, I will put my cup of wrath, my cup of judgment in the hands of Edom and the nations, and they will drink it to its dregs. Wow. Or what about Jeremiah 25, 15, verse 15 to the end of the chapter? God tells Jeremiah, Take the cup of my wrath and go from nation to nation and kingdom to kingdom, and make them drink from the cup of my wrath. For my judgment is coming upon them for their treatment of my people. There is a cup of judgment, but there's a cup of salvation. Death and resurrection. And that's what we see here. Many commentators actually believe that the cup of salvation was raised, During the Passover celebration in remembrance for what God did for Israel in Egypt, in one sense, Egypt drank the cup of judgment. And Israel drank the cup of salvation, being saved in the exile. And so it was in that cup. That God's people and this psalmist, in light of God's redemptive work of death and resurrection, They would call on the name of the Lord. And look at verse 14. It's not just the highlight of the cup of salvation. There's fulfilling the vows. The psalmist says he will fulfill his vows to the Lord in the presence of all of God's people. And you're thinking, so what? Well, lest you forget that in the Old Testament time period, if you made a vow or a promise to the Lord, you could not fulfill that vow unless you came into the presence of God Himself in His. temple offered the relevant sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving to him In other words, you had to go where God's presence had dwelt in order to fulfill those vows. And in this sense, the psalmist, in response to the Lord saving his life, will enter into God's presence and present the offerings of thanksgiving that he has vowed to the Lord. You know what a powerful illustration of that is? Again, Jonah chapter 1. Do you remember the sailors, the Gentile sailors, they weren't Israelites. When they threw Jonah overboard, it says at the end of chapter 1, they made they they offered sacrifices to the Lord and made vows to him. What's the implication? These Gentiles, as soon as they come back from Tarshish, are bound to go to the temple of Yahweh in Jerusalem and offer the sacrifices of praise. And Jonah, through that one sacrifice, and it was a sacrifice for him to be thrown overboard, through his one sacrifice, anticipating the sacrifice of Christ on the cross, Brings the Gentiles to worship the Lord in his presence. And so we take a step back and we ask, okay, so what? What does this have to do with us? Well, in light of the salvation that Jesus provides for us through his death and his resurrection, God's word is calling us to render ourselves in faithful obedience to the one who has saved us. We need to understand that just as much as this psalm pointed backwards to the experience of Israel as a nation and the personal experience of this psalmist. In God's redemption, leading them into his presence. More importantly, the psalm points forward to the personal experience of the Lord Jesus Christ. When it says in verse 3, the snares of death and the pangs of Sheol encompassed and surrounded him and nearly choked him out. What a perfect description of the experience of Jesus As he was about to, well as he celebrated the final Passover, as he went to the Garden of Gethsemane on his way to the cross. Do you remember what he said in the Garden of Gethsemane after the Passover meal? He says, when he's surrendering himself to the will of the Father, He told his disciples, you know, my soul is grieved. To what? To the point of death. The wrath of God and the shadow of God's judgment for sin was already beginning to fall on him. in that dark hour. And the one who knew no sin was experiencing something he never experienced before. Death crowding in as judgment. And yet the substance of verse 9 anticipated the resurrection. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. And so as we think about how this applies to us this evening, as we dedicate ourselves this evening, we prepare ourselves to come to the table of the Lord's Supper. The mention of the cup here points forward to the Last Supper, where the Lord Jesus raised the cup of the new covenant, which was shed for the forgiveness of sins. This linking of vows with the cup of salvation is reminiscent of what Jesus said specifically in Luke 22, 18, which Jared already read. For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. Brothers and sisters, you will be partaking of the cup of the Lord's Supper tonight in just a few minutes. And so our response to this passage, first and foremost, is to prepare ourselves to come. Into the presence of the Lord, into his holy temple, and to partake of that cup of salvation through faith in Christ. And that leads to verses 15 through 19. And I'll be admittedly a little shorter here. But we see in verses 15 through 19, particularly in verses 15 through 16, the praise that comes in the midst of death. Why can the psalmist say this? Why can the psalmist praise the Lord? Well, look what he says in verse 15. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints By the way, that word saints, notice, is in the plural. What that means is this is a general statement of God's attitude towards the death of his people. And the reality is, like the psalmist, one day every one of us will face death in this world. What does Hebrews chapter 9 verse 27 say? It is appointed for man to die once, and then comes the judgment. And even as there's fear at the prospect of dying for many people, we have the comfort of verse 15: Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints, the death of his godly ones. Boy, that should really warm our hearts. And it actually connects to Paul's attitude towards death that we see when he was in prison in Philippians chapter 1, verses 19 through 24. Let me read that to you. It says this. Paul, at the end, nearing the end of his life, he says, For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, This will turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not at all be ashamed, but that with full courage, now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. Pause there for just a moment. Notice the deliverance he mentions. He does not specify whether or not that deliverance is going to be him living in this life. or or dying. He goes on to say, on pause. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the life in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which shall I choose? I cannot tell. I am hard-pressed between the two. My desire, he says, is to depart and to be with Christ, for that is far better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account Now again, I won't go into all the details of verses 17 through 19, but you will notice there is a repetition with verses 13 and 14, but it carries the idea further in verse 19. In the courts, he will pay his vows to the Lord, skipping down to 19, in the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord, or in Hebrew, hallelujah. It's a praise psalm. But it's interesting that just like in verses thirteen and fourteen, paying the vows, offering the sacrifices, that's what he says specifically in verse seventeen. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving. So what do we do with this by way of application as we come to prepare for the table to supper? We're called to offer our lives in faithful service, delighting in the fact that we will one day spend eternity in the presence of the Lord. Offering our lives in fruitful service is one is a different way of saying we are called to offer ourselves as living sacrifices. Right? And so I want you to think about the sacrifices of praise that we're called to offer, especially this week, during Holy Week. It's important for us to see that the sacrifices the psalmist speaks of come as a result of the death and the resurrection theme, which is the pattern of this Passover psalm. And there's two New Testament passages I want to leave you with tonight as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper, as we seek to apply this psalm of offering the sacrifices of thanksgiving. And the first is this, in 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 4 and 5, the Apostle Peter says this: As you come to him, him is Christ, as you come to him, a living stone It's kind of an oxymoron, right? Stones aren't living. A living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. In other words, rejected by men, death. But in the sight of God, chosen and precious, resurrection. You yourselves, verse 5, are like living stones being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Peter's doing the same thing our Psalm is doing, highlighting death and resurrection as the basis for which we do what we do in the Christian life. And just as the saints of the Old Testament would come to the temple, where God's presence was, we come to Christ The new covenant temple, whose body was raised after three days in the grave. We come to him in faith in order to offer up our spiritual sacrifices as a response to his redemptive work in Christ. We praise him for what he's done. The second and last thing I will leave you with tonight From our psalm by way of application is Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God to to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Again, do not miss the irony of those paradoxical statements. Sacrifices were killed, a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. So what does that look like practically? Well the very next verse, do not be conformed to this world, but be be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing, you may discern what the will of God is, what is good and acceptable and perfect This is where we have the idea of sacrifice. The sacrifice of praise, the sacrifice of thanksgiving, the sacrifice expressed in a living sacrifice of holiness this week. During Holy Week as God's people. And as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper here in just a moment, we must be transformed. by the renewing of our minds, which then transforms us by the renewing of our affections and ultimately the renewing of our lives. And so, brothers and sisters, as we meditate on this psalm tonight and bring this time to a close, let's just prepare our hearts and our minds for coming to this table, and let's remember the main idea of this psalm. In light of God's deliverance from death, we as Christians are called to respond through loving God and through praising Him as the sacrifice in Jesus Christ that is acceptable to Him. Let's pray as the praise team comes up to lead us into our song before the table Father, we do come before you and we thank you, O Lord, for these psalms that are oftentimes far richer than a simple cursory reading provides us. Transform us, O Lord, that we might offer the sacrifices of praise and thanksgiving and holy living as a response for the redemption of Jesus Christ this week. And forevermore. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.