It's great to be back with you and uh would like to also extend my uh congratulations and praise for all of our moms. Uh I clearly have been the recipient of many blessings from my mother who is still alive. She's in her early nineties, and uh she still uh has that place uh within my life and I give God praise for that and my wife Debbie and Sean and uh her uh her incredible example as a mom of over the years. We've been married over forty-seven years and we have four children. We have seven grandchildren. Uh it still amazes me to see the energy of motherhood that uh she puts out. So I'm just telling you that uh I have a lot to be thankful for. Then I get to see it within my one daughter and uh the daughter-in-law in regards to how they're carrying out the responsibilities of mother and I I will say this. Now dads, other dads, you may disagree with me on this, but When it comes to raising children, you know, there's no question that moms have the greater degree of burden and weight in that um in that part of our lives. And so anyway, so to have a day, it seems to be somewhat insufficient where we express our appreciation and thanksgiving to God for mothers, but I would like to uh join in on that I would like us, if we may, to transition into what we're going to be looking at this morning in regards to this passage here in Psalm 131. I uh uh uh find myself in the last couple months now that things are changing somewhat within our country in regards to COVID. That my work does take me out and I'm involved in different meetings in different parts of the country. This past week I was in Northern New Jersey with a Presbytery meeting. I came back on the train the next morning. I got on a plane, went to Dallas and Then was up in Oklahoma City and met with uh different pastors and I uh I heard this one theme over and over again and that one theme that I kept hearing was just how difficult it has been upon uh church leaders in terms of the last year. And and I realize that COVID has been difficult on all of us. in so many different ways. But I I w I've been hearing things like, you know, I um this one pastor said I know of twelve or maybe was it or was it twenty-four pastors that had just found their particular ministry so difficult that they were resigning. And I thought, that's an incredible large number. I heard another pastor tell me the same type of thing, different parts of the country. just how hard it has been. And I realize that for those in church leadership who have found their normal pastoral um responsibilities to be so much more difficult and so much more trying because of the circumstances. Well that same story I know is true for most of us. I would hear from couples who were used to going into the office and or wherever their place of work was. And they have children and their children either were in school or daycare, but they couldn't do that anymore. And they were all within the same home or the same apartment or same condo. Now they're trying to get their work done and take care of their kids. And you know, I don't need to rehearse all these things. You know exactly what I'm talking about. It's just been really difficult and hard. And so one of the things that I've asked myself is in the midst of all the things that have taken place within the church, the life of those who are believers. Is there a sense that somehow in the midst of all this that it's okay? Now I'm going to qualify that. But again, let me just put it this way. Do you find, is it possible that within the midst of the tensions of COVID and all the things that it has created, that at the end of the day, you can sit quietly. In peace, content. Or do you find that there isn't any room for peace And content, and being content in the midst of what we've experienced. Now, when I look at the Psalm in front of us, Psalm 131 , I'm reminded of David's perspective in regards to the circumstances that he was experiencing and his basic, his fundamental mindset. His spirit of being content. And there are a lot of things in David's life that What calls him, and we can read and study all these different occasions when he wasn't content, when he wasn't at peace. When things didn't seem to have any hope within his life, and his focus was so much upon himself. But when you read Psalm 131, you're reading A passage of scripture that reminds us of this whole issue of what it looks like to be content, to have contentment. And so my question for us this morning is, do we find that kind of biblical contentment within our lives under our present circumstances? I've been asking myself that question this past year. When I look at the way ministry has been turned upside down. The fact that we don't have access now to Capitol Hill, we can't go into the office buildings, we can't go into the Capitol. Even if our staffers are with uh Hill staffers, they can't go in. It's like if you were involved in a university ministry and no longer you can go on that campus. And somehow you're still responsible for carrying on carrying on ministry. And again, within a lot of a lot of parts of life we found the same thing, like these Doors have closed and we're not quite sure when they're going to open. And so this idea of somehow in the midst of that to be content seems to be a rather odd thing. There are lots of reasons within our lives where we don't want contentment. I don't want contentment in terms of my sin. When there are issues within my life that I can change and and I can have some degree of influence, I I should exercise that. And I think the scriptures are clear in regards to instructing us to do that which we can when when we're faced with circumstances that we find unacceptable. And yet at the same time At the end of the day, when I find that those circumstances are such that I cannot influence them, should I just Be content? Should I find my focus to be where God wants me to be? And I think the answer is yes. When I cannot change my circumstances. When, and again, I'm not talking about sin or other things that we know we can address, but those basic things within our lives Do we find that we are satisfied in God and in him alone? Do we find him all sufficient? And so this morning I would like us to spend a few minutes just looking at several different aspects of what David is providing for us here, what the Psalm is providing in regards to what biblical contentment looks like. And the first, as we look at the passage, is that there is this emphasis on the me David speaking here, when he says, my heart is not proud. This is the NIV translation here, if I may offer it, my heart is not proud, my eyes are not haughty, he says. So there is this accent on his own life. Within our worship, we had the opportunity to go before the Lord in our confession of faith. And use Psalm 51. And you remember Psalm 51 in regards to its history. Psalm 51 was written by David after He came to his senses in regards to his sin with Bathsheba and and murdering her w her husband And finally he recognizes his sin. Psalm 51 is a very important psalm for us as a church, as individuals, where David says, I know my Transgressions, and my sin is always before me. Do you live out your life in such a way that You're constantly reminded about just who you are. Who you are in the context of the gospel. Who you are in the context of the calling that God has placed upon your life be it a mother, a father, maybe a teacher, a carpenter, a lawyer, whatever it may be, that in the context of that You have a good sense of who you are in Christ in the context of the gospel. I have a friend who uh in fact uh this friend uh pastored with me in Oklahoma City many many years ago he left went on and uh uh ended up with a call in Dallas and uh he got involved in a re uh a form of a retreat that I think he calls it silent retreats And someone had encouraged him to leave his ministry for a week and go to this one part of the country, some it was like uh uh kind of a retreat center, but it wasn't the the typical type that you might think about, but it was a place where he could go and for an entire week he was silent. He would just read and he would pray. And he said that the the impact that that had upon his life was enormous, where he just had an opportunity to shut out in a responsible way the rest of his life and And he told me that his wife gave him permission to do this. That he could just go and he could be silent before God. And the scriptures remind us about being still before God. And he did that. And he said it was an incredible experience in terms of giving, in a sense His mind the permission to really go before God and to seek him and to hear from him through his word, through prayer. He said it made a huge difference I find that within most of our lives, that we are so incredibly busy that it's hard for us to find time where we can just be quiet and silent enough to really get a sense of what's happening within our lives. The different voices that are constantly entering and impacting us, some good, some not so good. The circumstances that we're confronted with, some good, maybe some not so good. And it seems like we're so busy we just go from one thing to the next, one thing to the next. And there's not really any opportunity to be quiet. I think one of the things about David Especially growing up, being out in the fields, out with the sheep, out in the wilderness, is that he he was raised, he was discipled in a way because of his circumstances. where he could he could reflect. He could think about God. It's very impressive to me to think about people like Joseph in the Old Testament and people like David. who, in many ways, with limited amount of scripture, now David obviously had more than Joseph. But seem to know God in a much deeper way than much of us today, many of us today, who have Genesis through Revelation. And I think one of the reasons is because they're able to be quiet. Secondly , secondly, in this passage We see that not only is there an emphasis on David and the reflection that he has upon his own life, but his understanding of God. And if you'll note that he says, again, going like the verse 1, my heart is not proud, Lord, and you'll note that the the word Lord is spelled capital L. capital O, capital R D, and what he is providing for us here, that is within the translation , is that there is this emphasis, as David is speaking here, on the word Yahweh. And the word Yahweh is that that that very important Hebrew word that reminds us about the holiness of God. Reminds us that He is the God of an incredible covenant That he has provided for his people, where he basically is saying, I love you regardless. It's an unconditional love It is a love that's not based on anything that you can do or that or that I can do. It's purely God's sovereign will being carried out. And David here, as he is accenting that, is reminding us of how incredibly important it is for us as we think about our circumstances. to remember that our Lord is not silent ever. He is always working. He's always moving within our lives. And so as David is re- as as David reflects upon his own life and his own circumstances, he's also reflecting upon the nature of God. And there are two dynamics to the nature of God that I think we ought to understand. The first is what we What we have well let me come back. Not just the nature of God, but when we think about the ways in which God's nature is revealed to us There are two different ways in which we're reminded about this in terms of our lives. The first, of course, is the scriptures, right? But the Bible is constantly speaking to us. And if you look at Psalm 19 We're told about the importance of the Word of God. Psalm 119 especially provides with which is the longest Psalm, provides us all kinds of important information. in regards to the word of God and how important it is within our own lives. Uh when I think about Psalm 139, for example, Again, we're informed about the nature of God, his sovereignty, the fact that where can you go and flee from his presence? You can't go anywhere. There's nothing that's taking place within your life that somehow is just by accident. I need to be reminded of that through the Word of God. I need to be, I need that voice. To enter my thinking, enter in my thinking in regards to my circumstances. That God is totally sovereign. That God is the God of incredible covenants. That his love for me is unconditional. That he has chosen me before the foundations of the world. I need to be reminded of all that. And the scriptures remind us of how important the scriptures are in that regard, right? And we need that. And that that's why you come to worship. That's one of the reasons why we we come and And we spend time before his his his throne of grace because of his word. I need to be reminded of that. There was a recent book that came out in the last year or so. You may be familiar with it called Gentle and Lowly. by Dane Ortland. The subtitle is The Heart of Christ for Sinners and Sufferers. It has become an incredible bestseller within the Christian community. And then at the end of his introduction, he says this. So with Christ, it is one thing to know the doctrines of the incarnation and the atonement and a hundred other vital documents. It is another more searching matter to know his heart. for you. And so Orton is writing about Christ's heart for you. And he wants us to spend some time thinking about that kind of intimacy with Christ. And so he goes through different passages. of Scripture chapter by chapter in this book, helping us better understand that part of God's word and how it applies to our lives, but specifically giving us insight into the the heart of of Christ. And he he speaks a lot about Matthew chapter 11, where Jesus says, Come to me all you who are weary and burdened, heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And the fact is that I need, no matter how much theological education I've had No matter how often I've read the scriptures, how much time I spend in, I still need, on a daily basis, to be involved in God's Word and to be obtaining reminders. of who God is through his word. But you know that I think there's another side of the way in which God speaks to us, and that is through his creation. And if you go back to Psalm 19, the heavens declare, it says, the heavens declare the glory of God, and the skies proclaim the work of his hands. Day after day they pour forth speech. We tend, in regards to what we refer to here as general revelation, not to accent that quite as much. But I find General revelation, I find the circumstances in which I'm observing and I see and I can uh and I can experience with my senses an important reminder of God's presence. I find it helpful for me and my faith to be reminded about the incredible order that exists within the world and the universe. The fact that we would all be here on this particular morning because we believe in this thing called time and clocks and and you say to yourself, okay, I'm I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna get myself ready and I'm gonna Get to church. But do you ever think about the all the incredible things of order that are going on in order for you to be here? The fact that there is time, the fact that when you got in your car, it ran in such a way that observed the laws of gravity and other kinds of laws so to speak. I d I don't know much about science, so I I know I'm in trouble here. But but you know, physics and and and chemistry and all these things, you know, that are going on Right? That that enable that engine in your car to run smoothly and and to get you here. I mean you don't think about that, but all those things are because our God has made this incredible universe and world and the systems that exist in it. And we believe in sun sunsets and and sunrises and and all these things. And that's all because of the incredible order that God has given us. And we ought to acknowledge that. We all look at those things and observe them in such a way it says, this is amazing. This amazing world, this amazing universe that God has placed me in. And I believe David, as he is writing this. As he says, my heart is not proud, Lord, my eyes are not haughty. I do not concern myself with great matters or things too wonderful for me. He has this perspective of who he is, but he has that perspective of who he is in the context of his great God. But then there's a there's a third thing here. Not only do we need to accent and look at ourselves and really look at ourselves in the context of scripture, And understand and be reminded about how great our God is. But thirdly, he brings in mothers. Now I think he was anticipating Mother's Day. I'm not sure Maybe I'm wrong here, but it seems like to me, like he could have said, he could have had uh an illustration here that pertained to fathers, right? A child with his father, uh a child with his dad, but he doesn't do that. Or how about how about siblings You know, uh two siblings together as a way of illustrating his point. Or I don't know the list maybe there was other options, but he doesn't do that. He goes right to the mom And it's a beautiful picture. It really is. Now, I was thinking about this morning. of whether or not I had shared with you this story. And if I have, then it's okay because I think it's a good story and it's worth hearing again. But as I mentioned to you, because I often travel, I'm on planes a lot, and over the years I've obtained a very definite standard and mindset of how I'd like to sit on a plane. Alright, I'm just going to be honest with you. And and there's nothing more. I mean I mean this is purely a picture of selfishness. Everything I'm going to tell you is selfishness. So when I when I when I make my arrangements and I I check in, the thing I'm looking for is a place to sit on that plane where I can be somewhat by myself. Alright. So it doesn't mean that I don't want to talk to anybody or I would never talk to anybody. It just means that when I get on the plane, I like to get some things done and And so I I try to do it in such a way that's going to be to my advantage. And so if I can get an I'll see, and then no one sitting next to me, right Then I think I'm almost in heaven. I mean it's like this is really this is good. So I had spent some time, this is a couple years ago, I was with my uh youngest son uh peter and I got on the plane in LAX in LA and it's a five and a half hour to get to DC and so as I got on the plane I got to my seat Sure enough, I'll see with this the middle seat empty. And then there was somebody at the window, and that was fine. They were far enough away. Oh, this is all, by the way, before COVID. And uh so um you know, th you sit there and you don't really know w what's gonna take place in terms of who else that might be coming on the plane, but at this point The plane to the most full and they're just getting ready to close the doors. And I'm saying to myself, this is beautiful Because I'll be able to sit here and get my work done and you know, I don't have to interact with people. I know that sounds selfish. Anyway, so so um there I am, I'm set. It's gonna be a beautiful flight, it's gonna be really nice, and next thing I know Just before. I mean, like, I don't know how I think there's something illegal here, but something, somehow, this lady with a baby comes on the plane And there are other seats, by the way, uh and uh but for some reason she decides to sit next to me. Now Again, I know I know this sounds really bad, but I o I uh I know that if if a mom is sitting next to me With a and this was like maybe a three-month old. Okay, so it wasn't a wean child. I just want you to know that this was not a wean child. But I knew I I just knew that that, you know, it a five and a half hour flight, a child has all kinds of needs and it's hard when they w when the plane goes up and when it goes down on their ears and they're gonna cry a lot and You know, I just I just know I'm I've been around children. So I'm now totally reorienting myself I from you know, et cetera, uh this guy who was hoping to have this seat empty and etc. Have a flight that that was all designed for him. Now I've got a young mom sitting next to me with a very, very young child and I'm I'm adjusting myself So yes, you can, again, this is just my my sinful nature coming out. Like, why wasn't I praying for them? Why wasn't I doing things to serve them and looking for ways of encouraging them. But I I wasn't. I'm just going to be honest with you. So so the mom sits down and um and the fight goes on. And God clearly I think has a sense of humor. Because here's what I observed. I have never sat next to anybody. Literally, who was as quiet and as calm and as peaceful as this mother Who was holding for five and a half hours on her lap, her three-month-old baby girl. I know some of these details because the lady next to her were talking back and forth and they, you know, so I got the details in terms of how old the child was, etc. Now you understand most of you are not sitting as close that as I was with his mom, okay? I mean like you are like you're just inches apart. And it's not there's something illegal, there's something almost immoral about sitting next to a nursing mom when you're only three inches apart, right? And that's not your wife. But I'm just telling you that these are the things that I had to experience. But what what was so incredibly Amazing was the way in which this mother handled her baby in such a way that, and I'm not exaggerating, I don't think there was ever one little peep or cry. in that five and a half hours, and I don't think it was because of Benadryl or anything of that nature. I it was it was this perfect picture Of a mother. Again, I know it's not a wean child because the passage says wean. I I understand that. But still, this mother's ability to take care of her child and to do it in such a way that that child was perfectly content. And the mother clearly, I mean, you know, she was she was a true mom who knew that she had all the abilities, all the resources, all the presence, so to speak, all the desire to do everything that that child needed. And what was amazing to me is that as I sat there and I observed all this thing for five and a half hours, was that the mother enjoys it, right? It's not just the mother doing it for duty. And oh I you know like oh I just have to do this. No, this mother enjoyed her child and was investing in her. And and what I saw for five and a half hours is what this child receives day in and day out, twenty-four or seven. And you all know what that what that means. You've done that, you've been there, you've observed it as well. It is an amazing picture. I I mean to be honest with you, if you came to me and you said here just hold this bag of groceries for five hours I would be so grumpy, you know, and uh d distorted and like I I don't wanna hold your bag of groceries for it and the and the bag of groceries isn't doing anything. Just sit it on your lap for five and a half hours. Be quiet, just you know Show a little maturity here, child but you know, but this was a baby. This is a child that had needs and you know I think eventually maybe had to be changed or whatever and and she certainly was feeding this child during this time But it was just an amazing picture of a mom caring and loving her three. And David is saying in this passage here, that is the picture that he's going for. Right, in regards to how he sees himself, how he wants to see himself before God. But I have calmed and quieted myself I am like a wean child with its mother. Like a wean child, I am, he says, content. And again, I'm reading here from the NIV. I'm content. And so the question for us, within our lives, in the midst of COVID, In the midst of dealing with all the tensions that this past, whatever where are we, 14 months, whatever it is, has brought Within our lives, within work, w within schooling, uh, within our Period of life where we're retired and we're facing some challenges there. And the list goes on and on. Do we have the kind of contentment And our own lives, our own souls, that David is expressing here within Psalm 131. So I think it takes, again, there's three things. One is I need to be honest with myself. The things that do cause me to be halty, the things that do cause me to be oriented are oriented towards everything else in life and And there's a lot of attractive things within life. There's a lot of things to go after. There's a lot of great things that are wonderful. But David is saying, that's not going to be my orientation. And then secondly, he really is exalting his Lord. Israel, put your hope in the Lord both now and forevermore. There's only one place for our focus. Learn about God. Learn about God through his word. Learn about God through the universe that he's made. Read books like Gentle and Lowly or or Packers, Knowing God, and other types of books that help us within the teaching of just understanding better the nature of God and be reminded of that. And then, if you will, have in front of you a picture of a mom with her three-month-old, or if you will, a wean child. who is just totally content because that child knows that they are in the arms of someone. They're in the presence of someone who is a hundred percent for them is looking for ways of of caring and nurturing and feeding and providing for. And therefore, there's just nothing left. to concern yourself about. My heart is not proud, O Lord. My eyes are not haughty. I do not concern myself with great matters or things too wonderful for me, but I have calmed and quieted myself. I'm like a weaned child with its mother. Like a weaned child, I am content. Israel, put your hope in the Lord, both now and forevermore. Let's pray