Amen. Thank you, Lisa. Thank you, Curtis. You have your Bible, uh would you turn please to Ephesians chapter four this morning? Ephesians chapter four, I'd like to begin in verse seventeen and read through chapter five, verse seventeen. And uh we will uh dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. The Apostle Paul writes, This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord. that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind, having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness, to work all uncleanness, with greediness But you have not so learned Christ, if indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus That you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lust And be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And that you put on the new man, which was created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness. Therefore, putting away lying, let each one of you speak truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands, what is good, that he may have something to give to him who has need. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Therefore, be imitators of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also has loved us and given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sacrifice Sweet smelling aroma with fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you as is fitting for saints Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, or covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience Therefore, do not be partakers with them. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore, he says, Awake, you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. See then that you walk circumspectly not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that your presence will be with us, that you will empower your word. Father, you know the state of each heart here, each life. You know those who are your children. You know those who have turned away and backslidden, and you know those who are yet lost outside of Christ, without any assurance of where they will be when they leave this earth, without any real hope. Lord, we were in that state once. We pray that you'll mercifully, graciously open their hearts as you did ours. Draw souls to yourself this day. And help us as your people to be better conformed to that perfect image of Christ through your word this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If I were to ask you to tell me what is the main goal of your life Particularly if I were to phrase it this way, what is your chief goal in life? I'm confident that many of you would respond with something like, My chief goal is to glorify God. And some of you would add, and to enjoy him forever, re-reverting to the very words of our shorter catechism. The scripture says all things were created by him and for him. All things, all his creation, all things were created by him and for him. That is to glorify him. Colossians 1. 16. All things were created by God and for God, and mankind, the apex of his creation, was particularly made in his image to bring him glory. But since man's tragic fall, and as a result of that fall, we no longer glorify God as we were created to do. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 23. However, the second Adam, the Son of Man, the Lord Jesus Christ, he truly glorified his Father. As Adam and his descendants ought to have done. We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee and manifested forth his glory. Jesus is called the Lord of glory. Now think about it. If we were created to glorify God, if that was the primary intention of God creating us. But our capacity to do so was interrupted by the fall. And therefore, if only Christ, the God-man, who did not inherit man's sinful nature, truly glorified his Father, as all of us should do, then we may safely conclude that we can best glorify God and thereby fulfill God's design for our creation. By patterning our lives after the life of the Lord Jesus Himself, we bring glory to God insofar as we are conformed to the image of Christ. We bring glory to God insofar as we're conformed to the image of Christ. Therefore, to be more like Christ should be the goal of every single redeemed man, woman, and child. Romans 8:29, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestine to be conformed to the image of his son, that he, Christ, might be the firstborn among many brethren. To as many as received him, Jesus, he gave the right to become the children of God. John 1. 12. When the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son. That we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying out, Abba Father. Galatians 4. Jesus said, no man has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. The Father is revealed in the Son. He who has seen me, Jesus said, has seen the Father. And the Father and the Son Are revealed in us. This is why Paul urges the Christians in Ephesus to be imitators of God as dear children and walk in love as Christ also has loved us and given himself for us. The Apostle Paul says, be imitators of God as dear children and walk in love. The word translated imitators in Ephesians 5. 1 is the Greek word mimiti. From which we get the English word mime and also the word mimic. A mime, of course, follows the actions of another. If one of you were to come up here and mime me. He or she would do whatever I do. A mind follows the actions of another, imitates the other, you might say, and in the case of minds, uh sometimes to the point of annoyance. But if the chief end for which you were created was to glorify God, and if the chief way by which God is glorified in your life is by your Christ-likeness. Then the obvious question is, how much like Jesus are you? How much like Jesus are you? How well are you fulfilling the purpose for your existence? It's a sad truth that many Christians are so unlike Jesus that others have difficulty seeing Christ in them. And God is therefore not glorified in their lives as he ought to be. You've heard uh this young Buddhist who made a careful study of Christianity, and he particularly studied the life of Christ. He said to a Christian, Your Christ is wonderful. Oh, so wonderful. But you Christians, you are not like him. It's said that Gandhi was so impressed with the teachings of Christ that he considered converting. uh to Christianity, converting from Hinduism, until he attempted to worship in the white churches of South Africa, where I think he was a student at the time. And he was forbidden because of his dark skin. Along those lines, a doctor was quoted as saying, I think I might have become a Christian if I had not met so many people who said that they were. Of course, one of the problems is the enemy has planted weeds among the wheat. Goats mingle with the sheep. Many take on Christ's name who've not been regenerated, not been born again, not been breathed upon from above. Christ is not in them. They're Christians in name only. The Holy Spirit is not within them, empowering them to be sanctified, to be conformed to the image of Christ. That's sadly the case. But it's also sadly true that many of us who have been redeemed for some time uh are regarding likeness to Christ non-conformists. We do not seem to be making much progress toward the great goal of our existence, our being conformed to that perfect image of Christ. glorifying God through our Christ-likeness. Some of us are like those who were exhorted in Hebrews 5, for though by this time you ought to be teachers, You need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracles or sayings of God. And you've come to need milk and not solid food. Hebrews 5, 12. And so, this morning, a very simple message. I want to urge you, if you've not done so already, to set as your overarching goal for whatever time you have left on this earth. That which I believe your Creator has set as his overarching goal for your sojourn on this planet That you might bring glory to him by being conformed to the image of his son Even as the Son was conformed to the image of his Father. He who has seen me has seen the Father. Now, what then is involved in our endeavoring to be more like Christ? Well, ask yourself, what are the attributes of Christ? How is he characterized in Scripture? What words would he use to describe him? Now, I could open the floor here and you would shout out different attributes, characteristics in the life of Christ. First of all, I think maybe the first things that would come to mind would be he's all-knowing, he's all powerful, he's uh the self-existent, pre-existent, uh, he's sinless. Of course, immediately we think of the divine attributes of Christ. These things are what theologians call incommunicable attributes That is, they are things that are true of Jesus that simply cannot be true of us here, right? No matter how hard you try, you cannot be omnipotent. You can't be omniscient. You can't be sinless, not here, not now. So these are called incommunicable attributes. They're certainly attributes of Jesus, but they're of little help to us as we seek to glorify God by mimicking Him, if you will. But let's think for a few minutes about some of the attributes of Christ that can be shared by us. When you think about Christ's life, as we read his life given us in the Gospels and all that the rest of Scripture says of him, what are some things that come to mind? Love Goodness, peace, joy, zeal. We think about Christ's patience, we think about his gentleness, his honesty, his selflessness, his humility His hatred of sin, his prayerfulness, is obedience, sympathy, compassion Contentment, etc. These are some of the of the things that that would come to our minds as we try to recount characteristics in the life of Christ. So what I'd like to do in our remaining minutes is just take a few of these attributes and think about them , as the apostle has encouraged us to do in Ephesians 5. 1. to think about them with the purpose of imitating them, of mimicking Jesus, if you will. First of all, think about his humility. Humility. His willingness to set aside his majesty, come to this sinful earth, be born as an infant, subject to the authority of Mary and Joseph. To labor as a carpenter, to serve his disciples, and ultimately to lay down his life for others. When the apostles were trying to determine which of them would have the most exalted place in heaven, Jesus reminded them, I am among you as he who serves. As one who serves. We're called to esteem others better than ourselves. Esteem others better than ourselves. The word translated esteem is a word that means at its root to lead. which comes to mean to lead before the mind, to consider, to take account of. So the idea is to put others first in our mind, to think more highly of them, to honor them in our minds, giving honor and preference to them. To think of them before ourselves. In other words, Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for seeking places of honor for themselves. How about you? Is your life as Jesus' life characterized by the humble service of others? Your parents, your wife, your husband, your brothers, your sisters? Your children, your fellow workers, your superiors, your subordinates, Christ Church, the Lost. Dr. A. B. Simpson wrote, Humility will save you from self-consciousness. It will take away from you the shadow of yourself and the constant sense of your own importance. It will save you from self-assertion and from thrusting your own personality upon the thoughts and attention of others. It'll save you from the desire for display And being prominent and occupying the center of the stage, from being the object of observation and attention and having the eyes of the world turned upon you. Jesus said, he who would be great among you, let him be your servant. Is your life characterized by the humble service of others? Are you mimicking Christ in humility? Consider Christ's gentleness. His gentleness. The Apostle Paul wrote, I beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, 2 Corinthians 10. 1. George Bethune wrote in 1839, perhaps no grace is less prayed for or less cultivated than gentleness. Indeed, it is considered rather as belonging to natural dispositions or external manners than as a Christian virtue. And seldom do we reflect that not to be gentle is sin. Whereas meekness is a passive trait describing the manner in which we are to respond when mistreated by others, we're to respond with meekness. Gentleness is an active trait describing the manner in which we are to treat others. We're to treat others with gentleness. A navigator's author Jerry Bridges puts it this way. Gentleness is illustrated by the way you would handle mom 's fine crystal, or China. It's a recognition that the human personality is valuable, but fragile. It must be handled with care. Paul said, clothe yourselves with gentleness. Colossians 3. 12 When you're gentle, others feel at ease in your presence. You're not so opinionated, so dogmatic, so quick to judge that others are uncomfortable around you. Bridges goes on, gentleness will avoid blunt speech and an abrupt manner. Instead, seeking to answer everyone with sensitivity and respect, ready to show consideration towards all. The general Christian doesn't feel that he has a liberty to say what I think and let the chips fall where they may. Instead, he's sensitive to the reactions of others to his words, and he's considerate of how they may feel about what he says. When he finds it necessary to wound with his words, he also seeks to bind up those wounds with words of consolation and encouragement. Paul urge the Philippians, let your gentleness be known to all men, the Lord is at hand. Let your gentleness be known to all men, the Lord is at hand. Dr. William Hendrickson said a number of synonyms are necessary to show the broad meaning of this word, it's translated gentleness, yieldedness. Reasonableness, big heartedness, geniality, considerateness. Greek scholar Vine adds in defining the Greek word epicase Equitable, fair, moderate, forbearing, not insisting on the letter of the law. It's that considerateness that looks humanely and reasonably at the facts of a case. It's contrasted with strict justice. Matthew Arnold calls it sweet reasonableness. We saw it as we looked in Mark V. Remember when uh Jesus was on his way to Jairus' house and the woman with the issue of blood, uh, who had had this problem for twelve years, has spent all her living on physicians and she hadn't been healed. She was unclean. It was uh it was inappropriate for her to touch another person. She was deemed unclean by the laws of Israel, and yet she came behind in the press and she reached out and touched the Lord Jesus. Now, as I think we mentioned as we preached from that passage, the Pharisees would have turned around and harshly rebuked her, this unclean woman, for touching a rabbi , for touching a holy man. But Jesus, of course, treated her with kindness and with gentleness. And he told her that she was forgiven and she should return to her home with joy. That's what we're talking about, the gentleness, the meekness and gentleness of Christ. Would those who know you best characterize you as gentle? As considerate? Do people enjoy being in your presence? Or are you so testy? Is your speech so caustic? Are you so dogmatic and opinionated that others have to walk on eggs around you? Are you blunt and abrupt? Do you intimidate others? Do they feel that you're silently judging them? Or do you imitate, do you mimic Christ's gentleness? He who would not bruise break a bruised reed or quench the smoking flax Of course, when Jesus, who knew all men's thoughts, perceived their hard-heartedness, their hypocrisy, which he saw most clearly in the Pharisees, Then I guess you could say the zeal for his father's glory took the ascendancy, and his gentleness was eclipsed by his righteous anger. But in his day-to-day dealings with those who were not wolves devouring the sheep, he was gentle. Are you glorifying God by mimicking Christ's gentleness? And then thirdly, we just mentioned his zeal. Let's think about that for a moment. Jesus was earnest and zealous in his labors for his father's kingdom. I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. The night is coming when no man can work. John nine, four. My food is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. John four. Disciples came back. Nobody had brought Jesus food, but Jesus said, My food is to do the will of him that sent me. It was prophesied of him, Zeal for your house has eaten me up. Psalm 69, verse 9. We read of his labors in Galilee. Then Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Matthew 9 35 Jesus knew that his time on earth was limited and he had kingdom work to do. He says to his disciples, we have to go to the other towns now, and we have to preach the gospel there as well. He had work to do. You and I have kingdom work to do. You and I have been gifted by Christ and put on this earth for a sp specified period of time, that's unknown to us, of course. And we have work to do. We ought not to be sleepy. We ought to be working. Author Burke Davis, in a book on the war between the states, describes an incident during the Battle of Gettysburg. John Wentz, an eighty-seven-year-old farmer, hid in his cellar while in the yard above. Unbeknownst to him, his son fought in gray with the Washington artillery of New Orleans. As the story goes, the younger Wentz entered the cellar, found his father sleeping, and left a note pinned to his coat. Well, we can't fault an old farmer for falling asleep in the cool of his basement as a battle raged all around him. But some of us can be faulted for sleeping as a battle for souls, for the souls of men and women and boys and girls is raging around us. If the Lord Jesus pinned a note on you, I wonder what it would say. Maybe redeem the time. For the days are evil. Awake, thou that sleepest. Or could you not watch with me one hour? Or have a the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. If you're like me, uh you may suspect that your greatest regret when you stand before the Lord May not be your sins of commission, that is, unrighteous acts, words, and thoughts, but rather your sins of omission, the things you could have done that you neglected to do. Precious time squandered on superficial things. While there were children you could have taught , sick people you could have visited, strangers you could have hosted, widows you could have encouraged. Fatherless children, you could have befriended. Prisoners, you could have mentored. The Scripture says we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Each one's work will become clear, for the day will declare it. Because it will be revealed by fire. And the fire will test each one's work of what sort it is. The Lord Jesus was consumed with zeal and with passion for the work of his Father. I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Can others see his zeal in you? Are you glorifying God by mimicking Christ's zeal and Christ's passion? How about Christ's compassion? We see it over and over again in the gospel accounts. It's specifically stated Jesus had compassion upon the multitudes. Jesus had compassion upon the people. He saw them as sheep not having a shepherd. We read that he loved the rich young ruler. He wept over Jerusalem. He wept at the tomb of his friend, the Lazarus. His heart went out to the lepers. His heart went out to the lame. His heart went out to the blind, to the poor, to the excluded. To the hated tax collectors, to the dreads of society. And he said in Matthew 25 that our showing or our not showing Compassion to those who are hungry, thirsty, homeless, in need of clothing, sick, or in prison. Our showing or not showing compassion to such was such a clear indicator of whether we're sheep or goats that it would be the basis on which he would separate us when he returns in his glory. One of the common themes of non-Christians, when you see them comment on current cultural issues Is that those who call themselves followers of Christ don't seem to follow Him very closely when it comes to caring for the sick or for the poor or for the weak or for the oppressed? As they see us, we're more like the priest or the Levite, in Jesus' parable of the Good Samaritan, who passed by on the other side of the road, when he saw the man who was beaten and naked and left for dead We 're more like those who pass by on the other side of the road, saying, Hope somebody takes care of that , than we are like the Samaritan who had compassion on the man, bandaged up his wounds, took him to a a nearby inn. and uh actually gave money to the innkeeper to care for him and did all this at his own expense Now part of that perception of unbelievers, I think, is due to the the philosophical objection that many believers have to local, state, and federal governments going far beyond the very limited functions for which they were created. and determining to take from person A to give to person B. As we've noted before, it's one thing for a man to freely give to another, as in the parable of the Good Samaritan. It's quite another thing for someone in power to put a knife to a man's throat and demand that he give him his money or give his money to another. The first case Uh freely giving to someone in need, that's called charity, and that's a good thing, and that's encouraged by the Lord. The second thing is called theft, that's a bad thing. And that's forbidden by God, putting a knife to someone's throat and ordering him to give you his money or give his money to someone else. But when it comes to compassionate charity, the Christian church has been in the forefront through the centuries, establishing hospitals, orphanages. Clinics, food banks, homeless shelters, schools, colleges, women's shelters, nursing homes, ministries to children and youth and soldiers and prisoners and refugees And those who've been devastated by hurricanes or tornadoes or fire or warfare. It's impossible to compile a comprehensive list of all the acts of compassion In which believers have engaged both corporately and personally out of love for Christ and for mankind. But as I said, many Christians believe it's not the role of the government to provide that sort of compassionate charity that we've just described, because the government cannot give to one what it does not first take from another. And because a huge secular bureaucracy can't provide the sort of personal interaction, certainly not the spiritual dynamic that we see, for example, in the daily distribution to widows in the early church Described in Acts chapter 6. Think about it, America's longest war has been her war on poverty. And after 50 years and trillions of dollars, we don't seem to be very close to victory. And so many believers have a principled objection. And what might look to onlookers like a knee-jerk reaction every time the federal government proposes to help those in need. The Christians tend to oppose it as a violation of the constitutional role of the government. But we need to be aware how this reaction may be perceived by others. As the very opposite of the sort of compassion demonstrated by Christ and urged upon his followers. It may be perceived as selfish hypocrisy, and as such, it may be used by our enemy to hinder the advancement of the gospel in our culture. I think if we should if we would mimic Jesus in his compassion, we need to make it clear that we care about the sick and the poor and the prisoner and the widow and the orphan and the homeless. And we need to evidence it by opening our hearts and opening our wallets. Jesus said, Inasmuch as you did it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you did it unto me. And if we're going to oppose the use of tax dollars for such things, we'd better make it clear why. And we better show by our giving and by our actions that we Feel the love of Christ compelling us to have compassion upon those in need. How about you? Can others see the compassion of Jesus Christ in you? Can they see it in the way you give to those who are in need? In the way your heart goes out to the sick, to the homeless, to the refugee, to the widow, to the orphan, to the prisoner, to the hungry? Can they hear it in the way you talk about them? Can they see it in the way your heart is burdened for the loss? For lost friends, lost relatives, for lost acquaintances that you meet through this life? Those who are caught in patterns of sin, do you have compassion for them? Are you mimicking the compassion of Jesus Christ? Well, we've only considered a few of the characteristics of Christ that we should emulate in our ongoing effort to glorify God, which again is why we're here. His humility, his gentleness, his zeal, his compassion. But this may be enough to get us thinking about how we are progressing in that lifelong process of being conformed to the image. of God's Son, Romans 8. 29. If we had time or took the time, we could also consider Christ's patience. His peace, his grace, his contentment, his joy, his hatred of sin, his prayerfulness, his honesty, etc. But I would urge you to meditate upon those traits yourself. And determine where it is that you most glaringly fall short. You can simply make a list of the characteristics of Christ that come to mind through your knowledge of Christ's life and reading the gospel accounts and the rest of Scripture. And then determine where do I fall short, most glaringly. If you can't figure it out, ask your spouse. Or your parents, or your friends, or your siblings. They'd probably be happy to assist you in the process. All you have to do is ask. But you might say, well, wait a minute, isn't it the work of the Holy Spirit to sanctify believers? Well, of course it is, but the Holy Spirit uses means. Which is why the scripture exhorts us to put off and put on, as we read this morning, to strive, to seek, to be transformed, to grow Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That passage we looked at a few weeks ago. There's no great mystery involved here. If you want to be more like Jesus, here's the first step. Find an area in your life where you clearly miss the mark. It may be I I I I'm too fearful, I'm I'm uh I'm I'm too afraid of things, or uh I I I lose my temper, I'm too angry I worry too much. I'm too uh harsh in my speech. I covet what other people have, whatever it may be. Find an area where you clearly miss the mark. Find passages of Scripture that deal with that trait. Memorize them. Put them in your heart. And then meditate on them. Put them on a little verse card. Keep it in your car or by your bedside at your desk at work. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. How shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto, according to thy word. Abide in me, Jesus said. And you'll bear much fruit. John 15. It's as we look to Jesus with our faces no longer veiled, as was the face of Moses that we're being transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. 2 Corinthians 3. Greatly beloved missionary Dr. Fred Shepherd served for years in Asia Minor. It's recorded that a poor citizen of Armenia said to him, or said of him , I've never seen Jesus, but I've seen Dr. Shepard. I've never seen Jesus, but I've seen Dr. Shepherd. May your family, your friends, and the unbelievers you know be able to say one day, they saw Jesus in you. Let's pray. Father, we're all aware that we we do fall short of the glory of God. We miss the mark, we miss the target. We wrestle with this old man within us and his old ways, his old habits. But thank you, Lord, that Many here have been regenerated, born from above, made new creatures. We have Christ in us, the hope of glory. And now you've begun this process of conforming us to this perfect image of Christ. Lord, we pray that it might continue, that uh that you might help us. To utilize the means you've given us to become more like Jesus. That's our desire, Lord. It's a simple desire. May it be our heart's desire. And Lord, if there be some here still outside of Christ, help them to see that the way of eternal life is not by trying to be like Jesus. But recognizing themselves as sinners, repenting of those sins, and trusting in Jesus as Lord and Savior, only then will he come in Live inside of them and give them this new life the Bible speaks of. Draw souls to yourself this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Would you stand and let's close our service with Have Thine Own Way, Lord, it's number 575.