Our scripture reading this morning is from the Gospel of Luke, chapter 2. If you'll turn there, please, or listen as we read. We'll be picking up from uh where we left off actually uh last week just after the shepherds we read the shepherds returned glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. We come now to verse 21. Luke chapter 2 and verse 21. And as we read this, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. with the uh White Souls. And uh this might be a good opportunity to mention um something that didn't make it into the bulletin, but something you could be praying about. One of our newest uh families at Liberty, uh William and Rebecca Schirmer, as some of you know, have a little uh son, uharic, uh, who has uh Crohn's disease. And uh Alaric, I don't think the Shermers are with us this morning, are they? Alaric uh is uh i i is only I think three or four, maybe three. Three, yeah. And uh and he has Crohn's disease and they're they're going up to uh Philadelphia this week to see some doctors and they're act he's actually gonna have surgery this week. That's what I'm getting. So if you could just please remember to pray for the Schirmer family and particularly for this little three-year-old uh Alaric who's having uh some sort of uh intestinal surgery this week. Luke 2, verse 21. And when eight days were were completed for the circumcision of the child, His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Now, when the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were completed, They brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. And behold There was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, He took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace for mine eyes Departed peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel. And for a sign which will be spoken against. Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed May God bless this portion of his inspired word. Father, speak to us through your word this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As you know, there were many wonders that surrounded the birth of Christ. I suppose the first was Gabriel appearing to old Zechariah, shattering four hundred years of silence from heaven. Your prayer is heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, a son who will prepare the way of the Lord. And then, of course, Mary receiving the astounding news that she will be with child of the Holy Spirit, and that her child, a son, will be called the Son of the Highest. And of his kingdom there will be no end. An angel of the Lord appears to Joseph in a dream, telling him that the child Mary was carrying was of the Holy Spirit, and announcing that he had come to earth to save his people from their sins. Caesar Augustus making a decree from Rome that brings Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem, where, according to the prophet Micah, the Messiah would be born. There was the wonder of the angelic announcement to the shepherds that we considered last week. The wonder of the arrival in Jerusalem of a caravan from the east inquiring about a newborn king. And in addition to all those wondrous events, we have the amazing one described for us in the passage that we just read. That interaction between Simeon and Mary and Joseph. It's one of my favorites. uh aspects of the account of Christ's birth. And it's been several years since we've considered it. Let's look at it again this morning. First of all, it takes place in the Temple of Jerusalem. This is in the temple. The temple that would have such an important part in the life of the Lord Jesus, the life and ministry of Christ. It was in that temple twelve years later that a frantic Mary and Joseph would find Jesus disputing with the scribes or questioning the scribes, discussing scriptures. with the scribes. In that temple 20 years after that, Jesus would, out of zeal for his father's honor, cast out the money changers who were defiling God's temple And uh overthrowing the seats of those who sold doves. This uh was my father's house. It was intended to be a house of prayer. You made it a den of thieves. In that very temple, as Jesus died as our substitute not far away, the veil between the holy place and the holy of holies would be supernaturally torn from the top to the bottom Well it was into that temple that Mary and Joseph brought their infants on this day. They have already applied the sign of the covenant, the Old Testament sign of faith, circumcision. They had cut off a tiny bit of flesh from the child. as God commanded Abraham and his descendants to do when a baby was eight days old. And they've already declared that the baby's name would be Jehovah Saves. Yahshua. It is in the Hebrew. Yesus in the Greek, and it comes to us as Jesus in the English, of course. His name will be what is his name? What is the child's name? His name shall be called Jehovah Saves, the angel said, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now another 33 days have passed. Jesus is about six weeks old, and Mary and Joseph have returned to the temple to fulfill another requirement of God. That a burnt offering and a sin offering be made upon the birth of a child. Leviticus chapter 12 The scripture says a lamb of the first year was to be the burnt offering, and a young pigeon or turtle dove was to be the sin offering However, allowance was made in God's law for poor families who would have a difficult time providing a a complete lamb for an offering, and they could bring two turtle doves or two pigeons. And that is in fact what Mary and Joseph brought. Uh quite obviously the magi with their gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh had not yet arrived, and when they did , Matthew tells us they found the family in a house, and that may have been uh uh a year or more after Christ's birth. I hope you understand that. Now, imagine yourself in Mary or Joseph's place that day. You probably don't want to draw a lot of attention to yourself any more than we do when uh uh you're you're visiting in a church, let's say, and the offering plate comes by and uh You you check your wallet, you got uh the two dollar bills and you you roll them up so it's not quite so obvious how little you're giving and you kinda slip it in the tray as it goes by because you know you're already uh g giving to your own home church. But uh you're not trying to draw attention to yourself. You're not sounding a trumpet. And look what I'm putting in the plate. Uh so here's Mary and Joseph. They're they can't they don't have the funds to offer a lamb, so they're offering two turtle doves and probably trying to be somewhat discreet about it, and suddenly a stranger walks up to you, takes your baby out of your arms, holds him up to heaven. And then says, now Lord, you are letting your servant apart in peace according to your word, for mine eyes have seen your salvation and the glory of your people Israel. This would no doubt uh draw a crowd, certainly draw stairs, right? And uh and an incredible event. Now let's think about first of all old uh Simeon, uh, and then we'll look at his prophecy. Verse uh 25. Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. He was just and devout. In the Greek he was dikos. Dikaios. It could be translated righteous. He was righteous. And devout. The prophet Habakkuk and the Apostle Paul both make it clear that the righteous live by faith. If you're righteous today, if you're declared righteous by God, it's on the basis of your faith. You're not really righteous. No mere human is. But the term is used for those who have placed their faith in Jesus Christ. They've been justified. They've been declared. declared righteous. The righteous live by faith. Habakkuk 2. 4, Romans 17. 117. The way a man becomes righteous in the eyes of God is he's declared righteous on the basis of his faith. Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. Simeon was a man who was righteous in the eyes of a holy God because his faith had been accounted for righteousness. But as you know, the term is also used for one who is righteous before men Saying, that's a just man there. I had somebody say that to me this week about a builder. He said, uh, that builder is a man who is uh honest. You can trust him. He's just Although, of course, no one who is just in the eyes of men is without sin, right? We all understand that. But he lives what is uh generally called uh an upright, honest life. The kind of person you would want uh as your neighbor or friend or contractor, right? Spurgeon writes of Simeon, Was he a father? He did not provoke his children to anger, lest they should be discouraged. Was he a master? He gave unto his servants that which was just and equal. knowing that he also had a master in heaven. Was he a merchant? He defrauded in no transaction, but provided things honest in the sight of men. If, as is very possible, he was one of the teachers of the Jews, then he was faithful. He spoke what he knew to be the word of God, although it might not be for his own gain. And he would not, like the other shepherds, turn away to speak error for the sake of filthy lucre. He was just, and he was devout. He was a man who loved and reverenced God. The same term is used of Ananias, whom God used to minister to Saul of Tarsus. He was a devout man, and of those who carried Stephen's body for burial after his martyrdom. What a blessing could be described by God as devout. Just and devout. And he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. That's an interesting phrase. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel. The paraclesin, it is in the Greek, the comfort, the encouragement. It was a common prayer in Simeon's day, historians tell us, may I see the consolation of Israel. May I see the consolation of Israel? It referred ultimately to the coming of the promised one, the time when Israel would be consoled because God would send the Messiah to them. So Simeon was looking forward to the coming of the Messiah. He evidently knew the scriptures. He knew that the prophet Isaiah said that the Messiah would come from David's line. There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, Jesse, David's father. The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. Isaiah 11. He knew he would be a root of Jesse, and that the Gentiles would seek him. Isaiah 11, verse 10. Presumably he knew from the prophet Daniel's writings that Gabriel had revealed approximately when the Messiah, the prince, would come. And that if the sevens Gabriel spoke of in the book of Daniel were years, then the Messiah's coming was very near. Simeon longed for Christ to come in his lifetime. He longed for Christ to come in his lifetime. The most revealing statement about Simeon is this, and the Holy Spirit was upon you. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. What a wonderful thing could be said of anyone. What a glorious description. Is there anything better that could be said of you than that the Holy Spirit's upon you? In Jesus' day, as in our day, people put great stock in a man or woman's education, position. And for Christians, we put a great deal of stock upon a person's Bible knowledge. personal charisma, speaking ability, singing ability, etc. But all such things tend only to puff up if they are not animated by the Holy Spirit of God. We don't know if Simeon was wealthy, we don't know if he was prominent, we don't know if he were if he was eloquent, but we know that the Holy Spirit was upon him. So we know a lot about him. We know he was loving. He loved old people. He loved young people. He loved his family. He loved his friends. He even loved his enemies. He was joyful. It was a pleasant experience to be around Simeon. He was not a scowler. He had learned in whatever state he found himself therein to be content. He was peaceful insofar as it depended on him. He lived at peace with all men. He was patient. He wasn't easily angered. He was gentle. He wasn't sharp-tongued. People weren't afraid of rubbing him the wrong way. He was approachable. He was kind, he was good, he was faithful, he could be trusted, he was self-controlled. How do we know? The Holy Spirit was upon him. And the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. So we know what Simeon was like. Notice it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Verse 26. By vision, by a dream, or by some other way, God had assured Simeon that he would live to lay his eyes, his tired old eyes, we may say, upon the promised one. Imagine. Imagine being Simeon. You know, every day he awoke thinking, maybe today's the day. The Lord told me I'm not going to die. I got to die sometime. Maybe today's the day when I'll lay my eyes upon The promised Messiah. On this day, Simeon entered the temple by the Spirit. Spirit laid it upon his heart. Spirit spoke to him. Spirit revealed to him somehow. This was the day. Lord, now you're letting your servant depart in peace according to your words, for my eyes have seen your salvation. He knew uh when he saw Mary and Joseph, he knew this was the one. He he knew this child in Mary's arms was the child. He took him out of our arms. And he he made that incredible prophecy. The original language is noteworthy here when Luke translates into Greek the language of Simeon. which had been, no doubt, uh uh Aramaic or Hebrew. The term he uses for Lord, the term that uh that Luke uses for Lord here is not the most common one, curios, but it's despota, a master, sovereign. Despot is the English word we have derived from it. Master Sovereign, he who possesses supreme authority And the term that he uses for servant is not Diakonos, minister, but dulos, bondservant, slave. Now uh despotes Sovereign Lord, allow your bondservant to depart in peace. Notice that he's a godly Jew decades, decades before the New Testament was written. with what seems to be a very clear understanding of God's plan of salvation. And I hope you understand that believers before Christ's coming No less than believers after Christ's coming were saved by faith. I know it's a continual, isn't it a continual uh theme from this pulpit, but it's because it's not clear to everyone. These Old Testament saints were saved by faith. They weren't saved because they kept laws and rules and ceremonies. Nobody was ever saved that way. How could you be saved that way? But the bulls and goats cannot take away sin. They were saved because they were looking forward to the coming of the Savior. They were saved the same way you were saved. You look back to the coming of the Savior, they look forward to the coming of the Savior. They had the Old Testament scriptures, and the Old Testament scriptures were sufficient to bring them to faith in the Messiah. There's one body of believers from the Garden of Eden until today, one bride of Christ, one giant tree, one great tree planted by God. If some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them, and with them became a partaker of the root and richness of the olive tree, do not boast against the branches. Apostle Paul goes on to say to Gentiles, you do not support the root, the root supports you. Romans 11. Most of you are, as I am, from a Gentile branch. Now, yes, some Jewish branches were broken off the tree, and Gentile branches have been grafted onto the tree, but remember we are supported by the roots of Judaism. The tree that God originally planted. Jesus said, Other sheep I have who are not of this fold, the Jews. I think he meant others I have who are not natural descendants of Abraham, them also I must bring. Praise God. God for that. Where would we be if that hadn't taken place? Them also I must bring. And there shall be onefold and one shepherd. Something else to note about godly Simeon, and that is this. God has believers even in places that seem to be spiritually barren, right? As Jerusalem was in Jesus' day. Even Sodom had its lot. Babylon had its Daniel and his three friends. The old world had godly Noah. And godly Obadiah served in Ahab's household. You may be the only Christian in that office. You may be the only Christian in that classroom. You may be the only Christian in that school. But God has put you there for a purpose. For such a time as this. Notice Simeon's prophecy. My eyes have seen your salvation, which you prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles. God's Spirit had revealed to Simeon that the salvation provided through Christ would be before the face of all peoples. You see, Jesus is no provincial savior who came only to save a few people. uh of one race. No, no, no. He would be for all peoples, Simeon said. My eyes have seen your salvation which you prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles. Boy, he had some understanding, didn't he? God's Spirit revealed to Simeon that the salvation provided through Christ would be for all people. A light to bring revelation to the Gentiles. I will give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the prison, those who sit in darkness from the prison house. Isaiah 42. What darkness is upon the heathen? What darkness is upon the heathen, even today? It's evidenced by their mythology. evidenced by their practices of child sacrifice, temple prostitution, exposure, exposure of unwanted infants to the elements. You know, that's one of the things that set the Christians apart in the first ages. They would go out and take these infants that were left out, left for dead because the family didn't want the child. Maybe they wanted a boy, it it was a girl, they put the girl out, left it out, left her out for uh animals for uh uh someone with uh evil intentions to take the child, make a slave of the child. The Christians would go out and find these children and they'd take them in But this is what the heathen were doing. They're still doing things somewhat similar, aren't they? The blindness continues in the non-Christian world. You may remember the news report a few years ago regarding the citizens of a village in India, the village of Malda. They decided to conduct a wedding ceremony for two trees to ward off evil spirits. Told you about this before. The two trees were intertwined. See how I can get my hands intertwined. They were intertwined, and uh one man told the Reuters News Service, worshiping the trees will bring peace on earth. And a woman said, The trees only can save us. Spectators brought wedding gifts for the two newly wedded trees. Jeremiah laments the state of his people having fallen into the heathenism around them saying to a tree, You are my father, saying to a stone, You gave birth to me, Jeremiah 2. And such is the darkness in which you and I would have remained. If God had not sent Jesus to be not only the glory of his people Israel, but a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles. But praise God that the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light. Amen? Jesus is the light of the Gentiles and the glory of God's people, Israel. And he was and is their glory, although sadly many of them did not know it, and many of them today do not know it. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory, Paul said, 1 Corinthians 2, 8. They gloried in their traditions, they gloried in their heritage, they gloried in their privileges, they gloried in their position, but Christ was their glory, and many of them missed Now look at verses 33-34. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And then Simeon blessed them, and he said to Mary, his mother, Behold! This child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign which will be spoken against. Joseph and Mary, of course, marveled at what Simeon, this man, was saying. And how does he know all this? How has this all been revealed to him? And then he says that this child will be a sign which will be spoken against. A sign, a sign from God. He came as a sign of God's mercy. He came as a sign of God's love. He came as a sign of God's justice. But he was a sign who would be spoken against. His birth, his heritage. were spoken against. Is this not the carpenter, the son of Mary? Brother of James, and Joseph, and Judas and Simon, are not his sisters here with us? So they were offended at him, Mark six, verse three His birth, his heritage were spoken against, his miracles were spoken against. He cast out demons through the ruler of the demons He cast out demons by the power of the prince of the demons. That's what they said of him, Mark 3. And of course, his ultimate signs, his crucifixion and resurrection. Well, they were spoken against. He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross. We will believe him He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now if he will have it, for he said, I am the Son of God. His crucifixion was spoken against, his resurrection was spoken against. When they heard of the resurrection, some mocked Acts 17, 32. Then it's as if contemplating all the scorn and the uh The persecution that would be placed upon Jesus. Contemplating that, Simeon says to Mary. Uh yes, and a sword will pierce your own soul also. Uh I I don't know, maybe he he had a little glimpse of of Calvary there and uh the soul But he said to Mary, yes, then a sword will pierce your own soul also. Well she didn't want to hear that Oh well the nice things he said, but this this one not so nice. Yes, a sword will pierce your own soul also. And Mary was, of course, a believer in in in the coming Messiah My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior, she said. Imagine being a believer watching Jesus die upon the cross. How horrendous that would be for you. And now imagine that this one who's dying on the cross is not only your Messiah, but your firstborn son. Imagine, imagine what that must have felt like. For Mary. Yes, a sword will pierce your own soul also. She had to watch Jesus humiliated, tortured. Executed. And then one more thing, the Simeon prophesied that we haven't mentioned. Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel. I think there are at least two ways to understand that. This child is set for the fall and rising again of many, rising of many in Israel. Many would fall and rise again. over the Lord Jesus. Saul of Tarsus fell into the persecution of Jesus and his followers, but he would rise again. One of the thieves, crucified along with Jesus, of course, reviled him as the other thief did, but he would rise again. He fell. But he rose again. Jesus' brothers, those born to Mary and Joseph by natural means, fell into unbelief, but later rose to acknowledge him as Savior. Everywhere the gospel went. There were some who would fall and then rise again. And everywhere the gospel went, some would fall and some would rise. The other way to understand this passage. This prophecy, some would stumble at that stumbling stone. This child is set for the fall and rising, the falling and rising of many in Israel. Many would fall when they heard the gospel message. Many fall today. They don't believe it. Hey, they mock it. They laugh at it. They go away. This is what this babbler says. Some would stumble at that stumbling stone. The gospel is the savor of life to life and the savor of death to death. And every time Christ is preached, some believe and some do not. That the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. The thoughts of your heart are revealed by your reaction to Jesus Christ. If you are proud and self-confident, confident in your own record, your own goodness as you see it, then you'll reject him. You have no need of a savior. If you're in love with your sin, you will reject him. If you have a heart of wicked unbelief, you will reject him. But if your heart has been made meek and lowly as that of a little child by the power of the Holy Spirit, then you will receive it. The thoughts of many hearts are revealed. By Jesus Christ. Now, some thoughts to leave with you this morning. Jesus, Simeon said, was the glory of God's people Israel. But many of them rejected him because they gloried in their heritage, traditions, position, privileges. What are you glorying in today? What is your glory? Is it Your uh some ability that you have, your your singing ability, your your uh athletic ability. And what are you glorying? Your Bible knowledge, your holiness? Your experience? But God forbid that I should glory except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. Amen? Galatians 6, 14. And then Simeon was described by God's inspired word as just and devout, one upon whom the Holy Spirit had come. The Holy Spirit was upon him. I wonder, could God describe you that way? Are you just Have you been declared righteous by a holy God? Have you renounced all faith in yourself as your Redeemer and transferred all your trust to Jesus Christ alone? Are you just righteous in the eyes of a holy God? Declared righteous? Because the righteousness of Christ has been placed upon your account and your sins have been placed upon Christ's account? Are you righteous in the eyes of God? Second, Simeon was devout. He was pious. He was devoted. He meant business with God. His was no mere form of religion. Form of godliness. He was as devoted to God in private as he was in public. As William Gurnal put it, he who is not a Christian in his shop is not a Christian in his closet. His prayer room, in other words. And he is a hypocrite at church. How about you? If your character were to be described by the Lord in a few words, let's say two. Could he call you righteous and devout? Wow, what a what a wonderful thing to have the Lord declare as your eulogy, that man was righteous and devout. And then the Holy Spirit was upon him. Be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Ephesians 5. Are you filled with the Holy Spirit? Is the Holy Spirit upon you? Well, he's not upon any of us all the time, is he? He was upon John all the time. He will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. But you and I have to desire it. We have to seek it. We have to pray for the filling of the Holy Spirit. Lord, fill me, help me. I'm going to have a conversation today with a friend at work. I'm going to share my testimony with him. Lord help me. Fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, my son has been moving away from you. Lord, you know it. I've got to have a serious conversation with him. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Help me. Bring scriptures to mind. Give me compassion. Give me sympathy. Give me empathy for what he's going through right now. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. I've got to teach these kids, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. I don't know how to do it. I have a Sunday school class and I'm trying to convey to them the good news of Christ. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. If you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Luke 11 And then uh quickly, uh I don't think it's too great a stretch for us to infer here that at this point Simeon was an old man. If you go through the passage, it doesn't say anywhere that he was old. And by the way, last week I I mentioned Gabriel speaking to the shepherds. It doesn't say anywhere in there that it was Gabriel either. Come to think of it. I mean someone brought that to my attention, but I don't think Gabriel would have let anybody else do it. And you can you can clarify that with him later. But uh I don't think it's too great a stretch for us to infer that Simeon was an old man here, not too many young men or middle-aged men. Would cry out, Lord, now you're letting your servant depart in peace, right? Because I saw the Messiah. He was an old man who was described as just and devout, an old man who was busy in the Lord's service. What a blessing it is to see men and women who are still jogging, even though they're approaching the finish line of their long Christian marathon. They're still praying. They're still worshiping. They're still serving. They're still investing their gifts. They're still investing their money for the kingdom of Still praying, still praising. A white head is a crown of glory if it be found in the way of righteousness. Proverbs 16 It's a crown of glory. And then perhaps you noticed that Simeon was ready to go home. Lord, now you're letting your servants depart in peace. He's I get the impression he was anxious, looking forward to his departure. Perhaps he had outlived those who were dearest to him in this world. You know, that's one of the ways God weans our soul away from this world. People that we love are gone. Dearest friends in the earth are taken away. And our heart begins to yearn more and more and more. for heaven. Simeon he certainly didn't cry out, oh no, I just saw the Messiah, now I guess I'm gonna have to die. It's a beautiful thing for a believer who is prepared to die in faith. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of the his saints. I've had the privilege as a pastor for almost 40 years now, privilege of knowing many godly old Many gaviol believers in my lifetime. I've mentioned one of them to you before. Her name was Minnie Hamilton. And when uh my wife and I were called to Florida to plant a church there, this was in the uh eighties, nineteen eighties Not the 1880s, the 1980s, to clarify that. We met this lady, Minnie Hamilton, in a retirement home there on the west coast of Florida. And uh uh Minnie had a real servant's heart. Uh the servant's heart that you can often find in someone who has been walking with the Lord. I think in her case she came to know the Lord. as a as a young child, so for maybe 80 years she had been walking with the Lord. And she had set aside some money to be distributed to various Christian ministries upon her death. And she told me that she was praying that the Lord would take her home before all those funds had been exhausted in caring for her. You know, she wanted so much money to go to focus on the family or whatever, and so much to go to this ministry and that ministry and her own church and and And yet she was still here and the money was getting spent on her care. And I had to remind her that listen, caring for his saints is one of the things that the Lord loves to do. You're precious to him. You are precious to your heavenly father. father. He'll take care of you. He loves to do that. And he has all the cattle on a thousand hills he can support. Focus on the family some other way. These funds are for you. The story is told of an old Christian named Halliburton who said to his friends and his family as he approached death, You know, I'm afraid that I won't be able to bear another testimony to my master. But in order to show you that I am peaceful and resting on Christ, I'm going to try to hold my hands up before I die. I won't be able to talk, but I'm going to hold my hands up. And and and that's a a a signal that I'm still resting in Christ and enjoying you know peace with God. And just before he died, he held both his hands up and he clapped like that. What a wonderful Wonderful testimony. How about you? Will you die well? Will you die well? For many of us, those months or years before we go to be with the Lord will be a time when the body will begin to fail. That shouldn't trouble us nor consume our thoughts. Yeah, the body's gonna break down. You remember the i illustration John Newton tells, I've shared it several times, but I like it. That's why I'm gonna share it again. He said, uh, imagine someone uh living in England who just received a large estate in New York. So he travels across the ocean, he gets in a carriage, and he's coming to receive this large He's almost there. He's a mile away. And his carriage breaks down. He says, imagine him muttering and blabbering the rest of the way. Oh, my carriage is broken. My carriage is broken. My carriage is broken. What? You're going to receive this huge estate. Who cares if your carriage is broken, right? That's the idea. You and I are going to be in the presence of the Lord. Where there's joy forevermore. In thy presence is fullness of joy. Yeah, the carriage is breaking down. I know it's hard it's getting hard to walk and bend and and things don't work as they used to work. Uh I'm not talking about all of you. Some of you still have parts that work Talking about as we approach as we approach the Lord. Your carriage is gonna break down. But uh the Lord has good news for us. We know that if our earthly house, this tent, were dissolved, we have a building from God A house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Second Corinthians five one. An old woman lay dying said to her minister, You know that I'm not long for this world, but I'm not afraid to die. The master knows that I have taken him at his word. The master knows I've taken him at his word. Lord, now you're letting your servant depart in peace. And then uh Simeon was longing to see Christ come in his lifetime. Is that true of you? You longing to see Christ come in his lifetime? I uh our daughter uh Grace was very young when uh she saw someone dying on a new in a news report they died very suddenly and she said, Well that's I guess that's how I want to die. When I I want to die suddenly, I wanna drag out. And we explained to her, Well, you know, there is another option. The Bible says the Lord himself will descend from heaven heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel, the trumpet of God, the dead in Christ will rise first. You might live to see Jesus come back. And of course you said, well then yeah that's that's even better. Let's do it that way. Are you are you longing to see Christ come back in your lifetime? And finally, Christian, rejoice in this. The joy that Simeon had in seeing the Lord. Think about it. The joy that Simeon had in seeing the Lord will one day be yours. He saw him as an infant. You'll see him in his majesty, in his glory. But you'll have that same joy. Who is this so weak and helpless child of lowly Hebrew maid, rudely in a stable sheltered, coldly in a manger laid? 'Tis the Lord of all creation, who this wondrous path hath trod. He is God from everlasting and to everlasting God. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a joy must have entered Simeon to lay eyes upon that little six-week-old baby who would come to save his people from their sins. And Lord, what a joy we'll have one day, one day soon for some of us when you call us home and we stand in your presence and get to lay our eyes upon our Savior. Lord, thank you for this time and your word. Bless us now as we conclude this service in Christ's name. Amen.