Well, thanks, Choir. As we uh continue our study through the Gospel of Mark, we're in chapter 12, if you'll turn there, please. Let's begin at verse twenty eight. Then one of the scribes came and having heard them reasoning together perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him , Which is the first commandment of all Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, like it, is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher, you've spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but he, and to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the soul, with all the strength. To love one's neighbor as oneself is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Now when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him , You are not far from the kingdom of God But after that, no one dared question him. Let's pray. Lord, as we uh try to plumb the depths of Jesus' words here, we pray for Your Holy Spirit, the only one who can reveal your word to us, the only one who can open our eyes and give us understanding. The only one who can open our minds and hearts. So we're crying out to you for your help this day. In Christ's name. Amen. Dr. R. C. Sproul said, if I were to ask you, what is the most serious sin of all, what would you say? Murder? Adultery? Idolatry? Unbelief? It seems to me, he said, that if the great commandment is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, The great transgression is the failure to keep this commandment. That scares me, he said, because I have not kept the great commandment for five minutes in my life I've never loved God with my whole heart. My soul has never overflowed with affection for God. My mind has been lazy with respect to understanding God's word. And I'm often more interested in learning the things of this world. Finally, I've used only a portion of my strength in my affection for God Were it not for Jesus, I would perish because of this sin, and rightly so. We devoted last Sunday's message to this commandment, of which Jesus said, there is none greater. But I think it would be good for us to linger here just a bit longer. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John record for us many interactions between the Lord Jesus and the scribes and Pharisees, as you know. The spiritual teachers of Israel. And most of those occasions reveal the scribes and Pharisees to be envious, conniving, covetous hypocrites, with no real interest in truth. But that was not always the case. Some scribes were sincere, and that may have been the case here In this incident recorded for us in Mark 12. On this occasion, a scribe heard Jesus wisely answer a question that was posed by the Sadducees. the religious uh humanists of their day, the religious liberals, you might say, who were attempting to make the teaching of life after death and specifically the resurrection, appeared to be ludicrous. The scribe overheard Jesus' response to them, realized he had answered them well, and then he posed the question to Jesus. Which is the first commandment of all? Now, he was not asking which is the first commandment in order. He wasn't asking which is the first commandment numerically, chronologically. He was aware of what the first commandment was in the Ten Commandments. He was asking, which is first in importance? Which is foremost? And Jesus responded, perhaps surprisingly to some, that the most important of all the commandments was one that was not even included in the ten commandments that God gave to his people on Mount Sinai. He pointed the scribe back to what the Jews knew as the Shema. Look at Deuteronomy chapter 6. Hold your place here in Mark if you can and turn back to Deuteronomy chapter 6. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, numbers, Deuteronomy. Chapter 6. After recounting the Ten Commandments in what we call Deuteronomy chapter 5, Moses then spoke to the people In what we call chapter 6. Look at verse 1. Now this is the commandment, and these are the statutes and judgments which the Lord your God has commanded to teach you, that you may observe them in the land which you are crossing over to possess. That you may fear the Lord your God to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, you and your son and your grandson, all the days of your life. And that your days may be prolonged. Therefore, hear, O Israel, and be careful to observe To observe it, that it may be well with you, and that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord God of your fathers has promised you, a land flowing with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. And you shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall talk of them when you Sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Speaking with God's authority, Moses asked the people to keep these words ever before them. To keep them in their heart, to teach them to their children, to talk of them in and out of the home, to bind them on their hands and keep them as frontlets between their eyes, to write them on their doorposts, on their gates. Now, if you read this passage in its context, without those chapter divisions that were added long after Moses wrote, it seems that Moses was speaking about all the words of God's law. These words which I command you today, verse 6. Those words were not just verses 4 and 5, but they included the Ten Commandments recounted for us in chapter 5. Remember that the title of the book, Deuteronomy, is derived from a word that means second law or the repetition of the law. But the Jews came to view verses 4 and 5 as a succinct statement of faith. And they recited it morning and evening. Furthermore, as we noted last week, the Jews reasoned that there was no better way to obey Moses ' admonition to keep these words between their eyes. Than to literally keep these words between their eyes. So they wrote down these words and placed them in little leather pouches, and then they would strap them to their foreheads and also to their arms. And these were called thylactories. Now you may remember that Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for doing all their works to be seen by men. And in the process of that rebuke, Matthew 23 , he said that they make broad their phylacteries. They make their phylactories broad. Now, it's hard enough to miss somebody with a big old leather pouch on the forehead. Hard enough to miss the pouch. But the Pharisees would make it even bigger. You know, make the s maybe the straps broader or the phylactery itself larger. So nobody could miss it, perhaps even from a distance. Now I said the Jews called this passage, verses four and five, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength. They call that the Shema. Now the reason they called it the Shema is because it begins with that Hebrew word, Shema. In the original, and it means hear or give ear or pay attention. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. The Reformation Study Bible points out the Hebrew in this passage expresses totality. For this reason, the New Testament sometimes renders it heart, mind, and strength, right? Everything. Shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength. You could add other words there. It pictures totality. The scribe asked Jesus, which is the first commandment of all? And Christ's answer suggests that the Jews were right to give these words prominence. Remember, they recited them in the morning, they recited them at night. They uh kept them in in little pouches. They uh would put them on their gates, on their doors, as Moses urged them to do. In one sense, these words summarize the first table of the law. Picture Moses coming down from the Mount Sinai with two tablets, two tables. One tablet with what we would call commandments one through four, which deal with our relationship with God, and one tablet of commandments five through ten dealing with our relationship with God relationships with one another. So in one sense then this uh This Shema summarizes the first table of the law, our duties to God. We are not to have other gods before him. We are not to make or worship any images of him or of any false God. We're not to take his name in vain, but we are to regard it as holy. We are to rest on one day in seven, in honor of God's rest after the six days of creation. In a similar way, the commandment that Jesus said was second in importance. You shall love your neighbor as yourself, summarizes, you might say, the second table of the law. Commandments 5 through 10. If I love my neighbor as myself, I will honor my father and my mother, my first and closest neighbors. Commandments five. If I love my neighbor as myself, I will do all of my power to preserve my neighbor's life. Commandment six. I will do all of my power to preserve my neighbor 's virtue. Commandment seven. Thou shalt not commit adultery. I will do all in my power not to steal from my neighbor, Commandment 8. I will not be a false witness, or bear false witness against my neighbor. Commandment 9. I will not covet that which belongs to my neighbor. Commandment 10. But although, as we said, the greatest commandment, the one we're focusing on this morning, It can be seen to summarize the first table of the law, Commandments 1 through 4, just as the second great commandment, which we'll consider next week, Lord willing. uh summarizes the second table of the law, commandments 5-10. This greatest of commandments seems to go beyond the Decalogue, doesn't it? What I mean is, it's conceivable that I could endeavor, out of a sense of duty or out of a sense of fear, to diligently keep the first four commandments. Place no gods before God. Not worship any graven image. Be very careful not to take the Lord's holy name in vain. Keep his day of rest holy. And I could still be very far from keeping the greatest commandment, loving God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. You see, an observant scribe or Pharisee was exceedingly careful in the keeping of the law, going even beyond the law's requirements, as you recall. The law says we're to tithe. Well, we'll even tithe our spices. You see, they went beyond what God was asking of them But for many of them, it could not be said that they loved God, right? They were diligent in keeping the law, but it couldn't be said that they were doing it out of love for God. And there are many who call themselves Christians today who are quite strict, you might say, punctilious in their observance of works of obedience and service. They would never miss a worship service unless they had an absolutely uh uh uh you know uh a doctor's order. Notice during the snowstorm, you know, the was it the bishop or somebody announced that uh uh everybody was uh uh They had an excuse for staying home on that uh on the day that they couldn't possibly get to church. And uh but but if they were being honest Many of us who call ourselves Christians would acknowledge that our actions are not motivated by love. The Augustinian monk Martin Luther, diligent in pilgrimages and sacrifices and fasts and alms and self-deprivations was asked if he loved God and he responded, Love God. Sometimes I hate it. Sometimes I hate him. And why would he say that? Because of all these rules and regulations, all these efforts he was trying to make to pacify God, to please an angry God, and he could never know, as he said, if the ledger was balanced. If he had done enough good on the one side to overcome the evil on the other. And yet remember, Luther, in an effort to earn salvation, was far more dutiful than most of us in endeavoring to keep God's commandments. So it's just it's as if Jesus is saying, by pointing to these words, as the greatest commandment, if you think observing God's laws, if you think observing rules is all God asks of you, You are wrong. The rich young ruler thought he had kept all God's commandments from his youth. All these have I kept from my youth up, he said to Jesus when he asked him about it. Well, in fact, he hadn't. He hadn't completely, he hadn't perfectly kept the commandments and thought, word, and deed every single day of his life. We know that because he was human, and we know what humans are like. He didn't understand that one primary purpose of the law was to reveal to us our utter inability to keep it. And thus our desperate need for a redeemer. The law, Paul said, was our tutor, our guardian, our schoolmaster to drive us to Christ, to move us in the direction of Christ. To show me that I need a Redeemer, that I can't possibly keep this. I can't do it. The law serves as a tutor, as a guardian, showing us where we fall short, causing us ultimately to cry out, The Lord, have mercy on me. sinner. Right? There's the great purpose of the law. To drive me to my knees so I cry out, Lord, have mercy upon me. I can't possibly do this. It's hard enough to swog up Mount Sinai. No sooner do we make some progress keeping one commandment than we discover we're slipping backwards on another one Now, Jesus says, and Moses told us, now we're told that the greatest commandment is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength. In other words, even if we could somehow make it up to the summit of Mount Sinai, conquering all ten commandments in thought, word, and deed We find the more difficult tasks still before us to love the Lord our God with all our heart, all our soul, all our mind, all our strength. Now, we asked last week, why is it right for God to ask us, in fact, command us to love him? I mean, why does he ask this of us? Because God is the only being in the universe who's infinitely pure. Infinitely righteous, infinitely loving, merciful, wise, faithful, sovereign, glorious, and holy And it's right for creatures, his creatures, to love him supremely. And it's wrong for us to fail to do so. Since God desires what's best for us, he has to exhort us to do that which is supremely good. If he didn't, he would be tacitly encouraging our idolatry. Go ahead, it's all right. Love other things, other people, you put other gods before me. To love anyone or anything more than God is by definition idolatry It's placing another God before his face. But as we saw last Sunday, when God tells a fallen sinner to love him with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength, he's in fact asking him or her to do that. Which is impossible. It's something the sinner's mind and will and affections do not desire. It's something the sinner simply cannot do, even if he wanted to do it, and he doesn't. He loves darkness rather than light because his deeds are evil. Now I like the movie Dumbo as much as any clown or any old crow. But in the real world, as you may have noticed, elephants just can't fly. You're right? Those uh uh what do they call them? Ears are not big enough to flap, you know, to provide the thrust and uh whatever. Uh elephants just can't fly. It's contrary to their nature And it's contrary to the nature of a fallen sinner who loves darkness rather than light, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, whose feet are swift to shed blood, who has no fear of God before his eyes, Romans 3. To love God with all his heart and soul, mind, and strength, even if he wanted to and he doesn't want to So when Jesus declares that the greatest commandment, the greatest commandment of all, is to love God with all the heart, soul, mind, and strength, he's saying, in effect, what he said to Nicodemus. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You can't do it. You can't do it in your own strength. Nobody ever could. Unless a man is born again, born from above, regenerated, unless he experiences the new birth, can't see the kingdom of God. The only way for a depraved sinner to move from a state of hatred and rebellion toward God to a point of loving God at all, let alone with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. Is for that sinner to be regenerated, to be born from above. And that new birth, just like our first birth, is by grace. It is not of ourselves, it is the gift of God. Ephesians two. Now this is true for all people in all ages. Moses told the people, The Lord your God will circumcise your heart And the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul that you may live. Deuteronomy 30. How are we going to do this? The Lord your God will do it, He will circumcise your heart. He will cut away the stone. He'll make it a heart of flesh. The Lord your God will do that for you and your descendants. The Apostle Paul said, the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. Romans 5. And he prayed that the Lord would direct the heart of believers into the love of God. In 2 Thessalonians 3, 5. But as you know, not all those who called themselves children of Abraham had actually experienced what Moses called the circumcising of the heart. You remember the evangelist and deacon Stephen as he preached before the very men who put Jesus to death. He said to them, after recounting all that God had done and the wondrous works of the Lord, He said to them, you stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets? Prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And now you've killed the very son of God. You've put to death your own Messiah! He called them stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and in ears. Not all who attend Christian churches or all who otherwise call themselves Christians have experienced this new birth. Many have not been born from above. Remember, Jesus said, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have I not prophesied in thy name and in thy name cast out demons and said? Then I will say to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work in equity. Many who sit in Christian churches this morning have not been born from above. Many who stand in pulpits have not been born from above. Their hearts have not been circumcised. The love of God has not been shed abroad there by the Holy Spirit. And that's why Jesus said to the unbelieving Jews in John 5, You do not have the love of God in you. If God were your father, you would love me because I came forth from him. So the first thing each man, woman, and child should do. When he reads that Jesus said the greatest commandment of all, the greatest commandment of all is to love the Lord with one's entire being. The first thing that ought to drive me to do is to cry out, Lord, if this is my primary duty, if this is why I'm here , And if in my own sinful nature this is something I can't do apart from this new birth you're talking about, then Lord grant it to me. Have mercy upon me. Give me this new life, the Bible talks about. Open my eyes. Take away my blind eyes. Give me sight. Breathe upon these dry bones that they might live. God Work in my heart. Have mercy upon me. Lord, I'm crying out to you. Please help me. Save me. Give me this new life. That's What I must do when I realize this is the greatest commandment of all And I can't do it in my own nature, in my own strength. This is the principal thing. Jesus said, unless a man is born again, he can't see the kingdom of God. It's only when we've experienced the new birth that we can truly love God at all. So our first duty is to cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Give me a heart of flesh. Give me this new birth. But once I've been enabled by God's Spirit to embrace Jesus as my Lord and Savior, to rest upon his finished work upon the cross as my only hope. Once I have been born from above, and how do I know if I have? Well, the first thing that's going to happen if I've been born from above is I'm going to repent. I'm going to see my sins as vile. I'm going to turn from them in disgust. I'm going to lay hold upon Jesus and put all my trust in him and his perfect life and finished work for me on the cross. How do I know if I've been born again? Are you trusting in Jesus alone? If someone asks you the question, do you know you're going to go to heaven? Would you say, Yes, I know, because of what Jesus Christ did for me and I'm resting in that? And not bec and you wouldn't start rattling off, well, I've been a church member for blah blah and I've done this and that. And I'm trying my best and I try hard and I like other people and people other people like me. It has nothing to do with that. But now that you have been born from above, now I have this lifetime goal set before me. Not just loving God, but loving him with all my heart, all my soul, all my mind, all my strength, right? God does not rest satisfied with the outward appearance of works, but chiefly demands the inward feelings that from a good root good fruit may grow, is the way John Calvin put it. How can I deepen my love for the Lord? Well, I can use the means that He's given me, the Word of God, prayer, worship, the Lord's Supper, investing my gifts in His service. I can hide his word in my heart that I might not sin against him. I can meditate upon it. I can meditate upon his attributes, his holiness, his justice, his goodness, his truth, his mercy, his kindness, his faithfulness. Meditate upon his power. Meditate upon his wisdom, etc. And I can marvel upon his majestic creation How do you deepen that love for God? Marvel. Meditate upon his creation. Take some time to think about what he's done. You can choose uh objects from nature at random, right? A maple tree, a cardinal, a sea turtle, a water lily. A leopard, a fox, a butterfly, any one of them could occupy your study for a lifetime. Right? And you would never plumb the depths of the intricate design. of that tree or that flower or that bird or that animal. Oh the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, his ways pass Finding out. Romans 11, 33. If I want to deepen my love for God, I need only think of his blessings to me personally. I would encourage you to do that. Think of his blessings to you personally. No , for me it it includes a a loving wife, uh children, grandchildren, uh a loving church family. living in in a nation of freedom and abundance that's ruled not by warlords and gangs or tyrants but by law and by civil authorities bound by those laws and subject to our constitution. And of course, his greatest blessing to me is the assurance that my sins have been forgiven. The joy of knowing Jesus Christ. All I've got to do is meditate upon that. To uh to allow my heart to to to reach up and praise in praise of God and to uh love him with my heart Consider this, if God desires the love of creatures that he made in his own image, then we must conclude that he's pleased when we sincerely express our love. to him, right? If he if he desires our love, if he exhorts us to love him, and he does it over and over again in Scripture, then he must be pleased when we express our love to him. Remember when uh Not long before Christ's crucifixion when a woman came and anointed his his head with ointment and anointed his hair and And his feet. And and of course Judas and some of the other disciples I think said, Why was this waste of the ointment made? He could have sold that for lots and lots of money. And Jesus said, let her alone. She's come to anoint my body before the burial. Wherever the gospel shall be preached, this also which she has done shall be told as a memorial of her. Her expression of love to him was welcomed by him How can we express our love? We can express our love to God in prayer. When you go to prayer, don't just run towards supplication. Oh God, please help my son, help my daughter, help my blah, blah, blah. Spend some time in adoration. Lord, what a glorious God you are. How wondrous are your ways, how marvelous. Are your doings? Spend some time in adoration of God. We can do it with our voices and songs, praise, singing, making melody in your hearts to the Lord. Scripture exhorts us to do it. The songs and hymns that we sing in worship should remain with us through the week. If you're like me, you'll you sometimes you they'll be popping into your mind as you go about your business through the week. We ought to lift them up to God. We're to love him with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength. We can express our love to God by allowing our hearts to ascend to the Lord in thankfulness throughout the day. And everything give thanks for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Let your heart lift up in thankfulness for his goodness and faith. Lord, thank you for a warm home. Thank you for heat in a church. Thank you for our electricity. Thank you for your goodness and grace in my life. Thank you for food and all the blessings we receive from him. It was a oh then I had a Another point here. If we're gonna express our love to God, we can do it not only in uh in prayer, in adoration. Not only in in songs and hymns, spiritual songs, not only in thanking him as we go through the day, but in in serving him with the gifts that he's given us. That's one way of expressing our love to him. To serve him. Use my gifts to invest in his kingdom. It was a blessing to hear and and to experience. uh the uh the way uh believers served one another during the recent uh snow event that we had. Or what we used to call our first church in Buffalo a typical weekend in the winter. And uh you know Uh it was a blessing for me to hear from some of the young members of the of the flock how they were serving their neighborhoods shoveling out snow and people were offering them money and they would decline it because they're doing it out of out of love for the Lord and love for their neighbor. Even a child is known by his doings, scripture says. Even a child know that. Remember now your Creator in the days of your youth. Before the difficult days come and the years draw near when you say, I have no pleasure in them. Right? Ecclesiastes 12, 1 The days are gonna come, young people, when right now uh birthdays are a great joy, right? It's a wonderful thing. Hey, I'm turning twelve. Pastor Russell, I'm gonna turn twelve. Oh well that's that's great. Alright now you look forward to 'em, it's a great joy. But the time will come when birthdays are not as joyful. After you've had five or six dozen of them, they lose lose some of their appeal. Inflation, I guess they call it. But there is service that you can render to God in your youth that you will not be able to render to God in your old age. And our love should be expressed in service, in our service. And then our love can be expressed, of course, in our giving. Many of you continuously faithfully give to the Lord's work here that we might not only support the preaching of the gospel here, but support it around the world. And uh isn't it amazing to think, you know, when God says, Look, he if you give a cup of cold water in the name of a disciple, you will not lose your reward. So he he remembers all those sacrificial gifts that we We we give to him. All of us that that faithful giving is noted by him Consider for a few moments the consequences of our love. When our love is when our love for the Lord is strong and deep, then keeping the law becomes our delight. It's not as onerous when we're doing it out of love. Note the correlation in Deuteronomy. Love him and keep his statutes. Love him and obey him. The Apostle Paul said, love is the fulfilling of the law. The Lord Jesus said, if you love me, keep my commandments. So when my love for the Lord is strong and deep, then keeping his commandments becomes not onerous, but a thing I want to do out of love for him. And when our love for the Lord is strong and deep, then we want to share that love with others. We want others to know it. We want others to experience it. And the Bible says he that does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen? In other words, the love of God will give birth to love for Our brothers and love for others, love for the lost. God And when our love for the Lord and for his people is strong and deep, then others will see it, and God will be glorified by it. Behold, how these Christians love one another. What a testimony it is to the world to see believers who love one another and who reach out for no uh uh benefit to them who reach out. to those in need. And so every time a Christian establishes an orphanage or or uh or a homeless shelter or or uh gives uh of his goods to provide for someone else Others take notice and God is glorified. Ultimately, of course, our love for God is a response And a recognition of his love for us. We love him because he first loved us, is the way John put it. 1 John 4, 19. In this, the love of God was manifested toward us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him. In this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. You want to deepen your love for the Lord? You should want to deepen in your love for the Lord. your love for love for Spend some time in the shadow of the cross. Meditate upon his great love for you manifested there. Let's pray.