Spirit to you and works miracles among you. Does he do it by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? Just as Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Therefore, know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, Preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. For as many as are the works of the law are under the curse, for it's written, cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. But that no one is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident, for the just shall live by faith. Yet the law is not of faith, but the man who does them shall live by them. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. That the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Brethren, I speak in the manner of men, though it's only a man's covenant, yet if it's confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it. Now to Abraham and his seed where the promise is made. He does not say and to seeds as of many, but as of one, and to your seed. Who is Christ? And this I say, that the law, which was four hundred and thirty years later, cannot annul the covenant that was confirmed before by God in Christ, that it should make the promise of no effect. For if the inheritance is of the law, it's no longer a promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise. What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions till the seed should come to whom the promise was made. And it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator. Now, a mediator does not mediate for one only, but God is one. Is the law then against the promises of God? Certainly not. For if there had been a law given which could have given life, truly righteousness would have been by the law. But the scripture has confined all under sin that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. But before faith came, we were kept under guard by the law, kept for the faith which would afterward be revealed. Therefore, the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith. But after faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ There's neither Jew nor Greek, there's neither slave nor free, there's neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ Then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray. Speak to us now through your word, Father. This is something only your Holy Spirit can do, and so we cry out to you for Him to work within us. We ask it through Christ our Lord. Amen. Tradition is a demanding parent. Tradition is a forceful teacher. Tradition's children obey him even when he's wrong. And having obeyed and submitted, tradition's children, when fully grown, often expect their offspring to submit to them, right or wrong, and to grow to be masters of tradition themselves one day. Now, should tradition 's children decide to forsake tradition for whatever reason, it's not only a great disappointment to father tradition. But it may be perceived as a threat, because it suggests that the traditions that have been followed for so long may be dispensable or even in error. Over hundreds of years, the tradition had developed among the Hebrews that the law was a means of life. Psalm 19 declares that in keeping of them God's laws there is great reward, and the prevailing opinion among first-century Jews, which was underscored and encouraged by the scribes and elders. Was that the great reward that was promised for keeping the law was the privilege of dwelling among their fathers in paradise, in heaven? The prevailing view seemed to be that eternal life awaits all those who diligently keep God's law Remember, the rich ruler declared to Jesus regarding God's commandments, All these have I kept from my youth up. What lack I yet? If one lived as a faithful child of Abraham, kept the sacraments and ceremonies of the law of Moses, he was assumed to be righteous. Attend the required feasts, offer the required sacrifices, attempt to abide by the law as it was interpreted and amplified by the teachers of Israel And you could be confident that you had attained everlasting life. This was the view of many, if not most, first-century Jews. Because this was the traditional understanding of these things which had been passed down for generations. The simple word of God had become so embellished by the teachers that the common people, who often didn't have uh full access to the word, were utterly dependent upon that instruction from those teachers, and they were therefore confused about these things. In that respect, the situation was similar to that in Europe before the Reformation. Now, this year, as you may know, marks the 500th anniversary of Luther's nailing those 95 theses to the the door of the castle church there in Wittenberg. So pastors may be forgiven for referring to Luther in a month other than October. In 16th century Europe, the scholars could read the scriptures in Latin , translated from the original Hebrew and Greek. But the common people who spoke German or English or whatever did not have the Bible in their own language. So how would they know what the Bible said? Well, they would hear a portion of it read oftentimes from a Bible that was actually chained to the pulpit, they would hear a portion read, but even then they were dependent upon their priest or their pastor to rightly translate or rightly expound it. and actually rightly translate it into their language and then rightly expound it. And the priests themselves were bound by father tradition. After his heroic stand before the heads of church and state of the Holy Roman Empire in 1521, when he declared, My conscience is held captive by the Word of God. To go against conscience is neither right nor safe. Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise, so help me God Martin Luther was whisked away by his friends and hidden in Wartburg Castle, where he began translating the scriptures into the German language. So the common people could hear and understand it. He knew that the entrance of God's word would bring light The established Church of Luther's Day resisted efforts to give the lay people the scriptures in their own language because they viewed such efforts as an attack upon the authority of the church. The church which had the uh privilege and responsibility of interpreting and explaining God's word. And the church was scandalized that any one man, as learned as he may be or may have been, would have the audacity To reject hundreds of years of church tradition and the teaching of the church's councils and popes, to declare that salvation was by faith in Jesus Christ alone. In his sinless life and sacrificial death and glorious resurrection. So Luther stirred up a viper's nest simply by affirming What the Apostle Paul declared almost 1500 years before him. Justification by faith alone, apart from works. Luther had the scriptures to support him. He pointed people back to Galatians and Romans specifically, where that truth is very plain. The Apostle Paul faced a tradition no less strong than Luther's, than the tradition in Luther's day. It was a tradition that Paul had once been bound by himself, you'll remember. So Luther pointed back to Paul. Paul, here in Galatians 3, points back to Abraham. Don't you see that Abraham was justified by faith, Paul says, and those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. Verses 6 and 7. The Old Testament itself declares the just shall live by faith. Habakkuk. Paul cites it here in Galatians 3. Don't you see that those who try to be justified by the law, Paul says, Must keep that law perfectly. Now you may be justified by the law. I should say you can be justified by the law if you keep that law perfectly. And Paul illustrates his point with something that his readers would easily understand. Look at verse 15. Brethren, I speak in the manner of men. Though it's only a man's covenant, yet if it is confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it. Even though it's only a man's covenant, we're talking about a covenant God made with Abraham, even in our dealings with one another Once a solemn agreement is spelled out or ratified by two parties, one of those two parties, or a third party, cannot legally change the terms or void the agreement later. You sign a contract to buy a home for a certain price with all the appliances included. You and the seller agree. No one can come along later and change the terms or void the agreement without the consent of the original parties. That's a good way to find yourself in court. The seller says, you know, we decided uh the house we bought doesn't have a stove, a refrigerator, a microwave, etc. So we're going to take the appliances with us, but the price remains the same. Well you would say, whoa, whoa, you can't do that You can't change the terms of the agreement. Well, God entered into an obligation to Abraham. God, in a sense, obligated himself to Abraham. He promised to be his God. He said, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you. Now, having established that covenant by faith , Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. Having established that covenant by faith The appearance of the loss over 400 years later cannot alter that covenant. It can't make changes or void the original agreement. But it might be argued, well, maybe after Abraham's death, God established a different covenant on different terms. No, the promises were made to Abraham and his seed, which we are Look at verse 29, the last verse of the chapter. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. That promise that God made with Abraham applies to you if you're Abraham's seed. But then Paul makes an unusual point that causes all of us to scratch our heads as we read it. He notes that the original Hebrew in Genesis used the word seed in a singular collective sense , not in a plural form. Verse 16. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. And Paul says, listen, notice, he doesn't say, and to seeds, as of many, but as of one, and to your seed, who is Christ. Now, we use the word seed in the same way today. If I say to you, old McDonald went into his field and planted his pumpkin seed I could be referring to hundreds of individual seeds, right? He was planting his entire pumpkin patch. Old McDonald went to his field to plant his pumpkin seed. How many seeds? Well I haven't told you. Right? Could be one. I could be referring to hundreds of individual seeds, or I could be referring to one prized pumpkin seed that he bought from Peter Peter the pumpkin eater. Not to be confused with Peter Piper, the pickle pepper picker. The word seed can refer to one seed, right? Or to many, like the word fish. Uh I saw the the Roland's here today. If Wyatt, if Wyatt, uh where's Wyatt? Is he still here? Oh, he's over there. Okay, why hey Wyatt, there they are. Wyatt, uh If Wyatt uh came to Sunday school and said and said to his teacher, I guess it was Lynn Smith for most of this past year, if he said to Lynn Smith, uh, I'm going to bring my fish to Sunday school next week Well she doesn't know if he's going to bring one fish in a in a bowl or a whole aquarium full of fish, right? Uh but uh if he said, uh I'm gonna bring my fishes well that would help. Now she knows it's they're plural And uh or if the farmer said I'm going to plant my pumpkin seeds, right, then we would know more than one. Well, the Apostle Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit, does a little reading between the lines of the book of Genesis And he notes that when God spoke to Abraham of his descendants, he used the word seed and not seeds Now, Paul knew, of course, that the word seed can be used in a collective sense, and he uses it that way himself in that last verse of the chapter. You are Abraham's seed, right? We just saw it. If you are Christ, then you are Abraham's seed. No doubt he recognized that was the primary meaning of the term when God used it with Abraham. This is for you, and this is for your descendants after you. But he notes that it could also refer, in one sense, to Abraham's singular seed, that is, the seed of the woman who would come And uh and uh defeat Satan. Right? Seed of the woman that would bruise the head of the serpent, Genesis three fifteen. Paul's point in making this connection of Abraham's seed with Christ will become clear in a few moments, but first Continue on now, seventeen and eighteen. And this I say, Paul says, that the law, which was four hundred and thirty years later, right, after the covenant with Abraham, cannot annul the covenant that was confirmed before God, before by God in Christ. that it should make the promise of no effect. For if the inheritance is of the law, it's no longer a promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise. The covenant, which was by faith confirmed before by God, cannot be annulled by the law, which came hundreds of years later. If the inheritance, all the blessings inherited by Abraham's spiritual children, is of the law, is received or earned as a result of keeping the law, Then it is no longer a promise. It must be one or the other. Either God promised Abraham and his descendants blessings on the basis of faith, Or he promised those blessings on the basis of the law. Well, clearly, Paul says God gave the inheritance to Abraham by promise. So the big question this raises is: then of what use is the law? Why the law? What purpose does it serve? If it doesn't bring life, why was it given? Well look at verse 19. What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions. Till the seed should come to whom the promise was made. Here he's speaking of Christ, and it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator. It was added because of transgressions. Not added to the original covenant as an addendum to that covenant, but added or given to the Jews as additional information. Because of transgressions. Suggesting perhaps that in light of the transgressions of men and even of his own chosen people, the Lord gave the law to help to provide order to society. Now, when we talk about the law, many find it helpful to subdivide that great category of the law in their minds. There were laws that God gave his people for the governing of their nation. when the nation was a theocracy, when they received their laws directly from God. We, as a republic, form our own laws through our representatives. They, as a theocracy, received their laws, their civil laws, directly from God. What do they do if a man killed another intentionally? How do they deal with that? What about if a man killed someone accidentally? What do you do then? What do you do if an ox bores a man, etc. ? Those were civil laws. We commonly call them civil laws, and there are many of them in the Old Testament. There were also laws dealing with worship and with maintaining their distinctives as God's people, feast days. clothing restrictions, offerings, sacrifices, food restrictions, we commonly call these ceremonial laws. Lots of ceremonial laws in the Old Testament. Laws of feasts, and what do you do on this day and that day and this Sabbath and that Sabbath? And then there were, of course, the special ten precepts given at Mount Sinai, which clearly reflect God's holy nature Which have application to every nation and every culture. Murder is wrong in every nation, every culture, whether they recognize it or not, whether they uh call themselves uh followers of God or not When Paul speaks of the law here in Galatians, he seems to be referring to all of God's revealed law, whether we call it ceremonial, civil, or moral. And he says the law was added because of transgressions. In other words, for one thing, to provide order. Every society requires law. Several years ago now I heard John Piper preach I think it was at a ligioneer conference. He was preaching on Romans 13. Let every soul be subject to the higher powers. There's no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained. By God or appointed by God. He was pointing out that we don't consider what a tremendous blessing it is to us to have a government and to have a nation that is ruled by law. He said, imagine if you were living in a place where all men did as they pleased without any authority, where you could not summon the police because there were no police, where a mob could do its collective will and no authority could stop it. And which of us would want to live in such a society? Can you even call it a society? Government, he said, and I'm quoting him here, is a glorious blessing for our good from God. We failed to realize what an awesome gift any government is. So the law was given, for one thing, to help establish order. And then the law was given to discourage sin. Honor your father and mother that your days may be long in the land which the Lord your God giveth to you. If you commit murder, you will forfeit your life. The law cannot prevent us from sinning, but it can act as a deterrent, kind of in the same way that a state trooper on the interstate deters people From driving 80, 90 miles an hour. The law was added because of transgressions. You think crime is rampant today? Imagine if there were no laws. Imagine if there were no authority. But the most important purpose of the law is found in verses 23-24. Look at that. But before faith came, we were kept under guard by the law, kept for the faith which would afterward be revealed. Therefore, the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ. that we might be justified by faith. Now it's difficult to translate that Greek word translated here, tutor. It's uh Peta Gogos, Peta Gogas. We don't really have an equivalent for it today. Listen to what scholar William Hendrickson writes about it. He says it's true that the original calls the law our pedagogue But that word did not have the meaning which it has now in our language. In the figure used here, the pedagogue is the man, generally a slave, in whose custody the slave owner's boys were placed in order that the trusted servant might conduct them to and from school and might in fact watch over their conduct throughout the day. He was accordingly an escort or an attendant, but also at the same time a disciplinarian The discipline which he enacted was often of a severe character, so that those placed under his guardianship would yearn for the day of freedom. You get the picture? This tutor, this guardian was with you every moment of every day. Stand up straight, young man. Don't slouch. You're a free Greek You should look like it. Speak clearly. Don't mumble. What are you learning in rhetoric class? Show respect to your elders. Get back to your studies. That's enough play. You're no Olympic athlete. Wipe that smirk off your face, boy. Did you wash your hands? Did you sacrifice to Zeus today? You're not wearing that, are you? Slow down. This is your father's chariot. You just passed an Athens city-state trooper. The guy says, the boy says, Enough! I can't do this! I can't bear these all these rules. You're writing me all the time. You never let up. Do this, do that, don't do this, don't do that. Nothing I ever do is good enough. Right? And so the law served as our custodian, our guardian, our schoolmaster, our tutor to drive us to Christ. I need a savior. I can't keep all these laws. I can't possibly do it. I can't do it for one full day, let alone my whole life. You tell me I have to perfectly keep all these laws? I can't. No one can. I have not known sin but by the law. The law says thou shalt not covet. The conscience says sometimes I do. The law says honor your father and your mother. The conscience says sometimes I don't. The law says we're in danger of judgment. We're under a curse. We're in need of supernatural help. We need a savior. That's the great purpose of the law. Well by the way, you see what that means, you see the implication of that. If people don't know the law, if they don't hear the law, if they don't realize there's a law of God to which they are accountable, why do they need Jesus? I don't need a savior. What are you talking about? I'm fine. The moral law drives us to Christ. The ceremonial law points us to Christ. All these ceremonies and their images, they're pictures of Jesus, of the Messiah who is yet to come. Why does the Lamb have to be pure and spotless? See? Because it's a picture of Jesus, the Lamb of God, who would take away the sins of the world. But after that faith has come, Paul says, we're no longer under a custodian, we're no longer under a schoolmaster, we're no longer under a tutor, under a guardian, we have reached maturity. In a sense, then the law is like a roadmap that leads you through enemy territory, but after you're safe at home, it doesn't have the same value to you. Now, this is particularly true of the ceremonial law, right? Which pointed us to Christ, but now Christ has come. We see him. We don't need to look at the ceremonial law to get shadows of him. We have him as he's revealed to us in Scripture. Now, you may ask, if the law has fulfilled its primary purpose, are we now bound to keep the Ten Commandments? If you were to ask me, are we bound to keep the Ten Commandments today? I would answer, well, what do you mean by that question If you mean, are we bound to keep the Ten Commandments in the sense that they have some sort of binding authority over us? In the sense that we're in danger of judgment if we break them, then I would answer, no, we're not under the law. But inasmuch as the commandments are an expression of the wishes of our holy Creator and Redeemer, inasmuch as they show us what behavior gives him pleasure and what behavior dishonors him Then yes, we're definitely, they are definitely binding upon us. We're bound by love. Right? If we love him, we want to keep his commandments. So the Apostle Paul himself exhorts believing children to honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise. Ephesians 6. Paul said, I delight in the law of God according to the inward man. I delight in it. Romans seven. The law is holy, and the commandment is holy and just and good. Romans seven twelve. But he also says we've been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. The law was added until the seed should come to whom the promise was made. That's that reference to seed as an individual. That's his reference to Jesus. He sees that in the Old Testament promise. until Jesus should come. That's why he belabored that point about Abraham's seed referring in one sense to a singular person. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. The law has fulfilled its major role in your life if you're a Christian and it has it has done its purpose. It has driven you to Jesus So you can be thankful for the law. It had that result in your life, but you're not bound to it. You're not a slave to the law. You're a servant of Jesus Christ. But another question that may arise is: well, wait a minute, Old Testament saints were saved by faith, and yet they had to keep the law. We, like them, are saved by faith. How come we don't have to keep the law? Well remember much of the law served as a teaching tool to point to Christ, so we don't need to keep that, obviously. Other laws taught the Jews how to live in a civil society, and as I said, those laws don't govern us today. We have a representative government. And we're governed by civil leaders elected by us. The rest of God's law was moral, and the great difference between us and the Old Testament believers Here is this. Jeremiah declares, In the days of the new covenant, I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. Over here, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Jeremiah 31, 33. Now that prophecy has not been fulfilled to the extent that it will yet be, as the Pastor Nick has been teaching through his series, it's it has not been fulfilled to the extent that it will yet be. When there's a new heaven and a new earth, and we will be free of all sin, free of all temptation. But even now, we are enabled to fulfill the law on a deeper level than the Old Testament believer because Christ has written his law on our hearts. What do I mean by that? I mean if you're a Christian, the Holy Spirit is indwelling you as he was not indwelling the Pharisees, let us say. The Pharisees were able to keep the law externally, but they had no desire to keep it within. Well, they wouldn't murder, because the law said do not murder, but they would hate in their own hearts and feel evidently no guilt for it. They would not commit the act of adultery, but they would lust and apparently uh think they had done no wrong. Because they had not violated the letter of the law. You, like the Apostle Paul, can, as he put it, delight in the law after the inward man. An unbeliever doesn't do that. He doesn't delight in the law after the inward man. You say, yeah, but I continue to struggle with sin. Shouldn't a believer have victory? Well, Paul was a believer, but he was a struggling believer. I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind. So you will struggle, you will fall, but the course of your life will be progress. You'll struggle, you'll you'll stumble, but the course of your life will be progress. The Holy Spirit, when you sin, will bring it to your mind, and you will Repent of it. If, however, you sin and are comfortable with it, if you can lie and feel no guilt If you can be harsh to your spouse or your children and feel no remorse, if you can refuse to forgive a brother or sister and feel no pangs of conscience If you can commit sins of the flesh and not be convicted and not resolve to resist them with God's help, Then you have caused to question if your new birth experience was real. If we say we have fellowship with you Him and walk in darkness, we lie , and do not practice the truth. How about you? Have you recognized that in your natural state you were dead in your trespasses and sins? Have you recognized yourself to be a slave to sin, bound by its chains? Do you see that in some way you have violated every single one of God's moral laws? No, you haven't maybe actually formed an idol out of bronze, but you have idols in your heart Have you cried out in your soul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? Romans 7. Well then the law of God has fulfilled its major purpose in your life. Note the law can show you your sin, it can drive you to your knees, it can cause you to fear the wrath of a holy God, but the law cannot deliver you. The law cannot redeem you. The law cannot justify you. The law cannot save you. It was never intended to do that. It cannot possibly do that. Well, there is one who can, and only one who can. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. That we might receive the adoption as sons. God's own dear son left the glory above and came to the sinful earth. He went to that cross, not because he had committed any sin. Which of you convict convinces me of sin? Jesus said to the Jews. He was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners. Yet he went to that cross. Why? Why did the father turn his faith away from his own dear son? Why did Jesus have to cry out in his agony, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why? Because that's what sin deserves. Jesus was the sin bearer. He was taking my place I'm the one who's violated God's holy law. I'm the one who's taken his name in vain. I'm the one who's been the idolater. I'm the one who's dishonored father and mother. You see, I'm the one who sinned, and yet Jesus is the one who died. He died as my substitute. He died as a sacrifice for sinners. Now, that's all well and good, but how do I know that he died for me? How can you know? It's a simple matter. He made it so simple a child can do it. In fact, he said, if you come to him, you must come as a little child, not proud and puffed up. Not uh grateful for how righteous you've been, but empty-handed, realizing you're but nothing but a sinner The only thing you bring to your salvation is the sin that made Christ's sacrifice necessary. You have nothing to add to what Christ has done. What you need to do is cry out to God for mercy. God be merciful to me, a sinner. If you've never done that, I pray that you'll do that today. God forgive me. and save me. Lord, I can't save myself. I can't keep this law. I can't keep it at all. Certainly not perfectly. God have mercy on me. Me. Save me. Give me this eternal life. You come to God and pray that prayer. On the authority of God's word, I declare to you, Jesus said, He who believes in me, that 's trust, rests, relies upon upon me. He who believes in me has everlasting life. Let's pray Oh Father, how we pray that the law would do its work in each and every one of our hearts, boys and girls, young people. Adults, seniors, Lord, work in every heart. We pray that none of us would leave this place today thinking to himself, Well, I'm good Enough, I've done enough, surely God will receive me into heaven. Lord, please draw souls to true saving faith. And those of us who are yours, how we thank you. Thank you for reminding us that the law is nothing but a schoolmaster, a tutor, a guardian to drive us to Christ. Now we're no longer under that tutor, no longer under that guardian. We pray in Christ's name, Amen.