Amen. Praise God for that. Galatians chapter one, if you turn there, please. I'd like to read the first two chapters of Galatians this morning. That uh we might understand what Paul's saying in context. Galatians chapter one, beginning at verse one. Paul, an apostle, not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead. And all the brethren who are with me, to the churches of Galatia, grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I marvel that you're turning away so soon from him who called you to the grace of Christ to a different gospel. Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven Preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we've said before, so now I say again, if anyone preaches any other gospel to you Then what you have received, let him be accursed. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. But I make known to you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man, for I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. For you've heard of my former conduct in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it. And I advanced in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries in my own nation. being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers. But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called me through his grace to reveal his son in me that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately confer with flesh and blood, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went to Arabia and returned again to Damascus. Then, after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter. Then I remained with him 15 days But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. Now, concerning the things which I write to you, indeed before God I do not lie. Afterward, I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia. And I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which were in Christ, but They were hearing only. He who formerly persecuted us now preaches the faith which he once tried to destroy. And they glorify God in me. Then, after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas and also took Titus with me. And I went up by revelation and communicated to them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles. But privately to those who were of reputation, lest by any means I might run, or had run in vain. Yet not even Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised And this occurred because a false brethren secretly brought in, who came in by stealth, to spy out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage. To whom we did not yield submission even for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might continue with you But from those who seemed to be something, whatever they were, it makes no difference to me, God shows personal favoritism to no man, for those who seemed to be something added nothing to me. But on the contrary, when they saw that the gospel for the uncircumcised had been committed to me, as the gospel for the circumcised was to Peter, For he who worked effectively in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcised also worked effectively in me toward the Gentiles. And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that had been given to me , They gave me in Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised. They desired only that we should remember the poor, the very thing which I also was eager to do. Now, when Peter had come to Antioch, I withstood him to his face, because he was to be blamed. For before certain men came from James. He would eat with the Gentiles. But when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who are of the circumcision. And the rest of the Jews also played the hypocrite with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter, before them all, if you, being a Jew, live in the manner of Gentiles and not as the Jews, why do you compel Gentiles to live as Jews? We who are Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Christ Jesus that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified. But if while we seek to be justified by Christ we ourselves also are found sinners, is Christ therefore a minister of sin? Certainly not. For if I build again those things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor. For I, through the law, died to the law. That I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we ask for your help now as we proclaim your word. Speak to hearts, Lord. I pray especially for anyone who may be here outside of Christ, still dead in sin, without hope. May this be the day of salvation for that one. Please, Father, do a mighty work in each of our hearts, we ask, through Jesus alone. Amen. Uh Zach, if you could turn me down just a tad, I'm getting some feedback up here. On behalf of all the brothers who have journeyed with me from Jerusalem, I thank the elders here in Antioch for allowing me to address you this morning. The earnestness and zeal of the believers here is well known throughout the provinces, throughout the province of Galatia, and even back in Judea. Your newfound faith in Yeshua of Nazareth, the promised one, is well spoken of. We rejoice that you who were once far off, strangers to the covenant that Jehovah made with Abraham, Have now been brought near through the blood of God's anointed one. And we are grateful to our dear brothers Paul and Barnabas for bringing you the glad tidings of Christ. And we see now the fulfillment of the words of the prophet Isaiah. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. How greatly our brother Paul has been used to assist the apostles in proclaiming God's truth is well known to you. We praise Jehovah for this opportunity on behalf of those of us who lived and served with our Savior for years to build upon the foundations that our brother Paul has laid. And to clarify, perhaps, some of those matters which require further instruction. You will acknowledge that as helpful as Saul of Tarsus, whom you know as Paul, may have been in reaching you and other Gentiles with the truth of the life and death and glorious resurrection of our Messiah. He could not possibly have the same insight into the plans and purposes of God as the genuine apostles of our Lord, those who lived with him day by day over the space of three years. What Paul knows of these things he has learned from sitting at the feet of the Apostle Peter, the Apostle Matthew, the Apostle John, Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, and the others. And of course they could not, in the limited time they had with Paul, instruct him and give him perfect knowledge. In one very important matter, therefore, we we've traveled these many miles to give you further instruction. As those who were directly descended from our father Abraham , who was, as you were, called out of darkness and into God's marvelous light. We Jews, as you know, have been the recipients and preservers of God's holy laws and ceremonies. Not the least of which is the rite of circumcision, that which marks us as followers of the one true God. It was circumcision which ushered Abraham and his descendants into covenant with Jehovah. And it is a grievous error for anyone to suggest that it is possible for a man to enjoy the benefits of that covenant. while consciously, knowingly rejecting the Holy Sacrament of Circumcision and rejecting along with it All the holy rites and ceremonies, sacrifices, feast days, and ordinances that Jehovah gave his people through Moses. We come to you, therefore, in the spirit of our Lord Jesus, and with the blessing of the true apostles, to supplement what our brothers Paul and Barnabas, who, as you know, are not apostles, have told you. If you Gentile converts refuse to be circumcised and to submit to the holy laws and ordinances that Jehovah has given us, even as our Lord Jesus submitted to them You simply cannot be saved. Your faith in Jesus is good. In fact, your faith in Jesus is essential. But it is insufficient on its own. The good news, the gospel message we have come so far to deliver to you is Believe in the Messiah and keep the laws of Moses, and you will surely be saved. It was in response to such teaching that Paul fired off his message to the Galatians, written in large letters in his own hand. Having planted the churches of Galatia, that is an area that's today a part of the country of Turkey, Paul and Barnabas instructed and warned the young believers. in the time they had with them, and ordained elders, shepherds in every flock. Paul continued on his journeys, proclaiming to Jews and particularly Gentiles, that Jesus was the long-promised Messiah who had been crucified, who had been raised from the dead, who had appeared to Paul, and had called him to preach the gospel. And he proclaimed that salvation was freely granted to all those who would repent of their sins and lay hold upon Jesus Christ by faith. But sometime after he and Barnabas left the churches of Galatia, the area of Galatia, Paul got word that some had entered into the churches preaching a different gospel. This new gospel equation was faith in Jesus plus keeping the law equals salvation. In other words, the great foundational doctrine of justification by faith was being challenged Paul's spirit was stirred within him, and he wrote, inspired by God's Holy Spirit, this intense letter, refuting the Judaizers and rebuking the new believers. I marvel that you're so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto another gospel, a different gospel, which is not really another, because there's only one true gospel. Paul was aghast that the young believers in Galatia could be so easily, so quickly turned aside from the simple, unvarnished gospel of salvation by faith to some combination of faith plus works. But the question was, why should the Galatians give any heed to the teaching of Paul? And the Judaizers pointed out he wasn't one of the original twelve, as the Judaizers pointed out, he wasn't one of the original twelve. Whatever authority he has, they taught, is merely a delegated authority. He received his instruction from Peter andor Matthew and/or John Or other true apostles. And obviously, Paul has not clearly understood their teaching. We visitors from Judea are here to supplement and clarify Paul's teaching. Paul is merely a disciple of Peter, primarily, but he's unclear about many things, the Judaizer said. In particular, he's gone too far in discounting the importance of our precious Jewish heritage. If you Gentiles are going to embrace our long-awaited Messiah, you must embrace our ceremonies, our sacrifices, our special days, our food restrictions, our distinctive dress, our feasts, our fasts. And if you presume to break with our centuries-long traditions, you must have it on better authority than that of a mere man whose calling is in question. So, in writing to the Galatians, Paul finds it necessary to defend his apostleship for the sake of the gospel. And so he begins his letter, Paul, an apostle, not from men, not through man or through amen. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. It was the risen Christ who revealed himself to Paul, and it was to the resurrection that Paul referred in the very first words. in the very first words that are used to the church churches of Galatia. Now look at verses 11 and 12. But I make known to you, brethren That the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. The false teacher said the gospel Paul preached was from men, and therefore Paul had no authority to chart any new territory. But Paul said, I didn't receive it from man. I wasn't taught it. It came to me through Christ's revelation, a revelation which Christ gave to me. And then he proceeds to prove what he had just declared. 1314, you've heard of my former conduct in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God beyond measure, tried to destroy it. I advanced in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries in my own nation. I was more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers. In other words, I certainly didn't learn it from the apostles before my conversion. In fact, I persecuted the Church of Jesus Christ. I didn't sit at the feet of Peter then. And then he goes on, verses fifteen and following. When I was converted, when I was called by God's grace, I didn't go and consult with other believers I didn't run to Jerusalem and say, uh Peter, uh uh uh John uh inform me, instruct me I didn't go to Jerusalem to confer with the apostles, rather, I went to Arabia. And then I returned to Damascus. Look at what he says. Verse 17, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went to Arabia and returned again. to Damascus. And verse 15, when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me through his grace to reveal his son in me, that I might preach among among the Gentiles, I didn't immediately confer with flesh and blood. God's the one, it pleased God to separate me from my mother's womb, to set me apart for this ministry. He says in Romans 1, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated to the gospel of God. He says, God separated me from my mother's womb, Aphoridzo, to mark off, to set a limit. The Lord told Ananias, Go inquire at the house of Judas for Saul of Tarsus. He is a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before Gentiles. Paul says, God's the one that set me apart. He called me through his grace. Now this doesn't refer to the general call, right, that we all hear and receive. Believe in the Lord Jesus and you'll be saved. This is a particular call, a special call, an effectual call, a call that causes something to happen God saved us and called us with a holy calling, 2 Timothy 1. God calls you into his own kingdom and glory, 1 Thessalonians 2 It's that same particular call that came to you, if you're a believer in Christ. That call came to you when God showed you that you were dead in your sins. When he granted you the gift of repentance and he brought you to true saving faith, when you were regenerated, when you were born again, when you were born from above, when you were born anew. Paul says, when God revealed the Son in me, I didn't confer with flesh and blood. On the contrary, I communed with the risen Christ. I went to Arabia and then to Damascus. Look at verse 18. Then after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and I remained with him 15 days. But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. Now concerning the things which I write to you indeed, before God I do not lie. Now , I had a professor in seminar who used to say chronology, I think he was quoting someone, chronology is a surly curlish cur, and it has bitten many a man's fingers In other words, trying to figure out what happened, what year, and where did Paul go then and what did he but if you if you compare this with what we read about Paul's conversion in the book of Acts, you come up with something like this. Paul, of course, on his way to Damascus struck down, heard the voice of the Lord. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Who art thou, Lord? I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It's hard for you to kick against the goads And then and then he arose arise and go to Damascus. He went to Damascus. Uh he there the gospel was brought to him. The message of the gospel was brought to him. His eyes were opened. He was converted, he was baptized. Then , what's not told us necessarily in the accounts in the book of Acts is he went to Arabia, which extended almost to the gates of Damascus, where he stayed for some time. And perhaps while there it was while he was there that he might have received that heavenly vision that he talks about in 2 Corinthians 12 He returned to Damascus and priest, and it was at that point that he was let down. Remember, now he had enemies, and they were watching the gates to try to capture him or arrest him. And uh his friends let him down over the wall in a basket, and he then went to Jerusalem. But it was three full years after his conversion, he says here. So for three full years he didn't consult with the apostles. And only then did he go uh to Jerusalem. And uh he only spent fifteen days with the Apostle Peter, and he didn't see any other apostle, but then he adds, I did see James, the Lord's brother Now, just to help you understand, there are three men named James in the New Testament. James, the brother of John, James and John, the Zebedee the fisherman , the one who was executed shortly after the resurrection. And then James the son of Alphaeus, another apostle, seldom mentioned, as they list the apostles, it's James, the brother of John, James the son of Alphaeus. And then James, the half-brother of Jesus, that is the natural child, natural-born child of Mary and Joseph. Jesus had several brothers. James was one. This is the James to whom Paul refers here. James, you remember, did not believe in Jesus as the Son of God until after the resurrection, when the Lord Jesus appeared to him, 1 Corinthians 15. He became a leader in the early church, Acts 15. So, although he was not an apostle in the strict sense, that is one of the original twelve, if Paul had not mentioned that he also spoke with James, this leader in the early church. No doubt some would have said, well, he's not telling the whole truth. He met with James. He said he only talked to Peter. So Paul says, look, I I did stay with Peter, but I only stayed with him for 15 days. Long enough, perhaps, for Mrs. Peter to say, How long did you say he was going to stay with us? But uh not long enough for him to be a disciple of Peter, right? That everything he learned he learned from Peter So, getting back to Paul's argument that he's not an apostle of men, certainly he wasn't an apostle before his conversion, and as he just explained, he wasn't an apostle of men after his conversion. And then in verses 21 and following afterward, I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia, and I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which were in Christ. He didn't hang around Jerusalem preaching But they were hearing only he who formerly persecuted us now preaches the faith which he once tried to destroy. And they glorified God in me. Now , look at chapter 2. We're going to zip through this and we'll come back to it later in subsequent uh weeks. But then after 14 years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and I also took Titus with me. Fourteen years later, he goes back, takes Titus with him. This appears to be a reference to what we call the Jerusalem Council that we know of from Acts 15. The problem was, what do we do with these Gentile converts? This was the issue. Should they be circumcised? Should they have to keep the laws of Moses? What do we do? Peter says one thing, uh uh Barnabas uh agrees, but uh you know uh or uh or Paul says one thing and Barnabas agrees, but what does Peter say and what does James think? And so they came to Jerusalem and they had a conference. We would call it, we Presbyterians would call it a Presbytery meeting, right? Apostles and elders came together and they discussed these things. Big council, big discussion. a big business meeting. And uh who s and each each one had a chance to talk and say and they came up with a conclusion. Look, we shouldn't require the Gentiles to keep all these Jewish rules that they were a great weight upon us We were never able to keep them all. And now we're going to burden the Gentiles with these things? On what basis? They're saved by faith in Jesus Christ. They don't have to become Jews. And and so Paul says that uh I went back to Jerusalem and I had Timothy with me, and some people wanted me to circum have Timothy circumcised. Some of the Jews were upset that this When I say Jews, I mean believe Jews who were book now believers in Jesus as Messiah were upset that this Gentile was here. You're bringing this uncircumcised guy into our meeting. And he he says, no. He he put his foot down. He said, we're not going to have him circumcised. Did I say did I say Timothy? I meant Titus. Right. Titus, a Gentile. They wanted him to be circumcised, but Paul wouldn't give in to them because he he was not a child of uh of Jewish parents. He was a c a gentile. Now Timothy does come into this because Timothy had a Jewish mother but a Greek father And Paul on another occasion did consent to having Timothy circumcised so as not to put a stumbling block before the Jews. So look at it. Yet not even Titus, who was with me being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised, refused to allow them to do that. And then he goes on, verses 6 to 10, but from those who seem to be something, whatever they were, it makes no difference to me. God shows personal favoritism to no man. For those who seem to be something added nothing to me. In other words, I didn't go to Jerusalem and say, Teach me now, tell me what you want me to know. You apostles who have so much more insight than I do. Paul realized that he was called of God to be an apostle, born out of due time. He wasn't coming to sit under the feet of the apostles. My gospel message wasn't added to by these spiritual giants in Jerusalem, and God's the only judge of uh whether anyone's a spiritual giant, right, or a pillar. But on the contrary, they gave to me the right hand of fellowship. They gave it to me in Tabarnabas. Now, Paul's third point, evidencing that he was not an apostle of man, and certainly not an apostle of Peter, was the fact that Paul actually rebuked Peter publicly. on one occasion. Now what was that all about? Well when Peter or Cephas came to Antioch, one of those towns in Galatia, He ate in fellowship with the uncircumcised Gentile Christians, as you would expect him to do. He fellowshipped with the new believers there. He taught them and fellowship with them. But when Jewish Christians came from Jerusalem, Like that fellow who was here earlier who began the sermon, Peter withdrew from the Gentiles there in Antioch, fearful of offending the Jews Uh-oh , the Jews they're not going to like it if they see me interacting with these Gentiles, these uncircumcised. So he withdrew from the Gentiles. In other words, the message that was being conveyed to the Gentile believers in Christ, the message was, if you want to be able to commune with the Jewish believers, you must keep our ceremonies and sacraments, including circumcision. Thus, why does that matter so much? The gospel was in jeopardy. You see? Paul believed that Peter's error demanded a public rebuke. Clearly, if Paul felt at liberty to publicly rebuke Peter, then he was exercising authority that did not derive from Peter. By the way, Paul's rebuke of Peter also makes it clear that he did not view Peter as the chief bishop, otherwise known as the first pope. With more authority than Paul. There's no thought of that. There's no suggestion of that in Scripture. Now What are some principles we can draw from all of this? First of all, some people understand the Christian walk to be one of complete passivity. You deny no accusations that are made against you, no matter how false. You accept blame for things that you didn't do. You never defend yourself. And yes, we are taught to take it patiently when we suffer for doing well, and there are occasions when we should be as sheep before her shearer. But this passage reminds us that there are also times when it's proper to defend yourself, particularly when the truth is at stake, and when the false charge, if believed, would dishonor Christ. When Jesus was struck before the high priest, he said, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil. But if well, why do you strike me? John 18 So Paul defends his apostleship. I'm not an apostle of men. I'm an apostle of God. That wasn't for his benefit. That was for the benefit of the believers. That was for the glory of God. If Paul's authority was questioned, then his message would be questioned. If his message was message was questioned, then the believers' souls would be in jeopardy. Secondly, there are times when even Christian leaders need to be rebuked, as Paul rebuked Peter. A personal or private offense should be dealt with personally, as Jesus said, Matthew 18. But if the sin is a public one, it may demand a public rebuke. As John rebuked Herod for marrying his brother's wife. Or as Jesus openly rebuked the hypocritical Pharisees. Thirdly, by rebuking Peter, Paul was demonstrating the importance of keeping the gospel message pure. The importance of keeping the gospel message pure. Even division may be necessary when it comes to the truth of the gospel. Let me say it again. Even division may be necessary when it comes to the truth of the gospel. The truth of God takes precedence over unity. It's because truth takes precedence over unity that Jesus rebuked the scribes and Pharisees. Call them hypocrites, whitewashed sepulchres, full of extortion and self-indulgence. It's because truth takes precedence over unity that Paul warned against wolves who would Devour the flock, and said to have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them Because truth takes precedence over unity that the Protestant Church emerged from what had become a corrupt system of idolatry and indulgences It's because truth takes precedence over unity that denominations such as the Lutheran Church Missouri Synod or the Reformed Episcopal Church or the Orthodox Presbyterian Church or our own PCA Church were formed. The message of Scripture is not cooperate with false teaching, so as to preserve unity The message of scripture is rather come out from among them and be separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, I will be a father to you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty, 2 Corinthians 6. Fourth, this passage reminds us the Apostle Paul was a man of principle, and we are called to be men and women and young people of principle. Paul didn't make his ethical decisions on the basis of who happened to be with him at the time. He wasn't swayed by the crowd or by the passion of the moment. He had one master to whom he answered. He didn't succumb to what we call peer pressure. And he said to us: Be ye followers of me as I am of Jesus Christ. Fifthly, Paul was foreordained to faith in Christ before the foundation of the world. That's very clear in this passage. He was foreordained to faith in Christ before the foundation of the world. He was already set apart to God when he was in his mother's womb, he says, verse 15. God had a chosen path for him, a chosen purpose for his life. It was all foreordained. He would sit at the feet of Gameliel, he would be a rabbi, he would be a teacher. But then God would gloriously save him and send him as an apostle to the Gentiles. God had a chosen path for him, a chosen purpose for his life. He had certain works prepared for Paul to do. And believer, the amazing truth is he has done the very same thing for you. Amen? He has chosen you in him from before the foundation of the world. And he has works for you to do. He's chosen us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestined us. to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. Ephesians 1 For by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we Are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them? Christian, God has called you and gifted you and prepared you for good works. He has things for you to do. The question is, are you using your gifts for his kingdom or are you squandering them upon your own pleasures? What Jesus said to his apostles might be said to each one of us as Christians, you did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. Said you should go and bear fruit. He who abides in me bears much fruit, he said. Sixth, uh maybe you're saying to yourself, well, I don't really get it. If circumcision, if keeping certain ceremonies and practices and instituted by God are in fact good things. After all, God's the one that gave them to us. If they're good works, and if, as you just said, we're called to do good works Why was Paul so exercised about this? Come on, Paul. Give him a break. Because these false teachers were insisting on good works in addition to faith in Christ as the God-appointed means of salvation, as the gospel itself. Listen, there is all the difference in the world from saying, believe in Jesus Christ. And now that you believe in Christ, now that you're redeemed, now that you're on your way to heaven. You want to please him. You want to do what he asks. You want to keep his moral law. You want to do good works. You want to bless others All the difference in the world between that and saying you believe in Jesus, that's good. Now you also have to do good works. And together, if you put those two things together, you can go to heaven, you can have salvation. Jesus says all he can do, you do all you can do. There was nothing wrong with circumcision, it was the Old Testament sign of faith. Just as there's nothing wrong with baptism, the New Testament sign of faith. But when some insisted that Titus, the son of Gentiles, be circumcised, Paul did not yield. Just as we Would refuse to baptize someone simply to satisfy someone else who believed that without that baptism, that person could not be saved. Wait a minute. That's not the case. Baptism doesn't save us. You can be saved without baptism. Baptism's a good thing if it's done for the right reasons. Good works are good things That's why we call them good works, not bad works. But even good works can be done with the wrong reasons. If you think being honest and hardworking, or uh faithful and friendly, or gentle and gracious or pure and prayerful will somehow tip the scales of God's judgment in your favor, then you are sadly mistaken Philanthropist Michael Bloomberg recently said in a nationally broadcast interview, something to the effect that He hoped that the billions that he's given the charity might mean that when he gets to the pearling gates he won't have to stand for an interview. He'll be ushered right in. Now he probably said that tongue-in-cheek But it's interesting, uh he's not the first uh billionaire who said something similar. I think it was Warren Buffett who uh after uh declaring he was going to give his fortune uh to charity He said something like this, I don't have the exact quote, but it was something like, you know, there are lots of ways to get to heaven, but this is a really good way. Look, donating your life's earnings to help others, to build hospitals, to provide clean water, to attempt to eradicate malaria, to feed the hungry, these are all good things. Far better things to do with your money than spend them on yourself, buy a bigger airplane. These are good things, these are good works, but no philanthropist was ever redeemed by his giving. No honest man was ever redeemed by his honesty. No kind woman was ever redeemed by her kindness. No lawkeeper was ever redeemed by his keeping of the law. Even good law, even God's law. I do not set aside the grace of God, Paul said. For if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. You could be saved by anything you can do. There's no reason God would send his son and pour out his wrath upon him. And turn his face away and allow his son to die alone and forsake it. There's no reason in the world God would have done that if you could be saved by doing anything. Anything. We're saved by Christ alone. Or we're not saved at all. Amen? Amen. You do want to please God. You do want to serve Him. You do want to be kind and loving and prayerful. You do want to obey His moral law. As a result of what he has done for you, then you have reason to believe, as Paul believed, that it has pleased God to reveal his son in you. You have reason to believe that you've been born again, that you've been called and sent, not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him. From the dead. Let's pray