So one of my favorite Psalms, Psalm 46. Be still. Know that I am God. That's the uh Psalm That was the basis of Martin Luther's great hymn, Mighty Fortress is Our God. The uh little ones are being dismissed at this very moment for wonders of worship. downstairs. And as they go, if you could open your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 11, as we continue our study through Mark's Gospel. Mark chapter 11 as you turn there. We have uh some uh dignitaries to welcome. Russ and Joe Lingle are with us, I understand. Where are they over here? Hey, good to have you with us today And I b I heard that uh Peter and Sarah Crow are back from Ohio. Didn't like it there. Good to have you with us. Uh I don't know if there are any other uh notables here, but you're all welcome. Mark chapter 11, let's begin in verse 1. Now when they drew near Jerusalem to Bethphagy and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, and he said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and as soon as you have entered it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has sat. Loose it And bring it. And if anyone says to you, why are you doing this? Say, the Lord has need of it. And immediately he will send it here. And so they went their way and found the colt tied by the door outside on the street, and they loosed it. But some of those who stood there said to them, What are you doing loosing the colt? And they spoke to them just as Jesus had commanded, so they let them go. Then they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their clothes on it, and he sat on it And many spread their clothes on the road, and others cut down leafy branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And then those who went before, and those who followed, followed, cried out, saying, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the kingdom of our Father David that comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And Jesus went into Jerusalem and into the temple. So when he had looked around at all things, as the hour was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. Now the next day, when they had come out from Bethany, he was hungry, and seeing from afar a fig tree having leaves, he went to see if perhaps he would find something on it When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. In response, Jesus said to it, Let no one eat fruit from you ever again. And his disciples heard it. So they came to Jerusalem, and then Jesus went into the temple and began to drive out those who bought and sold in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers. And the seats of those who sold doves, and he would not allow anyone to carry wares through the temple. And then he taught, saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves. And the scribes and chief priests heard it and sought how they might destroy him. For they feared him, because all the people were astonished at his teaching. When evening had come, he went out of the city May God bless this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, it is your Holy Spirit who can apply your word to hearts. It is your Holy Spirit who can breathe upon dry bones that they might live. It is your Holy Spirit who can bring conviction of sin into the hearts of believers and unbelievers alike. That's what we ask this morning, Father In Jesus' name. Amen. It was the best of times It was the worst of times. It was the age of wisdom. It was the age of foolishness. It was the epoch of belief. It was the epoch of incredulity. It was the season of light. It was the season of darkness. It was the spring of hope. It was the winter of despair. The opening lines of A Tale of Two Cities could well describe Palestine in the third year of the ministry of the Lord Jesus. The groundswell of support for Christ among the common people had been building ever since he turned water into wine at a wedding ceremony several years before. Scores of people who had been blind or deaf or lame or leprous or possessed by demons had been healed by him. And of course they would have told their friends and their acquaintances what Christ had done for them. Thousands witnessed him multiply bread and fish to feed them when they were hungry, and they and thousands more heard him teach with authority on heavenly matters. And declare himself to be the bread of life, the light of the world, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the Son of God sent forth to redeem the souls of men. As at every other Passover season, tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of people had come to Jerusalem for the annual celebration. But this time was different The number of those who had embraced Jesus as the promised Messiah had grown much too large to be ignored Many of them were in and around Jerusalem hoping they might witness the Messiah assuming his rightful place, ascending to Israel's throne, and making his enemies his footstool. Psalm 2 When Jesus entered the city on what we call Palm Sunday, Luke tells us that the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works. They had seen. The whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice For all the mighty works they had seen. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Truly it could be said it was the best of times. But behind the scenes, the religious leaders of Israel were fuming. For years they had resented Jesus and the popular following around him. But none of their efforts to reveal him as a charlatan had been successful. And every time they tried to trap him in his words , Question his authority, cast doubt upon his lineage, or upon the source of his healing power. This prophet of Nazareth found a way to slip through their fingers. The Pharisees cried out in frustration, complaining to one another when they witnessed that triumphal entrance. You see that you are accomplishing nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. John 12, 19. They were becoming more and more convinced that only drastic action on their part could preserve their position and perhaps even preserve their nation. So they were scheming and plotting a way to have Jesus killed. It was a season of light. It was a season of darkness. Of course, Jesus knew all that was taking place behind the scenes. He had in fact told his disciples, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes. And they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles. Mark chapter 10, verse 33. So on the day after his triumphant entrance, After spending the night in Bethany, presumably at the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, whom he had just raised from the dead, Bethany, which was not far away. On his walk to Jerusalem, Jesus made an object lesson out of a tree. Or you might say, he acted out a parable before his disciples. Look at verse 12. Now the next day, when they had come out from Bethany, he was hungry, and seeing from afar a fig tree having leaves, he went to see if perhaps he would find something on it. When he came to it he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. In response, Jesus said to it, let no one eat fruit from you ever again. And the disciples heard it Jesus was hungry as he left Bethany, presumably left, without taking any Food. And as he approached Jerusalem, he saw a fig tree in the distance which had leaves. Now, this doesn't mean much to us, but this would be unusual for this time of the year. as leaves on a fig tree indicate that the figs are present. And this was, as Mark says, not the season for figs. That was generally a few months later in the early summer. But this tree, you might say, claimed to have figs. professed to have fruit by already having leaves. And typically these fig trees, when they had leaves, would have fruit. It was therefore an ideal image of the barren religion of the first century Israelites That very week, the leaders of Israel, the descendants of Aaron and Levi , the priests of Jehovah. Professing to follow God and honor Him were plotting to find a way to have His only begotten Son put to death Now, as far as anyone could tell, at a glance, the religious leaders were holy, godly, fruit-bearing men. But on closer inspection, there was no fruit. They were all show. All their works they did to be seen by men, Jesus said. Inside they were defiled. They were like whited sepulchres, clean and white on the outside, but inside full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. That's what Jesus said. of them in Matthew 23. This fig tree, appearing to be full of fruit, was in fact on closer inspection barren. It was therefore a perfect picture of religious Israel. And Jesus made it a lasting image in the minds of his apostles, a lasting image of hypocrisy. of a religion that is all show and no substance, by declaring that no one would eat of that tree again. Matthew Henry pointed out, the first establishment of the Levitical priesthood was ratified and confirmed by the miracle of the dry rod, which in one night budded and blossomed. 17. A happy omen of the fruitfulness and flourishing of that priesthood. And now, by a contrary miracle, The expiration of that priesthood was signified by a flourishing tree dried up at night. The just punishment of those priests that had abused the Levitical priesthood. Having made an object lesson out of the fruitless fig tree, Jesus proceeded with his apostles to Jerusalem. And he took action against the corrupt religion of the nation, just as he had done at the very beginning of his ministry, John chapter 2. Now we must understand that the Temple of Jerusalem was viewed as one of the wonders of the ancient world. At its very center, of course, was the Holy of Holies, surrounded by the court of the Jews. That surrounded by the court of the women, and then around the perimeter, the court of the Gentiles. It was there that Gentiles from far and wide would have a place to come to worship to learn more about the true and the living God. You may remember at the dedication of Solomon's temple, which preceded this one. Solomon prayed, quote, concerning a foreigner who is not of your people, Israel, but has come from a far country for your name's sake. For they will hear of your great name and your strong hand and your outstretched arm, when he comes and prays toward the temple Hear in heaven your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you, that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you. As do your people Israel, and that they may know that the temple which I have built is called by your name. 1 Kings chapter 8. The Old Testament says, All nations whom you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name. Psalm 86, 9. The Gentiles shall come to your light and kings to the brightness of your rising. Isaiah 60, verse 3. Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad, and let them say among the nations, the Lord reigns. First Chronicles 16, 31 You see, it was never God's intention that his making of a nation from the seed of Abram should be only for the benefit of that nation. That nation that would become Israel. His blessings were not intended to be reserved for a few, us two, we four, no more. Abraham was to be a father of many nations. As other nations saw God's blessing upon Israel, as they heard of his mighty deeds on their behalf, as they learned about the invisible creator God. A spiritual being, the nations would want to know more, the people would want to know more. Israel was to be a fountain of blessing for the entire earth. But the spiritual temperature of the nation, taking their cues from the supposed religious leaders or spiritual leaders had grown so cold that the court that was to be set aside as a place of prayer for all nations had become nothing more than a marketplace. Like a farmer's market. Not a marketplace of ideas like the Areopagus in Athens, but a marketplace for the sale of animals to be used in sacrifices in the temple. And not only that, but because Jews came to worship at the temple from all over the ancient world, bringing with them their own currency. The religious leaders saw an opportunity to become rich at the expense of foreign Jews by setting up money-changing temples, money-changing tables in the very temple itself. So not only would they profit from the sale of sheep and doves for sacrifice, they would profit from the exchange of their currency for the currency of other nations. R. C. Sprohl notes, the animals were sold at a premium because the people needed them, and the exchange rates were extortionate. Jewish historian Josephus recorded that in A. D. 66, as the Roman armies were coming against Jerusalem, 255 ,000 lambs. were slaughtered during the Passover. 255 ,000 there in Jerusalem. Clearly, the sale of animals for sacrifice was a huge enterprise, and the religious leaders muscled in on it. Now suppose that you, a Gentile, a worshiper of idols, or let's say gods and goddesses who were said to dwell on Mount Olympus. Suppose that you met a true believer in Jehovah. You learned about the one true God, and you determined to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem to see the great temple of Jerusalem. To see it for yourself and to learn more about Jehovah and the long-promised Messiah. You would, after perhaps a long journey, see Jerusalem from afar. And you'd see the gold of the temple mount. It was reportedly an amazing sight as the sun struck it. The city would appear before you in all its brilliance, and the temple would appear before you as a fig tree full of leaves. It would give you hope that here your hunger could be satisfied. Here your thirst would be assuaged. Here you would find food for your weary soul As you entered that massive city gate, ascended the temple mount, and entered the court of the Gentiles, what would you see? You would see not a congregation of foreigners like yourself listening to a priest proclaiming God's holy word, rebuking sin and pointing to the coming Messiah, the Lamb of God, who would take away the sin of the world. Who would you meet? Not humble, godly believers ready to welcome you and tell you the joy that they have experienced as God's redeemed people? What would you hear? Not men repenting in prayer, beseeching God to have mercy upon them To open their eyes and give them light? What would you smell? Not incense ascending to heaven mingled with prayer? No, if you entered God's holy temple, you would see pens full of sheep and cages full of doves. You would meet men trying to persuade you to exchange your money at their table rather than at another. You would hear the bleeding of sheep, the cooing of pigeons, the babble of hawkers. You would smell the refuse of animals. Look at verse 15. So they came to Jerusalem, and then Jesus went into the temple and began to drive out those who bought and sold in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers. And the seats of those who sold doves, and he would not allow anyone to carry wares through the temple. And then he taught, saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves. He had cast them out once before, but as rats that scatter when a light is turned on. May later return in the dark, the money changers and the tradesmen had returned to their lucrative business Out of their love of money and their utter disregard for the souls of unbelievers, the spiritual leaders of Israel had allowed God's house of prayer to be turned into a house of merchandise. den of Thebes. Viewed from a distance, these men appeared to be holy. They certainly wore the right clothes, said the right things. Even the common people of Israel thought them the holiest of all, but on closer inspection they had no fruit. They were all leaves. It's not surprising that those who were so enamored with this world and so careless about the next that they were willing to devour widows' houses. Matthew 23, 14, would be willing to defraud foreigners and would have no concern for the souls of Gentiles. So the Lord Jesus, out of zeal for his father's house, was compelled to do at the end of his ministry what he had done at the beginning of it He drove out those who bought and sold in the temple. He overturned the tables of the money changers, no doubt scattering coins throughout the courtyard. He overturned the seats of those who sold doves. And he prohibited anyone from carrying his wares through the temple. Now that's the only clue we have that suggests that other things were being sold beside the sheep and the doves. Wares. If this were happening today, it would be snow globes and key rings and banners and caps and visors and t-shirts with a Jerusalem temple logo uh on the back and maybe on the front the words uh I have been to the mountaintop I have seen the promised land Jesus quotes from Isaiah where the Lord speaks of drawing foreigners to his temple Even them I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations. Isaiah 56, verse 7. I want you to notice something. Jesus acted alone. As far as we can tell, his disciples didn't join in on this. There was only one of him. There were many of them selling animals, selling wares, exchanging money, but there seems to have been no resistance to him. The people in the temple court, at least it seems to me, were convicted That what Jesus said was true, or else at least they knew from his words and his actions that Jesus believed his words to be true, and they were stunned into submission. Look at verse 18. And the scribes and chief priests heard it and sought how they might destroy him, for they feared him, because all the people were astonished at his teaching. He taught them as one having authority. He didn't teach them as the scribes. Rabbi so-and-so says such and such. He said, You've made my father's house a den of thieves. Now, a few comments before we leave this passage. First of all, we're all familiar with the international outrage a few months ago over the killing of a lion in Zimbabwe. Some called him Cecil, some called him Cecil in the news reports I heard. I think the lion himself called himself The American dentist who shot the lion with a crossbow maintains that he had filed all the paperwork, paid all the fees required to hunt lions. And he didn't know that this particular lion was a favorite of visitors to the nearby animal reserve. Nevertheless, he experienced public disdain, as you recall, vandalism toward his property, and death threats. Now, if that seemed to you a bit of an overreaction to the killing of an animal, you may be interested to know that the Lord Jesus Christ has been maligned for the killing of the fig tree. In the passage we read this morning. He's been accused of taking out his anger and frustration on an innocent fig tree that hadn't done him or anyone else any harm. He was moody and petulant, and he cursed the tree to death just because he was hungry and the tree had no figs. And it wasn't even the season for figs. It wasn't the tree's fault. In fact, the 20th-century philosopher Bertrand Russell, in his essay, Why I Am Not a Christian, cited this very narrative as one of the reasons, one of his reasons, for rejecting Christian. Christianity. No righteous man, and certainly not the Son of God, would callously curse a poor fig tree in a fit of temper. Then Jesus went to the temple and started throwing things around, presumably, some would say, because he still hadn't had his breakfast. Well, I hope you see that Jesus did not misuse his miraculous gifts. The cursing of the fig tree was not an act of petulance. The casting out of the money changers was not a temper tantrum. He was teaching his disciples and us a lesson. And he was cleansing his father's house of iniquity. Secondly, I want you to notice that Christ's passion, notice Christ's passion, that his temple, built to manifest the glory of the one true God , Should be regarded as holy. Note his desire that it should be a place where the lost of all nations could come and hear the good news of salvation. It was intended to be a place where people could come in and hear the message of the gospel. That these Idols that you people are worshipping, they're false gods. They're made by human hands. There is one true God, the creator of all things, the creator of all people. And we have sinned against him, and he loved us and sent us the promise of a Messiah who would bear our sins that we might have life. Jesus had a passion that his father's temple would be regarded as holy. It was that same passion that caused him to command his followers to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. It's not for you two, us four, no more. It's for all the world. His cleansing of the temple makes me wonder what he would do if he entered today a church that has ceased to proclaim the gospel. What would he do if he entered today a church that has ceased to preach the gospel? Church that teaches salvation by baptism, as if the sprinkling of a little water on somebody could somehow save him or her. Church that teaches there are many ways to God, and Christianity is only one of many. A church that no longer talks about sin, because people don't want to hear about sin. You're not going to draw a crowd by beating people over the head with their sin. You've got to talk about how wonderful they are. A church that no longer proclaims justification by faith, by faith in Jesus Christ alone Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. What would Jesus do? What would Jesus say if he walked into such a church today? What if he walked into a church that has replaced the good news with statues and icons and rituals and ceremonies? Where no one can answer the question the Philippian jailer asked Paul and Silas, Sirs, what must I do? The good news is for all. I wonder who will hear that good news from you this week. Thirdly, it's worth noting, although it's hard to miss, how different is Jesus from the image that so many have of him. A passive preacher of love and peace who wouldn't hurt a fly or cut his hair for that matter, or do anything to cause offense to anyone. No one who saw him chase the money changers out of the temple and overturn the sheets of those who sold doves would ever so misjudge him. He was zealous for his father. He was fearless in the face of opposition. And the quivering snivelling spirit in believers that makes us afraid to stand up and speak out the truth out of a fear that we'll be perceived as unloving or intolerant. That spirit is not the spirit of Jesus Christ. Of whom it was said, the zeal of God's house has eaten him up. Fourthly, Christ's cursing of the fig tree and his cleansing of the fig The temple are only two more nails, simply two more nails in the coffin of the hypocrite. Nothing stirred up Christ's wrath like hypocrisy Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. You neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Matthew 20. The scribes and Pharisees claimed to know the way to God. They claimed to declare the way to God. But they were blind leaders of the blind. They taught the people that if they were very careful to do all that they told them to do, if they were as diligent in their law-keeping as their teachers, then all would be well. Eternal life was attained, they taught, by being righteous. And righteousness was attained by the meticulous observance of God's law as it was expounded to them. That's why they even even tithe their mint and anise and common. Can you imagine going to your cupboard and and taking ten percent of your pepper that you just bought at Food Lion and setting it aside and ten percent of your uh uh whatever else you people buy, and setting it aside. Can you imagine? They would tithe their spices. There were two main problems with their teaching. First of all, they were hypocrites, and secondly, they were wrong They were hypocrites. First of all, they claimed to be righteous, but they were as covetous and as gluttonous and as proud as the next fellow. They were, Jesus said, full of extortion and self-indulgence. Matthew 23, 25. Now it's bad enough to be full of extortion and self-indulgence if you're a businessman or a stockbroker. But it's worse to be full of extortion and self-indulgence if you claim to be a holy teacher of the Lord's word. They were hypocrites. Now note, all hypocrites are sinners, but all sinners are not hypocrites. All Christians are sinners, but all Christians are not hypocrites. You see, a hypocrite is one who plays a part. He pretends to be what he or she is not. He may go for years without being detected as a hypocrite, but the Bible says, be sure your sins will find you out. Either in this life or the next. When it comes to dissuading unbelievers from giving the claims of Jesus Christ serious consideration. There are few weapons in Satan's arsenal as effective as hypocrisy. Every single time a prominent Christian is involved in some sort of scandal, we are, as King David, giving great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. That's what we're doing. We're giving great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. You see, the scribes and the Pharisees were hypocrites. And worse, when they taught the people of Israel the way of life, they were wrong. They were false teachers. They didn't understand that by the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in his sight. They didn't understand that the law was intended to be our schoolmaster, to drive us to Christ. In other words, I know the law says I shouldn't covet, but I do covet. I know the law says that I'm to take God not never take God's name in vain, but I do take God's name in vain. I know I'm supposed to honor my father and mother, but I don't always honor my school. The law is our schoolmaster. I need a savior, you see. The law is our schoolmaster to drive us to Christ. It's not the way of salvation. They didn't understand that Abraham was not saved by what he did He was saved by his faith. Abraham believed in the Lord and he accounted it to him for righteousness. Genesis 15 6. Abraham wasn't saved because he was righteous. He believed in the Lord. And God accounted that faith as if it were righteousness. That's how you're saved. That's how I'm saved. That's how everybody who's ever been saved is saved. God accepts our faith as if it were righteousness. They didn't understand the necessity of the new birth. Jesus said to Nicodemus, are you the teacher of Israel and you don't understand these things? 3. 10. It's entirely possible that somebody here today is confused about these things. Maybe as confused as were the scribes and the Pharisees. In other words, you may think that your acceptance before a holy God is dependent upon what you do, when in fact it depends on what Jesus Jesus did. And whether you believe it, Jesus said, He who believes in me has everlasting Life. I'm the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though you were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. That's the gospel. Now you can come to Jesus Christ today if God's working in your heart, if he's convicting you of sin, and only you know that. Do you see yourself as a sinner? Do you see your pride? Do you see your selfishness? Do you see your ingratitude? You see your lack of faith? Your lack of love for God. Your love for comfort and pleasure. Your love for Your covetousness. Do you see it? It's in there. Out of the heart of man perceived evil thoughts and murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, covetousness. Jesus said it's inside of every single one of our hearts. If you see it, you can repent of it. God forgive me. God forgive me. I know what I deserve. But I believe That Jesus lived that perfect life, died upon the cross, rose again from the dead. I believe that you took my sin and laid it upon him, and you would you will take his righteousness and place it upon my account. I can be declared righteous because of what Christ has done His righteousness applied to me. My sin applied to him. God save me. Forgive me. Give me this gift of eternal life. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer and mean that in your heart. God says All your sins will be forgiven. You'll have everlasting life. Not because of anything you've done, because of what Christ has done. What have you done? You just believed it. You just took him at his word. A closing word to those of us who consider ourselves to be believers. You call yourself a follower of Jesus Christ. Well then you're like that fig tree intended to bear fruit. Or another way to put it is you're like those grape branches. Jesus described in John fifteen, I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing I am the true vine. My father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes it away. And every branch that bears fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Are you bearing fruit for your Heavenly Father? Are others hearing the good news of Christ from you? Are others seeing the good news of Christ in you? What do I mean? Love, joy , peace, kindness Long-suffering, goodness, faithfulness, self-control. Are others seeing these things in you? Are they seeing Christ in you Or would Jesus find in you, upon close inspection, nothing but leaves? Let's pray. Oh Lord, take your word and apply it to our hearts. May it bear fruit this day. May there be rejoicing in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repents. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.