Galatians chapter 5. We'll dismiss if they haven't already gotten the idea, the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Galatians chapter 5, let's begin in verse 1, read the entire chapter. The Apostle Paul says, Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with a yoke of bondage. Indeed, I, Paul, say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing. And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to keep the whole law. You become estranged from Christ, you who attempt to be justified by law, you have fallen from grace. For we through the Spirit eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. For in Christ Jesus Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision avails anything, but faith working through love. You ran well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion does not come from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in you, in the Lord, that you will have no other mind but he who troubles you. Shall bear his judgment, whoever he is. And I, brethren, if I still preach circumcision, why do I still suffer persecution? Then the offense of the cross has ceased I could wish that those who trouble you would even cut themselves off. For you, brethren, have been called to liberty. Only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another. I say then, walk in the Spirit And you shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary to one another, so that you do not do the things that you wish. But if you're led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now, the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness. Idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like Of which I tell you beforehand, just as I told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is no law. And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk. in the spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. May God add his blessing to this portion of his Let's pray. Father, now speak to us. Focus our minds, focus our hearts on your truth. Help us, help our minds to keep from wandering. Help us to focus. Speak to each one of us, we pray. May your Holy Spirit fill us and use us now, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the Apostle Paul has argued so forcefully in his letter that justification is by faith alone, apart from works. That he evidently fears that some of the Galatians will pervert that truth, the truth that we've been liberated from the burden and demands of the law. Pervert that truth into a license to sin. And so he warns the Galatian Christians: do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but rather through love serve one another. And to make sure that the Galatians understand the sort of things that he has in mind when he writes of the sins of the flesh He lists some of them in verses 19 to 21. I want us to focus on that brief list this morning. This is one of many similar lists in Scripture. You'll find one in Romans 1. Romans 13, 1 Corinthians 5, 1 Corinthians 6, 2 Corinthians 12, Ephesians 4, and in at least eight other places, I believe. So this list is not meant to be exhaustive. Note the phrase and the like at the end of the list, verse 21. Now Paul knew the Christians in Galatia well, and he loved them deeply. He called them earlier in his letter, my little children , for whom I labor in birth again until Christ is formed in you. I would like to be present with you now and to change my tone. I wish I didn't have to be so strident in my tone. I wish I could be more. I suspect that Paul was warning these believers of the sins of the flesh, to which he believed they were the most inclined. Now the works of the flesh that Paul mentions here could be divided into four categories. Sexual sins, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness. False worship or demon worship, idolatry, sorcery. Sins of strife. This is the largest of the list Hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders. And then finally, sins related to the use of alcohol, drunkenness, revelries, and the like. Now let's consider them in order. First of all, the sexual sins, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness. Now, you may be using a translation that doesn't include in this list adultery in verse 19, or even the word murders in verse 21. I'm reading from the New King James Version. That's a translation, of course, based upon the King James Version. And some of the uh earliest manuscripts of the New Testament were actually discovered after the King James Version was translated back in sixteen. So some of the more recent translations rely upon those manuscripts in cases like this when there are minor variations. in the Greek in the various manuscript families. But of course, both adultery and murder are expressly forbidden throughout the scripture. So even if Paul did not specifically refer to them in these verses. Uh adultery is certainly included in the term pornea , translated as fornication here. And that term, pornea, is used of all forms of sexual relationships outside of marriage, all forms of sexual relations outside of marriage. The scripture doesn't attempt to spell out for us every form of sexual arrangement that fallen humanity can devise. It's enough for us to know that sexual desire was placed within us by our Creator, intended to be fulfilled within the committed relationship of a marriage. A marriage, of course, is to be between one man There are no circumstances that justify sexual relations outside of marriage. This the Bible is quite clear. Now the deceiver will say, well, it's alright if you are in love, or it's alright if you are engaged, or it's alright if it's only a casual recreational thing, or it's alright because it's now so prevalent. And the deceiver will say, God just wants to keep you from something that's enjoyable. He's just a celestial killjoy. But the fact is, of course, God's restrictions are for our own good as well as for his glory. And the good of society, I might say. It's impossible to calculate the personal damage and the damage to society through what is thought of as sexual liberation But what is in fact sexual bondage? Broken hearts, broken homes, abortions, single moms, welfare costs, sexually transmitted diseases I read a statistic uh several years ago now from the Centers for Disease Control. It indicated that at the time, over 35 ,000 Americans acquired a sexually transmitted disease. and S T D every day. Over thirty-five thousand new cases of sexual diseases every day. My guess is the situation has not improved much. Much like the pagan world into which the gospel message exploded in the first century, we live in a sexually charged culture, and we're reaping the consequences thereof. Dr. James Dobson wrote in reference to a television networks broadcast of a town hall meeting on AIDS. Quote, all Ford networks and the cable TV entities are wringing their hands about this terrible epidemic that has now invaded our bodies. They profess to be very concerned about those who are infected, and perhaps they're sincere However, TV executives and movie moguls have contributed mightily to the existence of this plague. For decades, they've depicted teens and young adults climbing in and out of each other's beds like so many sexual robots. Only the nerds were chased. What a price we are now paying for the lies we have been told. But living in a sexually permissive culture is no excuse for Christians to carry on like unbelievers. We are exhorted to be not conformed to this world, but rather to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. The apostle warns us against pornea and also uncleanness and lewdness. Now the word translated uncleanness could be translated in your translation, impurity is uh catharsia. Think of catharsis and then the opposite thereof, a catharsis, uh a cleansing, a purification. This uh is the opposite of that. Commentator William Hendrickson writes, it's a very comprehensive concept. It includes not only uncleanness in deeds, but also in words, in thoughts and desires of the heart. It would clearly, that word would clearly forbid pornography in all its many forms. Uncleanness, lewdness, the old English lasciviousness. refers to the absence of restraint. It refers to excess, to wantonness. Commentator Hendrix And said it emphasizes the lack of self-control that characterizes the person who gives free play to the impulses of his sinful nature. So taken together, these two words, uncleanness and impurity, suggest the kind of talking and jesting, innuendos, attitudes uh clothing, music, entertainment, behavior that promotes or precede the sort of sexual uncleanness that is included in that broad term of pornea Then Paul turns from sexual immorality to false worship, and he refers to idolatry and sorcery as works of the flesh. Idolatry, from idolo and latria. uh idol of idolon, an image, a likeness, an idol, and Latria, service. The worship or service of a false god, particularly the image of a false god. Idolatry as I hope you understand, is very closely connected with demons. The Apostle Paul says, when Gentiles engage in idolatry in sacrifice to idols, they are actually sacrificing to demons and not to God. They don't necessarily realize it. Presumably they don't realize it, but their worship is intercepted by demons, and it terminates upon the Prince of Darkness. I read an account of a missionary, Alice Chen, who was serving in Taiwan. She said she was biking to the post office when a woman in a tattered t-shirt and shorts, with desperate fear in her eyes, grabbed her bike and begged her for help. Though she didn't know who I was or where I was from, she asked me to take her to the Christian hospital. She wanted to see a doctor. I called a taxi. There was something very urgent about her distress. Mrs. Wang was thirty-five years old, married to a goat herder, and the mother of two young sons. About a year ago, she developed a fear of dying. She came across a temple near her home again. This is Taiwan, dedicated to a god she didn't know. She bye-bied this god, asking it for help. Bye-bye is a Taiwanese term meaning to worship Ever since then, she said, she's been plagued by incredible fear and unrest. She told me this God was evil and he was always telling her to kill herself. Mrs. Wang was constantly torn between compulsive urgings to harm herself and her own deep fear of death. I took her to see our hospital chaplains after a time of discussion and prayer. She agreed to let us drive her home. It was about a half-hour drive. When we arrived, her husband came out of the s shed where he was feeding the goats and invited us into their simple wood and country. Concrete house. We were met by an immense altar in the living room, carved out of heavy redwood. It dominated the room and displayed four or five idols. including images of Buddha and Matsu, the patron goddess of fishermen. There were bowls of fresh fruit, incense chicks, and glowing red lanterns uh on the altar, tributes to these ornate wood and metal idols. Mr. Wang told us proudly that he spent more than three hundred and seventy-five US dollars to put together what would what would comp what would translate to 375 U. S. dollars to put together the altar. We told the Wangs about Jesus Christ and the power of God, which is far greater than any evil spirit. We urged them to accept God's power by trusting Christ. But at the time they didn't see the connection between their outright idolatry and Mrs. Wang's problem. Idolatry is simply demonism in disguise. Paul strongly warns the Christians not to have anything to do with it. And then he goes on to speak of sorcery, literally pharmacia. From which we get our English word pharmacist. Paul strongly warns Christians to have nothing to do with idolatry and to have nothing to do with pharmacists Amen. That means if you have to order medicine, it's far better to do it on an automated phone line so you will have as little contact with the pharmacist as possible. Now, seriously, to quote Hendrickson again, pharmacia is used here in the sense of sorcery, by means of which mysterious powers were erroneously ascribed to certain articles, formulas, or incantations. Hold your place here. Turn to Acts chapter 8 for a moment. Or trust me to find it. I'll read it. it to you. Acts chapter 8, verse 9. But there was a certain man called Simon who previously packed practiced sorcery in the city and astonished the people of Samaria, claiming that he was someone great. to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God. And they heeded him because he had astonished them with his sorceries for a long time. Think uh uh magician, think somebody who uses potions, think somebody who does things that someone else doesn't understand and then thinks has uh some sort of power. Look at uh Acts chapter 19 And verse eighteen. And many would believe came confessing. and telling their deeds. Also many of those who had practiced magic brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. And they counted up the value of them, and it totaled fifty thousand pieces of silver. So the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. So we're talking here about sorcery, witchcraft, empowered by Satan. You may uh recall this antidote, uh, anecdote, not an antidote, that would be pharmacy, I guess, this uh anecdote from Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones. He wrote, uh, I remembered, I remember a woman who was a spiritist, a paid medium employed by a spiritist society. She used to go every Sunday evening to a spiritist meeting And she was paid three guineas for acting as a medium. This was during the 30s, and that was quite a large sum of money for a lower middle-class woman. She was ill one Sunday and she could not go to keep her appointment. She was sitting in her house and she saw people passing by on their way to the church where I happened to be ministering in southern Wales. Something made her feel the desire to know what these people had, and so she decided to go to the service, and she did so. She came ever afterwards until she died and she became a very fine Christian. One day I asked her what she had felt on that very first visit. And this is what she said. The moment I entered your chapel and sat down on a seat amongst the people, I was conscious of a power. I was conscious of the same sort of power as I was accustomed to in our spiritist meetings, but there was one big difference. I had a feeling that the power in your chapel was a clean power. An ad uh popped up on my cell phone just this week. Uh the ad said, uh I think I have it right, could visiting a psychic change your life? Question mark Well, yes, it could, as a matter of fact. Sorcery, mediums, seances, fortune tellers, etc. All of those things we're warned strongly about in the Word of God. You consult such people, you are opening yourself up for spiritual oppression, and you're giving giving uh Satan a foothold in your life, and you may find yourself uh with a foretaste of uh hell The third grouping of works of the flesh, the largest grouping in this list, refers to strife. Sins of strife. Hatred. Ektra from the word that means enemy. It's the opposite of agape. The carnal mind is enmity against God. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? James 4. 4. Hatred, enmity, contentions, strife, quarrels, wranglings, rivalries, jealousies from xalos, zeal It's not always a bad thing to be zealous or jealous, the same Greek word is used for both, but in this context It is jealousy for a particular leader or for a particular position. I am a Paul. I am of Apollos. You see? Outbursts of wrath, hot anger, fierceness. It can occur between husbands and wives. It can occur between parents and children. It can occur between siblings, brothers and sisters in Christ. It is a work of the flesh. Selfish ambitions, self-seeking, rivalry, desiring to win disciples to yourself, as Absalom attempting to win the hearts of the people of Israel. With the goal of usurping his father, King David. In our day, men have taken secondary positions in ministries with the intention of drawing away disciples after themselves. Supplanting the ministry leader. I understand this uh happened to the late Dr. D. James Kennedy on more than one occasion. I was told. Dissensions from two Greek words, standing and apart. So a dissension is to stand apart. One group over here, one group over there. The traditional music lovers on one side, the uh uh uh contemporary music lovers on the other side, the homeschooling families on one side of the uh dissension. The public school families on the other side of the dissension, the families most concerned with sound doctrine on one side, the families most concerned with outreach on the other side. Dissensions. Heresies. There's another word Paul uses. Heresis is the Greek word. It did not have the connotation it has today, almost 2,000 years later. When I say the word heresy, you think of false teaching. Greek scholar Vine writes, it denotes rather a choosing, a choice from Heraumai to choose. And then that which is chosen, hence an opinion, especially a self-willed opinion, which is substituted for submission to the power of truth, and it leads to division and the formation of sects. C E T S or parties. In the New Testament use of the word, a heretic is not necessarily a false teacher. He is rather someone who is self-willed. If he divides a church body by being self-willed, he has been heretical. In my 45 years as a Christian, I've known some very orthodox heretics. Right on the fundamentals of the faith, wrong on the devastation they were willing to inflict on a denomination or on a local congregation as they fought for their own position. And then Paul mentions envy Well, we all know that, right? It's the feeling of displeasure produced by witnessing or hearing of the advancement or the prospering of others. Hey Russ, did you hear our old friend Ed from seminary got another book published? You know, with a real publisher. Yeah, yeah, isn't that great? Great for him, what a guy. Envy, Proverbs says, is rottenness to the bones. Hendrickson writes, our English word envy is from the Latin invidio, meaning to look against. That is to look with ill will at another person because of what he has or is. It was envy that caused the murder of Abel. It was envy that threw Joseph into that pit and ultimately sold him as a slave. Envy caused Korah, Dathan, and Abiram to rebel against Moses. And Aaron as well. And it made Saul pursue David. And then be led to the crucifixion. of our Lord. Love never envies, Scripture says. And then murders. As we've noted, murder can be the ultimate result of envy. If unchecked. Then he talks about drunkenness and revelries. To complete his list, drunkenness we're familiar with, revelries, carousals In Paul's day, the term would refer to disorderly processions parading through the streets with torches, singing songs to Bacas. Natural inhibitions would be removed. In our day, I think it would probably refer to events like Mardi Gras celebrations. Maybe some music festivals where inhibitions are removed, where the drugs are flowing freely. And the like, Paul says, that is, other behaviors that are similar. That might fit into this category, swearing, covetousness, pride, boasting. Paul says, if any of you are so deceived as to think that you can engage in this sort of behavior and still consider yourself to be a Christian, Allow me to disabuse you of that notion. I'm telling you beforehand, before it's too late, in other words, just as I also told you in time past That those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. I can't make it much more clear. Those who practice such things, what things? All those things you just mentioned Shall not inherit the kingdom of God. A few verses later in chapter 6, he puts it this way: Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that shall he also reap. For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the spirit will of the spirit reap everlasting life. Well, I wonder who might want to deceive us in this matter. Maybe the great deceiver? Maybe the destroyer? of souls? Now let's take a few minutes to clarify and underscore a couple things before we leave this passage for today. We'll come back and look at those the fruit of the Spirit later. Lord willing. First of all, a casual reader might assume that since Paul said, those who practice such works of the flesh will not inherit the kingdom of God, that casual reader might conclude. That he also meant to teach, those who don't practice such things will inherit the kingdom of God. Right? Okay, so If I do these things, I won't inherit the kingdom of God. So I guess if I don't do those things, I will inherit the kingdom of God. Well, no, that's not what Paul's saying at all. Someone might conclude, in other words, that uh people who do bad things won't go to heaven, and people who do good things will. Well, we're getting pretty basic here, are we not? As we said last week, Paul has devoted the bulk of his letter to affirming in the strongest terms possible that no one was ever justified by the works of the law. If righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. 221. We're not redeemed by God because we avoid the works of the flesh. We avoid the works of the flesh because we're redeemed by God. It was sin that nailed my Savior to the cross. The true Christian detests sin, among other reasons, because of the terrible price that was exacted from Jesus so that we could be declared righteous. The Christian life is something like a narrow path. We should have a path. Well, this is a path here, isn't it? This main aisle. So imagine you're walking down, this is the narrow path to uh to eternal life. There's a narrow path to eternal life, a land bridge, you might say. There's it. We've got another one over here. A narrow path. On one side, there's a raging river heading in the opposite direction. That's uh legalism. Paul doesn't want you to fall off on that path. He spent the whole letter warning the Galatians not to get on that path, because that's taking you in the wrong direction. You'll fall into that river, the foul river of legalism, that leads you away from Christ. So you want to stay off of that path, that side, so you move over here. And what's over here? There's a cesspool of license, licentiousness, works of the flesh. That's what he's warning us about here. Christian life is like walking on that narrow land bridge. The message Paul's conveying here is that if a man presumes that he has eternal life, he claims salvation by faith, he declares he's trusting in Jesus. And then he uses his liberty to indulge in the sins of the flesh, then he's just using Christ as a cloak of wickedness. If, while claiming to be a Christian, he indulges in such practices as sexual immorality, hatred, outbursts of wrath, drunkenness, etc. if these things represent the pattern of his life, If he doesn't merely slip and soak his foot in the cesspool, but he swims in it by choice, this man will not inherit the kingdom of God. If a man says he has faith, but he has no works, can such faith save him, James said, and the answer is no. Now, what Paul says here runs counter to the understanding of many in modern American Christian circles. There's a widespread belief that there are great numbers of people who have no signs of holiness, but are nonetheless Christians. Why? Because they say they believe in Jesus. In other words, there are many, many people in America who think it's possible to receive Jesus as Savior without embracing him as Lord But the scripture says, without holiness, no man shall see the Lord. Certainly it's possible for Christians to stumble, to slide back toward the pit from which they were delivered. Of course it is. Certainly it's possible for Christians to demonstrate carnality for a time in some area of their lives, as the Corinthians did. But the idea that some Christians can be classified simply as carnal Christians, that mankind can be divided into three major groups: non-Christians, carnal Christians, and spiritual Christians. Is simply not biblical. The scripture speaks of two great classes of men: Christians and non-Christians, the saved and the lost, the sheep and the goats, the believers and the unbelievers, the spiritually alive and the spiritually dead. Now, of course, all Christians are at varying stages of growth, right? But there are certain things that all Christians have in common. Each true Christian has been born again, has been born from above. Each true Christian is a new creation. Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Jesus said to Nicodemus, John 3:3. As a result of that new birth, each genuine Christian has repented of his sins or her sins. It's the first thing that we do when When we're born again, we say our sin is foul and vile, and we say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. We beat our breasts and go home justify. As a result of the new birth, each true Christian has placed his faith, his trust for eternal salvation in Jesus Christ, not only as Savior, but as the Lord of his life. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved and your household. Acts 16, 31. You know, the book of Acts recounts the explosion of the gospel into the first century world. But in the book of Acts, if you look at it, Jesus was proclaimed not just as a savior, but as Lord, Master, and King. The term Savior, interestingly, appears twice in the book of Acts, chapter 5, chapter 13. The word Lord appears 92 times. The word Lord Jesus 13 times. Lord Jesus Christ six times. Each true Christian is thus different than he was before. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 And each true Christian is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. By one Spirit were we all baptized into one body, and have all been made to drink of one Spirit. 1 Corinthians 12, 13. Spurgeon put it this way: Do not suppose that the gospel is magnified or God glorified by our going to the worldlings and telling them that they may be saved at the at that moment. By simply accepting Christ as Savior while they are wedded to their idols and their hearts are still in love with sin. If I do so, I tell them a lie, I pervert the gospel, I insult Christ. And I turned the grace of God into lasciviousness. Matthew Henry put it this way. Unless we consent to Christ as Lord, we cannot expect any benefit from him as Savior. And the evidence that a man is a Christian is not what he looks like. Jesus didn't say by their suit you shall know them. It's not that he seems to be materially blessed by God. It's not by their loot that you shall know them. Nor is it uh uh what a man says about himself, proclaiming himself to be a Christian. It's not by their hoot. All right, it's a stretch that you shall know them. But a man gives evidence that he's a Christian by how he lives. It's by their fruit. And you shall know them. Paul says, if you practice works of the flesh, you have good cause to question your salvation, no matter how many times you've raised your hand at a rally or walked forward. Now, Paul wrote this passage and others like it to prevent those on the narrow way from falling into the cesspool on the left. But our natural reaction when we hear such stern warnings is to move so near the right side of the path that now again we're in danger of falling into that river of legalism. And Satan is, of course, just as content to push us off the right side of the path as the left side of the path. Now, how might he do that? Well, he might succeed in convincing a pilgrim that because he or she fell in the cesspool at one point, sexual immorality or drunkenness, or an outburst of wrath, or envy. He is somehow now disqualified from eternal life. But we cannot be disqualified from that for which we were never qualified. Right? Christ knew that we were defiled sinners when he agreed to die for us. He knows that the Spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. He knows that there's a constant struggle within us, that the remnants of the old man remain. He knows that the flesh lusts against the spirit, so that you do not do the things that you wish, verse 17. And as godly and gifted as the Apostle Paul was, he admitted that the same war took place in his own heart, right? For what I'm doing, I don't understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice. But what I hate, that I do. Oh, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Man, am I ever going to be delivered from this? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, he says. So the true Christian may find himself slipping into the cesspool. And he may lose the joy of his salvation. But the true Christian will also be convicted by God's Spirit. And what's he going to be doing? He's going to be endeavoring to climb out of the cesspool. By their fruit you shall know them. He's trying to climb out. Hey, I need help. I'm I've fallen in the cesspool. I've fallen, I can't get up. He needs help to get out. You see? But he's trying to get out. Well, one more way the deceiver can push us to the right of the path is we can reason this way. God doesn't want us to have anything to do with immorality. Sexual immorality, idolatry, sorcery, revelries. I need to shield myself and my family from all such vices. That couple that just moved in next door, they're not married. That new lady at work, she lives with her partner. My cousin is into new age religion. He worships Mother Earth. I need to stay as far away from them as possible. I'm certainly not going to countenance the way they live by having any contact with them, and there's no way I would ever invite them to my home for a meal or for a game night. Listen to Paul's words to the Christians in Corinth. I wrote you in my letter not to keep company with sexually immoral people, yet I certainly didn't mean with the sexually immoral people of the world. Or with the covetous or extortioners or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. And that's precisely what Satan wants you to do and me to do. Hide our light under a bushel basket. But now I've written unto you not to keep company with anyone named a brother, who is sexually immoral, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, extortioner, not even to eat with such a person. For what have I to do with judging those who are outside? Do you not judge those who are inside? But those who are outside, God judges. Therefore, put away from yourselves that evil person. What's he saying? When he warned the Christians in Corinth to shun those who profess to be Christians but have chosen to live in sin. Like case in point, the man living in an incestuous relationship with his own stepmother, he was talking about bringing conviction upon their hearts by not winking at their sin, by not treating them as if it's okay. Hey, Bob, I heard that uh Heard you ditch your wife or your secretary. You know, a lot of us haven't met her yet. Would you bring her? Make sure you bring her to the next small group meeting. Right? What? They're continuing in sin and you're looking the other way and ignoring it brings dishonor to your Savior, Paul. never intended that you should not keep company with the immoral of this world. He's talking about the believer to try to bring him or her to a point of repentance. Think about it. If Satan could convince all Christians to have nothing to do with all those who have sinful lifestyles, he would have effectively consigned the greatest number of those people to hell. And he would have turned a whole generation of Christians into cold-hearted Pharisees, and he would have turned their children in the process into cynics. Jesus was the friend of tax collectors who were viewed as covetous traitors and women of the streets and the rest of mankind who were not accepted in polite circles. He said, I've come not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Those who are sick are the ones who need a physician, he said. When Paul warns us against the works of the flesh, he's not telling us to have nothing to do with sinners. World Magazine reported some news that should alarm us. They said the Barna Research Group, a respected Christian survey organization, asked young people to identify which perceptions they most strongly associated with Christianity. Now, one would hope they would choose things like, well, love. They're loving. They're sacrificial. The Christians are. holy, they're set apart, they're Christ-like, they're they're different in in a good way. As the early uh As the ancients said of the early Christians, behold how these Christians love one another. Behold how these Christians love one another. But the three most commonly agreed upon perceptions of Christianity among young people were anti-homosexual, judgmental, and hypocritical. The presidents of the Barna group summarized the findings. Christians have become famous for what we oppose rather than who we're for. Along with anti-homosexual, judgmental, and hypocritical, the negative impressions, the negative impressions of Christians held by young people in class. included seclusion from the real world and overpoliticization. I have no doubt that uh the way the entertainment industry generally depicts Christians has a great deal to do with these perceptions. Right? Ever see a Christian in a in a television program, he's a rascal. He's a hypocrite, he's a liar, he's the one who probably committed the murder. Most of those polled uh report but but uh and so uh what I was saying, my point was even though yeah, some of that perception was it has been framed by what we see in the media. But most of those polled report knowing Christians personally, and a considerable percentage of them have spent significant time in churches themselves. So it's not all hearsay. Apparently, in the eyes of many outside of the faith, most Christians are in the legalism river. We're judgmental, we're condemnatory, and we're secluded from the real world. Presumably that was Mark Twain's view. He said, go to heaven for the climate and hell for the company. That's what he thought of Christians. So the world perceives us as in that uh that legalism river and or in the cesspool ourselves and thus hypocrites, right? The Pharisees, you remember, were rebuked by the Lord for being both judgmental and hypocritical. Well, what can we do to help change that perception? Well, we can remember God's warning to avoid the cesspool ourselves, so we don't get the hypocrite charged. And we can avoid legalism, River, by reminding ourselves each day and each time we see evil manifested in the words or behavior of others That the same evil is in our own hearts. And there, but for the grace of God go we. It's hard to be harsh and judgmental of others when we remember that what we really deserve is not everlasting joy and and and uh and uh comfort in the presence of god thy uh presence is fullness of joy thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore that's not what we deserve what we deserve is his eternal wrath What we deserve is to be where the worm dies not and the fire is not quenched. That's what I deserve The fact that believers in Christ will one day be permitted to serve him and dwell with him in a place where they will never again be tempted to sin, never again be plagued by sin, that has nothing to do with any good thing that we've done. It's all a result of God's abundant mercy. It's all a result of God's amazing grace. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word and for the reminders that your word gives us. Lord, help us keep us from falling into legalism river. And keep us from falling off on the other side of the path in that cesspool of works of the flesh. Lord, help us To stay on the path, we know that Christ says, my yoke is easy, my burden is light. What a joy to have him walking with us, forgiving us, helping us, guiding us. What a joy to have the Holy Spirit within us. Lord, we pray for each one here. I pray, especially if there be someone still outside of Christ, dead in sins. That this would be the day of salvation for that one. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.