Amen. Thank you, Choir. And uh thank you, George. We are uh uh pleased uh today to have with us Chuck and Debbie Garriott. Uh The Garriots have been uh well known to Liberty Church over the years, uh long before I got here. Uh the Garriot boys are uh uh sort of they've single-handedly planted the Church of Christ in Maryland, I guess you could say. No Not quite, but sort of like the uh the w the Wesley brothers. And uh we're they've been uh mightily used of God both here and and other places And I hope that you've read or will read a little biographical information about their ministry. Chuck's going to speak a little bit about the ministry, which they call ministry to state. And uh and Chuck has brought with him some of the little books that he's written. I brought one myself. Here it is. It's called Obama Prayer, Prayers for the 44th President. Charles M. Gary. Now that sounds impressive. Maybe we know we know him as Chuck. After that, it's not as impressive when you open the the cover as what you're saying I'm just picking up on what he said. I don't really believe that. No, I read this uh actually just read this this week and it it's a it's a wonderful little book uh about how to how to pray for our president, how to pray for other leaders. Uh uh how to pray that God will use them mightily and and give them uh you know equip them to be faithful uh fathers and and uh husbands. Uh in in his case and and and in the and to uh to be wise in the choice of of officials and anyway it's very good. And yes We've placed some on the back table, so you're welcome to take a look at them. And if you'd like to to uh take one home, uh Chuck has graciously said You're welcome to do that. There's a little plate there if you would like to leave something to help to cover the cost of the book. I guess the you know it's it's not cheap to to make these books. Somebody has to do it. Did you have to type every one of these? So there's a lot of time and effort put into this. All right. So this is why this is why we have Pastor Barry to to do these things in such a way that that it it doesn't get all goofy about it. And he's not here now, so I'm just gonna introduce Chuck. Hi. Good to have you with us. Thank you so much. Well it is a privilege to be back with you. I uh I c I can't tell you how much Debbie and I I appreciate the love and care and prayers and support uh in many, many ways uh over the years for us. Uh Ru Russ is is right. Uh we um we as a family uh I'm speaking of course in regards to my parents and uh my brothers and and others as well and my sisters that uh this church has been a huge uh impact, influence upon our lives. And we go back actually uh not that I was a regular a tender or a member at the time, but when I was in high school and Devin and I were in high school So this church, which was just over here, that is, in terms of the physical building, was just being built. And uh I remember well coming in during those days and worshiping and uh just it w it meant a lot to me as a high school student and of course that wasn't very long ago for me. Uh but it it meant a lot as a high school student to be able to come here and hear God's word preached and to be honest with you uh all my days of growing up that was a relatively unusual experience to actually hear the word of god uh exegeted and expounded upon and um anyway so we just want you to know how much we appreciate uh you and your uh ongoing ministry and for what you're doing in this community and how God is using you uh in so many different ways. So uh I give the Lord praise for that. You have uh uh some years ago, you may not realize how long ago it's been now, but we are entering into our ninth year in regards to ministry to state. I am what we refer to in the Presbyterian Church in America, part of the mission to North America. I have the privilege of serving under that umbrella within our denomination Specifically for the purpose of developing ministry to government, which is called ministry to state. So Debbie and I live in Washington, D. C. We live about two and a half miles north of the White House. We live in an area called Adams Morgan and uh our home is uh a great center for different kinds of ministries and And we do things obviously in Washington, D. C. but also in some state capitals, including places like Oklahoma City. And we also see things happening in some other parts of the world. One of the interesting places that the ministry has taken us through the book Work Excellence, which some of you I know have uh been involved in in the past, but the bookwork Excellence uh a number of years ago was translated into Chinese and was used to form different work uh fellowships in Beijing And I went there about a year and a half ago and spent time with the different uh uh friends, uh brothers and sisters in Christ who have been part of these different And so we're seeing how God is opening up doors that are really way beyond our ability to do things. And all of that is because we believe your prayers and your interest and concerns are And your encouragement over the years. So I want to I just want to share that with you briefly. I like to uh draw your attention to the book of First Timothy, and if you have a New Testament with you Uh actually I'm I am going to be reading from the New International Version, so if that's not uh if you use the ESV or whatever you'll you'll be able to figure out uh some of the differences but uh you'll appreciate uh either way the passage in front of us. And before I read, I think it's appropriate that I would pray. So if you would Well, please pray with me. Father, thank you for giving us this new year. It's fresh, uh, not even twenty-four hours into it And we have an opportunity to, in 2012, to begin with worship. What an appropriate uh what an what an appropriate uh occasion gathering to begin the year worshiping you. Thank you for this church and its ministry. Thank you that you speak to us through your word, that your Holy Spirit is involved even now in our lives. I ask, Lord, that your spirit would work in all of our lives. Help me as I do the work of preaching I need your assistance. I need your help. We all need your help in regards to understanding your word, making it clear, but also understanding how it's to be applied to our lives. Upon you, we thank you for the death and resurrection of our Savior Jesus Christ. And it's my prayer that if there's anyone here today that does not know Christ, That even today, before this service is over, that there would be uh a desire to come to Christ in repentance and faith, surrendering their life totally to Christ. Christ. Thank you for all these things in Christ's name. Amen. First Timothy chapter two, starting at verse one. I urge you then, first of all, that petitions Prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving be made for all people, for kings and all those in authority, that we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness. This is good and pleases God our Savior, who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all people. This has now been witnessed to at the proper time, and for this purpose I was appointed a herald And now been witness to at the proper time. I'm sorry, and for this perp and for this purpose, I was now appointed to be a herald and apostle. I am telling the truth. I am not lying, and a true and faithful truth. teacher of the Gentiles. I want men everywhere to pray, lifting up holy hands without anger or disputing. Now, I don't know about you. I suspect that if we were all honest, we would acknowledge that prayer, in some ways, at certain times, is a little bit more. a little bit more of a mystery than we what we might admit. Now, if you think about it On the surface, prayer is amazing, is it not? That you have the Privilege of being able to go to God at any time, at any place, under any circumstances And you don't have to pay anything. You know, like you don't get you don't end up with roaming charges. You don't ever get like like a a message that says, you know, it didn't go through, right? You know, you prayed but somehow it it didn't get past the moon or whatever it is. And and uh y so you don't have any you don't have any expense, you don't have any two year contracts You know, you don't have anything like that. You can communicate with God totally free. As long as you would like. Now, with that said, something that is as amazing as a prayer is, as easy as available it is If we were to stand up, each of us, and talk about how much we prayed in 2011, how often we prayed, when we prayed. We would find there's some kind of disparity between what is available to us and the amount of prayer we actually exercise. And in some ways, that doesn't really come to us as a great surprise because there is this thing called a spiritual battle, spiritual warfare. I think one of the major emphasis in the spiritual warfare is in terms of what Satan loves to do in my life and I suspect the same is true in your life, is he he says to us, you know, it's so easy Isn't it? You c Chuck, you can do this anytime. So if you can't do it right now, it's it's okay. You can do it tomorrow. Or you can do it in a few hours, right? So you don't have to worry about doing it right now. And you know what happens, right? Another hour or two goes by, another day goes by, another week goes by, and before long you realize, well, you know what, I I I never did that. I've been told in terms of marketing that one of the best things you can do, let's say you buy this microphone, one of the things that marketers will do is say, this has a lifetime guarantee. Right? Lifetime guarantee. And so here's what happens. You buy the thing, whatever it is, maybe it was a brand new TV or you know flat screen or whatever. Lifetime guarantee. So it doesn't work. So you say or something's wrong with it. So you say to yourself, Well I can take it back tomorrow because it's a lifetime guarantee. And so you don't take it back tomorrow because you get busy and then it's the next day. And before long, a year's gone by and you still haven't taken the thing back. And they they know that. They know that as long as you think that you have forever to take it back, you'll never do it You know, like you you get these cards, you know, you like gift cards, you know, they have money on them and and uh you can spend that money anytime you want. Next thing you know it's been in that drawer for five years. Because you say to yourself, I can do this thing And that's my point. Prayer has this deceptive side to it. Even though it's so easy that that a three-year-old My three year our our our two and three-year-old grandchildren, and and and when our children were young, they could pray. And so you say to yourself, something that is that easy can't be Watch this, can't be worth that much somehow. It can't really be that significant. If you have an opportunity to meet a governor or president or somebody that you think is really important, maybe some actor or actress or musician or whatever, you would really spend a lot of time preparing yourself for that meeting. And you wouldn't let the hour go by when it was the appointed time. But somehow, the idea of us going before the throne of grace is seemingly diminished. The most important thing we could do is somehow diminished. And it's it's it's deceptive It's just deceptive. You know, Naaman, c uh, back in the Old Testament, when he was told that he was dealing with leprosy And Elisha said, look, just go to the Jordan River, dip yourself in there seven times, and you can be healed. And what did he say? Didn't you ever be crazy? We've got better rivers where I come from. You know, the concept that I could go into this river, dip myself seven times to be healed, well that's nonsense I think a lot of times, subconsciously, we do the same thing when it comes to to prayer. We say it's too easy, it's too much, it's too available, and I think can do it any time and so it never really gets done. And then the other thing about prayer that I've noted is that if you really look at the scriptures, you'll see You'll see that the reality in regards to prayer is that it's dangerous. And maybe, again, subconsciously, we realize this We realize that anyone who actually enters into the presence of God, and when you pray, when we prayed earlier, this this morning in the worship. When we were going before the presence of God, before his throne, we were in a very dangerous position Position. Think about it throughout the scriptures. When Adam and Eve, after they fell, when God was pursuing them, what were they doing? They were hiding from God. They wanted to remain hidden. Because to be in his presence, to to hear even his voice for them was dangerous. You think about Moses, for example, when When he was speaking with God, and God was going to reveal himself to him. And God says, I'm going to put you behind this rock, because if you see My face, you will die. You think about Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6. When he had this vision of being in the presence of God, was he comfortable? No. She says, woe am I, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among people the same It's a bit of a paraphrase. But the point is he was terrified and you think about John there in the beginning of the book of Revelation. He was terribly afraid. About being in the presence of Christ. It is dangerous because it can change you. And it can change your mindset and your attitude towards other people. It can change the way in which you look at yourself. So when we deal with this issue of prayer, it's no small thing. And so when Paul here in 1 Timothy chapter 2 exhorts us to pray. On the surface, we apply all those things, I believe, to some degree that I just mentioned. But I think that this passage before us. Requires a second second look. Requires a little bit of time to examine and to ask ourselves, am I really up to speed, so to speak, when what I'm reading and I understand this portion of of God's word. What does it mean to apply to to take what it is said what is said here in 1 Timothy chapter 2 to today? What does that look like for us? Are we willing to accept its exhortation? And as we all know That if we apply what Paul is saying, which he has said some what 2,000 years ago to today, it means specifically if I'm going to be in prayer and pray specifically for those in government, that means that I am instructed to pray specifically for the 44th President of the United States, President Obama Barack Hussein Obama. Now, here's what I've discovered. I'll tell you in a little bit about the circumstances behind the book that Russ has mentioned and really the the basis of what we're talking about this morning here in terms of of the emphasis within our ministry But when the book came out and different people began to review it, I found there to be within the Christian community within the conservative Christian community and even within the conservative reformed Christian community, sort of a ah, I this is not so easy. For me to pray for the forty-fourth President of the United States. Now I don't need to fill in the blanks, and I realize in any kind of audience, there are people here today who perhaps voted for the president There are those who voted for him but they won't vote for him next round. There are those here who didn't vote for him and they won't vote for him. I mean there's there's all kinds of positions here politically. I I understand that But I also understand that as people were confronted with just the simple message found in 1 Timothy, that these are some of the things that I heard this one lady who has a very active blog and read the book, she said, said when I got it, I didn't really want to read it. President Obama is not my favorite politician leader, and if I read the book, I'd probably be convicted about actually spending valuable time praying for the man and his presidency. She didn't want to do that. Now this is her own words, okay? I'm not I'm not inter I'm not uh interpreting something here. Then she goes along, she says, I did I says She said, did I want to do that? And then what if I did pray for Mr. Obama, but God didn't do anything That I recognize as an answer to my prayers. Or, like in the story of Jonah, would if God did bring Mr. Obama and the rest of his administration to repentance and change Would I believe it? Or would I rather see God's wrath outpoured on those whom I disagree, both morally and politically? And she goes on, she says, Alch, so first I prayed for my own rather faithless and vengeful heart to be changed. And then she goes on and talks about reading the book. Well, maybe some of you can relate to that a little bit. God was very gracious in this past year of providing a lot of opportunities to do a lot of business. interviews both radio in different parts of the country and and TV or um newspaper articles and things of that nature. And I found consistently as these interviews were going on I heard the same thing over and over and over and over again. I just I don't like praying for somebody that I don't agree with politically So I tend to think that somehow in the most what I would consider to be one of the most conservative segments of our culture Believing segments of our culture, that the exhortation found here in 1 Timothy is really quite a challenge, much more so than what you would ever Imagine. Maybe that doesn't exist here. Uh you may not be able to even relate to some of these things that I'm saying, but throughout the country I find it to be the case. So when you think about First Timothy, here's three things I would like to leave with you. Number one, as you think about what what Paul is saying here, first consider, if you will. What I will call the character of the prayer emphasis that he is exhorting us to enter into. If you note, he does not say, I urge you then to pray. He says this. He says, I urge you then, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving be made for all people, for kings. And in this case, for President Barack Obama and all those in authority. Now think about what he's doing here. There's a commentary by the uh out by uh series by the by the name of Lensky. Lensky um, to me, is very helpful. It does a great job in terms of exegesis. And so what he does is he takes these four terms, petitions, prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving, and he he kind of uh gives us a little bit more detail in terms of of what Paul had in mind. For example, he says in terms of petitions, to fill needs implies the humble feeling of our great need Of the gifts and blessings of God, who alone is able to bestow what is good and wholesome. In other words, when Paul is exhorting us to pray, he's also saying, there is within our posture To be a definite sense of humility. I am in need Secondly, in terms of prayers, which is a more sacred and reverent term, he says coming to God with a due reverence, recognizing him as the Lord. And the great God of heaven and earth before whom we must bow. In other words, this concept of reverence So you have at the same time of humility in terms of our position before God, an understanding that we have come in the presence of the King of Kings. Thirdly, intercession, which is a term in the original found only in one other place in the New Testament, he says, drawing nigh to him in a childlike trust. And freedom, making known our wishes, and knowing that He will indeed give us that which is helpful. So do you see the contrast here? Do you see the what shall we call it? The the dimensions of our prayer life, humility, reverence, that there would be in essence this childlike mindset as we go before God. And then the last one, thanksgiving. Grateful acknowledgement for past mercies given in response to our request. Does that represent your heart, your attitude when it comes to prayer? Thanksgiving, humility, reverence As we pray, those are to be what characterizes what comes out of our lips. What's coming from our heart, that we would see our need. Not just simply, Lord, bless someone In this case, the President of the United States. But to come before God knowing that there is a dynamic to our lives that we don't always understand. And at the same time That we can be thankful because we know that we are praying not just to someone who would like to do something significant. But who is truly sovereign, who's truly in control over every aspect of our lives, our nation, and our world. In Luke 20, you'll see that there's a passage or in that passage that Jesus , and I'm just I'll just paraphrase it quickly, as he's dealing with the the religious leaders and they're trying to trick him, uh he tells them that they are to get this or have this coin and if they look at the coin they'll see that on one side the Caesar And Jesus says to them that you are to give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar and give to God what belongs to God. And when it comes to the issue of praying for the 44th President of the United States, we know that he is under the sovereign control of God We may not like certain aspects of the administration, where they're coming from, where they're going. We know that they belong to God. And God, I think there's implications in this passage to us in regards to praying, meaning That we are to give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. What belongs to Caesar is our prayers, our petition. And we can only give to God in a in in integrity when we are dealing with that that we can see and in this regard is our president. Secondly, in terms of the content of prayer Paul is very clear. It's a worldwide prayer, first of all. The focus is upon all people, all men, all women, all children. Uh the people who you don't like, maybe at your workplace, maybe you've got a neighbor that really irritates you because They leave their garbage can out too long and it dumps over and it dumps dog garbage into your yard and and then dogs come and you know they're just they're just not people who really are nice neighbors and And so you have a struggle with them. Paul says you're to pray for them. You're to pray for the person at work that that you just don't get along with. They don't maybe they are always critical about your your uh uh uh your performance and you're just tired of it. Doesn't matter. We're to pray for them. Pray for people who are more intelligent, less intelligent It doesn't matter who they are, we are instructed to pray for them. And then he says specifically: we are to pray for those in authority, in this case for our president. Now Interesting that I would say in my own life that yes, I've tried to do this. However I will also admit to you, having been in the normal pastorate in Oklahoma City for 20 years and a few years up in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, that it was a rare thing that I would pray specifically for the president, regardless of whatever administration was in position within our country At the time of the inauguration, or soon after, a friend shared with me that she was reading Obama's first book That dealt with his background, his history. And I began to read the same book. And we decided That we ought to have a dinner in Washington, D. C. at our home, where our friends would be invited to come and as a means of getting to know the president better, we would have sort of a book discussion So it would be a uh a d uh what we would call an Obama dinner uh with the say with the purpose of of having read the book and just having a discussion. And then I began to think, Debbie and I as we were talking about the dinner We said, well, you know what? To make sure that the dinner doesn't turn negative, that we would have a time of prayer for the president at the end of the discussion of this book. Dreams from Dreams of my father. Maybe some of you have read it. And so, and the means of putting together that uh dinner And giving some guidelines for the time of prayer, I went through the book of Proverbs. Now, many of you are familiar with the name of Estes, Steve Estes. Steve Estes had shown me a book that at the time he had written, just a small book, based uh on the book of Proverbs, uh as a way of helping his congregation deal with the Christmas season. And what he did was, he creatively went through Proverbs, pulled out passages that dealt with greed and materialism, etc. And he fashioned this sermon series, which then he turned into a book. At the time was called Solomon's Jingles. And uh very, very creative. I took that idea, that concept Except in this occasion, I went back into Proverbs and not looking for issues of greed and materialism, but in terms of Of are there specific proverbs that deal with kings and rulers? And it wouldn't surprise any of us that certainly there are, because obviously Book of Solomon written by uh I mean uh uh Proverbs written by Solomon uh would naturally have all kinds of references to kings. I went through the book of Proverbs, pulled out these different Proverbs, and put them in a sheet So that at the end of this dinner, this was given out to these friends, and this is what would be the basis of our time in prayer for the president. That was the basis then of the book Obama prayer. So that what's interesting to me is that God has not only told us to pray for those in authority, And in this case to pray for our president, but he has given us an enormous amount of wealth so that we don't have to wonder how we should pray. And I'm not saying that our prayer should only be that which is in um which is consistent with these with these Proverbs, but certainly that gives us a guideline. So for example, if you look at Proverbs 21 It says the king's heart, this is verse 1 of 21. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. He directs it like a water course wherever he pleases. That's a great passage. to begin any prayer for those in authority. That is to recognize that they serve under the King of Kings. And mortal glories, and that it is God who is ultimately in control of this person and their reign. Other passages, for example, that should guide us in terms of our prayer, things like Proverbs 31, which I believe speaks about the family relationship with a president or administration The sayings of King Lemuel, an oracle, his mother taught him now listen to what it says, and you and and decide if you can or see if you can decide what The prayer should be. O my son, O son of my womb, O son of my vows, do not spend your strength on women, your vigor on those who ruin kings Now just for a moment ask yourself the question: have we ever had an administration where there was a problem with the president Being involved with a woman and finding it to lead to ruin. We all know about former President Clinton Now, you see, on the one side, there is a tendency to, if you don't like an administration, to say, yes, isn't that good? You know, he's he's gotten in all kinds of big trouble. But if you're wise, he would say, No, we need to pray that our president will be faithful in his marriage. will be faithful to his children, will be faithful in terms of his his vows in that relationship. Because it doesn't do anyone any good To have a head of state involved in that kind of a relationship and the turmoil and the millions and millions of dollars And energy that is spent in an area that isn't going to help our country at all. We have an obligation for our own sake To pray for good health and relationships and marriage and when it comes to the President of the United States Do you do you get a sense of of where all this is going? In other words, I think there's a tendency for us to ignore the importance of prayer in general. And secondly, when it comes to praying for in this case President Obama that we fail to realize that it is in our best interest in the best interest of our country, in the best interest of the world, to pray for good, healthy things all throughout. To and not and not to think that somehow we can be excused from that. I'll just give you one last one. In Proverbs eight it says, I wisdom, this is verse uh twelve, fifteen and twelve And finally says, I wisdom dwell together with prudence. I possess knowledge and discretion. By me kings reign and rulers issue decrees that are just. By me princes govern and nobles all who rule on earth. Do we pray regularly that our president would rule, would govern? Would would in essence have godly wisdom. The world says wisdom is something that you get by education and by experience. The scriptures say wisdom, true wisdom, comes from God. And even though experience and education are helpful at times, ultimately what is needed. Is the Word of God guiding and directing? And for us as believers, we should be constantly praying that our president would be oriented towards the scripture. scriptures in terms of wisdom. So we have somewhat of a the character of our prayer and the content of prayer, but thirdly we have the consequences. We should never pray without the expectation that God is listening to our prayers and will respond in his way and timing. And it's interesting to me, when you come back to this passage. What Paul accents here towards the end. Now, there's a book out that came out years ago that has greatly impacted me in terms of terms of my understanding of history in the last one hundred years. It's out it's a book by Paul Johnson. It's called Modern Times. And Paul Johnson gives us within eight hundred pages. It's like a it's a little bit like a film. But in those 800 pages, he gives us a snapshot of the last 100 years. I know it sounds like a contradiction, but you have to read it to appreciate it. What's interesting to me to note is that when you think about the way history flows, like in the last 100 years. He basically is saying, look, in the most modern times, we have seen the most evil unleashed In all of history. And he goes through and he lists. He says, you take the Lenins and the Stalins The Hitlers, the Popas, Idiomenes, Saddam Hussein's, etc. And you put them all together and you see all of their terror And murder, and the number of lives that have been destroyed because of those individuals that I've just mentioned. Do you have any idea how many people have perished because Of those individuals, Paul Johnson says 125 million. Think about that So he says in the most modern of times, in a fairly short period of time, 125 million people have perished, not because of famine, not because of war. But because of people like Hitler, who is able to say to his people, we're going to join ourselves together and we're going to totally anoly the Jewish people. And so you have whatever the number, I don't know what ten, eleven million. Ten eleven million is just a portion of that hundred and twenty-five million million people. All of that at the hands of governors, of leaders, of politicians, etc. Do you do you do you get a sense of what I'm saying? So when you look at that and then you look at what what Paul is saying here, you realize that we can't afford to sit back and say, well, I don't really We need to be involved as an individual Christian or as a church in terms of praying regularly and specifically with the right kind of character and content in regards to prayer. But Paul says this He says, this is good and pleases God our Savior, speaking about this prayer, who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus. Isn't it interesting that as he exhorts us to pray, he immediately places The focus upon the gospel. Meaning, I believe That it is the church. It is the Christian community. That is God's Means of bringing redemption into this world, of bringing the message of Christ and his death and his resurrection into the world. So that it's not just a matter of praying, well, bless this president or bless bless this administration or whatever, but we are to be concerned about how that gospel is being impact in every realm of our society, specifically in this case, those in authority. So you see we're not just praying generically, but we're praying to see that gospel find its way in and through the hearts of individuals. One of the interesting things, and I I must admit I I don't um I don't say this lightly, but but I was asked what's today? Sunday. Friday. I was having an early or a breakfast, long breakfast. With a relatively young guy that is an assistant to the man who is the president's economic advisor. So that man, this man I'm having breakfast with is in the White House from 7 30 in the morning till 10 o'clock at night, day after day after day. He's exhausted. Just terribly exhausted. He asked me when we were having breakfast what I consider to be the most significant need in terms of Washington. And the people who work there, whether it be on the Hill or in agencies, or people like or in the c in terms of the White House, I said, without thinking, I said the most important thing to those who are working here in Washington Is an understanding of how the gospel is to be played out in their individual lives. And what I see as a struggle is that even with those who are Christians They are so consumed by their work that somehow the gospel seems to be squeezed out over to the side. The atmosphere, the demands, the all the things that are there just seem to put an enormous amount of pressure. The need is for the gospel. to be played out in terms of their thinking, in terms of their work, especially their work. And I think one of the things that has that has uh uh just made Debbie and I more and more aware of why God has taken us to Washington is that when we sit down with our friends and people that God has given us these relationships With, we see the need for them to understand this. Our president needs to understand the gospel. Who in the world Is going to pray specifically, regularly, that he would understand, that his wife and children would understand the gospel, would have it applied to their lives. And I and I do not deny when the president says, I am a Christian, that I believe. I believe him. If you tell me that you're a believer, I I accept that. But I also understand that even as a believer, it can be very, very difficult for you to see the gospel play itself out within your life. And so to me the need to pray is significant. Now think about this. If I asked you, show me the Bible where it says to pray for your wife as a husband. Husbands, pray for your wives. Where where do you find that? Are Wives, pray for your husbands. Husbands, pray for your wives, or parents, pray for your children. Where do you see specifically Paul, Jesus , Moses, anyone saying this is this is this is Should be the emphasis of your prayer. The Bible speaks a lot about prayer. Jesus speaks a lot about prayer. But it's interesting to me tonight that that there's a lot that it doesn't say for whatever reason. But In regards to leadership, those in authority, and as it's interpreted today for President Barack Obama , it does tell us specifically to pray for those individuals. And I think there's a reason because it's it it is critical that we keep these people before the throne. of grace and we don't allow our politics to somehow influence what we should be doing spiritually. I believe that there is, practically speaking A development within the church, a mindset of separation of church and state. And basically what we say is We say if I don't like what's going on within the state, I'm not going to be in prayer. I'm going to complain about it. I'm going to talk bad against it, but I'm not going to pray for it. And in a f in a sense, it's a like a separation of Church and state. Some of you have read perhaps Bonhopper 's works, uh some of his books, Cost of Discipleship. A year or so ago a biography came out on on Bonhoeffer. Uh Tim Keller, Redeemer, wrote the foreword to it. And it's interesting if you read the foreword, he speaks about the The condition of Germany back in the 1930s. And as you well know, things were really, really rough in Europe. But what was really sad to see is the condition of the church. A church that was established by the Reformation, by people like Luther, had become so watered down, so nothing. that it that it was able to in essence turn A blind eye towards what Hitler was about and what he was doing. Instead of being sought and light in that country and in the world, it was just the opposite. My concern for us as a country I'm sorry, my concern for us as a church in this country Is that we would not learn from past historical events not that long ago Paul is saying, we have the stewardship of the gospel. And if we're not praying regularly, specifically, intelligently, then we're not we're not that salt and light. That God has called us to be. And so my hope and my prayer is that in 19 or in 2012, that as a church, we would be regular, specific in praying for the forty fourth president of the United States, with the kind of character our prayers should have, the kind of content our prayers should have, and the kind of consequences in regards to the gospel. May our Lord help us in this area. Father, we come before you thanking you for the 44th President of the United States. Regardless of what we hold to in terms of political views, we all have an obligation to regularly pray for this man, for his family. Michelle, Malaya, Sasha, his children, his administration. For those in Congress on the Hill Because they have a huge impact upon our lives. And you have placed them there, as we've already read through our confession for specific purposes. You've given them the authority. It's true that we're somewhat confused at times in regards to why you would have these individuals placed in such a position when It seems at times there are things that they don't agree or work towards that is in concert with the scriptures, but we know and trust you. And so we acknowledge our need for your spirit to work in our lives and for us to do our part to give to Caesar what is Caesar's and give to God what is to God and in this case It's prayer. And so help us. And may your gospel be at work in our lives for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.