Amen. Praise God This morning our scripture reading is from the great resurrection chapter, 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. The Apostle Paul writes, Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you. which also you received, and in which you stand, by which also you are saved, if you hold fast that word which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And that he was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain to this present, but some have fallen asleep. After that, he was seen by James, then by all the apostles. Then, last of all, he was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God. I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preach and so you believe. Now, if Christ is preached that he has been raised from the dead, how do some Christ be priest that he has been raised from the dead. How do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty. And your faith is also empty. Yes, and we are found false witnesses of God. Because we've testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise. Or if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile. You are still in your sins. Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. God bless this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we plead with you now to send your Spirit upon us, to take your word and apply it to every heart and life We pray especially for those who may be here without hope, without that resurrection power. Lord, I pray that your spirit will draw those souls to yourself, that you will redeem men and women and boys and girls this day. And that those of us who know you will be strengthened in our faith, will be built up, will be edified to give you glory in the time you give us here. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Death is a ruthless, vicious enemy Which many of you have already confronted on some level. You watch the eyes of a loved one, once so expressive, become glazed and fixed and unresponsive. You've watched the lips of your beloved become pale and tremulous and ultimately silent and still. And you've experienced through that a pain like no other. Thus it has been for all mankind since the fall of man. So it shouldn't surprise us that civilization since the creation of man. Even those that long ago suppressed their original knowledge of God have felt the need to develop elaborate ideas about some sort of life beyond the grave. It's not uncommon for anthropologists and archaeologists to find prized possessions buried with the dead. Armor, weapons, jewelry, etc. Which it was supposed might come in handy in the afterlife. Even a man's dogs or horses or servants or wives might be slain and buried with him for his companionship or service in the next life And there remains in our society in the 21st century a fascination with life after death, as evidenced by the popularity of books and films and TV programs on the subject But many Americans, although they may enjoy what they regard as flights of fancy concerning life after death, many Americans would argue, sure, it would be nice to believe there's life after death. Just as it would be nice to believe that at the end of every rainbow there's a pot of gold. But let's be honest. We know now that when a person dies, his heart stops beating, so the blood that supplies oxygen and nutrients to Each cell stops flowing. Without that lifeblood, his brain and all other organs and systems shut down. And without the brain, there's no consciousness. So clearly There can be no conscious existence after death. Many would say it's easy for us to understand why ignorant people in ancient history or even suspicious people groups in remote places today. Might believe in some sort of afterlife. But it's very hard to understand how supposedly educated adults living in a modern technological age can still believe in life after death. How is this, they would ask, any different from those who believe in elves and fairies and leprechauns and wizards? In 1997, when 39 members of the Heaven's Gate cult took their own lives, they did so because they had become convinced that they were somehow going to be spiritually transported to an alien spacecraft which was trailing the Hale Bop comet which was approaching Earth. They were so fully persuaded by their leader, Marshal Applewhite, that such was the case, that they were willing to drink poison that they might be able to transition from Earth to the spacecraft Odd way of getting there, you might say. They were assured that to be absent from the body was to be present with the aliens. Now, how are they any different from those who believe in the resurrection of Christ? Well, as we've noted before, some would say they are no different. University of California professor John Hall told a reporter at the time, you can't single out the Heaven's Gate group. They're no different from people who believe in miracles, faith healing, and the virgin birth. Edwin Tabash of the Council for Secular Humanism pronounced: conventional religions are just as superstitious. Spaceship salvation is no different from salvation through some invisible, unproven God. And Anne Gaylor of the Freedom from Religion Foundation suggested that you people Are somehow responsible for the heaven's gate suicides. Get people believing in talking bushes, talking snakes, Jesus healing blindness with spit, and you're bound to end up with people hooking a ride on a comet. In other words, if you can believe one impossible thing, why not another? And she might just as well have said, of course, instead of Jesus healing blindness with spits, Jesus walking out of the tomb after having been executed. Because that's an even more fantastic claim. In fact, it is the claim upon which all Christianity ultimately stands or falls. It comes down to this. If the New Testament account of the resurrection is false, if Jesus did not literally, physically rise from the dead , Then he was an imposter. He was a fraud. And he was definitely not the son of God. His life was a lie. And we are foolish to come here every Sunday and sing praise to a dead man who cannot hear us. Of course, some theologians would say: so what if Jesus did not actually rise from the dead? The important thing is what he taught us, how he lived, his emphasis on love and simplicity. One of them writes, Is not this tendency to deify Jesus more heathen than Christian? Are we not more truly Christian when we cut loose from a heathen propensity? And take Jesus simply for the character that he was and for the ideal that he is. Now, if you'll give this even a A few moments of thought, you will realize how ridiculous it is. The great 19th century Scottish pastor Alexander McLaren wrote, The case is this Christ lived, as we know, and in the course of that life claimed to be the Son of God. He made such broad and strange assertions as these: I and my Father are one. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. The Son of Man must suffer many things, and on the third day he shall rise again. If he be risen from the dead, then his loftiest claims are confirmed from the throne, and we see in him the Son of God. But if death holds him still, and the Syrian stars look down upon his grave, then what becomes of these words of his, and of our estimate of the character of him the Speaker. Let us hear no more about the pure morality of Jesus Christ and the beauty of his calm and lofty teaching and the rest of it. Take away the resurrection from the dead, and we have left behind beautiful precepts, fair wisdom, deformed with a monstrous self-assertion And the constant reiteration of claims which the event proves to have been baseless. He goes on. Either he has risen from the dead or his words are blasphemy. Men nowadays talk very lightly of throwing away the supernatural portions of gospel history and retaining reverence for the great teacher, the pure moralist of Nazareth. The Pharisees put the issue much more coarsely and truly when they said, That deceiver said when he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. Yes. McLaren writes, one or the other, either declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead, or that which our lips refuse to say, even as a hypothesis. C. S. Lewis was right when he said you can shut him up as a fool. You can spit at him and kill him as a demon. Or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God, but let us not come up with any of this patronizing nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to. And the whole question of whether he is indeed the Lord God, as he claimed to be, hinges on the resurrection. Because he told his followers on several occasions, in unmistakable language, that he would rise from the dead. For example, behold, we go up to Jerusalem, he said, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death. And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and to crucify. And the third day he shall rise again. Matthew 20 18 and 19. Princeton theologian B. B. Warfield put it this way: Christ himself deliberately staked his whole claim to the credit of men upon his resurrection. When asked for a sign, he pointed to this sign as his single and sufficient credential. The Lord does not ask us to believe in the resurrection of Jesus Something so far removed from our own experience, without evidence. This is one of the primary ways our faith differs from that of those who are asked to believe in comet writing. And intergalactic travel and multiple universes. God created us with the power of reason. He tells us: prove all things and hold fast that which is good. Test the prophets, he writes In Proverbs, we read, the simple believes every word, but the prudent considers well his steps. Look at, or listen as I read from Acts chapter 1. The physician Luke writes, The former accounts I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and to teach, until the day in which he was taken up, after he, through the Holy Spirit, had given commandments to the apostles who He had chosen, to whom, to those apostles, he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. being seen by them during 40 days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God Luke says the Lord Jesus showed himself alive by many infallible proofs. And poloi techmeroi, it is in the Greek, the late scholar Bernard Rahm, professor of systematic theology of the American Baptist Seminary of the West described that phrase, and poloi tekmeroi, as an expression indicating the strongest type of legal evidence. One lexicon translates the word techmeroi as convincing, decisive proof. God the Father didn't say to us, Jesus woke for the dead when he was killed. By Snow White. The Easter bunny rolled away the stone. And then he ascended to heaven after he was sprinkled with some of Tinkerbell's fairy dust. On the contrary, Jesus showed himself alive by many infallible proofs. We have the testimony of those who saw him, talked to him, ate with him after the resurrection. Jesus said to them, Handle me and see. Behold my hands and my feet. He said to Thomas, who you'll remember doubted the resurrection, Reach your finger here, and look at my hands, and reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And what did Thomas do? He fell down before him, my Lord and my God. These are the testimonies we have of Christ's resurrection. Some people, like the liberal theologian we cited earlier, seem to think that Jesus was nothing more than a wise teacher who was unfairly judged and executed. Not unlike Socrates, about 430 years before him. They imagined that over the next few centuries after Jesus' death, myths began to arise about him. Myths about his performing healings, walking on the water, and even rising from the dead. For those who deny all miracles, anything supernatural, that hypothesis seems reasonable But there's one big problem with it. Even historians who do not believe the Bible to be the inspired word of God necessarily. agree together that the Apostle Paul wrote first Corinthians during his third missionary journey somewhere between fifty three and fifty seven AD, or within about twenty years of the crucifixion. Crucifixion and resurrection. Paul declares, as we have read in our scripture reading, that Jesus rose on the third day, and that he was seen by Peter and by the twelve, by James and by himself. And he was seen, he was seen, Jesus, Paul said, by over 500 brethren at once. Most of whom, he wrote, are still alive. And they can verify. what I'm saying. The infallible proof of which the physician Luke wrote included these appearances declared in Scripture. After his resurrection Jesus appeared to the women in the garden. Matthew twenty eight verse To the Apostle Peter alone, Luke 24, 34. To the two on the road to Emmaus, Luke 24, 1 to 31. Then to the apostles with Thomas absent, Luke 24, 36 and following. Then to over 500 brethren at once, 1 Corinthians 15. fifteen six, to James, his half brother, 1 Corinthians 15, 7, to the apostles at the Sea of Galilee , John 21, to the apostles at the ascension, Acts 1, to Paul on the road to Damascus, Acts 9, and again years later to Paul before he was sent to Rome, Acts 23, 11. And then Jesus appeared to John on the Isle of Patmos, Revelation chapter 1. These are just the appearances of the risen Christ that were recorded for us. Over that 40-day period between the resurrection and the ascension, no doubt there were many more. Not only do we have the testimony of the apostles, we have the testimony of Jesus' enemies. that the tomb was empty on the third day. Of course they claimed the disciples stole the body as the guards at the tomb were sleeping. Which would have been quite a feat for the disciples to roll away a huge stone and carry away Jesus Jesus' lifeless body, without waking the guards and getting themselves speared to death. And quite a feat for the soldiers to witness the stealing of the body as they slept The resurrection was verified by Jesus' friends, and the empty tomb was verified by Jesus' enemies. All that was needed to snuck out this new cult was for someone to produce the body of Jesus Christ. And then God has given us the evidence of the dramatic change in the apostles. How is it do you think this Handful of fearful men who forsook Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane and fled that night of his arrest. Men whose hopes were shattered when their master was crucified, but we were hoping that he was the one who would redeem Israel. Luke 24. 21. These men who were once cowering before the chief priests and scribes, how is it that they were found within a few weeks of the crucifixion boldly proclaiming the risen Christ? Facing imprisonment and death before the very men who arrange the execution of their master. Now, we know human nature well enough to know that men will lie for personal gain. Happens all the time. the time. Men will lie for personal gain. Men will lie for others. But does it seem reasonable that men would face scorn? imprisonment, death, by affirming someone to be alive, whom they knew for a fact to be dead. Is it reasonable to think that each of the apostles would maintain such a monstrous lie to the death When all they had to say to save their necks was, you know, we made that part up. Jesus is really dead. 17th century French philosopher Blaise Pascal put it, well, if the indelicately when he said, I believe those witnesses that get their throats cut. Why would they? How could they lie about such a thing? Think for a moment what it would have meant to a godly Jew to be a false witness of God. Paul said in verse 15, If Christ is not risen, we are false witnesses of God. It's a grievous sin to bear false witness against your neighbor. It's one of the commandments, commandment nine. If a Jew were to be discovered to have given a false witness, the Lord said, You shall do to him as he thought to have done to his brother. How much more serious to break that commandment and give a false witness about God Himself? As one Bible commentator put it, if they, the apostles, were lying. They were impostors of the worst kind, for their testimony bears on a false fact that they dared to ascribe to God Himself. Either Christ rose from the dead, Paul said, or we lied in affirming it. Renowned Harvard professor of law Simon Greenleaf put it this way. If their testimony was not true, there was no possible motive for its fabrication. What changed these apostles? Well, according to their own testimony, they were fully persuaded that Jesus truly died and truly rose again from the dead three days later. They saw him on several occasions over that period of 40 days. And so Peter wrote to the early church, we have not followed cunningly devised fables. When we made known unto you the power and coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 2 Peter 1, 16. The Apostle John wrote, We declare unto you that which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, which we've looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. 1 John 1 one. So unassailable is the evidence of a dramatic change in the lives of the apostles that time and again historians and journalists, some with predispositions against the historicity of the gospel accounts Have fallen to their knees, concluding that if Jesus had not risen, he would have been chalked up as just another religious zealot with delusions of grandeur. The disillusioned disciples would have returned to their homes, back to their fishing boats, back to their families to rebuild their life Englishman Albert Henry Ross set out to write a paper called Jesus, the Last Phase, to demonstrate that the resurrection was a myth. He became convinced by his study of the truth of the resurrection, and he published in 1930 under the pseudonym Frank Morrison the book Who Moved the Stone? Lee Strobel graduated from the University of Missouri with a degree in journalism, from Yale Law School with a Master of Studies in Law. He was a journalist with the Chicago Tribune. Strubble says he was an atheist when he began investigating the claims of Christ after his wife's conversion. He came to faith and he published in 1998 his book, The Case for Christ. There's a stubborn truth that leads such men to belief in the resurrection. Jesus was not the first, nor the last man to declare himself to be the Messiah. Late professor of divinity at the University of Glasgow, William Barclay, wrote, In 45 A. D. a man called Thodus persuaded thousands of Israelites to abandon their homes and follow him out to the Jordan River by promising them that at his word the Jordan would divide. Did not. In 54 A. D. a man from Egypt arrived in Jerusalem claiming to be the promised prophet, the promised Messiah. He persuaded 30,000 people to follow him to the Mount of Olives by announcing that at his word the walls of Jerusalem would fall down. And these men are now merely minor footnotes in history Jesus of Nazareth declared that on the third day after his death he would rise from the grave. If he had not, he too would be a minor footnote in history. TCA pastor and author Tim Keller wrote that when he was in college studying philosophy and religion, he was taught that the resurrection of Jesus was a major historical problem, no matter how you looked at it. Most modern historians made the philosophical assumption that miracles simply cannot happen. And that made the claim of the resurrection highly problematic, he wrote. However, if you disbelieve the resurrection, you then had the difficulty of explaining how the Christian church got started at all. The late Professor Brooke Foss Westcott, English scholar appointed Regis professor at Cambridge in 1870, gave one of my favorite statements on the resurrection that I've quoted. numerous times. He said this. Indeed, taking all the evidence together, it is not too much to say that there is no historic incident better or more variously supported than the resurrection. Nothing but the antecedent, that is the preceding assumption that it must be false, could have suggested the idea of deficiency In the proof of it. Nothing but the antecedent assumption that it must be false could have suggested the idea of deficiency in the proof of it. Paul says, if Christ is not risen, our preaching is empty. Your faith is empty. You are still in your sins. Christians who died have perished, and we are of all men the most pitiable. He says, if Christ has not risen, your faith is futile It's empty, fruitless, pointless. It's an illusion. It's a mirage. You're trusting in a dead man who cannot save you. You might as well put your faith for your salvation in a hard-boiled egg or in a hot cross bun. If Christ is not risen, you are still in your sins. You think you're forgiven, but you're as sadly mistaken as those 39 who thought they were hitching a ride on an alien space. Craft. If Christ did not rise from the grave, then he was not the Son of God, as he claimed. He did not die as your substitute. There is no redemption, no justification. We remain and always will remain sinners in the hands of an angry God. If Christ is not risen, we are still in our sins. And furthermore, if Christ is not risen, Paul said, then those who've fallen asleep in Christ have perished. Now, when he says fallen asleep in Christ, of course, it's a euphemism for death. It's sort of a nice Way of putting it. But those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished, he said. So let's have no more pious talk about being reunited with our dear departed loved ones. About seeing our mother or our father or beloved wife or husband on that other shore. If Christ is not risen, there is no other shore. And your departed loved ones have all perished. They are either being judged for their sins, or they have simply ceased to exist And we, Paul says, are of all men the most pitiable, the most to be pitied. Now, this was certainly true of Paul. Forsaking the comforts and pleasures of this life, the apostles devoted their waking hours to the proclamation of a message which was in fact a monstrous lie. And it wasn't a message that they proclaimed without some difficulty. Listen to the Apostle Paul from 2 Corinthians. Of the Jews, five times I received 39 stripes. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, that is, pelted with heavy stones. by men intent on killing him. Three times I was shipwrecked. He said he spent a night and a day in the deep, in the ocean, that is. In journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, in perils of the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea. in perils among false brethren, in weariness and toil, and sleeplessness often hunger, thirst, fastings often, cold and nakedness, beside the other things. That come upon me daily my deep concern for all the churches. 2 Corinthians 11. And although Paul may have labored more abundantly than the other apostles, they labored in similar ways And most of them were ultimately put to death by their enemies. If Christ is not risen, Paul says, we're of all men the most to be pitied. And that's true of you, Christian You forsake the pleasures of this life, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. You seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. You set your eyes Affection on things above rather than things on the earth. If Christ is not risen, we're like a man who sold everything he owns to purchase a diamond of great price, of infinite beauty and value. only to discover later it is worthless cut glass. Or we spend all our life's earnings on a REM grant only to discover it's a forgery. If Christ has not risen, the gold that we've painstakingly been mining all these years is not real. It's fool's gold. The pearl of great price is only plastic If Christ is not risen, Easter is the real April Fool's Day. And Christians are the real April Fool's. In fact, if Christ is not risen, every Sunday is Fool's Day. We're of all men and women the most to be pitied. If Christ is not risen, think about it, we should give this building away to somebody who could do some good for the world. Make it a food bank, make it a clinic. We let it go full circle. Give it to a farmer. Could keep his cattle in Barry's office, he Keep some chickens in mind. A few eggs and nicks, maybe, but let it go full circle. Let them let 'em plow up our grass and plant food that can benefit people. But no. If Christ is not risen, then the Bible is not true. And if the Bible is not true, then we have to default to the next best explanation for our existence here. We have to conclude that the materialists are right. We're just accidents of nature. Stephen Jay Gould was right when he said we're here. Only because one odd group of fishes had a peculiar fin anatomy that could transform into legs for terrestrial creatures. We may yearn for a higher answer, but none exists. If Christ is not risen, then we must conclude that Nazis were right. We're just mind machines, a bundle of instincts, mere products of heredity and environment, of blood and of soil. And if that's true, why should we care about clinics or food banks or farms? If Christ is not risen, why should you care about anyone but you? Can man live without God? asked Ravi Zacharias in his book of the same name. Of course he can in a in a physical sense. Can he live without God in a reasonable way? The answer to that is no. Because such a person is compelled to deny a moral law, to abandon hope, to forfeit meaning, and to risk no recovery if he's wrong. Outside of Christ, there is no law, no hope, no meaning. You and you alone are the architect of your own moral law. You and you alone craft meaning for your own life. If Christ has not risen, not only do Christians deserve to be the laughing stock of the world, or in more sober moments, the most pitiable, but it would appear that we're nothing more than accidents of uncaused, undirected chemical processes. With no more value than that of a snail or of a paramecium. So give your life in service to others if you want, or take your life and the life of as many as you can take with you. Because it makes no difference if all we are is dust in the wind. Wrote, my question, that which at the age of fifty brought me to the verge of suicide, was the simplest of questions, lying in the soul of every man. A question without an answer to which one cannot live. What will come of what I'm doing today or tomorrow? What will come of my whole life? Why should I live? Why wish for anything or do anything? It can also be expressed thus, he said. Is there any meaning in my life that the inevitable death awaiting me does not destroy? Darwin feared that the horrors feared what horrors might be loosed upon the world. His theories became widely accepted. Friedrich Nietzsche, the German philosopher who popularized the phrase God is dead, by which he meant modern man has philosophically killed him. we think that we can explain life without him. Nietzsche reportedly said in 1900, if God indeed is now dead, Then the 20th century will become the bloodiest century in history. And universal madness will break out Ravi Zacharias points out that in Europe in the 17th century, 3. 3 million people died in warfare. In the 18th century, it went from 3. 3 million to 5. 3 million million. million. In the 19th century, 5. 5 million. In the 20th century, in Europe alone, 28 million died from warfare. And you had some 60 million in China, scores of millions in Russia, 3 million in Cambodia, and the 20th century was, as Nietzsche predicted, the bloodiest in history. In fact, I believe more people were killed in the 20th century than in all previous centuries combined. Should it surprise us then? That as God becomes less and less relevant in the eyes of our culture, and as young people embrace, internalize, and identify with the meaninglessness of life philosophy, That's been drummed into them from their earliest years at school and from the media Should it surprise us that more and more of them put two and two together and choose to leave this meaningless world in a blaze of glory? Taking as many others with them as possible, whether that's at a high school or a mall or in a theater or on a military base And if we're nothing more than the accidental byproducts of random natural processes, then who are you to say that they're wrong? What do the terms right and wrong really mean, anyway? As Russian novelist Dostoevsky pointed out, without God, all things are permissible But in verse 20 of 1 Corinthians 15, the Apostle Paul has had enough of those hypothetical questions. of what life would be like if Christ had not risen. And he triumphantly asserts, but now is Christ risen from the dead. And because Christ is alive, because Christ is alive, the gospel message is true. Because Christ is alive, the gospel message is true. He was declared to be the Son of God with power on the resurrection from the dead. What is that gospel message? It is that you and I, and every single man, woman, and child born into this world is a sinner. We've inherited it from our first father. We're rebels against God. We violate his laws. We break his commandments in our thoughts, in our words, and in our actions. And because God is a holy God who must punish sin. Because he cannot just ignore it. Because he's pure and spotless and holy. Hot. Holy as the sun is hot. Because our God is a consuming fire. He must and he will punish sin. So you and I are in a bad place. We sinned against the Holy God. We deserve his wrath. One day we We're going to die and stand before him. And we'll be judged for all those sins we've committed, every single one of them. But the good news of the gospel is God's love for mankind. Mankind was so great that he provided a way for us to be forgiven. He sent his own son to this world. He lived that perfect life that you and I failed to live. And he went to the Cross and he died not for his sins but as a substitute for ours. He said, in effect, Father, punish me and let them go free. Pour your wrath upon me. That was the plan. The plan from all the ages. So God the Father turned his face away from his own son, allowed him to die alone and forsaken. But on the third day He raised them from the dead as if to say, I've accepted the sacrifice. It's finished, it's done, it's complete. Now Jesus told us his apostles, go to all the world, preach this good news, tell men and women and boys and girls. They don't have to live here alone, wondering what life's all about , wondering what comes beyond the grave. They don't have to fear the judgment of the Holy God. The Lord Jesus Christ Christ has given his life in their place. Tell them that, Jesus said. Tell them that if they will but repent of their sins, see them as vile and corrupt and lay hold upon me as the sinless, spotless lamb of God. God. All their sins will be forgiven. They'll have everlasting life. They'll be with me in glory. Tell them that Jesus said. And that's what they did. And that's why there's a Christian church today. Because Jesus is alive. Now is Christ risen from the dead. And because he lives, our preaching is not empty, it is the power of God. Our faith is not futile. It's the victory that overcomes the world. And you, believer, are not still in your sins. There is no condemnation to those who Who are in Christ Jesus. Christians who've left this world have not perished. He who believes in me shall never die, Jesus said. And we're not of all men the most to be pitied. We're of all men the most blessed. For Jesus said, Because I live, ye shall live also. Let's pray. Lord, take your word and send it deep within us. And may the power of the resurrected Christ resurrects on this day. We ask in his name honor.