Proverbs chapter three, verses one to eighteen My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands, for length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a father, the son in whom he delights. Happy is the man who finds wisdom and the man who gains understanding, for her proceeds are better than the profits of silver, and her gain than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies, and all the things you may desire cannot compare with her. Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and happy are all who retain her. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's go to him together in prayer. Father, I pray that you'll take your word now and empower it. Lord, I I pray for the hearts of those who may be here today who are still without hope, without any certainty of eternal life. without any uh certainty of where uh he or she will spend eternity. Father, please, as you had mercy upon many of us here, we pray that you'll have mercy upon those souls as well. Lord, I pray especially for young people today as we speak directly to them. Lord, may their hearts be touched and may their uh Their souls be moved by the truth of your word. We ask it in Christ's glorious name. Amen. Well on this day when we are encouraged to honor mothers, I do want to speak directly to young people, on your mother's behalf, you might say. Such is the bond of love that a mother has for her children, that it's possible for a child to bring his mother great grief Deep bitterness, or to use a phrase familiar to us, it's possible for a child to break his mother's heart. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is the grief of his mother. Proverbs 10. 1 A foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to her that bore him. Proverbs 17, 25. What are some of the traits or actions of foolish sons or daughters that could bring grief and bitterness to a mother? Traits and actions which could, in other words, break a mother's heart. Well, at the top of the list we should put a spirit of rebellion. A spirit of rebellion which manifests itself in disobedience and disrespect. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Colossians 3:20 A fool despises his father's instruction. But he that regards reproof, that is, he that receives correction, is prudent, is wise. Proverbs 15, 5. Cursed is the one who treats his father or his mother with contempt. Deuteronomy 27, 16 A wise servant will rule over a son who causes shame, and will share an inheritance among the brothers In other words, better a wise servant than a foolish son. Proverbs 17, 2. So let me remind you, young people, that the Lord views disobedience and rebellion as serious infractions. The Lord views disobedience and rebellion as serious infractions. King Saul, Israel's first king, was commanded by God to destroy the Amalekites. God commanded him to destroy the Amalekites for their unprovoked attack upon the Israelites as they journeyed from Egypt. Saul was told to utterly destroy them, along with their flocks and herds. But Saul had a better idea. He decided to disobey God and to save the best of the sheep and oxen to be offered as sacrifices to God. But God's prophet Samuel said to Saul, Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft And stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord. He has also rejected you as being king. 1 Samuel 15. Disobedience! Is a serious matter in the eyes of a holy God. And this would include, of course, harming or dishonoring or disrespecting your parents. As God's people prepared to enter the promised land and establish a civil government, you remember that God provided them with laws to govern their society. What a blessing to have God provide you with laws to govern your society. Listen to some of them. He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death. However, if he did not lie in wait, but God delivered him into his hand, in other words, if it wasn't premeditated. then I will appoint for you a place where he may flee. But if a man acts with premeditation against his neighbor to kill him by treachery, You shall take him from my altar that he may die. That is, even if he runs and clings to God's altar seeking refuge, you take him from my altar that he may die. He who strikes his father or mother shall surely be put to death. He who strikes his father or mother shall surely be put to death Now, here we see if a man murdered another in Israel, he was to be executed, which we would expect. But when it came to his parents, if he had the audacity even to strike one of them, he was to be put to death. He who kidnaps a man and sells him, or if he's found in his hands, shall surely be put to death. And He who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. Exodus 21 So serious are the crimes of cursing or striking a parent that the same consequence awaited the cursor or the striker as the consequence that awaited the murderer or the kidnapper. How much more evidence do we need to show that disobedience and rebellion, particularly against one's parents, are serious offenses in the eyes of God? Young people, your parents, are to be honored by you, honored inwardly, in your heart, that is. Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father. I am the Lord your God, Leviticus 19. Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father. They're to be honored inwardly. They're to be honored outwardly in your actions. Look at the example set by Solomon when he was approached by his mother. Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah, and the king rose up to meet her and bowed down to her and sat down on his throne and had a throne set for the king's mother, so she sat at his right hand. 1 Kings 2. 19. A pastor wrote of the following, wrote the following story of an incident that he experienced. He said, I was spending the night in a beautiful home in a large city, when at about nine o'clock my host, a gentleman of about fifty-five, arose saying, Excuse me, please, for just a few minutes. I'm going to say goodnight to my mother His mother lived three blocks away, and for thirty years her son had never failed to go and bid her goodnight if he was in the city. No matter what the weather may be, no matter who his guests are, my husband never fails to run over to his mother's and bid her good night, said the man's wife when he had gone. Neither he nor she could sleep if this duty had been neglected When his business compels him to be away from the city, he writes to her every day, if only a single line. Her mental powers are beginning to fail, and she forgets many things. But when nine o'clock comes, she always knows the hour, and she says, It's time for Henry to come and bid me good night. Secondly, a mother's heart can be broken by a child with an ungrateful spirit. The second letter to Timothy warns of perilous times, for men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money. Boasters, proud blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving. Slanderers without self-control, brutal, despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God Well, consider for a moment just one item from that long list. Unthankful. Unthankful. When you think about it, surely it's one of the strangest phenomena in nature for a child to be ungrateful to his parents The ones who freely provide him with all things, love and care, and shelter and food and clothing and protection. What possible rationale could the recipients of such things have For not being thankful. Well, I suppose it must be this. Yeah, sure, they give me food, but others have better food, and they have more of it. Yeah, they provide me with a home, but it's not a very big one. Yeah, they buy me clothes, but I have friends who have nicer clothes. In other words, the same thinking that keeps us from being thankful to God as we look at all that other people have and covet what they have, that same spirit keeps children from being thankful to their parents. The late D. James Kennedy wrote of a time when he and his wife Ann took their daughter Jennifer to Washington, D. C. on a tour of the Capitol. Dr. Kennedy said at one point they hopped in a taxi and their daughter Jennifer said, Thank you. Thank you, mommy and daddy. Thank you for taking me to the Space Museum. Thank you for taking me to the Lincoln Memorial and the White House. And thank you for that nice lunch. The taxi driver turned around and stared in amazement. And according to Dr. Kennedy, he said In all the years I've been driving a cab, I've never before heard a child thank his parents for one thing. Young people, today would be a good day to thank your mother for all that she does for you. And by the way, tomorrow would be a good day too. You're called to honor your parents inwardly and outwardly. You're called to to be thankful in your heart for them. You can break your mother's heart by succumbing to youthful lusts. You can break your mother's heart by succumbing to youthful lusts Paul wrote to young Timothy, his son in the face, flee youthful lusts. These would include, of course, drunkenness. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is a brawler, and whoever is led astray by it is not wise. Proverbs 20, verse 1. Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? Those who linger long at the wine? Those who go in search of mixed wine, Proverbs 23. Thanks to our own sinful nature and the influence of principalities and powers. It's hard enough for us to make godly decisions when our minds are clear. It's much more difficult when our brains have been tampered with. And of course, that same principle applies to the use of all mind-altering drugs, whether they come from a friend's pocket or purse, from your own secret garden, or from your parents' medicine cabinet The principle is we are called by Christ to be holy, to be pure. Our great task is to love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength Very difficult to love God with all your mind if you're altering that mind with drugs. Youthful lusts, of course, would include sexual activity outside of marriage. The works of the flesh are evident, the scripture says, which are these? Adultery, fornication That is, sexual immorality, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, etc. Galatians 5 And Ephesians 5 says, walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given Himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints. Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting. The Lord says these things should be unheard of among Christians. Let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints. But you say, but we love each other. Let it not even be named among you. But you don't understand. We plan to get married. We're engaged. Let it not even be named among you. But, Pastor, it's a different world now. Everybody does it. Let it not even be named among you. Think about it. Sexual attraction is not some modern American invention. Right? It was just as strong when God breathed out his word. The question is, is Jesus Christ your Lord and your Savior or not? Is he your master or is he not? The Lord knows all about sexual attraction. He designed it. But he told us how it was to be channeled. The Lord says fornication, uncleanness, covetousness, filthy language, it should be unheard of among Christians. Well, if that's not clear enough for you, the same passage in Ephesians 5 goes on to say this. For this you know That no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Listen to that. This you know, or at least we ought to know, no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you, he says, with empty words. For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Don't be deceived with empty words. Oh yeah, yeah, oh sure, I'm a Christian. Sure. Oh, I believe that. Those are just empty words. Listen, if you made Christ your Lord, then Christ is your Lord. And what He says, you will do. Now the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 1 Corinthians 6. 13. So how about you, young person? Will you be able to present yourself one day to your husband or wife should God bless you with one? Will you be able to present yourself one day to your husband or wife as pure and chaste or as handled and stained and frayed like a pair of used blue jeans in a thrift store bin? The time to determine to maintain your purity is before you find yourself in a place of temptation. And the best way to maintain that purity is to avoid the place of temptation. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. Sometimes people tell me that. Well, if the Lord didn't Want me with that person? Why did he bring her into my life? Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. James 1. Young person, let me urge you on the authority of God's word to determine to keep yourself from all manner of sexual sin. Even if you have fallen into it in the past. Remember that blessed verse. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Amen? You can break your mother's heart by succumbing to youthful lusts. You can break your mother's heart by squandering your life on your own comforts and pleasures instead of investing your gifts in the service of Christ. Living for self-gratification can take the form of loving money, of course. A high percentage of college graduates generally rank making lots of money as their highest goal in life. But the love of money, the scripture says, is the root of all sorts of evil. All sorts of evil. The Lord Jesus spoke of the deceitfulness of riches. And the scripture says, they who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts. There's a tendency in all of our hearts to live for ourselves, of course. I don't need to convince you of that. But what is it that we most admire in men and women? Isn't it the willingness to sacrifice themselves for others? It's the man who dives into the icy water to save a stranger. It's the soldier who covers a live grenade with his own body to save his buddies. It 's the mother who donates a kidney to an ailing child. It's such people that we view as heroes. A lecturer was once asked this question: if a ship was sinking and only one small boat was available, and there were on board the ship twenty strong, able men. And 20 weakly women, would it not pay best? That is, would it not be best for the world to save the stronger, capable men and let the rest drown? And you may remember the lecturer responded, what possible good could twenty such men as that be to the world? The Lord Jesus said, whoever seeks to save his life will lose it. Whoever loses his life will preserve it. Luke 17. Whoever seeks to save his life will lose it. Whoever loses his life will preserve it I think what he meant was if your life is so precious to you that you grasp it for yourself, it's my life. No one else is going to control it. No one else is going to reign over it. Not even the Lord If you try to keep it, you'll lose it. But if you willingly submit your life to the one who designed it , the one who created it , Your life will be preserved. In fact, you will live eternally, the Bible says. You try to save your life, you'll lose it. You lose your life for Christ, you find it, you gain it. Young person, live for yourself. Live for your own pleasure, your own prestige, your own gratification, your own name up in light somewhere. Live for yourself. Not only will you lose the life you love so much. You may well break the heart of the woman who bore you. You can break your mother's heart by neglecting your parents in their time of need, young people. You can break your mother's heart by neglecting your parents in their time of need. Proverbs 23:22. Listen to your father who begot you, and despise not your mother when she is old. The Apostle Paul urged Timothy to honor widows who are really widows. But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show piety at home. And to repay their parents. For this is good and acceptable before God. 1 Timothy 5. Maybe it was on that trip to Washington that the late D. James Kennedy Heard this story. A young man had a great desire to become a sailor. He decided to become a midshipman, despite his mother's urging him not to. When the time came for him to leave, he packed his trunk and went down to the to the dock. After he put his trunk on the ship that would take him away from his mother for years, he turned to say goodbye to her, as she followed him in tears. Seeing her tears, he hesitated a moment. And then he said, Stop! Put my trunk ashore. I will not sail away and break my mother's heart His mother embraced him and said, Son, God has said he will honor the child who honors his parents. Dr. Kennedy went on, the young man's name was George Washington. And God certainly kept his promise. Sixthly, if both you and your mother are believers in Christ, you can break her heart by marrying an unbeliever. You can break your mother's heart by marrying an unbeliever, by intentionally violating the very clear teaching of Scripture. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Now we just considered that in our study of 2 Corinthians. I won't harp on it now. But it is a way you can break your mother's heart. And finally, you can break your mother's heart by rejecting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. You can break your mother's heart by rejecting Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. There's no sorrow like that of a godly mother or father whose child has trodden underfoot the gospel, trodden underfoot the son of God. No sorrow like that. No sorrow like that of a mother or father whose child has spurned God's offer of mercy. A child who was set in effects the death of Christ as a sacrificial lamb upon the cross was unnecessary in my case I'm going to stand on my own merits. I'm going to stand on my own record. And if that's not good enough for God, then so be it. There's no greater grief for a mother than to know that her child only needed to cry out in sincere and humble repentance, God have mercy upon me. God save me for Jesus' sake. God forgive me. Give me this gift of eternal life. But he or she refused to be humbled, refused to cry out. Refuse to receive the gift God has offered. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? The great Baptist preacher C. A. Spurgeon wrote in his autobiography of something that took place in his childhood. He said, I cannot tell how much I owe to the solemn words of my good mother. It was the custom on Sunday evenings while we were yet little children for her to stay at home with us. And then we sat around the table and read verse by verse, and she explained the scriptures to us. After that was done, then came a time of pleading. There was a little piece of A -line 's alarm. That's Puritan Joseph A-line 's book, An Alarm to the Unconverted. or of Richard Baxter's call to the unconverted. And this was read with pointed observations made to each of us as we sat around the table. And the question was asked, how long would it be before we would think about our state? How long before we would seek the Lord? Then came a mother's prayer, Spurgeon said. And some of the words of that prayer we shall never forget, even when our hair is gray. I remember on one occasion her praying thus, Now, Lord, if my children go on in their sins, it will not be from ignorance that they perish. And my soul must bear a swift witness against them at the day of judgment, if they lay not hold of Christ. Spurgeon went on, the thought of a mother bearing swift witness against me pierced my conscience and stirred my heart How about you, young person? Will you break your mother's heart? Will you break your mother's heart? By disobedience, rebellion, by manifesting an ungrateful spirit for all that she's done for you. By succumbing to youthful lusts, by squandering your life on self-gratification, living for self instead of living for Christ. By neglecting your parents in their time of need, by marrying an unbeliever, or by rejecting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. The Bible says there will be joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repents. And of course there would be joy in your mother's heart and joy in your own heart if you'd come to Christ this day. And cry out to him in sincerity, Lord, forgive me. I know I'm a sinner. I don't need any more convincing. God, I'm sorry for that sin. I believe that Jesus Christ died upon that cross. I believe he lived that sinless life the Bible speaks of. That he didn't deserve death. That he died as our substitute. That he died for me. God, forgive me and save me. Give me this gift of eternal life. I come to you now and saving faith. God, save me. You come to God that way, you pray that prayer and mean that in your heart. God says, your sins will be forgiven. You'll be adopted into his forever family. You'll be with him. In glory one day, and he'll come and indwell your life right now. Let's pray. Father, we do ask that you would so work in our hearts that you would convict us of sin. And Lord, remind us that there's none righteous, no, not one. No one could ever earn your good pleasure by his works. Lord, we all have gone astray. Every one of us is turned to his own way. We all fall short. We all miss the mark, and we need a redeemer. We need a savior. Lord, please. I pray for those who may be here still without Christ. Give them no rest, Lord. Draw them to saving faith. Open their eyes. We pray it in Christ's name. Amen.