Because there's something to sing about. Thank you, Lord. So we're going to be reading from Hosea chapters 6 and 7. It's a literary unit there. So turning your copies of God's Word to chapters 6 and 7. If you don't have a copy of God's Word, there are extra copies out there in the coat room. You're welcome to have them. As you turn there, let me set the stage for you. It's the 8th century before Christ, on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean, in the northern kingdom of Israel. At least six times in Hosea's lifetime, an Assyrian army has marched into or through Israel. And there's this 30-year period where Israel has six different kings. There was murder, assassination, a puppet kingdom, another assassination, and finally a rebellion leading to the extinction of the northern kingdom. So it's a political situation. Then there's Hosea's marital situation. God had told him to take a prostitute for a wife. To help Hosea understand what it was like to be God covenanted to Israel. Gomer, Hosea's wife, gave birth to some children who were not Hosea's. And then at a certain point, Hosea has to cobble together the price to buy Gomer back from the unscrupulous men who she was indebted to. And for the rest of the context leading up to this, I invite you to listen to the series on sermonaudio. com if you haven't already. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, this is your holy word. And we are sinners, and I'm a sinner, and we're trying to To hear from you this morning. We need your Holy Spirit. We need the cleansing power of your Holy Spirit to help us. Understand what you you would have for us today. Help us, Lord, to understand your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's read Hosea 6 and 7. I'm reading from the ESV. Come, let us return to the Lord, for He's torn us that He may heal us. He has struck us down, and he will bind us up. After two days, he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up that we may live before him. Let us know. Let us press on to know the Lord. His going out is as sure as the dawn, and he will come to us as the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love is like a morning cloud, like the dew that goes early away. Therefore, I have hewn them with the prophets. I have slain them by the words of my mouth. And my judgment goes forth as the light. For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice. The knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. But like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. There they dealt faithlessly with me Gilead is a city of evildoers, tracked with blood. As robbers lie in wait for a man, so the priests band together. They murder on the way to Shechem. They commit villainy. In the house of Israel, I have seen a horrible thing. Ephraim's whoredom is there. Israel is defiled. For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed. When I restore the fortunes of my people, when I would heal Israel, the iniquity of Ephraim is revealed. The evil deeds of Samaria. For they deal falsely. The thief breaks in, the bandits right outside. But they don't consider that I remember all their evil. And now their deeds surround them. They are before my face. By their evil they make the king glad. And the princes by their treachery. They're all adulterers. They're like a heated oven whose baker ceases to stir the fire from the kneading of the dough until it's leavened. And on the day of our king the princes became sick with the heat of wine. He stretched out his hand with the mockers. For their hearts like an with for with hearts like an oven they approach their intrigue. All night their anger smolders In the morning it blazes like a flaming fire. All of them are hot as an oven, and they devour their rulers. All their kings have fallen, and none of them calls upon me. Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples. Ephraim is like a cake not turned. Strangers devour his strength, and he he knows it not. Grey hairs are sprinkled upon him, and he knows it not. The pride of Israel testifies to his face, yet they do not return to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all of this. Ephraim's like a dove, silly and without sense, calling to Egypt, calling to Assyria. As they go, I will spread my net over them. I'll bring them down like birds of the heavens. I will discipline them, according to the report made to their congregation. Woe to them, for they've strayed from me. Destruction to them, for they have rebelled against me. I would redeem them, but they speak lies against me. They do not cry to me from the heart, but they wail upon their beds for grain and wine. They gash themselves. They rebel against me. Although I trained and strengthened their arms, yet they devise evil against me. They return, but not upward, but like a treacherous bow. Their princes shall fall by the sword because of the insolence of their tongue. This shall be their derision in the land of Egypt. Imagine yourself lying down , gaping wound across your abdomen, looking down. What would be your response? What will be the thoughts running through your mind? Well, it depends upon what kind of wound it was and who gave it If it was a wild animal intent on tearing you and ripping you to pieces before eating you, you'd be terrified, utterly distressed, and thinking about how to deliver yourself. But if you were on the delivery table, being given a C section, you would be excited, thrilled that new life was coming out of you and into your arms. Well, to be fair, us guys would be pretty um terrified if we were having C section two. Um But but that's how our passage begins today, with the Lord tearing his people. And if it sounds vicious, it is. But to what end? Is God like a sadistic wild animal torturing us for his play? Or is he merely a just judge slicing us open because that's what we've done to him and that's what we deserve? Or is he the good doctor? Tearing us to deliver us. Cutting us to heal us. Knocking us out so that he can work on us. What's long as you've been knocked out for? Uh put to sleep for? Uh I was put to sleep for less than an hour to have my wisdom teeth pulled and I was put to sleep for maybe more than that to have my uh tonsils and adenoids out. But what if you needed a heart transplant? What if you needed brain surgery? The more serious your condition, the more time will be needed for your surgery and recovery. The more drastic the measures that will need to be taken for you to be healed. So the longer you're put to sleep, though, the worse your problem was. The harsher the cutting, the worse was your disease. And Israel's problem was despicable. They deserved to be torn apart. They deserved to be. put to sleep. The northern of kingdom of Israel was basically founded on idol worship. They had two temples, uh uh calf calf idols. Um and they were directly in opposition to the Lord's divine temple in Jerusalem. And after their founding, it just got worse. King after king, who outwardly alleged to follow the Lord Went after idols, set up altars, intermarried with foreign women, stole God's land, stole land from God's people, and killed God's people So, what did God do? How did he respond? Well, he sent prophet after prophet, and they killed prophet after prophet, and surrounded themselves with false prophets who would tell them whatever they wanted to hear. Their sin wasn't so bad. It wouldn't have catastrophic consequences, but it was and it did. Likewise, our sin is despicable. So bad it will have catastrophic consequences. Now there's many ways that we are different from this situation that's before us in Hosea 6 and 7. We are not under a king, but ostensibly we're under a republic. The government is of our nation is not, never has been, outwardly submitted to God and all his commands. The people of God in in this nation do not struggle with idol worship in the same way that they did back then. Uh we don't have astra poles and altars all across our land. Um but uh and also because there's separation of church and state, we don't have uh problems to the to the degree uh of power corrupting the church. that they did here, power corrupting God's people. But of course, we do still struggle with sin in this country, in this epoch of Christianity, in this denomination, and in this body. But how badly do we struggle with sin? How badly do we still struggle with sin? And to answer that question, we must first admit that sin is insidious. It pretends to be good. It hides itself even deep within our subconscious. Sometimes sin seems right. Sometimes it seems wise to go against God's commands. That God's commands are antiquated, out of date, foolish. But even when we're convinced that we do sin by disobeying God's commands, our sinful nature tempts us to diagnose the problem as much less severe than it is. But our own analysis of how simple we are is a faulty gauge. We gray ourselves on a steep curve, finding each offense slight in comparison with how bad others are. So we have to look at God's Word for a more accurate picture and assessment of our sin. So, what is sin? And how bad is the diagnosis? Well, sin is a spiritual malady, and therefore it's immune to exact quantification. You know, we can't give a number to it. It is at 95%. We can't give a number to it. And so it's helpful to have metaphors that speak to our spiritual state. And so we're looking at 6 and 7, and in there we're going to see six pictures of our sin. In order that we might see sin for how bad it is, how despicable it is, and what our diagnosis is. And we'll also see God through several verbal pictures as well. So what I'm trying to say to you today is that God's word will prove to us that our sin is so severe, so despicable. That God must take drastic measures to save us. Our sin is so despicable that God must take drastic measures to save us. 6, 1 through 3. And if you're following along, there are some uh outline here in your in your bulletin. Uh God the good doctor First, let us focus on a picture of the Lord as doctor, as healer. And by so doing, let that picture cause us to desire to return to the Lord. He has torn us. The Hebrew word here is taraf. It's as drastic as it sounds. It's used to refer to wild animals tearing things to pieces. And it's what God is doing here. God's judgment on our sin is drastic. God has dealt drastically with you and your sin at times. And be assured he will deal drastically with sin. The punishment for sin deserves tearing and worse. And if you continue in your sin, he will tear you and leave you. As it says in Scarly in 5. 14, but if you return to the Lord, he will tear you to heal you. Just like a good doctor has to open you up in order to do surgery, so too the Lord's intention toward his people is good, purposeful, healing. Because of your sin, the medicine, the therapy, the uh Surgery, the anesthesia has to be drastic. But the Lord's intention is to heal you, to fix you, to reform you. So will you turn from your sin? If you're having some troubles right now, the temptation can be to be mad at God. And God is sovereign over your situation and your trouble. The tearing sensation that maybe you have in your life right now is frequently associated with your sin. It's not always, but but frequently it is. Frequently it's what happens as God is ripping the idols out of our hands. Now we know from the book of Job and from the life of Jesus that just because you receive a harsh sentence, just because God is dealing drastically with you at this moment, it does not always indicate the measure of your sin. After two days he will revive us. How do we know the Lord will revive? You know, it's hard to submit to surgery at all, right? There's no such thing as minor surgery. It's hard to go under the knife. It's it's hard to go under general anesthesia or chemotherapy. How much harder would it be if you had repeatedly and terribly wronged the doctor who was about to administer your treatment? Okay? You're laying there on the table, and the doctor says Remember that time when you killed my son? Yeah. I'm gonna cut you open and do some surgery now. You know it's it would be so scary. And and yet that's the situation that we're in. But we have good reason to trust God in spite of our sin. We have living proof. That he has the power to heal even the worst and most severe disease, death. He raised his son Jesus from the dead. Jesus died on Friday. The Lord raised him on Sunday. It's why we're here. Every Sunday, it's resurrection day. We believe that Jesus died and was raised up. And because of that, we have hope that we too. Will be raised up on the last day. I love how this passage points to that. And this is the gospel. God took drastic measures to save you from your sin. He sent his son from heaven to live poor on earth. And he sent him to die on a cursed tree. And then all the powers of hell could not stop the Lord from raising his son from the grave. And Jesus took upon himself all of the sins of the saints. He took upon himself all of the sentences for our sin. And he satisfied them and rose again. So when the Lord says he will raise us up, he will raise us up. Our sin can't stop that if we are in Christ. Because in Christ all our sin has been sentenced and satisfied. Amen? Hallelujah. But to help your imagination wrap its mind around the truth of how d uh despicable our sin is, uh sorry, about how great God is, he paints two pictures about the certainty of restoration. Because we can still question it. He says it's as sure as the dawn. His mozav is as sure as the dawn. A better translation would be his arising, his springing up is as sure as the dawn. Tomorrow is dawn, it's so certain we don't even think about it. We don't worry about it. We assume it. His arising also, our arising in him is the same way. It will come. As surely as tomorrow's dawn, you don't even need to question it. And secondly, it's it's inevit as inevitable as rain. I know I have two there, but it's rain and showers, okay? It's as inevitable as rain. Verse 3 says, He will come to us as the show. Showers, as the spring rains that water the earth. And this is a Hebrew parallelism, and he's talking about one thing: rain. Showers are not as punctual as the dawn. But they do come. And for the Israelites, the spring rains do come. Sometimes you must wait and wait and wait. But the Lord does send rain. So it will be with his coming. It may not be as predictable as the dawn, but he will come. And his coming will be as effective, as life-giving, as showers. Do you believe this? Do you believe he's coming? Do you believe he's good? Do you believe he will return? Do you believe he'll bring life He will. If you don't know the Lord, come to know him. If you know the Lord, press on to know the Lord more deeply. Verses 4 through 6, a morning cloud. Listen how God's talking. What shall I do with you, O Israel? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Doesn't he sound like an exasperated parent? And before we get into what's causing this exasperation, it's important to note that Israel and Judah are both doing it. They're two different kingdoms. And Israel was founded on idol worship, as I've said, but uh and didn't have a single good king. But Judah was mixed, more mixed. There were some good kings in there, some faithfulness to the Lord. But Hosea is alleging that both northern and southern kingdom are alike in their sin. So it begs the question: could God come to us and say, What shall I do with you, O church? Let's see. What's causing this exasperation? Morning cloud love. Morning cloud like love. Is our love like a morning cloud? What's a morning cloud? Sometimes when I come to church early with the kids to drop them off at school, there's a cloud covering the reservoir, reservoirs. And sometimes it even surrounds the bridges. But then the sun rises and it burns the clouds all the way, very early in the morning. Is our love for the Lord like that? Hear one moment, go on the next. I must answer yes. In the morning I rise, intent on submitting all my ways to him, but by the hour of nine I have trusted in my own strength and knowledge a hundred different ways So, what does the Lord do? What does he apply? He sends his word. He sends his prophet to speak his word and bring conviction. Verse 5. He's right, and like the light, he reveals what lies in darkness through the power of his word. So, what's the opposite of morning cloud love? Steadfast love. Hess it. Faithful, loving kindness. And Hosea contrasts that with burnt offerings So what's so bad about sacrifice? I thought they were supposed to sacrifice. I thought that was an appropriate showing of thanksgiving and repentance. Why does the Lord contrast these two things? Well, what the Lord hates Is showy religion. He hates that. He hates it when people think that they can buy his favor. If people are giving money instead of their heart, that is offensive to him. And that's what sacrifice had become, a show of righteousness and an excuse for sin. 6, 7 through 10, armed robbery. Our sin is like robbery. Israel's actual sin seemed to be armed robbery, but many more could be accused as more of a metaphor as well, like armed robbers in their approach to money and the church. It seems that the priests had either conspired with robbers or been robbing themselves, forcibly relieving people of their goods on their way to sacrifice. It seems that the priests knew when, where, and maybe even who was traveling along what roads to bring sacrifices or money for sacrifices And they use that knowledge for evil, murderous evil, to take money meant for God and spend it on themselves. Despicable. In sin, this despicable doesn't happen overnight. When the priests, whose existence and office was meant to call people to holiness. were instead using their office to murder people, the situation had reached catastrophic levels. But but before If your sin ever boils over in this way, it's usually present below the surface in a number of ways that we still struggle with. Firstly, there are religious leaders who use their office to feed off of the sheep. They begin to use guilt. information and privilege to suck more and more money out of their flock for their own personal use. Sometimes there's cutting of corners with the books, with taxes, that leaves congregations vulnerable. Or sometimes leaders are merely tempted to not speak a hard truth to someone for fear that they might leave and take their tithe with them. This is the beginning, this is how it begins. What if you're merely a member of a church in postmodern America? Is robbery an accurate picture of your sin? I'm afraid so. National numbers on tithing and giving to the church would only confirm what our hearts and our consciences and our checkbooks reveal. Listen to God's rebuke of the people in Malachi 3. Malachi 3, 8 through 12. Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, how have we robbed you? In your tithes and contributions. You are cursed with a curse, for you're robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the full tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there's no more need I will rebuke the devourer from you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine, and and your field shall not fail to bear, says the Lord of hosts. Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the Lord of hosts. So Israel's sin in ours was like a morning cloud, like robbery. And we bring our as we bring our lives under the microscope of God's scrutiny, our sin looks more and more despicable. And then there's an aside here, 611 through 73, talking about evil deeds. Regardless of how despicable we can finally see our sin to be, if Something is working for us, we tend to keep using it. Right? So Hosea writes a few words about how sin accomplishes all sorts of things that you wouldn't want it to do. But before I get to that, it would be prudent to note, as Hosea does in verse 11, that there's a harvest appointed when God brings restoration. What's a harvest? Isn't that a good thing? What's the fear? Well , you might pass some harvesters. In this season, a harvest is a cutting down. Corn cut down. The corn will be used, the ears will be used, everything else will be thrown away. A cutting down is coming. Will you be found useful or tossed aside? Okay, a couple things that evil deeds do. Okay, four things. They prevent restoration. Scary, gut-wrenching, convicting and gracious is 7-1. When I would heal Israel. It's a when, not an if. Hallelujah. In spite of all our sin, God would restore unbelievable, unmerited grace. When he would heal, more sin is revealed. Yikes. That's the worst. Someone moves towards you to forgive you, and then it comes out that your sin was so much worse. Our sin doesn't absolutely prevent restoration, but in a temporal way it can. As we cling to our sin, restoration is kept at a temporary Distance. Let it not be so with us. Two, God remembers evil deeds Stealing in secret, stealing out in the open, wouldn't be such a temptation if you knew it would certainly go on your record and you'd be brought into court. But that's exactly what happens according to the Lord. Sinful gain promises impunity. It promises immunity. It promises invisibility. Although that will catch you But it can't deliver. This is a moral universe created by a holy God. He will have justice. Your sins are not secret. God remembers them. Your slate is not clean by yourself. He remembers all the evil of his own people. Yikes. Thirdly, they surround you. Sometimes we think that we can sin and move on. One would think that our deeds would not be our own worst enemies. But look how Hosea describes Israel's deeds in verse 2. They surround them. That sounds sinister, dangerous. It is, because our sins are not safe. Fourthly, evil deeds make wicked rulers glad. Who here likes wicked rulers? Who wants to make wicked rulers happy Then keep on sinning. When you sin, you play right into a wicked ruler's hands. Addicted to sin of one kind or another? A wicked ruler can use that. You're easier to buy off, blackmail, entertain, distract, denigrate, or despise. As you remain entangled in sin, you are not very much of a threat to them. But as you cast off sin, as you pursue righteousness and holiness, as you take a principled stand against ungodliness in your own life, that doesn't make evil rulers so happy. Back to our metaphors for our sin. Our sin is like an overheated oven. An oven. Have you ever left a fire going? How long did it take to go out by itself? What if it was ceramically insulated like a kiln or a brick oven? The heat stays after the flame is gone. And even when the flame is gone, a fire can spring back as soon as there's new fuel. And Israel is being described here as a terracotta or brick oven with a fire started but untended And the heat generated from such an oven is able to cook things, stew things, and able to kindle a fire again, given fresh fuel And Hosea uses this image to describe how the hearts of the people of Israel simmer hot with sin. And it just merely awaits an opportunity to express. It's latent. But sin may express itself in adultery, idolatry, mockery, revelry, and revenge when we leave untended the fire of sin in our souls. Hosea is making an astute political commentary on the rulers of the northern kingdom. Listen to what he says. He says, All of them are hot as an oven. And they devour their rulers. All their kings have fallen, and none of them calls upon me. You see, Israel's problem wasn't a bad ruler. It wasn't a list of bad rulers. Israel's problem was Israel. So too, our problem isn't a bad leader or a list of bad leaders. Our problem is us. Your problem is you. Regime change didn't help Israel. It reflected Israel's ruination. Warring kings, coups, assassinations were symptoms, not the source of Israel's sinfulness. So be on guard. Watch yourself. Don't think that regime change will save you or your nation. Verses 8 through 10: a burnt cake. Think about how you make a pancake. First you have to mix the batter, free-range eggs from the Johnsons or the Hancocks, whole wheat flour, oats, brown sugar, salt, bakery baking powder, baking soda, lemon juice, milk from the creamery, and then then you have to butter the griddle and and pour the batter on. Then you have to wait, flip it. And then you take it off and we like to sprinkle it with some powdered sugar and put some syrup on it. And then you devour it, right? And Hosea is using this image to describe Israel, but without all the positive connotations. Israel is mixed, but that's not a good thing. They were explicitly told not to intermarry with pagans because their hearts would be turned away from God. But they did. Israel is like a cake unturned. But again, that's not a good thing. It's like a pancake unturned. burnt on one side and undone on the other. It's and then it's even sprinkled, but not with powdered sugar, with gray hairs Okay? Israel's sin is getting old. And it's getting old in its sin. And finally, Israel is devoured by strangers, by foreign countries. Why Because he will not turn to the Lord. He is unturned because he will not turn. He will not return to the Lord. Therefore, he is devoured But the worst part is he knows it not. It's one thing to be an old, burnt, half-eaten cake. It's another thing to be an old burnt half-eaten cake and not know it. 11 through 13, a dumb bird. Hosea continues his rebuke of Israel's foreign policy. Israel would turn to Egypt. or the to escape Assyrian oppression, and then they turn to Assyria to escape Egyptian oppression. And you c you can see how this process would be damaging to Israel. And this process was also damning to Israel. For all the while they were shrewdly playing Assyria off Egypt and Egypt off Assyria, they never turned to the Lord. Assyria and Egypt aren't the only ones that you can turn to for help. Israel is like a dumb dove. How stupid would it be for a dove to say, Oh, the hawk is threatening, so I'll go stay with the eagle. The eagle, the predator, is a carnivorous predator, you silly bird. Okay? That's what brothers and sisters in Christ, have we not been caught in the same foul logic? We turn to one distraction to get us out of another distraction. We run from one bad relationship into the arms of another bad relationship. We stop abusing one substance by abusing another substance. All the while we forget the Lord who is mighty to save. Just because you don't see him doesn't mean he isn't there. But why do we do that? Why do we prefer another abuse, another predator to the Lord? Because we believe falsehood about him. We believe the lie of the devil that he's not there. He can't save. He isn't enough for you. He doesn't love you. He hasn't really told you. He hasn't really freed you. Stop speaking the lies of the devil. Don't believe the lies of the devil. But if you continue in this foolish policy as Israel did, you will get, who will get you to escape the wrath of God? What power can you run to to escape him? Where can you go to flee from his spirit? No one. Nowhere. It's a fool's errand. Stop flitting about from worldly pleasure to worldly pleasure, from worldly power to worldly power. They cannot save. And when all are brought low, who will save us from God, who some of us purposely ignored? Stray no longer, rebel no longer, speak lies no longer, return to Him It's hunting season. Yes, and there are some bow hunters among us. Thankfully they don't have treacherous bows. Bows that bounce the arrows and they shoot them into their own hands. Hosea likens Israel to a bow that endangers its wielder. How can a bow endanger its wielder? Well, by being inaccurate. Or by what I just described, you can ram an arrow through your hand or your foot if the bow is tricky and it and if you're not careful. And that's the kind of danger Israel is to the Lord. They pierce him, they shoot him themselves in the foot, they cut themselves, they go after idols, they endanger themselves by taking up swords against foreigners. Isn't it the Lord who gave them the arms in the first place, both figuratively and literally? Yet they were intent on not honoring him with their use of arms. The Israelites were pursuing military might. And what did the Lord say about that in Deuteronomy? What does Jesus warn his disciples about in the garden? All who take the sword will perish by the sword. And Deuteronomy 17, 16, quote, only he must not acquire many horses for himself, speaking of the king, that his heart might not be lifted up above his brothers. Trust and military strength is a distrust of the Lord. When you become a weapon, you become a target. And when you amass military might, you're tempted to think of yourself as better than others, above the law And even become the oppressors sometimes. May it not be so among us Christians. Rather, let us trust in the Lord. Listen, long has it been said, peace through strength. Ronald Reagan said it, Bernard Baruch said it, Emperor Hadrian said it. But I ask you, peace through whose strength? Behold, the Lord says, I strengthened and trusted Train their arms. Get that Israel trust in their God's strength? Do we? It is to our downfall if we do not. Trust in the Lord, Christian. Trust Trust him to protect you. He is our rock. He is our hiding place. He is our strength, our stronghold, our fortress. He alone. So in conclusion, there's two possible reactions. Maybe three to this. As you're hearing Hosea make his case against Israel, there are two ways to react. You could be saying, I'm just like Israel. I see there my own sin pictured in front of me. Or you could be saying, that's not me. I don't struggle with the same things in the same way. Let me speak first to those who feel that these pictures of sin mirror their own experience. If you could say that your love for the Lord was like a morning cloud, Your attitude toward wealth like a robber, your heart like an oven for sin. Your reputation like an old burnt cake. Your strategy for dealing with life like that of a dumb bird. And your usefulness to the Lord like that of a treacherous bow. If that's you, there's hope. There's great hope. The Lord eventually restored Israel, and when they returned to him, and he himself returned to Israel himself in Jesus. Your sin is not so bad that he cannot save you through drastic measures, namely by sending his own son to suffer and die for your sins. Hidden dying on the cross shows you how awful your sins were. But now God calls sinners everywhere to repentance. Return to him and you will be saved. He will raise us up that we may live before him. But if you hear these accusations and you say, that's not me. Even then, that could be for two reasons. If you're still trusting in your own strength, thinking that you're fine, a sinner, so blinded by your sin, not even to see it. Woe to you, for you have strayed. Destruction to you, for you rebelled against your maker. Judgment is coming. But, finally, if you're in Christ, he does powerfully free you from the power of sin, does he not? And it could be that these pictures don't describe you because of the amazing work that God has already wrought in you by the power of his spirit. It could be that that you're both convicted and amazed at how far God Has brought you. You may already follow in his ways, trusting in him instead of your own strength. Submitting yourself to be a useful tool in the hands of the Almighty through obedience and faith You may already give the first fruits of your labor to the Lord faithfully because you know that all you have is from Him. And you may already carefully steward God's resources given into your care because you know there will be a final accounting. You may already seek to douse the fires of sin in your heart with the wonderful promises of God and His Word. the disarming power of grace, and the life-giving balm of the Spirit. You may already guard your reputation, doing all work as unto the Lord, not mixing with the world in foolish ways. And you may already know how foolish it is to turn to one idolatry to avoid another. And therefore you trust in the Lord to save you. If that's you, hallelujah. The Lord has done a marvelous work in you already. Thanks be to God. He has accomplished it all by the righteousness of his Son that He's freely given you in His grace. Amen. Let us sing to the Lord and Say our faith, uh confess our faith to him and and and make some promises to him as we sing, trust and obey. Hymn number 700