Psalm 62, you'll notice that the top of the Psalm, the superscription, says that this psalm is ascribed to David. And while the superscription was not as Part of the original text, we have no reason to doubt the traditional view that this is indeed a psalm of David. But let's hear this wonderful psalm Psalm of God's hope and encouragement to us, Psalm sixty-two. Truly, my soul son Waits for God. From Him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my Defense, I shall not be greatly moved. How long will you attack a man? You shall be slain, all of you, like a leaning wall and a tall Pottering fence. They only consult to cast him down from his high position. They delight in lies. They bless with their mouth. But they curse inwardly. My soul waits silently for God alone, for my expectation is from Him. He only is from My rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. And God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of God Of my strength and my refuge is in God. Trust in Him at all times, you people. Pour out your heart before Him. God is a refuge for us. Surely men of low degree are a vapor. Men of high degree are a lie. If they are weighted on the scales, they are altogether Lighter than a vapor. Do not trust in oppression, nor vainly hope in robbery. If riches increase, Do not set your heart on them. God has spoken once, twice I've heard this. That power belongs to God Also to you, O Lord, belongs mercy, for you render to each one according to his work. Let's pray together. promise to never leave us nor forsake us, that you have sent your spirit to indwell upon in us, and that your spirit teaches us and convicts us of sin and instructs us in your truth. So we pray, Lord, that your spirit would fill us now, that we would see and hear your word and grow from it. We ask this in the name of our precious I don't know about you. But every day it seems I ask myself this question, what next? Especially in the past couple of months, have you been asking yourself that question too, what next? Because it seems that every day something really horrific, something really terrible is in the news. In the national news, we hear a A barrage of news stories about shootings, beheadings, stabbings, riots of wars, and rumors of wars. And just in the past Several months. We've had a barrage of stories regarding terrorist attacks in Brussels, Nice, Munich, and of course in our own country, in Orlando. Most recently. And what was the news on Friday from the Commerce Report? The Commerce Report highlighted a slightly Economy of just one point two percent growth in the GDP for the second quarter. And if that were not bad enough, the Bloomberg News reported yesterday that That four cases of Zika virus were transmitted locally by mosquitoes in Miami, and this is the first evidence of the virus spreading its way in the Continental US. So if you're like me, it's no wonder that you might ask this question, what next? Well, when we consider King David's life and all his tribulations and trials and turmoil that he went through We can imagine that he asked that very question himself. What next, Lord? What next? His life was a series of struggle and stress. Most of his life was spent as a warrior, battling beasts or a giant or warring tribes. And for years he was on the land from his father from a crazed king. And in his final years, his own son conspired against him in an effort to take the throne from him. So we can imagine that he could have very well asked this question, what next? What next? And Psalm 62, this Psalm of David, is one of those what next moments in David's life? And this psalm is so interesting. Because it seems to have been written in real time, as the actual events were unfolding right there before David. And we notice as David sings about these events, his focus changes as the psalm progresses. At first he looks up, and then he looks around, and then he looks within, and then he looks far, far off, far away. And what we see here is as his vision changes, as his vision changes, so does his the strength of his faith in God. As his focus moves, his faith ebb and flows depending on what he is looking at. Now in the first two verses, his vision is drawn upward toward God. And as he does, he sings in verse 1. Truly my soul silently waits for God. From him comes my salvation. Now what does he mean that his soul waits in silence? Well the NIV translates verse one, My soul finds rest in God alone. So to paraphrase David here, he's saying, even though life seems to be crashing all around me like turbulent waves, I am as serene and as still as still waters. Or to paraphrase Simon and Garfunkel, he is a bridge over troubled water. Well, how is that possible? Well this one thing he's not saying is this. He's not describing some sort of passive existential resignation, like a man who's just being carried along by the riptide of fate. going wherever it may take him, and he's just along for the ride. No, he's not passively accepting some kind of impersonal fate. Rather, he's actively trusting in God alone for salvation. He's not trusting in his own cunning or his wits or his resources to deliver him from the calamity that he's facing. For he knows that only God can save him from his distress. So he has this wonderful, quiet confidence in God. And because of that confidence in God, he can be at peace. He can be still without any fear. Without any anxiety, knowing that the Lord has everything under his control, under his, under right, within the palms of his hands. And so his soul is still. But even though his soul is still, his soul is expectant, waiting for God to act Oh, he could sing the hymn, When peace like a river attendeth my way, When sorrows and sea billows roll, whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say , It is well. It is well with my soul. Well, how does he know that God will save him? Is he just being presumptuous on God's goodness? Well, he bases his trust in God's salvation on the character of God. On the character of God. We see this in verse 2. He describes God as his rock, his defense, his fortress, and therefore he will not be greatly moved. Now, God is described as a rock about 20 times in the Psalms, and it is one of David's most favorite descriptions of God to describe him as a rock. But when we think of it, that might seem strange to us to compare God to a rock. I mean, after all, God is holy and majestic and glorious, the creator of all the universe, beautiful. and powerful and David describes him as a rock. Most rocks I want to get rid of, especially if they're in my garden. I don't want to honor them, but here, God is described as a rock. Well, what is a huge rock? A huge rock is solid and immovable. When you stand on it, you have a firm foundation. You will not sink into the abyss if you stand on the solid rock. And if you survived a monsoon last night, you appreciate a firm foundation and a solid rock, do you not? Well, you can lean on a rock and it will uphold you. But also for David, rocks and caves were his shelter when he was fleeing from Saul. We see this in 1 Samuel 23. 24, for example, where the hills and the crags were David's hiding places and strongholds when he was being hounded by Saul. So David is saying here, God, you are like those rocks that protected me from my enemies. You are my hiding place. You are my shelter in the storm. And yet we can see yet another connection in Scripture that goes back even further than David. In regards to God being called a rock. In Deuteronomy 31, Moses is giving his swan song before the Israelites enter the promised land. And Moses, and the Lord says to Moses, Moses, before you pass the baton onto Joshua, and before you pass away, I want you to teach a song to the Israelites. And this song will tell them about who they are and their character. And this song will also describe what I am like. And in Deuteronomy 32, Moses sings a song. And in that song, how does the Lord describe himself? How is he depicted? But as a rock. A rock who is just, a rock who is powerful, and a rock who is a refuge for his people. So David's people had a long history of describing God as a rock. Well, because of the character of God, that it is like a rock, solid and secure David can have the full confidence in verse 2 that he will not be greatly shaken. And yet when we consider his circumstances, he should be shaken. He should be shaking in his boots. Look at verse 3 and 4. And in verse 3 and 4, notice how his focus changes. In verse 1 and 2, he's looking up to the character of God. And when he looks to the character of God, he is calm and cool and collected and confident. But in verses 3 and 4, he begins to look down. And he begins to look around him. And what does he see? Not calm But he sees conflict and collusion. In verse 3 and 4, he looks at his enemies and suddenly, suddenly the tone of his song changes. He says, how long will all of you attack a man to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence? They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouth, but inwardly they curse. So we see in these verses a connection to 2 Samuel 15 through 17. Where David's son Absalom tried to usurp the throne from his father. And in that horrible conflict Some of David's most trusted friends and counselors turned against him. Those closest to him and who had served him for years conspired with his rebellious son Absalom in an attempt to over overthrow the throne. And according to verse 3, it was a prolonged attack. How long will you continue to attack me, to batter me? And David describes that he is in a weakened state, as a leaning wall about to crumble, that he's a fence about to totter over. And it may be that he's perceived as weak by these traitors because he's old and vulnerable. They may have been thinking, you know, David's on his way out. He's almost gone. He's had his day. He's a pushover now. So let's knock him over. It'll be easy to do. And how did they attack David? Not with fists or swords or clubs, but with words, with cunning words, with scandalous speech They may have said, if we spread just enough bad PR about David, if we repeat the lies often enough to the people, they'll come to believe it, and then we can poison the water against him. Then the people will turn against him and they'll turn towards Absalom. And that's exactly what happens in 2 Samuel 15. as Absalom slyly maligns his father's reputation and elevates himself in the eyes of the people. Insinuating that he can feel their pain more, that he's more just and compassionate and more of an effective ruler than his father. What do pleasures His conspirators were so two -faced, double-tongued , seemingly loyal on the outside, but plotting against the king On the inside. Now, even though David was a king, yet his experience was not really that unusual, is it? I mean I ask you, have you ever encountered people like King David's enemies? People who smile at your face all the time they want to take your place, like the song says. Maybe it's the coworker who with one hand pats you on the back and then with the other hand wants to stab you in the back as well. A coworker who acts all sincere and concerned to your face, oh Bob, how's the wife and kids? How you doing? But to the boss, he says, you know that Bob in marketing? You might want to check his expense account and his timesheet. You know, I don't think he's really committed to the core values of our company and to our culture and vision. Do you know people like that? People who are envious and jealous of you, and so they want to take you down so that they can build themselves up. People like that in your life can really give you an ulcer, can't they? They can really cause a lot of trouble for you And we see in the following verses how these characters who were doing that very thing affected David, and they affected him adversely. They disturbed his soul. Because in verse 1 and 2, David's soul is still. He's serene in the midst of strife He's just waiting for the Lord to call in the Calvary. But then in verses 5 and 6, his soul is no longer at peace. And when does that happen? After he takes his focus and puts it on his enemies. In fact, what does he say in verse 5, soul, be silent? Soul, hush up. Soul, get a grip. His former tranquility has been replaced by anxiety. And so what does he do? He changes his focus once again. And this time he looks inward. And he talks to himself He talks to himself. But he doesn't talk to himself about himself. He doesn't say, soul, be still, because I'm a mighty king. Soul, now hush, because you know I'm a great warrior. I got some nasty armor and a sword. I'm so bad that I'm good. He doesn't bolster himself by talking about his own power and authority. No. He talks to himself about God And he reminds himself not of who he is, but of who God is. And he repeats again some of the same phrases from verses 1 and 2 about God's character That he is a rock, that he is a defense, that he is that he is his strength and his salvation. And as he talks again to himself about God , He not only focuses on God's character, but he also focuses on God's commitment to him, God's commitment to him We see this at verse 7, where he says in verse 7, Oh God, on God rests my salvation and my glory. Or another way to translate that is honor. So what David is saying here is that his honor as king has been established by God. And God will sustain him because David knows that God has made a commitment to him. This verse harkens back to 2 Samuel 7, where God has made a covenant with David in which his promise David that David's kingdom would be an everlasting kingdom and that he would have offspring that would rule on a throne forever. So David not only knew the character of God, that he's a rock, he's a refuge, he's his strength, but he also knew the commitment to God, that God had committed himself to David for all eternity. That though David, that through David, God would establish an everlasting kingdom. So though though fiery trials may come, though others may try to oppose him and try to defeat him, he will stand and he will stand Strong and firm because of the Lord's commitment to him. His kingdom will never ever end. Now As David talks to himself and looks inward. And he looks at the character of God and the commitment of God. In verses 6 and 7, we see the effect that it has on his faith. It bolsters his faith. Notice the difference between verse 2 and verse 6. In verse 2, David says, I will not be greatly moved. But, what does he say in verse 2? Verse 6. I shall not be moved. Period. He will not tremble or totter in the face of his enemies because of God's salvation. Not one inch, not one bit. And notice what he says in verse 7. He says that God is not just a rock. No, he says that God is a mighty rock, the rock of his strength. So we see in the progression of this psalm, his confidence in God has grown. That the adversity that he's undergoing doesn't kill his faith. No, not at all. But that the adversity actually strengthens his faith. That's one of the things that is so interesting about this Psalm is that we see how real and how organic David's faith is. We see in this psalm how his faith swells at the beginning, but then shrinks somewhat, but then finally grows again to be even greater. We see in the psalm an important truth for us as well, that faith in the Lord is not static. There doesn't come a time in our earthly existence when we have arrived and we have an unflinching faith 100% of the time. No, there is an ebb and flow to our faith. For after all, here is David. And he's approaching old age. And he has seen God deliver him over and over and over again in the past. And yet despite all of those past victories, yet he still needs to remind himself when facing a new trial and a new adversity that the Lord is his rock and his refuge. He still has to say, soul, hush up. Soul, be still and wait on the Lord. He still needs to reflect on God's character and God's commitment to him in order to have peace. For when he reflects on God's past deliverance, it brings him confidence in the present trial, and so his faith grows. And beloved, are we not like David? That our faith is not static, but that there is an ebb and flow to it. That it increases and decreases in strength depending on our focus, as we see in the Psalm of David. For when David is looking up in verses 1 and 2, and he's reflecting on the character of God as his rock and fortress, he's at peace. He is still and his faith is strong. But when we take our focus off of the Lord and we begin to look at ground zero and we focus only on the adversity and the calamity like David did in verses three and four, then our faith can shrink as our problems appear larger than the Lord. So when that happens to us, what do we do? Well, we do what David did. We remind ourselves of the character of God and of his commitment to us. That He is our rock, that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus, that He is our refuge who has promised that He will never leave us nor forsake us. Well, David talked to himself about God. And in talking to himself about God, it bolstered his faith And he once again was still before the Lord, waiting for him to say them. But notice what he does next. Having talked to himself about God, he now talks to others about God. And he tells them to pour out their hearts to God in prayer. And you catch the irony that's here. There's a certain irony here. How do you wait silently on the Lord? Well, the way to be silent in your silence Soul is not to be silent. But to pour out your cares before Him in prayer Because when we unburden our burdens through prayer and place them in God's capable, strong hands, then we find rest for our souls. Now where else do we see this in Scripture? We see it in Philippians 4, 5 through 7, which is almost like a commentary on Psalm 62. Because Paul writes, the Lord is at hand. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything. By prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your requests known to God. In other words, prayer. And when you pray, what happens? The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. While having told the people to pour out their hearts to God, who is their refuge, then he changes focus. And he changes his focus now to the long view. And he looks into the vast distance of time. And he has this vision that is crystal clear. This vision that only reinforces his faith. For when he looks out to the vast reaches of time, he sees the immense difference between God and humanity. And he sees humanity. And he sees our end. And notice how he describes most of us in verse 9. Look at verse 9. He says that the average common Joe is like a vapor, that we're here today and gone tomorrow, poof, like a puff of smoke, gone. Now think about it. Think about how true that is. Think about how many billions and billions of people have lived and died throughout history, and nobody knows who they were. And most of us will probably be forgotten 50 years after we pass away. Psalm 103 paints this so graphically. The psalmist says, as for a man, his days are like grass, he flourishes like the flower of the field, for the wind passes over it, and it is gone. And its place remembers it no more. But notice what else David says in verse 9. That even the wealthy, the one percenters, the movers and the shakers and the history makers, what are they? They're but vapor too. Poof They're here and gone Take a look at how he describes them too. How he describes the mighty and the highborn and the well-to-do. He says they are but a lie. They're a delusion. For a time they might seem powerful to us. They might look like they have it all and they have it made. They oppress others and they take advantage of the disadvantage. They rig the system in their favor and they seem to always come out smelling like a rose. They always win. And the tyrants and the dictators of this world, they can have their jackboots on the throat of people of the downtrodden to crush them. But David says, what is their end? They are but vapor. They are nothing. So the psalmist warns us in verse 10 not to put our trust in ill-gotten gain. because it will be gone in a flash, just like us. He warns against putting our security in what can be seen, what is tangible. Our wealth and our possessions, whether rightfully or immorally achieved, they offer no real security for us. The dictator or the tyrant, the oppressor, he trusts in his power, his armies, his weapons of mass destruction, his ability to subjugate people through intimidation and fear But in reality, who has the real power? Not the rulers of this world who can be seen. But the one who cannot be seen is the real powerful one. For what can be seen is all transitory, whether people are possessions As the saying goes, you can't take it with you. So what David is saying here in these final verses is, you evildoers who are corrupt and crooked. Whatever you gain in this life is of no value in the final analysis because you can't take it with you. You can't take your gold or your diamonds or your eight mansions or your Brooks Brother suits or your fancy Italian leather handmade shoes And forget the Lamborghinis and the 10-car garage, because where you're going, you're not going to need them. All that you leave behind on this earth, all that you hold in your hand. When you pass from this planet is a rap sheet of crimes against humanity. Now who should be shaking in their He says, you who think you are so powerful, you will stand before one who holds the universe in his hands And what will happen to them? David says in verse 12, they will give an account before a just and holy God who will render to each one according to his work. Those who cheat and who lie and who oppress others will stand naked and ashamed before a just judge who will sentence them for all eternity for their crimes against humanity. So David here is taking the long view of his situation, and he must be thinking, you know, why should I fear these evildoers? Who seek to harm me, who lie and slander against me? For the Lord will save me. And what will become of those who attack God's anointed God will repay them in kind with his just judgment. As the Lord Himself said, do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. And we might say, yes, that's great. There is justice after all. The bad guys do get it in the end. And they will But not so fast as we cheer on God's justice and we say, yeah, God, go get on. Don't cheer so fast. Because these verses are not just meant for dictators and tyrants and oppressors of the world. No, they apply to us as well. That we will all stand before a holy God who is powerful, and he will render to us what is due for what we have done in our lives. So the bad news is that we all, we all have a rap sheet of our own, of crimes against humanity. and crimes against God, and as we have broken all of his commandments and thought and word and deed. So we should all be sentenced to an eternal life in a hellhole of darkness and despair where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth. And God would be just to do it. For we would be praying for crimes against an infinite God for the rest of infinity. For God is just And not only is God just, but he is powerful to execute his justice And we should then all be doomed, the 99% along with the 1%, except for this beloved, except for this, this one astounding word in verse 12, which offers us hope of forgiveness. And what is that word? The word is mercy. Verse 12 says, To you, O Lord, belongs mercy. So we find that the Lord is not only just, that he's not only powerful, but God is also merciful, showing steadfast love and kindness For God showed his great mercy through his only begotten Son, who was born into David's royal lineage. And like his forefather King David, this king, this king knew what it was to be maligned. He knew what it was to be slandered and persecuted and afflicted. This king also knew what it was like to have false. Friends betray him with a kiss of kindness. This king also knew powerful people who were jealous and envious of him and wanted to take him out But unlike King David, this king was not rescued from his adversaries. No, in fact, he willingly allowed them to take his life. And in dying When Jesus seemed the most weak, the most pitiful, the most hopeless, yet he was the most strong. For he was doing battle. And he was doing battle for us. He was strong for us, for on the cross he took upon himself the just judgment that was ours for our crimes against humanity and our crimes against divinity. God's sinless, perfect Son substituted his life for us, willingly taking upon himself the full wrath of God's justice, his father's justice. That should have been ours. Why? So that our rap sheet would be cleared, our wrap sheet would be shredded and torn to bits with the words, it is. Is finished. The debt has been paid. You are free from all judgment and penalty Why? So that your life might be reckoned as his son, sinless, spotless, and free from all All condemnation. Oh beloved, beloved, how we can rejoice today and every day in this one word In verse 12, that God is merciful. God is merciful. And his mercy is available to you today and all you need to do to receive it by is to receive it by faith and to do what David did To look up and to say, Lord, you are my rock and you are my refuge and you are my salvation. You have conquered my worst enemy death and my sin and only you only in you is there salvation from God's just judgment for you are the way, the truth, and the life, and there is no other name under heaven and earth by which we can be saved. And just as King David put his trust in you You to save him. So I put my trust in you, Lord Jesus, to save me for all eternity On Christ, the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand. And when we do, we cannot be shaken by this fleeting world, for the Lord will uphold us as our rock and our Our refuge and our shore defense. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, how we thank you We thank you for this amazing psalm. We thank you for the peace that you give us in adversity. That we can rely on you totally, completely, that you are indeed a rock and a refuge and a source of strength. That you have promised to save us and committed yourself through your covenant of grace. To us that we will have eternal life with you when we put our trust in you. We pray for those here today who are not yet trusting in you, Lord, that you would be at work in their hearts. That they would see you and your grace and know of your love and mercy. Father, as we as believers continue to walk the life of faith, we pray, Lord, that That you would strengthen us, help us to look up to you, to talk to ourselves about who you are, and to tell others about you, Lord, of your great mercy and love. We thank you. Father, for your goodness, in Jesus' name, amen.