I think when we come and we uh are a regular part of the life of the church, we fail to remember how much energy and time uh is invested in just coming together and worshiping and having great music and and uh all that uh God has given us here. Uh it's you uh well please turn with me to the book of acts we're going to be looking at the second a portion of the second chapter of Acts. I'll be starting at verse 14 and reading through verse 41 Acts chapter two, verse fourteen. Then Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you. Listen carefully to what I say. These people are not drunk. as you suppose. It's only nine in the morning. No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servant, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days. And they will prophesy, and I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire, and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness. And the moon to blood before the coming of the great, glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved Fellow Israelites, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did among you through him as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God's deliberate plan. and foreknowledge and you with the help of wicked men put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. David said about him I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices. My body also will rest in hope, because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead. You will not let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me the paths of life, and you will fill me with joy in your presence. Fellow Israelites, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day. But he was a prophet and knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on his throne Seeing what was to come, he spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah. He was not abandoned to the realm of the dead, nor did his body see decay. God has raised this Jesus to life. Life, and we are all witnesses of it. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out on what you now see and hear For David did not ascend to heaven, as he yet said. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Messiah. And when the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do And Peter replied, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit, the promises for you and your children, and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. And with many other words he warned them, and he pleaded with them, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about three thousand Were added to their number that day. Please pray with me. Father in heaven, we are privileged to worship you We are privileged to have a position where we can stand before your throne of grace and seek your forgiveness of sin. Your forgiveness. We are privileged to have your word. And it's our prayer this morning that as we look into this passage here in the book of Acts, that we would not only learn The significance of what it means and what you are saying to us today, but we would be able to apply it to our lives. That the church would be encouraged to continue its mission. We ask and pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the benefits of looking back on the past for me is to see how God has blessed my life and that I'm speaking also for Debbie and myself and I know also for our children and as As many of you know, uh we had the privilege of living here in this area until about the mid-70s. So I went to high school, Debbie and I graduated from Randallstown, she was the first class I was the second. We it was here at that high school in this community that we came to know Christ. That we had grown up, both of us, in the church, but it was through the ministry of young life that we came to know the Lord and that particular community was very instrumental in developing our thirst and hunger for Christ and for his word and for his people and mission. There were a number of people in this area that were very influential in our growth. When I look back on How God developed my faith, my understanding of His Word, and how to apply it. The two people, especially that were instrumental, was a gal by the name of Johnny Erickson Tada, and John who did not live that far from here, up in Sykesville at certain times, and other times in Woodlawn uh Debbie and myself we spent a lot of time there either uh in Woodlawn or up at the ranch and it was in that context that I met another friend by the name of Steve Estes. His father and mom were part But Steve and Johnny were very instrumental in what I would say discipling me in In my faith and my relationship with Christ. When I think about my understanding of the scriptures and my my thirst and my desire for the scriptures. I think about what Johnny and Steve Estes did in regards to those conversations. When I think about my understanding of prayer, for example. I think about how they modeled prayer. I I'll never forget uh how odd I found it to be when we would be hanging out together and maybe be up at the ranch as they called it or sometimes driving to get a pizza or something and and there'll be some occasion, something that would come up either in the conversation or maybe we'd pass by an accident or something. And Steve would say, we need to pray. And growing up in a more formal environment where you only prayed basically in church or at certain uh stated times, it was a Such an odd experience to just stop in the middle of life, so to speak, and begin to pray. I I know that may sound odd to you. But the point of all this is to say that I I believe that when I look back on my life, that the investment that those two friends made In me. Without necessarily creating a formal environment , paid huge dividends. So when I look at my personal walk with the Lord, I look at my ministry and all those things, I think back on how those two in the Individuals world. in a very real way discipled me. I believe this passage here in Acts chapter 2 is a window into Not only Peter's life, but what it looks like for someone to have been discipled. If you turn back to the Gospels and you note What Jesus said to these men, to the apostles, in Matthew chapter 26, that famous This passage in verse 19 that says, Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you, and surely I am with you always to the very end of the ages. When you think about that great commission. And you think about someone like Peter, for example, and his life. When you look at his life, you look at the lives You're seeing an example of what it means to have been discipled, to have been under the teaching, under the the leadership of Jesus and the importance for them to carry out that same kind of ministry And for a few minutes today I want us to to to examine what it meant for Peter to have been discipled and to be a discipler. someone who is carrying out this great commission. In order to do so, we are in essence going to be looking at what shall we call call it a a steward of of grace. Because fundamentally, what we have today, what Peter had as he was there with Christ, as he was carrying out his ministry Is an example of someone who understands his responsibility to be, in essence, a steward of grace. That's what the Great Commission is all about. And as we look specifically at Peter's life and at his sermon here in Acts chapter 2, we see a number of things that I think we ought to mark in regards to what it means to be A gospel steward, we might say. The first is simply this: that there is no discipleship. There is no discipleship by grace, there's no stewardship of grace without a context of redemption. Now, as a particular church here at Liberty, I know that for months you've been involved in the process of looking for a new senior pastor. Now that is a weighty process and not an easy one, and I'm sure those who are on the pulpit committee understand understand this very well. But as they go about their responsibility and their calling, they are looking at lots of resumes or what we call in the in the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America, data forms. And they are going, I don't know, I I don't even want to uh begin to guess how many data forms that they are looking at. And they get them uh through different different means perhaps maybe through the state of clerk in Atlanta. But they're looking at these pages and pages of information on a particular candidate, and in doing so, they are trying to determine whether or not this person is qualified to be your senior pastor. And they're looking at all kinds of things. They're looking at his his background, his education, uh where he has ministered and how long he's ministered, and all all kinds of things. on that data form. And that's that's to be expected. If they were to have gotten a data form from Peter If he was alive today and he was in the Presbyterian Church in America, what would they think as they looked at the context of his past? Now, I like us to go back to the point here of the sermon. Would Peter really be qualified? to give the sermon, to be in a position to to represent the church in this way. And I think if you look at the evidence, if you look at his data form, his resume, you might question that. Here's what I mean. If you go back to Matthew chapter 16, you'll recall that Jesus with the disciples asked them, who do people say that I am? And different disciples answered in different ways. And then Peter chimes in. He says, You're the Messiah. And Jesus agrees with his assessment and the fact that yes I am. There's no question about that. And a few paragraphs after that section in Matthew chapter sixteen Jesus is explaining to the disciples the fundamentals of what it means to be at this point in time in regards to redemptive history. And he says this. He says, I'm going to suffer. I'm going to be persecuted. I'm paraphrasing now. I'm going to be arrested I'm going to die, and I will be raised from the dead. And Jesus is giving the disciples all these details. Guys that have been with him now for quite some time. Do you remember what Peter's response was to Jesus' I'll tell you right now, Peter didn't say, well done. That's a great, that's a great plan. No. Peter looks at Jesus and he says, This will never happen to you. Now maybe you don't quite understand or appreciate the context. But again, Jesus has just given the disciples and Peter the essence of God's overall plan of redemption. And Peter is saying, no No, this is not gonna happen. This isn't gonna work. Now I don't know about you, but putting a guy like that in a pulpit, really. Alright now, and then think about some other things. Like when Jesus was going into the garden before he was arrested, what was Peter doing? Praying? I keep an ass? No, he fell asleep. You want someone who falls asleep in the pulpit? And then it gets worse. Right? And you know where I'm going. Three different times After Jesus is arrested, Peter is sort of in this courtyard, and there's a fire, and he comes next to the fire to be warm where other people are, not necessarily disciples. And people can see his countenance from the light of the fire, and they recognize him. And one after the other, three different times, first a woman says, Aren't you one of those that belong to Jesus? That have followed Jesus? You are one of those. You're a Galilean. You're one of those who follow Jesus. Three different occasions, Peter says, Yeah, you're right. I do. I'm following. I'm a follower of Christ. I want to tell you, I want to share with you about the gospel. Right? No. No, no. I'm sorry, you have the wrong person. People make that mistake all the time. Right? You get the picture. He denies. He denies Jesus. Three different occasions. Is Peter really qualified to engage in ministry? To be standing there now before all these people proclaiming the gospel? And the answer is, he is, isn't he? Is it because of his work, because of his reputation at this point? And I'm not I'm not uh arguing against the process that your POP committee is following. You want them to follow through with that process. But my point is simply this. When you go to the end of the Gospel of John And after the resurrection, but before the ascension, and Jesus is with the disciples, and he's specifically sitting down with Peter. And he asks Peter, three different times. Peter, do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? And it's interesting that Peter on the third round becomes a little bit irritated at the Lord's question. But Peter knew to hear that question. But Peter also needed to hear Jesus' response where he says, feed my sheep. And you say to yourself, really, that is a picture of grace and of mercy. That's a picture of So when Peter is standing there and he's making this incredible proclamation, you're seeing a picture of redemption. discipleship and the gospel proclamation has to always be done in that context where we're reminded in every day of our lives I don't deserve to know Christ. I don't deserve to say that I love him, except for the fact that he has pursued me By his grace and by his mercy. And if we forget that, then we don't really understand what it means to be involved in the Great Commission involved in discipleship, involved in coming alongside a friend and praying with and for them and spending time in the screen Scriptures. Secondly, if you look at what it means to be this stewardship of the gospel, this this discipleship that is presented to us In Acts chapter 2, you'll see that Peter's message is well defined. And I believe that this is a critical issue for us as a church that we never lose our focus and how easy it is at times to lose our focus. I think that in some occasions we tend to think You know, what's really important right now is our programs and our different ministries and all these things are true, or sometimes we really do need a physical building or we need to repair things or whatever the case is or we need more funds or yeah that's really what we need. I I a a couple years ago one of the guys in our ministry in Washington DC, spent some time with a uh a fellow that he was encouraged to meet And this guy, uh I know I I don't know him personally, but I believe from what I understand he is a is a is a Christian and and is involved in wanting to encourage other Christians And so he sets us so he sits down with this this uh one one of our young staffers who was maybe a year or so out of college, and he says to him, the most important thing That you can do right now is this. Make as much money as you can. Make as much as much money as you can because that will serve you so well in the future. Now I think for a lot of us we hear that when we we're horror, like why would some No one ever say that. Except that's what he believes. And that's what he's teaching. And that's his that's his modus apparendae in terms of discipleship. Now the good thing was my young friend who's part of our ministry then knew that that was the wrong message. But I think at times we become we become become confused. Peter was not confused in terms of the message. Come back to the passage with me. Notice how clear he is In exalting Christ. And notice that he doesn't hesitate to understand his context, which I think is an important part of good stewardship of discipleship or the gospel. We all we all understand this issue of of having an important message. Maybe some of you or tempted to to do a little texting while we're pre while we're worshiping today, right? I mean the whole dynamic of message is important. But when you come to to What Peter is doing here, he understands this context. He understands that that that at this particular uh time within the lives of those who are in Jerusalem, that some of these people are from all other parts of the Roman Empire They've come into Jerusalem for these special occasions. These are people who who under have a fundamental understanding of, of course, the Old Testament and and the law and all the uh the rituals and the sacrifices and the special occasions. And so he's preaching within that context. And so he refers to Things that they would understand, like the Old Testament, the book of Joel. the Talks about a passage that is well over eight hundred years uh old, you might say He understands the historical significance of the particular time. He understands that these people Have been confused a bit about what the gospel really is. And so he's centering his message on that. A commentator by the name of Lensky says this about Peter Peter's message. He says Peter had been but an ordinary fisherman. Now think about that. What seminary, what homiletical c what homiletics did he have? What kind of classes did he have in Preaching or exegesis, nothing. Peter had been but an ordinary fisherman. But here Luke's sketch of his sermon shows that it was a masterly, masterful, most effective discourse. That was delivered without preparation or premeditation at the decisive moment on this day before an audience of thousands. This was possibly only by the aid of the Spirit. But think about the organization and his thoughts here Again, helping these people realize that this Jesus did not just simply come out of the blue. He speaks about God's providence and God's predestination and his election. He speaks about the centrality of the cross, of the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. There is no gospel. Without a message that is centered upon Christ. Isn't it amazing how basic and simple it is? As you think about what Peter has said here, is it a complicated message? No. And notice that at the end, he mentions that this is not just for those who are adults. He says it's for those who For you and your children. He talks about this covenantal aspect of it. It's for the entire community. It doesn't matter how old you are, how young you are, it doesn't matter what your age education is or your background, and it doesn't matter just how bad you believe you are. And in fact, you might say That we don't have an appreciation of the gospel unless we do see how much in need we are of it. So when we think about discipleship, we need to understand that the message must Must be always clear that Christ is at the center. In the book of Hebrews, the writer says that we are the center, we are to fix our eyes on what? On Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despised the shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Exactly Message that Peter is preaching here. And then thirdly, we should say this in terms of being a steward of grace and of the gospel, and that is in regards to the impact. So we not only see that discipleship must be done in the context of redemption, and the message must be clear, and it must be upon Christ. But it's going to have an impact. If you come back to the passage, you'll see that after Peter has preached, and he makes this Application very no very well understood, Peter replied, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit, the promises for you and your children, for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. And then we're told in the following verse. With many other words, he warned them and pleaded with them, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted his message were baptized in about 3,000. Three thousand, we're told, came to Christ. Three thousand said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Messiah That he is God in the flesh, that he has come to this earth, the promised Messiah, to die for sinners. And went through this horrific Where not only did he experience the physical pain and suffering that went along with the crucifixion. But he experienced an incredible weight where he took upon himself the wrath of God that belongs to us. 3,000 Now think about this. We know that other disciples, other apostles, others preached the gospel. But you can't help to think about the ongoing consequence of Peter's ministry. If we were to, if we were to take the clock, so to speak, and move it forward to let's say 300 years or so, right. Roughly speaking, after Peter preached this sermon, maybe more like two hundred and fifty or so years. It's amazing to see the consequences of the gospel in the Roman Empire. There's a book by the name of The Rise of Christianity by Stark, a sociologist in uh Texas, there in West Texts is at Baylor. And he writes about the the the significance of seeing how Christianity, how the gospel spread throughout this Roman Empire. This this empire that wants nothing to do with the true God, wants nothing to do with Christ. By the time you come to Constantine, which is around A. D. 300 Stark brings out the point that the Roman Empire, maybe something close to half of the Roman Empire, made some proclamation to Christ. It's an unbelievable, unbelievable number when you think about it. Except for the fact that the gospel, when it takes hold within a community, when it takes hold within an individual's life and that life is lived out with a focus on Christ. And in essence, seeing other people impacted by that gospel, it is a powerful picture. I can't go into the details that Stark does in regards to what were some of the things that happened to impact those communities. But it's clear that the the Numbers are quite significant. What does the numbers look like today? Almost two thousand years later. Well, it's very impressive. We live in a world of about seven billion people, roughly speaking. About 200 or about 2. 3 or so billion of those people, about a Make some proclamation. Now, again, these these numbers need to be understood, but the point is the numbers are quite significant. In fact, what is so interesting to note is that if you go back a hundred years about to let's say to uh nineteen ten, there was about less than two billion people within And about six hundred million were professing Christians, again, in some uh general way you might say, but enough uh of an understanding that they were making It's interesting to note that in 1910, 66 % of those Christians were living in Europe. Today, only about 25 % of the Christian community are in that area. And there are very few Christians, relatively speaking, to the world, that are within Do you know which country of the world has the largest number of Christians? And I'm going to qualify this, but if You if you go into the stats in regards to where the largest number of Christians are within any particular country, it's the United States. It's in the Americas overall. The United States States, Mexico, and Brazil. We have about twenty-five percent of all the Christians within the world. Now just think about it for a moment, and let me just qualify things. I do not Hold the position that America, that the United States of America, is a Christian nation, that our constitution would be somehow a Christian uh constitution I believe we've been greatly impacted or influenced by our faith, by Christianity, but I don't look at America as a Christian nation Per se. At the same time, as I just mentioned, the number of Christians within this country are significant. And it's somewhat significant for this This reason. You live in a country that at times controls somewhere around 25 % of the world's resources. By far, you live in a country that has the largest economy. I mean by like significant percentages. You live in a country that has military power for example, and the amount of money that we put into the m to to our defense is many, many, many times much greater than any other nation in the world, including China and Russia, for example. You live in a very significant place for lots of different reasons, and we are only 5% of the world's population. The gospel has gone to other parts of the world because of what is taking place within the United States. In other words, my point is simply this. That the issue of stewardship for us in the gospel and discipleship and the Great Commission is significant. And it's significant because you , in Essen , Control the lion's share of the resources. And therefore, the dynamic of stewardship is that great. It's also important to realize this: that when we look at the condition of the church, And the condition of the gospel being proclaimed within this country and the world, there are significant concerns. There are concerns that what we're seeing in terms of the overall trends are not good, and this is what I mean. If you look at the number of people who are making either a profession of faith or who have had some impact or some experience or relationship with the church. finding more and more people choose not to be part of the church. A book came out a number of years ago. They like Jesus but they don't like the church and this author pointed out how the trend is moving towards people not being part of a local church And the point of all this is to say that if we are to do the job of discipleship and good gospel stewardship We can't look at the activity of a local congregation as being the total sum of our ministry. It's important for us to realize that the marketplace, the schools, the workplace Our community at large needs the gospel, and as a church, we need to be accenting activities and ministry that go out into those areas to reach those people. People for Christ. I think we've known this for a long time, but the statistics and the studies are showing that the need is much greater today than it was 10, 20, 30, 40. Forty years ago. The point is simply this. We are called, 2,000 years later, to engage in our world with the gospel. It doesn't have to be a big program, although big programs are are good, I'm sure But it does need to start on an individual basis. It needs to start in the home. The way in which we disciple our children. Children, the way in which we invest in their lives, making sure that we do everything that we can to create an environment where the gospel is nourished and we have and are investing the time in the lives of our children, of our grandchildren, of our neighbors, of people with whom we work. Think about it in terms of the work You spend an enormous amount of time, many of you, and maybe an office or some other environment where you are around people with whom you work. And the number of hours in any given week are incredible. How is that being translated in terms of of the gospel? Being a a steward of grace, of investing in their lives, praying for the mix etc. I think sometimes we say, well, we have all the time in the world. When I think about that statement, and I've often thought the same, I'm sure I was reminded recently of the fact that we don't always have all the time in the world. Last weekend uh I went to a funeral. of a friend that God enabled me to spend regular time with. This is a chief of staff on the Capitol Hill, a fellow that he and his family were Uh were devout Roman Catholics and regularly attended Mass in their context. And through the ministry I had an opportunity to meet this friend a number of years ago and developed a friendship. But about two and a half or three years ago, we were having lunch, a couple of chiefs of staff on the Hill. And this friend uh shared with me that the summer before he had a massive heart attack. And the friend being at the time in his late forties That's a pretty serious event for anybody, but certainly someone who's that young. And so as we were having lunch and he was sharing the circumstances behind this heart attack, I I turned to him and I said, what do you think this means for you spiritually? And he said, I've thought more about that part of my life life than I have ever done so. And so I asked him, I said, would you be interested and willing to get together on a regular basis and just spend time in the scriptures? And prayer. And he said, I would love that. And every Monday morning, now think about this. This is Capitol Hill. This is a very intense place. We got to For about two years, nine o'clock on Monday morning. From nine to ten. He would he would leave his office and we would meet in one of the office buildings on Capitol Hill and we would Spent time going through the scriptures, praying, talking about life issues, etc. I didn't realize that we only had two years. I thought we had twenty And then I got the news about a week and a half or so ago that he went to bed on a Sunday night, the night before we would Normally get together, and when he woke up he was in heaven. We don't know our time. We don't know what God's doing in the lives Of those around us. What we do know is that we have the privilege for a certain period of time to be a gospel steward. of the grace that has been given to us, but not just to us, but to our world. So who is it maybe in your life? You think you've got twenty years. them. You might only have a couple weeks. Are you praying for them? Are you looking for opportunities to spend time in the Word and in prayer just to encourage them? My prayer and hope is that you do and you will. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for giving us your word.