Hosanna to God in the highest. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to Psalm 95? And as you turn there, let me dismiss the uh little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. And uh let me uh give a little personal uh uh note, prayer request. Uh If you could please remember to pray for my wife, uh Donna. She as as many of you know, she had a knee replacement uh about three years ago and it's never really been quite right and her knees continues to Her her knee continues to swell each day and she uses ice at night and meanwhile her other knee has a torn meniscus and she's been told it's uh uh inoperable and uh uh uh see uh the only option given her at this point has been knee replacement on that knee, which she's uh disinclined to do. And uh and and now she's strains some muscles in her back and in her legs and she's unable to to get about so uh she's she's in need of some prayer and I know she'd appreciate it if I shared that with you. Psalm ninety-five. Oh come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Giving. Let us shout joyfully to him with Psalms. For the Lord is the great God and the great King above all gods. In his hand Are the deep places of the earth, the heights of the hills are his also, the sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His his pasture and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. As in the day of trial in the wilderness, when your fathers tested me, they tried me, though they saw my work. For forty years I was grieved with that generation, and said, It is a people who go astray in their hearts. And they do not know my ways. So I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray Father, we do ask for your blessing upon your word this day. We pray for you to use it to accomplish things in our hearts. I pray especially Father for unbelievers who may be present that they would hear your word, that they would hear the call of your spirit, that they would be drawn to you. And I pray for your people, Lord, that your word would take root within us and would uh would speak to each one of us, Father. Focus our minds, focus our hearts now upon your truth. Remind us that we are even now worshiping you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I saw a sign uh a few uh months ago. I thought it was clever, it said uh to be sure of hitting the target Shoot first and then call what you hit the target. Well, believe it or not, uh we as a church have a target or a goal for each member of the body here in Liberty. It can be summarized by using the initials of our denomination, PC Our goal is that each member should be P, praising God, that is, worshiping Him in spirit and in truth, both with public and And not being conformed to this world, but rather being transformed By the renewing of our minds. I think we can lump all that under praising God. And then C connecting with God's people. It's God's plan for us, clearly revealed in His Word. That we should live as brothers and sisters in the body of Christ. That we should therefore be praying for each other, edifying one another. Building one another up, comforting one another, encouraging one another, exhorting one another. In short, that we should be connected with one another And then A for advancing God's kingdom. When we are, as God's children, set apart by Him, we're regenerated, called, justified, set apart. We begin then to worship God in spirit and in truth, something we were unable to do. before he regenerated us. And we begin to connect with our brothers and sisters in true fellowship, true koinonia. At that time, we're also defined what our spiritual gifts are and to use them, invest them for God's kingdom. To use our gifts to help bring the good news of Christ to others to help advance the kingdom of God on the earth. It's one of the things he's called us to do. So every believer should be serving Christ in some way. We're each to have a function in the body. As this is every part of the body has a function. My little finger has a function, my eyelids have a function, my liver has a function. Every part of the body should have a function in the body of Christ. Now, as you know it's impossible to hit a target if you don't have a target. And it's also extremely difficult to hit a target if you can't see the target. So my intention in the series is to help us to see the target in the hope that you and I Will not only have a clearer view of the target, but will be moved by the Holy Spirit to attempt to hit the target. So I want us to begin this morning with the letter P. Prais God. This morning I want us to ask the question: why am I in church this morning? Ask yourself the question: why are you here? This morning. Lots of other places you can be on a beautiful spring morning. Why are you here today? Well, I hope your answer is: I'm here to work Worship God. Or I'm here, you might say, to praise God. Or I'm here to glorify God. All of those uh answers would be acceptable. But what is that intellectual What does it entail to worship God? Throughout the world, right now, and and uh other time zones at other times, professing Christians gather together in what we call worship services. But as John MacArthur puts it, there seems to be scant Concerned today about worshiping our glorious God on his own terms. At one end of the spectrum, worship seems to mean little more than some rote liturgy. In a starched and stuffy setting with stained glass windows and organ music and perhaps incense and priestly vestments. At the other extreme, worship aims to be casual, as casual and relaxed as possible, reflecting an easy familiarity with God, unbefitting his transcendent majesty. Majesty. This type of worship seems to aim chiefly at making sinners comfortable with the idea of God, purging from our thoughts anything like fear. Trembling, reverence, or profound biblical truth. It may be that many of what we call services of worship are in fact In fact, nothing of the sort. Hardly anything is missing from our churches these days, wrote late Toronto pastor A. W. Except the most important thing, the genuine and sacred offering of ourselves and our worship to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now we call this a worship service, as you know, and we intentionally incorporate in it in the planning of it prayer. Receiving of an offering, singing of praise to God, the reading of his word, the proclamation of the word, a benediction. But it's entirely possible for you to be here for nine minutes or so to sing, to pray, to present your offering, to hear God's word proclaimed, to receive the benediction, and then to leave this building without ever having truly worship at all. So it's essential to remind ourselves from time to time what we're supposed to be doing when we meet together on the Lord's Day. Why we're assembled here? Well, it's not primarily for fellowship. It's not primarily for instruction. It's not primarily for us to be edified or challenged or inspired or convicted. The reason we are to gather together weekly is to worship the true and living God. Amen? Some here who are young in the Lord may have never given this a lot of thought and some of us who are older in the Lord need to be reminded of it afresh. So this morning I want us to just introduce the subject by answering some basic Basic questions specifically, what is worship? How can it be defined? What is God's relationship with it? How are we to worship? And why does God demand it of us. Then, Lord willing, in subsequent weeks we'll probe a little deeper into the subject. So what is worship? How would you define it? Well, the Hebrew word used most often in the Old Testament is shakaw from a root meaning to prostrate. The word is used in Exodus 20, the second commandment. Prohibition of the worship of idols, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them. That's the word. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them. Prostrate oneself. The Greek words translated worship are are pros kuneo from two little words, cuneo to kiss, and pros toward, so to kiss toward someone. to uh in other words to show obesia obeisance or uh reverence to someone, to kiss towards someone, as is still done in the in the Middle East. Sebomai, to revere, uh stressing the feeling of awe. And devotion. So all these words then would suggest That to worship God involves revering Him, offering reverence to Him , and awe before Him, to humbly prostrate oneself before Him, to serve Him All of that's involved in worship. Greek scholar W. E. Vine summarized the word worship in the New Testament as the direct acknowledgement to God of his nature. attributes, ways, and claims, whether by the outgoing of the heart in praise and thanksgiving, or by a deed done in such acknowledgement. So that's where the service part would come in. Or by a deed done in the acknowledgement of God's attributes and God's glory and God's majesty. In the process of doing reverence. To him. John MacArthur asks, What is worship? Worship is to give homage, honor, reverence, respect, adoration, praise, or glory to A superior being. Worship has also been defined as an active response to God whereby we declare his worth. Worship then is not passive. It's participative. I've uh shared with you before what William Temple, the late Archbishop of Canterbury, said about worship. I like how he put it. To worship is to quicken the conscience by the holiness of God, to feed the mind with the truth of God. To purge the imagination by the beauty of God, to open the heart to the love of God, and to devote the will to the purpose of God. It's all of those things. The English word worship comes from the Anglo-Saxon werfe stipe, which is to ascribe worth. In England, of course, you may see Still hear a phrase such as His Worship the Mayor. I present to you His Worship the Mayor. It's to ascribe worth to someone. Listen to these words from Psalm 96. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory do his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. Oh, worship the Lord and the beauty of holiness. Tremble before him all the earth. Our worship of God may may be a more important factor in our creation than we tend to realize. Imagine if uh if basically Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and Tchaikovsky's Pathetique and Handel's Messiah and Leonardo's Last Supper and Michelangelo's sculpture David and Shakespeare's Tragedy Hamlet, etc. Imagine these great works locked away somewhere. So we had no access to them, no copies. The originals are locked away in a warehouse somewhere. Imagine how much the world would have lost by not having those treasures. How tragic it would be. Well, Tozer says the reason God made man in his image is that he might appreciate God and admire and adore and worship, so that God might not be a picture. So to speak, hanging in a gallery with no one looking at him. He might not be a flower that no one could smell. He might not be a star that no one could see. God made somebody to smell that flower, the lily. He wanted someone to see that glorious image. He wanted someone to see the star. So he made us. And in making us, he made us to worship him. But as you're painfully aware, we didn't fulfill our created role. We chose to worship the creature more than the creator. Although mankind knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts. And change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible men, and birds, and four-footed beasts, and creeping things. Romans 1. In other words, we found other beings to take God's place. We replaced the Creator with creatures. R. C. Sproul. Writes in his little book on worship. It is the nature of this created being, the human being, to worship God. But something has been added to the mix that causes human beings to act against We've fallen from our original position in creation, that place where before the fall Adam and Eve delighted in giving honor, glory, and reverence. To their creator. Since the fall, this natural propensity for worship has been obscured and damaged So the Father provided the glorious Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, as our sinless substitute. He miraculously redeemed He regenerates us. The effectual call comes to us. He calls us out of darkness into his marvelous light. He regenerates us. We're born from above so that we might worship him once again. That brings us to the question, what is God's relationship to worship? Well, of course, he instituted it. It's his idea. Man didn't come up with this. Well, why don't we worship God? Why don't we show God some reverence or honor or adoration? Worship is God's idea. The altars, the sacrifices, the tabernacle, the temple. Much of God's word is devoted to describing for us how we are to worship Him. How God's people through various states Of God's revelation and his redemptive plan are to worship. Listen to this: an altar of earth you shall make for me me, and you shall sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen, in every place where I cause my name to be remembered. I will come to you and I will bless you. you and if you make me an altar of stone you shall not build it of hewn stone for if you use your tool upon it you have profanity It. God instituted worship. That was Exodus chapter 20. And God is pleased when worship is offered in purity and sincerity. God is pleased when worship is offered in purity and sincerity. This was evidenced at the dedication of the temple, 2 Chronicles 5. Solomon had assembled the elders Of Israel and all the heads of the tribes with a huge congregation in attendance, and the Levites carried the Ark of the Covenant into the temple. And there were singers and stringed instruments and trumpeters. Indeed, it came to pass when the trumpeters and singers were as one to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the Lord, and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music and praise the Lord saying, For he is good, for his mercy endures forever. That the house, the house of The Lord was filled with a cloud, so that the priests could not continue ministering because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God. The Lord is pleased when worship is offered in purity and in sincerity. And thirdly, the Lord is seeking true worshipers. Jesus said Luke 19, the Son of Man has come to seek and save that which was lost, right? But why did God send Christ to seek and save sinners? Well, at least part of the answer is The hour is coming, Jesus said, and now is when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. The Father is seeking such to worship him. Seeking what? He's seeking those who will worship him in spirit and in truth. John chapter 4. The Father is seeking such to worship him. Now, clearly we were redeemed Certainly we can say in part, and I would say in great part, to worship him. The Father is seeking such to worship him. You say, yeah, but I thought God saved us to deliver us from wrath according to his mercy. Well, yes, but if his primary goal was simply to deliver us from wrath, all they had to do was not create us in the first place. But he created us to worship him. We were redeemed to worship God. You remember Tozer 's Illustration of this. He said, God gave to man a harp. And he said, Here, above all the preachers I've made, you get the largest harp. I put more strings on your instrument. I've given you a wider range than I gave any other created being. A horse brings me glory by its strength, cheetah by its speed. A blue bird by its beauty, but you can worship me as no other creature can. As Tozer put it, when man sinned, he took that harp God gave us, he threw it into Yes, Christ's sacrifice was motivated by love. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life. For his friends, and we are redeemed to deliver us from wrath, to grant us everlasting life, to restore us to fellowship, to make us witnesses, but also Notably, that we might become true worshipers. The moment the Holy Spirit regenerates us and we're enabled to repent of our sins and lay hold upon Christ, the moment We're justified, we're declared righteous by Christ's righteousness being placed upon our account, our sins being placed upon his account. From that moment, we are enabled to truly But as we grow in the Lord and learn more about his glorious nature, our worship experience ought to flourish and deepen. Develop. If our true worship is so important to the Lord, then we would expect Him to have given us some instruction as to how it is to be offered. How are we to worship Him? Jesus' simple answer was we're to worship him, first of all, in spirit. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit, Jesus said. John for. Thousands, millions of professing Christians are going through the motions of worship right now. They uh attend Services of worship, but for many of them, while they're physically present in a worship service, they're no more worshiping God than the chairs or the pews were worshiping God before they came. When they sing, they're not singing to God, not with all their heart, soul, and mind and strength. Maybe going through the motion Of singing, they may be moving their mouths. They're not bringing him a true sacrifice of praise. When public prayer is offered, their minds are wandering Their hearts are not engaged. They're not expending the effort that is needed to intercede with God for their brethren. They view it not as in Intercession, but as intermission. Time for their minds to wander off. Their offering is not sincere and sacrificial, they put something in the plate because It's what's expected of them by the people sitting next to them. They're not attentive to the public reading of Scripture and they don't apply the confession of sin to their own hearts. When they see See the communion table full and covered, and in the very center of the church, their first emotion is distress. As they conclude, this service is going to be a long one. As the elements are partaken, they do not enter into Christ's sufferings. They're not anxious they are in fact anxious to get home. And to get to their true loves, comfort, pleasure, entertainment. They're not thinking of God during the sermon. They may be thinking about the temperature. Maybe thinking about the people sitting in front of them. Time for a haircut. Maybe thinking about the children behind them. Or what they'll be having for lunch and when they'll be able to get to it. But God calls us to worship him in spirit. What does it mean to worship him in spirit? Well, we get a clue from the Apostle Paul's words, for God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit. Romans 1. In other words, with the inner man , with the heart. We worship God with the Spirit when we worship God wholeheartedly. This is the opposite of going through the motions of worship. It's the opposite of of uh standing up saying what the preacher wants you to say, sitting down, or What the worship leader wants you to say, and parroting back certain things. It's worshiping with the heart. MacArthur said worshiping in spirit refers to the human spirit. From the inside out. It's not a matter of being in the right place at the right time with the right words, the right demeanor, the right clothes, the right formalities, the right activity. The right music, the right mood. No, it's what's on the inside. It's the spirit. Sprohl wrote: the basic thrust of Jesus' words, true worshippers worship the Father in spirit. Is that God looks on the spiritual attitude of the person who comes before him in worship? So true worship, true latria, true sacrifice, true. True service begins in the soul. The humbled King David put it this way in Psalm 51: O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will show forth you For you do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise So it it has everything to do with the inside man, with the inner man, and very little to do with the outward uh going. through the motions. God is not pleased in our going through the motions in worship. He is pleased, however, with worship that goes through the emotions. Right? He wants our worship to go through the emotions. He doesn't want us to go through the motions of worship. True worship is, among other things, a feeling about the Lord. In other words, if your spirit is not in tune with the Lord through the week, it's very difficult to uh to jump start On a Sunday morning. If you're not walking in tune with the Lord through the week, if you're not fellowshipping with him, if you're not worshiping him, if you're not praising him through the week, It's very difficult to get it jump started on a Sunday morning. Our deacons, you know, several years ago purchased a defibrillator. There, I said it right. It's on the wall out there There. As it was explained to me, uh some of our members were falling into such a deep sleep through long term they couldn't be awakened by normal means, so they shifted out some money for a defibrillator. But in in truth, we have a device then that may be able to get your physical heart beating again if the need arises. But the fact is we have no such device to get your spiritual heart working or pumping You may think you're coming here to worship God, but in a sense, if you're going to have a genuine experience of worship here, you're going to have to bring God with you when you come. See what I mean? You're gonna have to be with him. He's gonna have to be with you as you come. If you don't bring him with you, you probably won't find Find him here. Know you not that you were the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? First Corinthians three So worship in spirit requires that we have a true heart desire for God. It's been well said the reason it fails to occur in the pew is because it fails to occur in the day. So, how are we to worship God? Well, first of all, Jesus said we're to worship Him in spirit. It 's from the inside out, with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, you might say. And then secondly, of course Jesus said, we're to worship him in truth. You must worship him in spirit and in truth. Now there's much worship that takes place in the world. Indeed, I think we could say most worship that takes place in the world is not worship that is motivated by truth. Jesus said to the Samaritan woman, You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. John 4. 22 All those religions devised by man, animism, you know, believing that the the tree has a life force and we are to pray to It and beseech it to help us, etc. Animism, uh uh Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, all the man-made religions of this world, uh worship in some sense. Teach their followers to worship, but it's not worship established upon truth. It is worship, statues or images Are uh bowed down to, departed relatives maybe prayed to, or saints may be uh prayed to? Real devotion may be expressed. There may be much uh genuflecting and and lifting of the hands and lighting of candles. There is worship taking place, but it's not worshiping Based upon truth. True worship is based upon that which has been revealed to us by our Creator. Even as early as Genesis 4, we read that God accepted Abel's offering, but not Cain's. Clearly, then, not all worship is acceptable to God. Our worship must be based upon truth. And we'll have more to say about that in subsequent messages, but I want to raise another question this morning. Why does God demand our worship? Maybe some of you have been troubled by this. Why does God demand our worship? worship. Why does he constantly over and over again in the Psalms for example uh exhort us to praise, praise the Lord, praise him with the cymbals, praise him with the heart, praise him with the loud trumpets. Why all that constant admonition to praise? Phrase it. C. S. Lewis wondered about that. It was a stumbling block for him when he was a new believer. He said, We all despise that crowd of people that linger around. the the uh the wealthy people of the world, the the princes, the kings, the entertainers, etc. the celebrities, stroking their egos. Lewis began to see the frequent reminders and admonitions to praise to God as something similar. He said It was hideously like God saying, you know what I most want is to be told that I'm good and great. It made one think what one least wanted to think Lewis said. Gratitude to God, yeah, reverence to God, obedience to him. I thought I could understand. But not this perpetual eulogy. He struggled with this question Why does God demand our worship? And he found, of course, in Scripture the answer. And the simple answer is, first of all, because he's the fountain of all life. He's the glorious, all-powerful, all-knowing, all-holy creator and sustainer of all that there is This is his world. And it's only right that his creatures should offer him their service and adoration. It would be wrong if we did not. It would be wrong of him if he didn't urge us and exhort us to do what is right and what is good and what is just and what is appropriate Second, as we were created to worship and commune with our Maker, we will worship someone or something. You can count on it. Whoever you are, you are right now worshiping someone or something That person or that object that we worship will control us. Remember when Satan tempted Jesus? He said, You bow down and worship me, and I'll give you you all these things. All these things, the world's glories, I will give you if you fall down and worship me. That's what Satan said. to Jesus. Satan knew, of course, and Jesus knew that if Jesus complied, yes, all the kingdoms of the world would be his and the glory of them. would belong to Jesus, but Jesus would belong to Satan. You see? The person or thing we worship will control our lives, whether it's a child, a woman, a man, or our own pleasure, or our own comfort The scripture talks about those whose God is their belly. What does that mean? They made an idol of their own belly, of their own comfort, their own pleasure, of their own satisfaction. The late D. James Kennedy wrote, God knows that we are going to love something supremely. If we do not love him , We're going to love something less noble, something less honorable, something less glorious, something less exalted than God. And when we do that, we are inevitably going to become like that which we worship. That is why God says that He's a jealous God, that we should have no other gods before Him. John Piper said, God is the one being in all the universe for whom, seeking his own praise, Is the ultimately loving act. For him, self-exaltation is the highest virtue Do you see it? God calls upon us to worship Him because He is the sun around which we were designed to orbit We were created to worship him. And if we're not orbiting that sun, we're orbiting something lesser. Any other being, any other thing. And eventually we'll find it to be nothing but a black hole that ultimately leads only to darkness and to death. The life-giving light comes from the sun alone. So, how could God do other than call us to do what is best? And that is glory. Glorify our Maker. Now let me leave you with a few things to think about. First of all, if anything should be clear from what the scripture says about worship, it's this true worship Worship is directed toward the true God. True worship is directed toward the true God. We don't come together for worship. worship for the purpose of getting something out of it. As in men, you know, I don't think I got anything out of that worship service. I didn't get anything out of that. I didn't get anything out of service today. You ever say that? You ever think that? My wife says it all the time. No, I can I can say things when she's not here She doesn't say that. Ever. She has never said that. Oh. But do you ever sometimes you know we think that well what did I get out of I didn't get anything uh we're uh called to worship primarily not to get but to give To give, to give to the Lord the glory due to his name. It's not about you, and it's not about me. It's about him. Amen? Do you people say amen that over here? All right, okay. I don't know. All right. Since I was a child, I've never been able to hear out of that ear. Now you should leave a worship service thinking, I hope that my worship was acceptable and pleasing to God. Our God is an awesome God, and He's worthy of all my praise and my adoration. I hope that I genuinely worshiped Him in spirit and truth today. I hope He was pleased with my worship. I hope that it was an incense of sweetness smelling savor to God? I hope so. And then let me ask you as we close, who or what do you worship? Who or what do you worship? I'm not talking about Sunday mornings now. What gives you supreme enjoyment? What are you living for? Is it your business? Is it your home? Is it your children? Your grandchildren? Your wife? Your husband? Your boyfriend? Your girlfriend? What are you what are you living for? Is it football? Is it retirement? Is it hitting a little white ball with a stick? Trying to get it into a hole with the fewest strokes possible? Is that it? Is it a celebrity? Is it a band? A singer? Uh an actor? An actress? What is it that gives you supreme pleasure? As MacArthur put it, everyone worships. We're spiritual creatures. And the drive to worship is one of the basic human needs God designed into our hearts. When people reject God, they invariably worship False gods. So as God looks into your heart, and he is of course the only one who can do it, who does he see enthroned there? Who's enthroned there? Well, I warn you, on the authority of God's holy word, if there's someone or something seated there other than your creator, he or she is Is a usurper. And you will never know what a true life was meant to be until you dethrone that pretender and bow before your rightful sovereign. And the first step, of course, in this process is repentance and faith. It's possible that there's someone here today, someone here this morning who's never yet repented. And so I would urge you to do that, even today. Recognize that you've sinned against the Holy God. Acknowledge yourself to be without hope, except in his sovereign mercy. You realize that he's holy and just and pure and that he must punish sin. And that despite his empathy for you as one of his creatures His justice demands that sin be punished. But marvel at his wondrous provision. His love for sinners was so great that he sent his own dear son into the sinful world. Father, punish me and let them go free. Lay their guilt upon me. He was the sinless, spotless Lamb who came to take away the sins of the world. And if you'll come to him and say, Lord Jesus, forgive me and save me, I believe that you lived that perfect life, rose again from that you died upon the cross, rose again from the dead, that you live today, that you're coming back one day. Save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You pray that prayer, mean that in your heart, on the authority of God's word, I can declare to you, all your sins will be forgiven. You will receive this gift of Everlasting life. It's not church membership. It's not the good stuff you try to do. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. But according to his mercy, he saved us. Have you come to him? God, forgive me and save me. He kept the perfect law that we broke. And he paid the debt that we ought to have paid. God raised him from the dead, declaring the sacrifice was accepted. The payment's been made. Now Jesus says, Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come to him by faith. The Lord may be drawn you by his spirit. The Father seeketh such to worship Worship Him. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we do ask that your spirit Will uh trouble the waters, will move upon us. Lord, those of us who have been simply going through the motions of worship, I pray that you'll bring conviction of sin These are old truths, Lord, but I pray that you will apply them to our hearts afresh. Renew our spirits. Remind us of what we're called to do when we gather on Sunday mornings. And Lord, may that same spirit of worship carry over into Sunday afternoon and Sunday evening and Monday morning and Monday afternoon. May we, Lord, worship you throughout the the week and bring you with us when we come to church. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.