And we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. With the Psalm ninety six Oh, sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord, all the earth. Sing to the Lord. Bless his name Proclaim the good news of his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the nations, his wonders among all peoples. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods, for all the gods of the peoples are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give to the Lord, O families of the peoples. Give to the Lord glory and strength. Give to the Lord the glory do his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Tremble before him, all the earth. Say among the nations, the Lord reigns. The world also is firmly established. It shall not be moved. He shall judge the peoples righteously Let the heavens rejoice and let the earth be glad. Let the sea roar in all its fullness. Let the field be joyful in all that is in it. Then all the trees of the woods will rejoice before the Lord, for He is coming. For he is coming to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with his truth. Let's pray. O Father, how glorious is your word. Help us now as we proclaim it. Use it in hearts. Draw souls to yourself and build up your people Teach us this day, Lord, more about worship. Teach us how we are to worship. Call us to worship by your Holy Spirit. We ask in Christ's name Amen. As uh many of you know, Doctor A. W. Tozer was a renowned pastor. He pastored both in Chicago and in uh Toronto in in his later life. And he once told a parable to his congregation on the subject of worship. He had made a great study of worship. He had written about worship. And I shared this story with you several years ago, but it bears repeating. He told his congregation that he was uh he was sitting on a park bench in Toronto and uh a well-dressed gentleman uh was sitting next to him and he and he looked at Tozer and gave him sort of a quizzical smile and Tozer said, Well do we know each other? And this fellow said, uh No, I don't think so. He said, I I think I'm in sort He said, You see, I I somehow I I I I fell, I bumped my head, and and now I I I don't have a wallet, I I don't know I and and the the The funny thing is I can't remember who I am or or what I'm doing here. And Tozer said he was just about to say to this gentleman that, well, then we need to We need to find a policeman. I I I don't think I can help you. When he said a a a well-dressed man uh from the sidewalk across the street saw them sitting on the bench and yelled and ran over And he and he he said to uh to this fellow, uh, so there you are. Uh we've been looking all over for you. And uh and the guy said, Well, uh pardon me, sir, uh I I don't know you. I was just telling this gentleman here that I I must have had a a bump on my head. I can't remember who I am or or where I am or what I'm doing. And the guy said, well don't you recognize me? We came to Toronto three days ago. Don't you know? We're members of the London Philharmonic. And you were our first violinist. And we we filled our engagement. for the last few nights without you, but we've been looking everywhere for you. And the fellow said, well, so that's who I am and that's why I'm here. But he said, I still don't know if I can play the violin. Well, Tozer explained his parable. Adam had a fall. He received a terrible bump. Eve was involved with him in the catastrophe. They tried to shake the fog out of their minds. Looking at each other, they realized they no longer knew who they were, why they were alive. They did not know the purpose for their existence. Ever since that time, Tozar said, men and women alienated from God and trying to exist on a sick, fallen planet, have been pleading, I don't even know why I was born. I don't even know why I was born. Well, clearly, as we saw last week, one chief reason we were born and one One chief reason we need to be born again is that we may genuinely worship our Creator and our Sustainer. In our first message on worship , We sought to answer four simple questions. First of all, what is worship? We looked at those four words that are used in scripture for worship from the Hebrew shakha, which means to bow down literally or to prostrate one. oneself from the New Testament, proscuneo, to kiss toward, which means to show obeisance or uh uh to defer to someone, to do reverence towards someone. A sebomai, to revere, to revere with a sense of awe and devotion. And then lutruo , which is to serve, to render religious service towards someone, a religious uh homage in response to the person 's grandeur or whatever. Worship then may be described as revering God , bowing down before Him. uh uh recognizing him and adoring him and being in awe of him, showing submission to him And serving him out of a heart of devotion. All of that's involved in this in the words worship that are used in Scripture To worship God is to declare his worth. We know to the English word we use, worship, came from the Old English, worth a skipper. Which is to ascribe worth to someone. John Stott put it this way, the highest, worship is the highest and noblest activity. Of which man by the grace of God is capable. Think about it. Worship is the highest and noblest activity of which man, by the grace of God, is capable. Now what is God's relationship to worship? Well he instituted it Worship is his idea. He is pleased when it is offered in purity and in sincerity. And the scripture says he's seeking true worshipers. The Father seeketh such to worship. Worship him, Jesus said. John 4. How is worship to be offered? Jesus said. In spirit and in truth. God is spirit, and they who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. In spirit, that is from the inside out. It's not just going through the motions. It's got to be from the inside out. We worship him in spirit. That's what he's looking for. And in truth, worship that's established upon truth, motivated by the truth. If there's anything clear about God's worship in Scripture, it is that he is quite adamant that it be offered according to his instructions. The truth that he reveals in his word. For example, in Exodus 30, God gives very specific instructions about incense to be used in tabernacle worship. He names the particular spices to be used and the amount of the spices to be used, including pure frankincense, combined to make this incense that was to be offered at the He forbids the use of this particular combination of spices for any purpose except his own worship. Clearly, writes John MacArthur, there's something so unique, so holy about worship That it is set utterly apart from anything else in the human dimension. No one may take from God that which He has devised for His own glory. We're not to attempt to worship God according to our own determinations of what seems right to us. That's what Nadab and Abiju did, sons of Aaron, nephews of Moses. Then Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censor and put fire in it, put incense on it, and offered profane fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. So fire went out from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord spoke, saying, By those who come near me, I must be regarded as holy. And before all the people I must be glorified. So Aaron held his peace. His son said, It's just been devoured by fire. So Aaron held his peace. Leviticus 10. We can't just offer to God anything in worship that seems right to us. This is why, by the way, as you may have noticed, we don't include in our worship of God video clips. Or drama presentations, or clowns, or mimes, or jugglers, or light shows, or ventriloquists, or trapeze artists. Even though, think about it, any one of those things might help us to draw a crowd. Right? And a spiritual lesson could be drawn from any one of those things. I don't know. We could kinda it's all swing to the Lord's tomb This uh excerpt from John MacArthur's book on worship may help us if you're thinking, well, come on, Pastor, uh you're erecting a straw man here. Nobody's worshiping God with clowns, for goodness sake. Well, MacArthur wrote, it sometimes seems as if P. T. Barnum is the main role model for many practitioners of church growth these days. In fact, the following ad for a Sunday evening service appeared in the bulletin of one of the largest and best-known churches in the heart of America's Bible Belt. Circus. See Barnaman Bailey bested as the magic of the big top circus comes to the fellowship of excitement. Clowns, acrobats, animals, popcorn, what a great night. That same church once had their pastoral staff put on a wrestling match during the Sunday service, even going so far as to have a professional wrestler train the pastors to throw one another around the ring pull hair and kick shins without actually hurting one another, thankfully. Again, these are not really extraordinary incidents, writes MacArthur, scores of churches are following similar methods, employing every means available to spice up their services. In fact, the philosophy behind their approach has been around for so long It is so widespread and so deeply entrenched in the evangelical culture that just about the only kind of church nowadays that could legitimately be called non-traditional Would be a church where biblical preaching and solid content-rich historic hymns constitute the backbone of the Sunday worship service. Author Terry Johnson writing on the second commandment, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image nor any likeness of anything Heaven above, the earth beneath. He writes, in prohibiting worship through images, God declares that he alone determines how he is to be worshipped. Though their use may be ever so sincere and sensible as aids to worship, images are not pleasing to him. And by implication, neither is anything else that he has not sanctioned. Pastor Ligan Duncan wrote, This is in essence what the reformers saw as a fundamental principle for Christian worship. An approach that came to be known as the regulative principle. This principle, in short, states that worship in its content, its motivation, and aim is to be determined by God alone. He teaches us how to think about him and how to approach him. The further we get away then from his directions, the less we actually worship. He continues, there must be a scriptural warrant for all that we do. That warrant may come in the form of explicit directives, implicit requirements The general principles of Scripture, positive commands, and things derived from good and necessary consequences. Now, when it comes to things like, well, should we uh print uh an order of service? use instruments. What instruments do we choose to use? What time should we meet? What should we wear? In such uh areas and such matters we understand we we must use discretion based upon principles of wisdom derived from Scripture. But the central elements of biblical worship must have biblical warrants. As Calvin put it, God disapproves of all modes of worship not expressly sanctioned in his word. The great confessions of the church down through the ages have affirmed this very truth. For example, the London Baptist Confession of 1689. The acceptable way of worshiping the true God is instituted by himself, and so limited by his own revealed will. that he may not be worshipped according to the imagination and devices of men, nor the suggestions of Satan, under any visible representations, or any other way not prescribed in the Holy Scriptures. The late uh Dr. James Montgomery Boyce, pastor of Tenth Press in Philadelphia, pointed out It is the loss of the centrality of God in the life of today's church that allows us to transform worship into entertainment Gospel preaching into marketing, believing into technique, being good into feeling good about ourselves, and faithfulness into being good successful. This is some of what is involved in that great biblical truth that our worship Must be in truth. Worship in spirit and in truth. But Jesus said not just must our worship be in truth, it must also be in spirit. We're to worship God in spirit and in truth. John Piper says worshiping in spirit is the opposite of worshiping in merely external ways. It's the opposite of empty formalism and traditionalism. Worshiping in truth is the opposite of worship based on an inadequate view of God. Worship must have heart and head. We worship in truth , head, and we worship in spirit, heart. Worship must have heart and head. Worship must engage emotions and thought The worship of the people of Judah was unacceptable to God, he told them through his prophet Isaiah, because it was not offered in spirit. The people honor me, this people honor me with their mouths or with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. Isaiah 29, 13. Now, uh, you've been around uh our church for a while. You know that we Presbyterians have historically put a great deal of emphasis upon worshiping God in truth. And well, we should. But we're called to worship him in spirit as well. Piper said, truth without emotion produces dead orthodoxy and a church full of artificial admirers. We can say the right things, sing the right songs, stand at the right times, sit at the right times. That doesn't make us worshipers. True worship comes from people who are deeply emotional, Piper said, and who love deep and sound doctrine. Think about that. True worship comes from people who are deeply emotional and who love deep and sound doctrine Boyce put it this way, many people worship with the body. This means that they consider themselves to have worshiped if they've been in the right place doing the right things at the right time. In Christ's day, the woman at Sikar, at the woman at the well, John 4, thought this meant being either in Jerusalem at the temple there, or in Mount Gerizim, the Samaritan's temple. In our day, this would refer to people who think they've worshipped God simply because they have occupied a seat in a church on Sunday morning, or sung a hymn, or lit a candle, or crossed themselves, or knelt in the aisle. Jesus says this is not worship. These customs may be vehicles for worship. In some cases they may also hinder it, but they are not worship in themselves. Therefore, we must not confuse worship with the particular things we do on Sunday morning. True worship occurs only when that part of man, his spirit, which is akin to the divine nature, for God is spirit. actually meets with God and finds itself praising him for his love, his wisdom, his beauty, his truth, holiness, compassion, mercy, grace. His power and all his other attributes. Last Sunday we asked the question, why does God demand our worship Why does God demand our worship? We all have difficulty tolerating a man or woman who demands to be the center of attention. Look at me, everybody look at me. Love me. Everybody love me. Praise me. Everybody praise me. Honor me. Put me first. God demands our worship because, first of all, we were created, we were designed to worship. Therefore, we will worship someone or something. I guarantee you right now you are worshiping someone or something in your life. Hopefully it's God, but it may not be. Maybe your wife. Maybe your husband. Maybe your children. Maybe your job. Maybe your home. Maybe your bank account. Maybe your pleasure, your comfort. Maybe some team, it might be some performer. God demands our worship because we were created, we were designed to worship, therefore we will worship someone or something. And that which we worship will control us. God calls us to worship him because he He is the supreme good in the universe. To worship anything else not only robs God of the glory that He is due, but it robs us of one of the primary reasons for our creation. Right? We're like the guy on the park fence. I don't know why I'm here or uh I don't know what I'm doing here. I like the way the late D. James Kennedy Kennedy put it in his book, Delighting God. He said, God knows that we're going to love something supremely. Something. If we do not love him, we're going to love something less noble, something less honorable, something less glorious, something less exalted than God. Now let's move a bit beyond. Let's think about some other questions around worship. What are the essential conditions for worship? What are some characteristics of genuine worship? And what should our attitude be in worship? First of all, what are some essential conditions for worship? Well, I think we could start with humility. If I'm going to genuinely worship God, there must be in me humility. Consider Jesus' parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector, Luke 8. Pharisee said, I thank you that I'm not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, even like this tax collector over here. I fast twice a week, I get tithes of all that I possess, etc. The tax collector, on the other hand, would not even lift his eyes to heaven. He beat upon his breath, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus said it was the tax collector who went home just as So your worship cannot be acceptable to God if it's offered in pride. Like you're doing God some sort of favor by showing. Quite obviously, then an unrepentant sinner may go through the motions of worship, as I did for many years in my life before God saved me, as some of you did, many of you did. We may go through the motions of worship. My parents would drag us out the church. We'd sit there, I'd stand up at the right time, sit down at the right time. Answer the pastor when he required an answer. We may go through the motions of worship, but an unrepentant sinner cannot truly worship because his knees can't bend. True worship then requires humility, and true worship requires faith. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. For he that comes to God Must believe that He is, and that He's a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. Genuine worship can only be offered by those who have been brought by God's Holy Spirit to true repentance and faith. Faith in the sinless Savior. Dr. R. C. Sproul put it this way. The single most important thing to understand understand about worship is that the only worship that is acceptable to God is worship that proceeds from a heart that is trusting in God and in God alone. That's the only worship that's acceptable to God. And then it might be argued that an essential of true worship is total submission. An attitude that goes beyond humility. In Revelation 4, we see the 24 elders representing presumably the 12 tribes of Israel and the 12 apostles, and therefore picturing all of them God's elect through the ages. We see these men falling down before him who sits upon the throne, worshiping him who lives forever, and casting their crowns before the throne. They're casting their crowns before the throne. Now, this casting of crowns is an image of complete and utter submission. Historians tell us that when a kingdom was conquered by the Roman legions, the defeated king would either be brought to Rome, where he would be compelled to bow and cast his crown before the emperor, or else an image of the emperor would be brought to that king and he would have to cast his crown before the image, picturing of course the same thing. The purpose of a crown is to glorify the one who wears it, to call attention to the king or to the queen or the emperor. to his or her position. When a believer casts his crown before the Lord, he's saying, I want only God to be glorified. He deserves all my praise. All that I am, anything I've done, is by His grace, according to His sovereign plan. Well, it may be going too far to say that total submission is an absolute essential of true worship because I guess you could say that true believers Who genuinely worship may be at different stages in the process of totally submitting to Him. But it seems clear in Scripture that the more exalted our view of God is , The more we recognize Him as the High and Lofty One, the more we understand of His majesty, His greatness, His sovereignty, His holiness, the more submissive and humble we will be. And the better prepared for genuine worship. It's been said that worship rises or falls in any church, altogether depending on the attitude we take toward God. Whether we see God as big or whether we see Him little, most of us see God too small. Doesn't it follow then that churches Which acknowledge God's complete sovereignty over all things, those churches which recognize our utter dependence Upon him, those that exalt him as both the author and the finisher of our faith, the one who begins the good work in us, the one who completes It, those are the churches which should be, should be, toys to offer the most God-honoring worship, because their doctrine prepares the way for it. So if we consider humility, faith, and submission as essentials or prerequisites for true worship, what are some characteristics of genuine worship. Well, I'd say one of them is admiration. Admiration. That is an appreciation of the excellence of God. We are gathered here to admire God, among other things. Because we were made in God's image. We're better able to appreciate Him than any other creature. All creation glorifies God, but we're better able than other creatures to glorify him. Remember the way Tozier put it, God gave us a bigger harp. We have all these strings that we can use to glorify God. We have a personal understanding of things that a horse doesn't understand. Love, forgiveness, creativity. Imagination, orderliness, justice, power, holiness. So we can admire a being who is all-loving, all-holy, all-just. all-powerful, whose creativity, whose imagination, whose orderliness is written on every leaf, in every insect. Sung by every bird. Admiration. That's a characteristic of genuine worship. Genuine worship also involves adoration. It moves beyond mere admiration to adoration, adoring God, not just admiring Him from afar. Yeah, we admire God for who he is and his attributes, but we love and adore him as our God. My Savior, right? You may admire uh Coast Guard search and rescue teams. Uh if I asked you to raise your hand, I suppose you all would, and maybe I should, make sure you're awake. If I say, uh, how many of you admire a Coast Guard search and rescue team? Let's see the hands. Come on. All right, all right, both some of you are going along with me there. All right, you admire them, but if if you're stranded, if you're in the ocean, if you're drowning, if you're somewhere between Africa and Europe And well, I guess the our Coast Guard wouldn't get over there. But if you're somewhere between uh Havana and uh in Miami and the the Coast Guard rescue team comes and saves your life And one particular fellow comes down uh you know from a helicopter and and brings you up. You move beyond mere admiration of Coast Guard rescue teams To something more, adoration. You're really thankful to this particular person for what he did. Well, God calls us to adoration. a characteristic of genuine worship. And then true worship is characterized, I think, by fascination or awe. Remember some of the words that are used for worship. uh refer to awe, reverence, and awe. As you read the Gospels, something's really striking. And it's how many times it says that the disciples were marveled at him. And other people marveled at him, right? The Pharisees marveled at him. The people who were healed marveled. The people that witnessed the healings marveled. And you wonder, you know, the Bible doesn't tell us, but how many times the apostles swallowed gnats? You know, well. What? You know, when they saw Jesus speak to the water and speak to the wind and the waves, and they were still, they were amazed, they were in awe of him. They wondered at him, they marveled at him. Those terms appear over and over again. They were in all the things that Jesus said and did. MacArthur wrote, If God can be understood and comprehended by any of our human means, then I cannot worship him That which I can explain will never bring me to the place of awe. It can never fill me with astonishment or wonder or admiration. Apostle Paul was in awe of God. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, his ways past finding out. That's worship. Are you in awe of God? Are you fascinated by his creation? You know, you could spend your entire life just studying one one insect that God created? People do? You know the story of the monarch butterflies? This is not news to anybody, I guess, but there's something called a monarch butterfly Now this butterfly uh he spends the winter in Mexico and he wakes up uh in the spring, I guess, and he starts to move around a little bit, and then the butterfly starts to fly north. And the ones that are that are vacationing in Mexico uh fly north towards Michigan, towards Canada. And uh they don't get very far, they get maybe a few hundred miles, and then And then their life cycle is about over. And they find a a milkweed plant, I think it is, they lay some eggs, and then those butterflies die. And then the eggs hatch and And you know the process, right? It starts out as a caterpillar. It's in the larva stage, and then there's a chrysalis, the pupa stage, and and then out of that a couple weeks later comes the butterfly. It's just an incredible thing. And then what happens? The butterfly uh uh is born, he stresses his wings, drives him out a little bit, heads north, heads for Michigan. Continues the journey. He gets several hundred miles, time for him to die or her to die. Lady butterflies lay the eggs. The same process goes on. This happens four times. The fourth generation finally makes it to Michigan. What do they do? Well, it's getting more cold up here. We've got to head for Mexico. Only this generation, instead of only living a few weeks, this generation lives for months. And get this, they fly all the way back to Mexico, back to the same spot, back to the same tree. His great-grandfather or great-grandmother left. You know, last year or earlier than that same year. It's just crazy. It's incredible. Nick sent me an email this, I think it was this week, of a of a fruit fly. I get the name here. Gunurelia trident 's fruit fly. Get this. This fruit fly carries in its wings pictures of ants. And you can go online, you can look this up. And and If you look at its wings, it looks like there are ants or some sort of insect inside each wing. There's an insect inside each wing. And they're identical. They're matching insects. And so the the scientists believe what this this fruit fly does is when it's when a predator approaches, it starts to flash those wings, it looks like there's ants crawling around And the predator says, What in the world is going on here? And he just leaves the fruit fly alone. They think that's what's going on. That's what But they they studied it, they looked at it, and it's as if there's an ant painted on each wing. And the question is, well how did that happen? Who painted the ant there? You know, Fruit Fly tells his other, hey look what I got. I'm started I'm I only got the head, but I'm painting this It it it's it's got antenna, it's got a head, it's got a thorax, it's got uh six legs, it looks like an ass, and it's painted right on the wing It's incredible. And then evolutionists would tell us, well, I don't know, I guess there was a mutation. It's kind of hey it looks a little like an ant there. Keep up the good work God 's world is incredible. Think of the the universe He's made. The wonder of space. The sun, you know, is so immense that they tell us you could fit a million earths inside of it. And there are some stars that are so immense you could fit a million suns inside of them. And uh the astronomers tell us there's something like a hundred billion stars in our solar system. Uh I'm sorry, in our galaxy, not in our solar system. There's only one in our solar. There's a hundred billion stars in our galaxy, and then there's at least a hundred billion galaxies. It's just mind-boggling. And then you have the human body. We're told that a single human chromosome may contain more than 250 million DNA base pairs. One chromosome. And there are 23 pairs of chromosomes in each human cell. And if you think of all that information, it's equivalent to carrying around the Library of Congress in every one of your cells. There's not much information in there. And the best estimates are you have between 50 million million cells, that's 50 trillion, to a hundred trillion cells. And each one has the library Congress, an equivalent. It's mind-boggling. That should cause us awe. Wonder. Amazement. We should be in awe of God. And we should be in all of his attributes. We should be astonished at his wisdom. Amazed at his power, fascinated by his grace, stunned by his holiness. That's worship. Be still and know that I am God. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. Psalm 33, 8 This awe has been described as a delight that is so great that if God were not, the worshipper would not want to be either. He or she could easily pray, My God, continue to be as thou art, or let me die. I cannot think of any other God but thee. True worship is to be so personally and hopelessly in love with God that the idea of a transfer of affection Never even remotely exists. Spurgeon said, I think it would be very difficult to draw a line between or to separate holy wonder and real worship. For when the soul is overwhelmed with the majesty of God's glory, though it may not express itself in song or even utter its voice with bowed head in humble prayer, yet it silently adores. I'm inclined to think that the astonishments which the astonishment which sometimes seizes upon the human intellect at the remembrance of God's greatness and And goodness is perhaps the purest form of adoration which ever rises from mortal men to the throne of the Most High. And and this doesn't necessarily happen in a pew at church. But when you're sitting at home and you're thinking about the wonders of God and the majesty of his creation. And you know the the glory Of God, and you're praying to Him or adoring Him in your heart. That's worship. That's worship. Are you truly worshiping God? Well, there's much more I wanted to say, but uh it's getting late. But let me let me draw us, uh draw this to a close and we'll talk more about worship next week. Lord willing. Maybe you're a believer, but you're finding it hard to uh to worship God. Uh this may be due to unconfessed sin. Unresolved conflict, maybe due to an unwillingness to accept God's providence in your life. You don't need to understand what has happened to you, but you do need to need to accept it. On a fatal day that changed Job's life forever, the Sabaeans took his oxen, the donkeys and uh his oxen and his donkeys donkeys, the they killed his servants. Fire fell from heaven upon his sheep and his other servants. The Chaldeans took his camels, killed other servants, a great wind destroyed Job's oldest son's home, and all his children were killed. And you know what Job did when he heard all that devastating news? He worshiped. Job worshiped. He arose, he tore his robe, he shaved his head, he fell to the ground and worshiped. Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all that, the scripture says, Job did not curse God or charge God. Foolishly. If you're to truly worship God, you have to be willing to accept His providence in your life, whatever it may be. You have to believe that He has a better plan for your life than you do. That's part of worship. And if your worship is hindered, it may be because you're unwilling to to bow the knee to God's providence in your life. But of course Of course, it's possible that you're here today and you don't know anything about worship because you don't know Jesus Christ. You've never literally fallen on your knees before Jesus and said, Lord, forgive me and save me I'm a sinner. I've broken your holy laws. Lord have mercy upon me. You need to do that. You need to come to Him humbly, not proud and puffed up, but as a little child. Lord, forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. I want to be able to worship you, and I can't right now, not in this state. That's why Why I was made. That's why my life looks the way it does. I haven't even been doing what I was made to do. forgive me save me give me this eternal life the Bible talks about you come to him that way you pray that prayer mean that in your heart God says he'll forgive all your sins he'll adopt you into his faith family. You'll be his, you'll be his child. You'll be with him forever. Worshiping him forever. Serving him forever. Using your gifts for him forever. Let's pray. Oh Lord, make us worshipers. Lord, forgive us our sin. Our stubbornness, our ungratefulness, our lack of forgiveness, conflicts we have with one another, the the things that uh arise from our hearts that Interfere with worship. Forgive us, Lord. Lord, you're the great creator. You're the majestic God. This is your world. The heavens declare the glory of God. For a moment, chose your handiwork. Lord, we glorify you. We adore you. We're in awe of you. Accept our worship this day. And I pray for for those who may be still outside of Christ. Lord, draw them by your Spirit. Give them no peace. Give them no rest till they make their peace with you. Till they find a rest in you. You. They ask it in Christ's name. Amen