And as we turn there we'll discuss the uh little ones for wonders of worship. Psalm forty seven Oh, clap your hands, all you peoples. Shout to God with a voice of triumph. For the Lord Most High is awesome. He is a great king over all the earth. He will subdue the peoples under us and the nations under our feet. He will choose our inheritance for us, the excellence of Jacob, whom he loves. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praises to God. Sing praises. Sing praises to our King. Sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing praises with understanding. God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. The princes of the people have gathered together, the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God. He is greatly exalted. Let's pray. Father, speak to us now through your holy word. Remove from us anything that would hinder the working of your word in our hearts now. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. As uh some of you know I I first heard the gospel clearly presented during the summer of my uh twentieth year. So If we do the math, that was that was over 20 years ago now. Yes, it was. It was over 20 years ago. My uh my older brother Doug uh had returned to our family home near Orlando, having recently graduated from the California College of the Arts in uh Oakland, California. A fellow student had brought the gospel to Doug, and Doug brought the gospel back to his family. Doug settled into the Orlando Bible Church, which is a a small independent uh fundamental congregation on, if any of you know Orlando, it's on East Colonial Drive. And the faithful pastor there, Hayes Minnick preached sound expository messages. Donnie and I had married that summer and Doug, of course, witnessed to us and invited us to uh go to church with him. And God had given both of us, Donna and myself, a curiosity about Doug's transformation. We saw that something had happened to him. And God gave us, of course, the desire to know if there was any truth to what he was saying and any real purpose for our existence. We sat under the preaching of the gospel for uh about six months before God brought us to true saving faith within about a week of one another. And then God gave us, of course, a hunger for his word, and we began to grow, but it wasn't long before the thought occurred to me. Well, why get up and drive to church on a Sunday morning, listen to the pastor preach five or six verses or a dozen verses from uh, say, the gospel of of Mark, when I could stay home? Save all that travel time, read the Gospel of Mark myself, probably read the whole gospel and the time it would take me to get up, get ready, go to church, come back So uh uh it occurred to me uh maybe I shouldn't I don't even need to be going to church, I just need to be in the Word And uh, of course, thankfully my brother was there to help to disciple this young believer. And he reasoned to me out of the scriptures, and he pointed out that the church is God's idea. It was not of human invention. One of the primary reasons God created us was that we might worship Him and grow and serve in a community of believers. The risen Christ gave gifts to his church, apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers, for the equipping of the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. until we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Ephesians 4. If you read the New Testament, you realize that everywhere the apostles went, they planted churches. They weren't in a city very long before they preached the gospel and drew people together and started a church. formed these regenerated people into a church where God could be worshipped and where they could grow and serve the Lord. So the church is God's idea. He designed it for our growth, for our fellowship, for service, for accountability, for our comfort and exhortation, and for corporate worship. Worship is so integral to the life of the Christian that it's important for us, it's prudent for us from time to time to remind ourselves of what genuine worship is. Otherwise, the sinful proclivities of our hearts will surely incline us toward formalism, going through the motions of worship. As did some of the Pharisees, without the involvement of our hearts, or consumerism, viewing a worship service as some sort of a performance designed for my benefit, or entertainment. Or else we fall into ritualism, imagining that the sacraments of worship somehow cleanse our sins. As we've noted in this series, the Hebrew and Greek words translated worship in our English Bibles literally mean to prostrate oneself, to lie flat, to bow down. To be in adoration, to be in awe of someone, to do homage to someone, to uh uh serve uh someone. As we've seen, God is the one who instituted worship. And God is pleased when it is offered in purity and sincerity. The scripture says he's seeking true worshippers. Here's how Jesus put it with the Samaritan woman. He said, the hour is coming, and now is When the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such to worship him. The Father is seeking worshipers who will worship him in spirit and in truth. The Lord Jesus said, for our worship to be pleasing to God, it has to be offered in spirit That is from the inside out. And that's the opposite of just going through the motions of worship Wrote prayers, distracted thoughts, passionless singing, cold detachment. The Pharisees were very religious. It was evident to their contemporaries that if anyone was holy, if anyone was devout, if anyone knew how to worship God acceptably, it was surely a Pharisee. But Jesus said to them, You outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you're full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Matthew 23, 28. That's what he said to them. What he said of them is, all their works they do to be seen by men. Matthew 23, verse 5. Now think about it. A wife can be dutiful in all her responsibilities to her husband. But if her heart belongs to someone else, there's something essential that is missing A husband may be outwardly faithful, perform the duties required of a husband, but if his heart is captivated by someone other than his wife, that's a fatal flaw. Ophelia said the rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind. That's certainly true. It's also true, rich gifts wax poor when their affections uh when the affections of the giver belong to another. We're worshiping the Lord who looks upon the heart. If we're not worshiping him in our spirit, It doesn't matter much to him how diligent we may be in performing our religious duties. On the other hand, all the fervent religious zeal that springs from a thankful heart cannot sanctify worship that is not based upon truth. We have to worship him in spirit and in truth. Religious people, even right now, or throughout the world, are offering heartfelt worship to gods and goddesses conceived in the imaginations of men. But it is, as Paul said to the Athenians, ignorant worship. For worship to be pleasing and acceptable to God, it must be based upon his revealed truth. Sanctify them through thy truth. Jesus prayed, John seventeen. Thy word is truth. He prayed for his flock, he prayed for his sheep, he prayed for his own. And he said, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. truth. And God's word makes it clear that no worship is acceptable to him, no offering is pleasing to him if it's not offered in holiness. Oh, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Tremble before him all the earth. Psalm 96, verse 9. The problem with that is that's the one prerequisite that no mere man or woman has. in his fallen state, his or her fallen state. So the only way worship can be acceptable to God is if it is offered in the person of his spotless son. The mediator, the atoning sacrifice, the holy one. The worshipper must therefore be arrayed in the Savior's pure white robe. We cannot approach a holy God in our own filthy garments. And none would attempt to do so if he really understood his sin and God's holiness. And note, even those of us who are robed in Christ's righteousness, those who have been bought by the blood of Christ, who've been regenerated, then justified, then redeemed. Even we cannot worship God acceptably with unconfessed sin The Lord said to the idolatrous people of Judah through his prophet Isaiah that he would not regard their worship because of their iniquity. He says, when you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Why not? Because of their sin that had not been confessed. So he said to them, Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, put away the evil of your doings before my eyes. Cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, rebuke the oppressor, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow. Isaiah chapter 1 And of course we know that the eating and drinking of the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner caused some in Corinth to be weak and sickly, and some , Paul said, sleep. Evidently God took them home rather than permit them to dishonor their Lord in his worship Sleep there seems to be simply a euphemism for some of them died, some of them went home to heaven. Essential conditions for worship include, first of all, genuine humility. Genuine humility. True worship begins on our knees To worship is to bow down, to prostrate oneself. God says he will look upon him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, him who trembles at my word. Isaiah 6. 66. Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. You do not delight in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise. This is why Jesus said, speaking generally to the people of Israel, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Luke 13. True worship presupposes a conviction of sin and a genuine repentance and conviction. The uh Pharisee uh didn't think he had anything to repent of. He just thanked God that he wasn't like that poor tax collector over here. It was the tax collector who said, Woe to me, a sinner who went home justified. Jesus said. So true worship requires humility. And true worship presupposes faith or trust. Only one who has repented of his sins and laid hold upon Christ by faith can truly worship. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. The worship of the redeemed in heaven, revealed in Scripture, involves a total submission. It's pictured by the casting of crowns before God's throne. So we infer that the more clearly we perceive our sinful hearts, and the more exalted our view of God, and the more we see of his sovereignty and his majesty. Then the better poised we ought to be to offer genuine worship that is pleasing to Him. That's why churches that exalt God's sovereignty, God's majesty, where the worship is theocentric, are poised. to offer worship that is pleasing in God's sight. It doesn't mean we will, but it means we're poised to do it. Characteristics of true worship include admiration, adoration, fascination, awe. Admiring God for his glorious attributes, adoring him for redeeming us , fascinated by his creation. Many of you have studied uh some of you uh uh may do this for your living and study biology and chemistry and look at the wonders of science, the wonders of creation, the wonders of of flowers and you study , you can spend your whole life studying one flower and its life cycle and the intricacies of it. When we're in awe of God's creation, we're worshiping Him. His holiness, His power, His justice, His goodness, His truth. We ought to be in awe of all of His attributes. Spurgeon called this astonishment that sometimes seizes our minds when we think of God's goodness and God's greatness. He called it perhaps the purest form of adoration. Which ever rises from mortal men to the throne of the Most High. Which raises the question, how long since you and I actually worshiped God that way? meditated upon the wonders of his creation, the wonders of his attributes. How long since we genuinely worship. Our attitude when we gather for worship should be one of reverence and awe. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably. With reverence and awe, Hebrews 12, 28. We are not to worship to enter worship with a flippant, careless attitude As if we're gathering with friends to go to a restaurant or a sports arena or the theater. Corporate worship is not like everything else that we do. It's a time of reverence and awe. That's why we offer a time of silent preparation. Before we worship. That's why we offer a call to worship. That's why we encourage you to socialize downstairs in the fellowship hall or after worship. That's why so many churches have a large narthex or lobby, we would call it today, for social interaction outside of the worship center. We gather here to worship our Creator, our King, our Redeemer, our God. So our primary thought as we contemplate engaging in a worship service should be not, well, I hope my friends are there today. I hope they sing the songs I like. I hope that uh the pastor says something that I'm interested in. Our primary thought should not even be, I hope that I'm built up and edified and strengthened for the week ahead. And certainly not, I hope that he uh pronounces the benediction in time for me to get home for the, you know, opening tee off or kick off or Pitch. Our primary thought as we prepare for corporate worship should be, Lord, this is the time of the week set aside for me to gather with other Christians to give you worship and glory. To exalve you, to glorify your name. You are my sustainer. You are my redeemer. May my worship be pleasing to you today, Lord Lord. May I pray and sing and confess my sins and hear your word with reverence and with joy that engages all my heart, my soul, my mind, my strength. As we noted earlier in our series, there is always a temptation for those who plan worship services to focus on those we're trying to reach with the gospel, adapting our services to appeal to them. If the unbeliever doesn't understand or relate to old hymns of the faith, then we'll scrap them. If he's bored by corporate prayer, we'll do away with it. If confession of sin makes him uncomfortable, confession of sin is out. Few unbelievers like long doctrinal sermons, so we'll replace them with brief little devotional thoughts Or practical advice to help the unbeliever cope with modern life. Make sure it's presented in a folksy style. Not as an authoritative ambassador of God, but as a life coach who wants to motivate you to have your best life right now. And of course, if an unbeliever had his brothers, He would not want his sins to be rebuked from the pulpit. He wouldn't want to be made uncomfortable. Why would he want to go to church and be uncomfortable? He can stay home with his remote and his uh easy chair and be quite comfortable. He might be induced to go to church if he's assured it will be a pleasant, non-threatening experience, not too long, from which he might depart, feeling that he had done something uh pleasing to God, maybe even having picked up a few appointers for living a happier, more fulfilled life So it shouldn't surprise us that some of the churches that avoid the subject of sin are rather well attended. In his book, Ashamed of the Gospel, John MacArthur has a chapter called The User-Friendly Church. The term, borrowed from the computer industry, describes churches that focus on making the unbeliever, or as we prefer to call them, the unchurched, comfortable. He writes, the experts are now telling us that pastors and church leaders who want to be successful must concentrate their energies in this new direction. Provide non-Christians with an agreeable, inoffensive environment. Give them freedom, tolerance, and anonymity. Always be positive and benevolent. If you must have a sermon, keep it brief and amusing. Don't be preachy or authoritative. Above all, keep everyone entertained. Churches that follow this pattern will see numerical growth Those that ignore it are doomed to decline. MacArthur then cited some newspaper and magazine articles he had collected over the years that describe the preaching in what he called user-friendly churches Let me give you five excerpts from those articles. Here's one. The uh uh uh journalist writes of this church, no fire in brimstone, no Bible thumping, just practical, witty messages. Here's another. Services have an informal feeling. You won't hear people threatened with hell or referred to as sinners. The goal is to make them feel welcome, not drive them away. Third, the sermons are relevant, upbeat, and best of all, short. Preaching here doesn't sound like preaching. It is sophisticated, urbane, and friendly talk. Here's another. As with all clergymen, this pastor's answer is God. But he slips them in at the end. And even then it doesn't get heavy. Call it light gospel It has the same salvation as the old-time religion, but with a third less guilt. And then here's another review of a church service. It's a salvationist message, but the idea is not so much being saved from the fires of hell, rather, it's being saved from meaninglessness and aimlessness in this life. It's more of a soft sell. MacArthur kind of sums it up. He says, so the new rules may be summed up as follows. Be clever, be informal, be positive, be brief, be friendly. Never let them see you sweat. And never, never use the H word. The winsome and personable uh pastor of America's largest church, Lakewood Church in Houston, has uh apparently embraced this user-friendly idea. As we've noted before, he was asked on national television if he ever used the word sinners in his preaching. He responded, uh, I don't use it. I never thought about it, but I probably don't. Most people already know when they've done something wrong. And he explained, I don't have it in my heart to condemn people. I'm there to encourage them. I see myself more as a coach, as a motivator to help them experience the life that God has for us. Sure, we have our faults, but the good news is God loves us anyway. Well that message is, you might say, very well received, with over forty thousand in attendance on a Sunday morning, which is uh probably more than we have in both the main sanctuary and the old sanctuary. And uh and millions more watching on television But of course, the problem with planning our worship services with the unbeliever primarily in view is that worship is not first and foremost about the unbeliever. Neither is it first and foremost about the believer. Worship is first and foremost about the one we worship. And it is to be based upon his revealed word. If we're to worship in truth, we must read the word, preach the word, sing the word, pray the word. We're here about God, and God is revealed in his word. Of course, while I'm in a state of rebellion, I don't want to hear about my sin. We sinners don't like to hear preaching about sin. Of course, those who are bound for hell are uncomfortable hearing that they're bound for hell. Of course, an unregenerate man or woman would rather attend a meeting where a winsome coach motivates him to experience the life God has for him or her. Where they're told, sure, we have our faults, but the good news is God loves us anyway. Certainly, I prefer that to being told that unless I repent, I will perish. But the Apostle Paul said, Christ sent me to preach the gospel not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perish, but to us who are saved, it is the power of God. He said, I determine not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. My speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. Paul told uh his young disciple Timothy, who was a preacher, that the time would come when people Quote, will not endure sound doctrine. But according to their own desires, because they have itching ears, they will heap up for themselves teachers, and they will turn their ears away from the truth. So Paul exhorted Timothy to preach the word, be ready in season and out of season. Convince, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and teaching. So if God's word says the human heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, then that's what we must declare. If it says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, If it says the wages of sin is death, then that's what we must declare. Whether it's in season or out of season, whether it's acceptable and popular or unacceptable and unpopular Worship is first and foremost about the one we worship. And it is to be in accordance with the truth that He has revealed. And that includes, of course, that aspect of worship that we call the preaching of God's Word. The criterion for what is preached should never be what do people want to hear. It must be what does God's word say. Amen? So sometimes we will have to use the word sinners. Sometimes we will have to use the H word. Worship is first and foremost about the one we worship. It's to be directed toward him. It's to be seoccentric. The emphasis of Scripture is upon worshiping God rightly in spirit and truth and humility and faith and reverence and awe with exuberance and joy The emphasis of Scripture is upon giving him in worship, not what is upon what we give to him in worship, but not what we receive in worship. Now, let's think for a few minutes about preparing for worship. It's a good practice to spend time with God before you come to public worship. It's a good practice to spend time with God before you come to public worship. I had the opportunity to preach uh yesterday to uh uh the graduating uh body at uh Faith Seminary, which is the seminary I attended uh 39 years ago. I graduated from faith 39 years ago. And uh so uh it's it's this was their 78th uh commencement, so I was able to tell them, look, I was here when the seminary was exactly half as old as it is today. I was something of a relic of the seminary. The uh president uh pronounced an indulgence of a year off their time in seminary if they kissed this uh relic. Uh but uh I preached on the filling of the Holy Spirit. The filling of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit Who brings with him holiness, earnestness, authority, freedom, liveliness, warmth, boldness, power, and compassion And I and I challenged the those who were present. I said, what would happen in your church if dozens of believers committed to praying fervently for the filling of the Holy Spirit upon your pastor? and upon the congregation before every worship service. What would happen? What would happen if even a handful began to faithfully plead for the filling of the Holy Spirit? How would that affect the preaching of the Word of God in our churches? It should be our goal to get to sleep early enough on Saturday night. to permit us to rise early and refreshed on Sunday morning with sufficient time for a season of prayer. Confessing our sins, praying that God's worship that our worship would be pleasing to him. Asking his blessing upon his word, as it's proclaimed, praying for the filling of the Holy Spirit. Be not drunk with wine wherein is success, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord. It's something we're told to seek, to ask for, to plead for. What about our conduct in worship? Well, we've spoken earlier in the series about the joy and the exuberance that the Lord expects from a redeemed people. Sing aloud to God our strength, Psalm 81. Greatly praise with your mouth, Psalm 109. Praise the Lord with your whole heart in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. Psalm 111 Shout joyfully before the Lord your King. Psalm 98. Clap your hands, all you people. Shout to God with a voice of triumph. Psalm 47. I will praise you with my whole heart. Psalm 138. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in his mighty firmaments. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. Praise him with a lute and the harp. Praise him with a trumble and dance. Timbrel, rather, and dance. Stringed instruments and flutes. Loud cymbals, clashing cymbals. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Clearly we are to be engaged in worship. Worship is not a passive event, it's active. When you go to a play or a movie or turn on the television or listen to the radio, you do so to be entertained or informed. You're not expected necessarily to bring anything to the table. Your attitude, the state of your heart, is not a factor in what takes place there, the play or the film or the football game or the newscast uh asks little or nothing of you. Uh yeah, it'd be nice if you'd clap once in a while or laugh when it's funny or uh applaud at uh at the end of the play. But uh in worship, you are to be an active participant. And if you're not, you have not worshiped. You've been out of worship service. But if you haven't participated with your heart, you haven't worshiped. You're called to worship in reverence and awe. You're called to worship with joy and gladness. You're called to worship with than Skibbin With great praise, with a joyful shout. If you come to a worship service as if you were coming to a city council meeting, sitting on your hands as a spectator, or worse, coming as a critic. Then you're not worshiping. God desires our body and our soul engaged in worship. Sing from your heart. Clap uh with your emotions. Uh chow, stand up, bow down. You're here to worship God And by the way, worship doesn't end when the preaching begins. You're to worship as the word is preached. You know, some churches they say they have the worship time. And then they have the preaching time. No, no, no. This is worship. We're worshiping God through his word. You worship God by giving the word your full attention. In reference to his parable of the sower, the sower of the word, Jesus said, take heed how you hear, Luke 8. 18. Take heed how you hear. My brother Ken, you know, he's an attorney, uh Tallahassee. He told me about a judge who sentenced a juror to ten days in jail for contempt of court. Because he fell asleep in a trial. The juror was sleeping. He's in contempt of court. Ten days in jail. Some Christians are in danger of being found in contempt of God's courts. Ah you're meddling now, preacher. Some soldiers uh from the war between the states said that they they learned to sleep while they were marching. had to march so long, so far. Imagine, you know, Confederates coming up from Georgia or wherever, all the way up to Pennsylvania. And they learned to fall asleep while they were marching. Well, Satan has evidently taught some Christians to sleep while they're apparently worshiping. Their minds are everywhere but on the word. Is it not enough that the world has your attention for most of your waking hours? Will you attend to the world even when you are ostensibly worshiping God? What are the results of true biblical worship? MacArthur suggests three. God is glorified, first of all. Whosoever offers praise glorifies me. Psalm 50. Verse twenty three. If your chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever, then your delight ought to be, as David's, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his holy temple. Psalm 27. So, first of all, God is glorified. Secondly, Christians are purified and edified. The closer we draw to God, the more compelling is our desire to be sanctified. Isaiah experienced this. Woe is me, for I am a man of unclean lips. I dwell amongst the people of unclean lips. And then when Christians are genuinely worshiping, thirdly, the lost are evangelized. Not only do they hear the gospel proclaimed, but as we draw closer to Him and as we grow in His Word, we have then a deepened burden for the lost. And even the worship service itself can be a testimony to the unbeliever. The way we sing, the way we pray, the way we interact. You remember John MacArthur told the story of a Jewish uh woman who went to her temple, it was on a Sunday. And she needed help because her marriage was falling apart. And uh she was actually turned away, sadly enough, because they said she hadn't paid her temple dues And she got she left this synagogue and uh or temple, I guess, and she left anyway and uh and and walked out. And she got caught up in this crowd of people that were headed for MacArthur's church. And uh and she just got caught up in the crowd, ended up in the worship service. So here she is in a Christian worship worship service. And uh as sh uh he said as she left the temple she got caught up in the crowd coming to church, wound up in the worship service, and she later told Dr. MacArthur, I don't remember anything that you said that morning. And I couldn't tell you what the sermon was about. That's not good. But she said, I was in awe of the joy and the peace And the love that was going on among the people of the congregation as they worshiped the Lord. She said, I've never seen anything like it. And Dr. MacArthur said several weeks later he baptized this woman. As a result of witnessing true worship, she was uh compelled to come back and and uh and hear the word of God. It's worship itself can be a testimony to the unbeliever, even though it may not be focused upon the unbeliever. Of course, we know that there's always a possibility that an unbeliever is present. It's entirely possible that one of us who thinks of himself as a believer has still never truly repented and laid on So we like to explain the gospel clearly at the at least once in each message. And that gospel message is simply this. You and I have sinned against the holy God. He must punish sin. Yes, he loves his creation. Yes, he made us in his own image. But he's holy and just and pure, and he must punish us. And one day we're going to stand before this holy God. And he can't simply slap us on the wrist and say, that's all right. I'll take you to heaven anyway. You're sinners, I know, but I love you anyway. Come to heaven. That sin must be atoned for. But God in his mercy sent his own dear Son to this earth. He lived the perfect life that you and I can't live. He paid the debt that we owe. He kept the law that we couldn't keep. And he went to the cross and he said, Father, punish me. And let them go free. And the wrath that I deserved was placed upon Jesus, so I could be forgiven. How am I forgiven? Not by going to church, not by joining a church, not by being baptized, not by doing anything. Any good deed, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. How do I come to saving faith? I fall to my knees and I cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. God save me. I gotta come as a little child, not proud and puffed up in all my accomplishments. A little child doesn't have a lot of accomplishments. They just come empty-handed. You come to God that way. Lord, I'm a sinner and I know it. But I believe that you love me and sent your son to die for me. Says right there, I believe it. When Jesus says it, I believe it. And I want him as my Savior. Forgive me and save me. You pray that prayer, you mean that in your heart. God says, All your sins will be forgiven. You'll be adopted into his family. You'll have everlasting life. You'll be with him forever. And it's freely offered to you. Won't you come? Won't you come and take of this free gift God offers out of his love? Let's pray. Lord, how is it, how can it be that you should love us so much? Lord, we thank you, we praise you, and we'll be praising you forever. Worshiping you in spirit and truth forever, serving you faithfully without being encumbered by sin anymore When we're at last glorified. We look forward to that day. Meanwhile, we're here. Help us to be faithful. Help us to serve you diligently. Help us to bring this gospel message to our friends and family members who are yet lost. Lord, may we invite them to come and hear the wonderful news. May we share this good news with them. And may your Holy Spirit work in their hearts and draw them to Christ. Pray in Jesus' name, Amen.