God. If you brought your Bible this morning, would you turn please to John chapter 4? Gospel of John chapter 4. Passage that uh should be quite familiar to us. John chapter four. Let's begin in verse five. So he came to a city of Samaria which is called Sikar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus, therefore, being weary from his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. And Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our Father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as well as his sons and his livestock? And Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him Will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into everlasting life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here. The woman answered and said, I have no husband Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband. For you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father. You worship what you do not know We know what we worship for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming and now is. When the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such to worship Him. God is Spirit, and those who worship Him. Must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming. Who's called Christ? When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, once again we acknowledge our utter dependence upon you This is your word, but if it's to have free course in our hearts, then your spirit must apply it. You must fill us and use us. We are Empty and impotent without you, Lord. Use your word now in the hearts of believers and in the hearts of unbelievers alike. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. I suspect that every human being If he has the capacity to reason and he lives long enough, will eventually face the great question: what am I doing here? Why am I here? What's it all about? In other words, is life meaningful or meaningless? Is life nothing more than a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing? Or is there a purpose for my existence? A purpose for our existence? Well, the answer of Scripture is that we were created by a God of wisdom and power, a spirit who's been described as infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. We were made in his image. with a capacity to reflect some of his attributes, such as wisdom, justice, goodness, mercy, kindness, truth. And one great purpose for our creation was that we might glorify and worship our Creator. Something we're equipped to do to a degree that no other of Earth's creatures could possibly match. Thus far in our series on worship, we've seen that the biblical terms, translated worship, translated into the English as worship, include the meanings to prostrate oneself or to bow down, to do reverence or make obeisance towards someone. uh to be devoted to someone and to render religious service or homage to someone We asked, what is God 's relationship to worship? And we answered, well, he instituted it. Worship is his idea. He is pleased when it's offered in purity and sincerity, and he's seeking true worshipers. The Father seeketh such to worship himself Jesus said to the Samaritan woman. How is worship to be offered? Well, our scripture reading answers, in spirit and in truth. In spirit, you might say, from the inside out. Worship must be from the inside out, in spirit and in truth, established upon the truth, motivated by the truth. Much of what the world calls worship is not based upon truth. It's based upon man's own musings about God, what he's like. what he desires. There are no uh limits to the number of world religions. New ones are always being devised. Because there are no limits to the devices in man's heart. No limits to what he can dream up. As Calvin said, the mind of man is an idol factory. It's producing idols all the time. For worship to be acceptable and pleasing to God, it must be based upon His revealed word. It must be based upon truth. If we're to worship, we must worship in truth. Thy word is truth, Jesus said. But even much of the worship that's based upon God's revealed word is not acceptable to God because it's not offered in spirit. Remember, it must be worshiped in truth and in spirit. to be pleasing to God. R. C. Sproull notes, God looks on the spiritual attitude of the person who comes before him So true worship, true latria, true sacrifice, true service begins in the soul. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise, David says. Much of the worship offered by the Pharisees was, in fact, based upon truth. The fatal flaw was their heart's attitude. Pride, covetousness, a judgmental spirit, hypocrisy. Man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart, 1 Samuel 16, 7. In Isaiah 29, we read that the people of Judah honored God with their lips, but the Lord said, Their hearts are far from me. Isaiah 2913. We sought to answer the question, why does God demand our worship? Why do we read over and over again in the Psalms, Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord? Praise the Lord with hearts. Praise the Lord with cymbals. Praise the Lord with loud shouts. Why? Why that continual exhortation to give God glory And we answered, well, we were created to worship, and we will worship something or someone. And whatever or whoever it is, if it's not the Lord of heaven and earth, our true creator, then it's something or someone less glorious, less noble, less admirable. It's something that or someone who will ultimately fail us. It's something or someone not deserving of our worship. We ask, what are the essential conditions for worship? That is, what does worship, true worship, presuppose? Well, he answered, first of all, genuine humility. On this one will I look, on him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word. Isaiah 66, verse 23 In other words, true worship begins on our knees. True worship begins when we are in fact humbled before a glorious God. In Jesus' parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector, it was the hated tax collector, the one who cried out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner, whose worship was acceptable to God. Not the worship of the proud Pharisee. So true worship, you might say, presupposes humility. It presupposes a degree of repentance. And true, worship presupposes faith. Only one who has repented of his sins and laid hold upon Christ by faith can truly worship. We noted that the worship that's described in Revelation as taking place in heaven involves total submission, pictured by the casting of crowns before the throne of God. The more exalted is our view of God, the more we understand of His sovereignty and His majesty , then other things being equal, the better poised we are to offer worship that is pleasing in His sight. The clearer concepts, the clearer understanding you have of God and his glorious attributes, the higher you place them in your mind's eye, then the better poised you are to worship. What are some characteristics of genuine worship? Well, admiration , the appreciation of God's excellence. But then beyond that, adoration. Adoration. Going beyond mere admiration, it's adoring God. My spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior, Mary said. For he has regarded the lowly estate of his handmaiden. That's adoration. A characteristic of genuine worship is awe, fascination. Over and over again in the Gospels, we read that the people wondered at Jesus, marveled at him. The multitude marveled when they saw the mute speaking, the maimed made whole the lame walking and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. That's Matthew 15, 31. That's true worship. The multitude marveled when they saw all that Christ did, and they glorified the God of Israel. In the synagogue of Nazareth, Jesus taught, when Jesus taught, we read, all bore witness to him and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. Luke 4, 22. When Jesus with his word stilled a storm on the Sea of Galilee, we read that the disciples were afraid and marveled, saying to one another, Who can this be? For he commands even the winds and water, and they obey him. Luke 8, 25. We should be in awe of God's creation The heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament shows his handiwork. Day unto day they utter speech. Night unto night their voices heard. All things bright and beautiful, all creatures great and small, all things wise, wild and wonderful, the Lord God made them all. Moving about in God's world, especially at a a at a season like this, right? Where every other tree is in this uh gorgeous spring splendor with flowers, and you got the dogwoods and the apples Trees and the cherry trees. How can you look upon the trees arrayed in the splendor of spring and not admire them? And how can you admire their beauty and not glorify their creator? You know, it's like admiring a painting of one of the masters, uh Monet, and and not uh thinking at all about the artist. How can you uh look at the beauty that God created and not give him glory? And of course we should be in awe not only of God's creation, but of God Himself, His wisdom, His mercy, his holiness, his justice, his faithfulness, his patience. What should be our attitude in worship? Well, Hebrews 12 says this. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, Let us be thankful and worship God acceptably with reverence and awe. Let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe. There's an implication here that we cannot worship God acceptably without reverence and awe. It's possible for us to adopt an attitude of the casualness, even flippancy in what we call worship. As you know, in an effort to remove some of the objections that the unchurched have to churches, and we could rattle them off, churches are too stuffy, they're too formal, they're too concerned with appearances, you've got to dress up, too concerned with apparel, they're too boring. We can convey the message, in other words, let me uh re rephrase that in order uh to remove some of the objections to public worship, we can convey the message, come as you are, come when you want, talk as you please. Leave when you wish, and don't forget to bring your coffee. In an effort to make church comfortable, what we can do is lose focus on why we're here. In our attempts to make the worship experience more comfortable for the worshiper, we end up focusing less and less on the awesome God that we've been called to worship. Worship, in other words, is theocentric. It's God-centered. True worship is God-centered, not man-centered When our worship service can become man-centered, are the unchurched bored by long prayers? Yes, they are. Warm prayers are out. Are the young church turned off by the old hymns? Then the old hymns are out. Confessions of sin, benedictions, and such things. You don't appeal to the unchurch. They're out. Are they unimpressed with meaty doctrinal preaching? Then we'll give them 15 minutes of advice. On how they can be better, more fulfilled people, have less guilt, more confidence, maybe a few video clips to hold their interest. MacArthur said, there's certainly no place in the corporate worship of the church for the kind of frivolous, giddy atmosphere that often prevails in the sort of church that is desperately seeking to be relevant for a postmodern comedy club culture. I have a dear pastor friend a few years older than I am. He's uh he's uh was in the full-time ministry now sort of a He's he was ministering part time in in a church where he had retired. Ministering to the old people, I guess is what he was doing. And uh and yet uh over and over again uh his spirit was grieved as uh they The service has no scripture reading. The worship service is pretty much a big concert with then a casual address by the pastor. That speaks to people's felt needs. And uh and he and uh no benediction, no confession of sin, no worship hymns. And I one of the last straws for him was uh when He arrived at church on Easter Sunday, Resurrection Day, we would call it, and he was greeted in the parking lot by parking lot attendants dressed up in bunny costumes. Directing everybody in park here. Uh funny costumes. Do we really want our attention on Easter Sunday on giant rabbits? If your goal is to make the unbeliever comfortable, you're going to want to avoid sound biblical preaching because sound biblical preaching tends to make the unbeliever uncomfortable. And of course you're going to be very careful to stay away from any subject that might offend or displease the unbelievers, subjects like sexual immorality. Abortion, pornography, covetousness, the pursuit of pleasure, the exclusivity of the claims of Christ, eternal punishment, etc. Nothing makes an unbeliever more uncomfortable than preaching about sin. So churches that desire to make people comfortable and and Churches where that becomes a primary will tend to avoid the subject of sin and talk only about the joys of knowing and serving the Lord. Well, if only our Lord Jesus had received some instruction and how to be more seeker friendly, he would never have made the woman at the well uncomfortable by telling her, Go call your husband and come. here. But Jesus, she doesn't have a husband. Sir, I have no husband. Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. What was he doing? He was bringing her sin to her mind, to her attention Because until we repent of our sin, Jesus cannot help us. He would never have chased away the rich young ruler. By telling him to sell everything he owned, give the proceeds to the poor, come, take up the cross and follow him Jesus, he doesn't want to do that. He loves his money. And he would never have compared the Pharisees to bleached white tombs full of dead men's bones. If his primary goal was to be seeker-friendly, we can easily slip into planning worship services and preparing sermons with a primary focus on the person in the pew. as if he were a consumer and we are obliged to please him rather than, with a primary focus, Upon the Lord Himself, who is the God we are obliged to glorify. Let us worship God acceptably with reverence and awe If you are coming to worship wondering, are they going to play the music that I like today, the way I like to hear it played? Is the preacher going to talk about something that interests me in a way that holds my attention? So I don't doze off. Are my friends going to be there, or will I have to sit by somebody I don't know? Then you've bought into the lie that worship is primarily for you. And about you. It isn't. You may protest all you wish, you may give intellectual assent to the assertion that worship is about God. But your self-focus betrays the fact that you have bought the lie. You become a consumer of worship rather than a worshiper. We should be coming to worship with the conscious thought that we are approaching the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords We should come to worship with confession and contrition and with the prayer on our lips, Lord, may my worship be acceptable in your sight today. Help me to worship you acceptably with reverence and awe. You come to worship with an earnest desire to worship God acceptably, to give him the glory that's due unto his name. Do you come as a worshiper with reverence and awe? Or do you come as a worship critic? As in, well, I give the prayer four stars today, give the preaching three stars. The music, three and a half stars. What should be our attitude in worship? Well, first of all, reverence. But listen. Not only reverence. The scripture says our attitude in worship should be one of joy and gladness. Make a joyful shout to the Lord. All you lamb, serve the Lord with gladness, come before his presence with singing. Psalm 100. Oh, sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. Psalm ninety-eight. Shout joyfully to the Lord all the earth. Break forth in song, rejoice and sing praises. Sing to the Lord with a harp, with a harp and the sound of a psalm, with trumpets and the sound of a horn. Shout joyfully before the Lord the King. And we could quote these passages for hours. Let me remind you of something. God knows we are emotional creatures. He designed us. He knows we're emotional creatures. He has seen us at football games. Team is down by two points. We've got the ball at our own 20. There's two minutes left. And we're on our feet and we're screaming. Throw it to the sideline. Throw it to the sideline. Get out of bounds. Get out of bounds. He knows we're emotional creatures. He knows we can get excited. He knows we can shout. He's heard us shout. And what's more exciting than the fact that we're saved? Though we've sinned against our Creator and we deserve his judgment. He's forgiven us. He's redeemed us. He's restored us. We've been born again. There we go. No wonder he exhorts us. Sing aloud to God our strength. Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob. Raise a song. Strike the timbrel. Psalm 81. I will greatly praise the Lord with my mouth. Yes, I will praise him among the multitude. Psalm 109. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. Psalm 111. So what are we exhorted to do over and over again? Praise the Lord! And how are we exhorted to do it? With a joyful shout. Where are we exhorted to do it? In the assembly of the upright. Oh, wait a minute, God, we're not Pentecostals. I'm a Presbyterian. We have our own way of doing things. We have a tradition of solemnity. We're sober. We're cerebral. We're unemotional. We're detached. We're traditionalists. Jesus said to the Pharisees, why do you transgress the commandment of God because of your traditions? Why do you transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition? Matthew 15, 3. You see, traditions may be good or bad. The question is, are they biblical? If you approach what God's word says about worship, and you give his word preeminence over your tradition and over the words and practices of men, even if those men are giants of the faith, And you give his word preeminence over your own personal inclinations, I think you will acknowledge that if you are not worshiping God with joy and exuberance, with loud, thankful praise. You're not worshiping him as he desires to be worshipped. You see, there's nothing in our understanding of Scripture that should prohibit us. From a sincere outburst of praise, an occasional praise the Lord, or amen. Should we not expect such expressions from emotional creatures? At least from those of you in the main sanctuary. Our attitude in worship should be one of reverence and awe, for our God is an awesome God. And it should be one of joy and gladness, praise and thanksgiving. And It should be one of anticipation. Oh God, you are my God. Early will I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh longs for you in a dry and thirsty land where there is no water. So I have looked for you in the sanctuary to see your power and glory. Psalm 63. Christian, worshiping the Lord is the most important thing that you do during the week. It's the most important thing that you do in your life. Do you look forward to it? Here we see what we might call the secondary purpose of worship. The first, the primary purpose is the glorification of our holy God. Praising and exalting him for who he is and what he does. The second purpose is to edify and nourish and strengthen us. Paul rebuked the Corinthians for permitting people to exercise the gift of tongues, that is the gift of speaking to the glory of God in a language that you have not learned. without any interpretation. That's what he rebuked the Corinthians for, speaking in tongues without interpretation. Why? Were they not speaking in a tongue to the glory of God? Yes, of course they were. So they were fulfilling the primary purpose of worship, the adoration of the Lord. Why the rebuke then? Paul said, he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God, for no one understands him. However, in the Spirit he speaks mysteries. But he who prophesies, that is, he who declares and proclaims God's word, speaks edification and exhortation and comfort to men. 1 Corinthians 14. Clearly, public worship has at least two purposes then. It's primarily for the glory of God, and it's secondarily for the edification, that is the building up And exhortation, that is encouraging change, and comfort of God's people. Now think about it. If Worship didn't have those dual purposes. A public worship service might consist entirely of the congregation gathering for an hour or an hour and a half of silent prayer. Or the entire service could be conducted in a language that you don't understand. Say Latin. I suppose some of you will pick up on some of it. But uh I wouldn't uh but we could uh we could conduct the whole service in Latin. God would be glorified, we'd be s saying his praises and what we are reading Well, we wouldn't get anything from it. We wouldn't have any understanding of it. One reason we should long to worship is so we might be built up. Challenged, comforted, equipped to use our gifts to assist in the great task of reaching the world with the gospel. Our worship, therefore, is first of all to exalt and glorify God, secondly, to build up his saints, and thirdly, it's for the evangelization of the lost. Paul said, if the whole church comes together in one place and all speak with tongues, and there come in those who are uninformed or unbelievers, will they not say that you're all out of your mind? But if all prophesy, proclaim God's word, and an unbeliever or an uninformed person comes in, he's convinced by all. He's convicted by all. And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed. And so, falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you. fourteen. So worship services again are primarily for the glory of God, secondarily for the building up of saints, and thirdly for the salvation of any who may be unbelievers who happen to be present. And here's where we get uh in trouble. Pastors and church leaders tend to get this order wrong. We begin to think that the worship service is primarily to reach the unbeliever. And only secondarily, perhaps, to benefit the flock or glorify God. And when we do that, we do God and we do God's people a disservice. Well, there's much more that we could consider on this subject of worship. Like how should we prepare ourselves For worship. How should we conduct ourselves in worship? I hope to continue this series two weeks from today, in fact. But let me take a moment to try to fulfill the third purpose of worship. Because it may be that there's someone here who is living for money, or living for pleasure, or living for family. Or living for country, or living for a girl, or a guy, for sports, or for excellence in his profession. In other words, you may be here living for something less glorious, less noble, less virtuous, less worthy of praise than your creator. You eat, sleep, work, and play without any regard for the one who put you here. You're not fulfilling the great purpose for which you were born to worship and serve your Creator. You've never in your life truly worshiped him because you've never really bowed a knee to him. You've never come to him in humility and in repentance. God has news for you. Your sins are vile and heinous in his sight. Your sins are vile and heinous in his sight. You've seen, no doubt, the bumper sticker smile, God loves you. Well, equally important is the message, frown, God hates sin. Frown, God hates sin. Hates sin. He must punish it. He's a holy God. He's of pure eyes than to uh look upon evil and to behold evil. He cannot look upon iniquity He's holy and just, and he must by his nature punish your sin. The good news is all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everywhere. God sent his own son Jesus into this world. He lived a perfect life. He kept the law that I broke, and then he went to the cross and he died as my My substitute, saying, In effect, Father, punish me and let them go free. God poured out the wrath that I deserved upon his own son. Jesus And he told his apostles, go into all the world, proclaim this good news after his resurrection. I'm alive. The sacrifice has been accepted. Now there's no reason for men and women to die. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. That's the message we have to proclaim. That's the message we have for you if you're here today outside of Christ. You just come to him as a little child. God forgive me. God, I know I've sinned against you. God, I know I'm not perfect. Yeah, I know what I I know what I think. I know the things that I've done. And Lord, you know them all. But I believe that Jesus lived that perfect life, died upon the cross, rose again. I want him as my Savior. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Lord, if I never made it clear before, I make it clear today. Forgave me. Forgive me. Like the thief on the cross who turned to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come in your kingdom. You come to Him that way. He promises All your sins will be forgiven. He'll give you this precious gift of eternal life right here, right now. Come to him. When you repent and believe, only then will you know what it means to truly worship. The one who is truly worthy. The man of sorrows acquainted with grief who died for sinners that we might live. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we long to worship you in spirit and truth. You know our hearts You know that our minds and hearts are prone to wander. And so we need your help to worship you as you deserve. And now, Lord, as we prepare to come to the Lord's table, we know this is an act of worship. May we do it with an eye to your glory. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.