John chapter fourteen, beginning at verse one The Lord Jesus speaking to his disciples, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. That were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And where I go, you know, and the way you know. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going, and how can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me If you had known me, you would have known my father also. And from now on you know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. So how can you say, Show us the Father Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does the works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me for the sake of the works themselves. Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me The works that I do, he will do also. And greater works than these he will do, because I go to my Father. And whatever you ask in my name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may abide with you forever, the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you A little while longer, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you will live also. At that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you He who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him He who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while being present with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. You've heard me say to you, I am going away and coming back to you. If you love me, you would rejoice, because I said I am going to the Father. For my Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it comes to pass, that when it does come to pass, you may believe. I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming, and he has nothing in me. But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandment, so I do. Arise. Let us go from here. May God bless this portion of his word. If the little ones have not yet uh gone to wonders of worship, they may be dismissed. We have Wonders of Worship Downstairs with uh Rachel and uh Zach Dugan. And let me leave this in prayer. Let's pray Lord, uh as we come to your word, once again we acknowledge our utter dependence upon your spirit to take the living, powerful word of God and apply it to our individual hearts. Speak to us, Father. We pray, teach us this day about prayer. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. In our journey through Mark's gospel, we came upon a mountain, a mountain which you might say grew out of a fig tree. Jesus, evidently using a fig tree as a picture of the fruitless, hypocritical lives of the priests and the scribes of Israel. had cursed that tree, declaring, let no one eat fruit from you ever again. Mark 11, 14. The very next day, seeing the fig tree dried up from its roots, the disciples were amazed. Jesus responded to them with a lesson on prayer, a lesson that included these astonishing words. Whoever says to this mountain, be removed and be cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that those things he says will be done, he will have whatever he says. It went on to speak more about prayer, and we delved into it a little bit last Sunday. But because prayer is such a critical need for the Christian. a a critical aspect of the believer's life. And since it's been a long time since we've devoted much time to the subject, I'd like us this morning To uh delve a bit deeper into the subject of prayer. Uh a little bit deeper than we did last week, but nonetheless, what we're going to consider this morning Or simply the basics of prayer. I understand some of you may have progressed far beyond the basics. You've entered into a deep communion with the Lord that many believers may never experience here on earth. George Mueller of Bristol, England He's a man renowned for his prayer life. He lived through all but seven years of the nineteenth century, so picture him there like about the same time as Queen Victoria, I suppose. He is said to have logged in his journals over fifty thousand specific answers to prayer. Fifty thousand Without ever asking anyone but God, it's reported that millions in British pounds were given over the years in the support of his orphanage and also missionaries that he supported. Evidently in response to the prayers of George Mueller. But for me, and perhaps for you, simply remembering the basics of prayer as I pray is often a challenge. As you know, biblical prayer entails not just asking God for things, but adoration, praising him for who he is, reading God's word back to him. adoring him for his uh his holiness, his justice, his mercy, his grace, etc. It involves confession, confession of sin, true biblical prayer. True biblical prayer involves just communing with the Lord, spending time with him True biblical prayer involves thanksgiving, remembering all the mercies that God has bestowed upon us But this morning, I'd like us to confine our thoughts to the most common form of prayer, that which immediately comes to mind when we think of prayer, that of which Jesus spoke to his apostles before he left them John 14, that is asking God to take some action, asking God to do something in this world or in a particular life, our own, or the life of another. In other words, what I want us to think about, what I want us to focus on, is what is technically called supplication, approaching God with requests. And not adoring him, not thanking him, not confessing sins, but approaching him with requests. Now, at first glance It seems presumptuous, does it not, for a finite, fallible creature, extremely limited in understanding, to approach the infinite, eternal, omniscient Creator and ask him to do something. Who am I to ask God to take some action? Now I can understand God asking me to do something. But me asking God to do something? In fact, if it weren't for the clear exhortations and examples and encouragements in Scripture to do it , The whole idea of our asking God to do something would probably never have entered a believer's mind. As incredible as it seems, it's clear that God has indeed invited us to make requests of Him. But does it ever seem to you when you pray that God 's not listening? Or do you ever seem to be just going through the motions of prayer? Do you ever wonder if you're even praying in the right way? Well, perhaps in the last analysis, what you're doing is not really praying at all. That is, not praying in the biblical sense of the word. What are some of the biblical characteristics of genuine prayer? What does it mean to truly pray? And again, we're talking about supplication. True biblical prayer is characterized by, it's preceded by, it's anchored upon faith. Without faith, the scripture says, it is impossible to please him. Hebrews 11, 6. Reverend E. M. Bounds, a Methodist minister and a chaplain during the Civil War devoted what would become the last seventeen years of his life to prayer and to reading and writing, much of that on the subject of prayer. Listen to what he wrote about faith. Prayer is absolutely dependent upon faith. It has virtually no existence apart from it and accomplishes nothing unless faith is its inseparable companion Faith makes prayer effectual, and in a certain important sense, must precede it. Faith must precede it must precede prayer. For he that comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Hebrews 11, 6 Before prayer ever starts toward God, before its petition is chosen, before its requests are made known, faith must have gone on ahead. It must have asserted its belief in the existence of God and must have given its agreement to the gracious truth that God is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. This is the primary step in praying. In this regard, while faith does not bring the blessing, yet it puts prayer in a position to ask for it. Faith starts prayer to work, clears the way to the mercy seat. First of all, it gives assurance that there is a mercy seat. And that there our high priest awaits those who pray and their prayers. Faith opens the way for prayer to approach God, but it does more, it accompanies prayer at every step that it takes. It is prayer's inseparable companion. And when requests are made to God, it is faith that turns the asking into obtaining. Faith is the one great condition of prayer. The lack of it lies at the root of all poor praying, feeble praying, little praying, unanswered praying. When you pray, do you come to God first of all with an assurance that he's there, that he's fully able to grant what you seek? James said, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting. For he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. For let not that man suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He's a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. James chapter one When you pray, do you believe that insofar as you are led by the Spirit to pray for things agreeable to God's will, that He will either give you what you ask or something better? That's faith. Do you pray in faith? And then secondly, we're to pray in Jesus' name. Whatever you ask in my name, I will do it, he said. Now, whatever that's uh whatever its deeper meaning to pray in Jesus' name, it certainly means this, that when we come to the Father, we come through The Son. There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Acts four, twelve. You have no access to the Father but through the Son I am the Gore. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. John 10, verse 9. He who enters not by the door into the sheephole, but climbs up some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. John 10, verse 1. Those who try to attend the wedding feast without first being clothed in Christ's righteousness will hear the Father say, How did you come in here without having on a wedding garment? Several years ago, now a Christian leader made quite a stir by reportedly saying, God does not hear the prayer of the Jew. Well, I think the point he was trying to make is simply that the Father can only be approached through the Son. Jesus said, no one comes to the Father but by me. Unless you've repented of your sins and put your faith in Jesus, unless you've thrown down your weapons, your weapons of rebellion. And acknowledged Christ as Lord, you're still technically a rebel, a mutineer. And God has not obligated himself to hear and answer the requests of rebels. So first we must be redeemed, we must be regenerated, we must be born from above. We must come to the Father through the mediation of the Son. There is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. The individual Christian has no account in heaven It's all in his Savior's name. John Newton put it this way, Dear name, the rock on which I build my shield and hiding place my never-failing treasury filled with boundless stores of grace. Could it be that someone here is attempting to approach the Father? Bypassing the Son? Not coming to the Father through the Son, but attempting to bypass the Son? Another basic of biblical prayer is that our petition must be born of the Spirit of God. Born, birthed by the Spirit of God. Therefore, agreeable to his will. 1 John chapter 5. Now, this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we have asked of him Remember, to ask in Jesus' name, as we noted last week, is as if you are coming to the Father in Jesus' stead. In other words, when I pray, I don't come in my own name. When I ask for things, it's as if I'm coming to the Father, asking him for things in Jesus' name. In Jesus' stead. In other words, I'm asking for those things that the son would ask for. D. O. Moody told of a man who received this note from his son. His son's name was Charlie. He was a soldier, and the note was brought to him by a fellow soldier, a compatriot, and the note said, Dear father, this young man belongs to my company. He has lost his health in defense of his country, and he's on his way home. to his mother to die. Treat him kindly for Charlie's sake. The father, of course, responded to the request beh because it had the mark of genuineness upon it. He did it for his son. He did it for Charlie. He realized this is exactly something Charlie would ask for. But if the note had said, This dying soldier owes me money, steal his gold watch. The Father would have rejected it as not genuine, not really from his son. You see? When we approach the Father, if we would truly come in Jesus' name, we must ask for those things which are agreeable to his will. For we're coming in his name. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you. Does it not follow then that other things being equal, the man or woman who is truly abiding in the Lord, who knows his will, who has hidden God's word in his heart, is most likely to receive. Of the Father. How did Elijah know to pray for a drought? He knew God's word, he knew God's promises, he knew God's warnings. Do you ask the Father for things that are agreeable to His will? Do you know His will through an intimate knowledge of His Word? And then if we would pray biblically, something else to keep in mind is that we must pray in earnest. We must pray in earnest. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth produced its fruit. The scripture says it's the fervent prayer of a righteous man that avails much. The fervent prayer. Listen to some counsel on prayer from the Puritans. An arrow, if it be drawn up but a little way, goes not far, but if it be pulled up to the head, flies swiftly and pierces deeply. Thus prayer, if it be only dribbled forth from careless lips, falls at our feet. It is the strength of propulsion and strong desire which sends it to heaven. and makes it pierce through the clouds. Thomas Brooks put it this way, as a painted fire is no fire. And as a dead man is no man, so a cold prayer is no prayer. In a painted fire, there's no heat. In a dead man, there's no life So in a cold prayer, though is there is no importunity, no devotion, no blessing. Cold prayers are as arrows without heads, as swords without edges, as birds without wings. They pierce not, they cut not, they fly not up to heaven. Cold prayers always freeze before they get to heaven. Remember blind Barnamaus. We just looked at the incident of Christ's healing of blind Barnabas a few weeks ago. What did he do? He cried out, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me! They said, Be quiet. We're having a big parade. We're having a big celebration. You're ruining the parade. He cried out all the more a great deal. Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. He was in earnest. He was blind. This was his one opportunity. He heard Jesus was in the town. He must have known of Christ. He must have heard stories of Christ and the miracles Christ wrought. And he cried out , with everything inside of him. Samuel Rutherford said, words are but the body, the garment, the outside of prayer. Sighs are nearer the heart work. A mute beggar gets an alms at Christ's gate, even by making signs, when his tongue cannot plead for him. And the rather because he is mute Tears have a tongue and grammar and language that our father knows. Tears have a tongue and a grammar and a language that our father knows. Babes have no prayer for the breast, but weeping. The mother can read hunger in the weeping. Remember the words of John Bunyan, we mentioned them last week. When you pray, rather let your heart be without words than your words be without heart. Jesus, as we also mentioned last week, the Bible says Jesus uh perspired profusely when he prayed in the garden. He was in such agony of prayer, agony of soul As he prayed to the Father before his crucifixion, that the scripture says his sweat, his sweat was just pouring off his body. He was falling as if it were blood falling to the ground. That's how much he was sweating. He wasn't just perspiring a little Listen to these words from Missionary David Brainerd 's journal, Missionary to the Native Americans. In prayer, I was exceedingly enlarged, and my soul was as much drawn out as I ever remember it to have been in my life I was in such anguish and I pleaded with so much earnestness and importunity that when I rose from my knees, I felt extremely weak and overcome. I could scarcely walk straight. My joints were loose. The sweat ran down my face and body, and nature seemed as if it would dissolve. Man, that's prayer. We each need to ask ourselves, can my casual conversations with God rightly be called prayer? Does God have any reason to believe that I'm in earnest? Now let me illustrate that. Imagine right now somebody came bursting through those double doors there, yelling out, help! I've been in an accident on Liberty Road. I was thrown from the car, but my car is overturned. My wife and kids are inside. And I'm afraid it's going to burst into flames. I can't get them out. I need help. We would immediately be roused into action. Some of you would already be on your cell phones dialing 911. Hopefully turning your cell phone on first because it's already off and it's off now. And somebody else would run to some of the guys who have trucks would run to their trucks and grab the a crowbar and and we'd go down there, somebody would grab the fire extinguisher, and we'd run to the car and we'd try to get those people out of there before. there was a fire uh or you know help helping the paramedics or whatever because we would realize the guy was in earnest this was real this is happening But uh suppose he came in about now and sat in the back and then as uh the church uh ended and And uh he he he left. He's walking out the front door and he said, Oh, uh by the way, uh Pastor, I said, Is this your first time here? Yeah, my first time. By the way, uh my car uh overturned. out here and uh my w wife and kids are inside, at least they were, I don't know. And uh and I wonder if maybe uh you could you got any guys here, strong guys, not you but strong guys who might be able to come. And y you know, is Phil Thomas here, is Malcolm Thomas here? And could you come and so uh uh I would be inclined uh to not believe him, right? Now, you might hear these words in your mind. Yeah, but that's a life or death matter. Of course he would be in earnest, right? That's an emergency. Well, you see, that may be just the problem. We don't realize that praying for souls is a life or death matter. That praying for revival is a life or death matter. We forget that we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age. Against spiritual wickedness, hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places, Ephesians 6. True prayer is in earnest. True prayer is fervent God saved my child. True prayer is fervent. And then we're called to pray continually, that is, without ceasing. It is to be importunate until answered. We keep knocking. In Luke 18, Jesus tells that parable of an unjust judge who grants Justice to a widow simply because she refuses to take no for an answer. Because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she wearies me. Sounds like he was already wearied. Jesus said, And shall God not avenge his own elect who cry out day and night to him, though he bears long with them? Though the answer may seem long in coming by from our perspective. One of our ladies told me several years ago now that she had been praying daily for some people, including children from a vacation Bible school, that she had apparently helped in years before. See you been praying for some people for over twenty years. Now I thought I remembered who that was who told me that. I asked her this week, she said, nah, it wasn't me, but I did pray for somebody for fourteen years before that person came to faith. I said, well that's something. I can mention that. It is uh recorded that George Mueller prayed for the salvation of two men for over sixty years. One of them came to faith shortly before Mueller 's death, and the other one within a year after Mueller 's death. So how about you? Have you ceased to pray for that friend? Have you given up on praying for the conversion of your sister or your brother or your husband? husband, we're exhorted to pray without ceasing. But there's something else involved in praying without ceasing, I think. Prayer for the believer Should be a continuous communion with God throughout the day. Right? We pray without ceasing. Oh God, help me. Lord, help me to deal with this matter. Give me wisdom. Fill me with your spirit for this particular task I have ahead of me. Guard my lips. Help me to choose my words wisely. Etc. We're to be in communion with God throughout the day. We're to pray without ceasing. Puritan George Swinnick said, prayer is like the fire on the altar. It must never go out day or night. It's like a saint's breathing. A Christian's prayer may have an intermission, but never a cessation. There's no duty given to a Christian for his constant attention so much as prayer. Pray always. Pray continually. Pray without ceasing. Pray with perseverance. And pray forevermore. To pray without ceasing means to be in a praying frame all the time. The soldier always has his weapon ready, though he's not always in battle. Your heart should always be in tune so you can make heavenly music. The believer's spirit is like fire upon the hearth. Though it's not blazing, it is ready upon any opportunity to be blown up into a flame. Is your day a day of ongoing communion with God? I like this little poem, The Weary Ones Had Rest, The Sad Had Joy that Day, and wondered how. A plowman singing at his work had prayed, Lord help them now. Away in foreign lands they wondered how their simple word had power At home, the gleaners, two or three, had met to pray an hour. Yes, we're always wondering how, because we do not see someone unknown perhaps and far away on Ben And then we're to pray with an eye to God's glory. When you pray, you were to pray with an eye to God's glory Jesus prayed, Father, glorify thy name, John 17. When the people of Israel, remember, heard the report of the spies who would return from Canaan and they were afraid and they wanted to return to Egypt. The Lord's anger was kindled against them for their unbelief. In other words, I brought you out of Egypt. I can bring you into Canaan. No, no, we want to go back to Egypt. The Lord's anger anger was kindled against them for their unbelief, and he threatened to destroy them and raise up another nation through Moses. He said to Moses, Look, Moses, I'm going to just destroy these people and I'll make another nation from you. And Moses uh fell to his knees. You know, Moses intervened. Lord, no, no, no. Preserve them for your own glory As a manifestation of your own power, lest the nations who have heard of your fame will say, because the Lord was not able to bring the people to the land which he swore to give them, therefore he killed them in the wilderness. So whether you're praying for the salvation of a loved one, for the healing of a friend, for revival in our nation, the desire of your heart should be that God would do it for his own glory. That God would be glorified through it. God, how much it would glorify you if you would bring my dad to saving faith. Because it's Heart seems so hard because he's so uh hardened against the gospel. God do it for your glory, you see. And then we're to pray with a complete resignation to God's will As Jesus did in the garden, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. Utter resignation to the Father's will. Catherine Marshall referred to what she called the prayer of relinquishment in her book Adventures in Prayer. She was writing about Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne, the wife of the famous author. who was wrestling in prayer in the city of Rome on a winter's day in 1860. Una, the Hawthorne's eldest daughter, UNA UNA I guess , the Hawthorne's eldest daughter was dying of a virulent form of malaria. The attending physician, Dr. Franco, had warned that afternoon that unless the young girl's fever abated before morning, she would die As Mrs. Hawthorne sat by Una 's bed, her thoughts went to her husband in the adjoining room and what he had said earlier in the day. He had said, I cannot endure the alternations of hope and fear, therefore I have settled with myself not to hope at all. But the mother could not share Nathaniel's hopelessness Una could not, must not die. This daughter strongly resembled her father, had the finest mind, the most complex character of all the Hawthorne children. Why should some capricious providence demand that they give her up? Moreover, Una had been delirious for several days, had recognized no one. Were she to die this night, there could not even be the solace of farewells. As the night deepened the girl lay so still she seemed to be in the anteroom of death. There the mother went to the window and looked out on the piazza. There was no moonlight, a dark and silent sky was heavy. Then suddenly, unaccountably, another thought took over. Why should I doubt the goodness of God. Let him take Una if he sees best. More than that, I can give her to him. I do give her to you, Lord. I I won't fight against you anymore. Then an even stranger thing happened, having made this great sacrifice. Mrs. Hawthorne expected to feel sadder. Instead she felt lighter, happier than at any time. since Una 's long illness had begun. Now I suppose you're going to want to know about Una. Well, some minutes later, Mrs. Hawthorne walked back to the girl's bedside and felt her daughter's forehead. It was moist and cool. Her pulse was slow and regular. She was sleeping naturally, and the mother rushed into the next room to tell her husband. uh what had happened. And if it hadn't happened that way, we probably wouldn't be reading about it. She wouldn't have included it in her book. But uh the point is we are to relinquish to God, knowing that He may choose to take that love one home. When you pray, you must trust God's wisdom, you must trust God's providence. Now, quickly, why do some prayers go unanswered? Why do some prayers just go unanswered? Well, first of all, because of sin in our life The Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, nor his ear heavy that it cannot hear. Your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. Isaiah 55 Your sins have separated you from God, Psalm 66, 18. Swinnock wrote, Sin is a hindrance to prayer. When dust clogs the wheels of a watch, it cannot strike true. When the sin of the petitioner is before God's eyes, his petitions cannot enter his ears. Sin shouts louder than our prayers. The smallest sin, if loved and liked, will hinder the course of prayer. That's why we need to confess our sin. Why should a Christian who's already forgiven have to confess his sin? Just as Jesus said to his disciples, even if you're clean, you still need to have your feet washed. Because as we go through this life, we We say things, we hear things, we think things, we we get defiled, and we need to ask God's forgiveness and cleansing. And that should be the the first thing when we approach the Lord. God forgive me for what I and Then think back, what have you said? Have you said to your husband or wife or kids and been harsh or cruel or selfish or covetous or whatever it is Well, what are some particular sins that tend to shut heaven's door to us? An unforgiving spirit. Whenever you stand praying, if you have anything against anyone, forgive him, that your Father in heaven may also forgive your trespass. Trespasses, Mark 11, 25. In other words, until you forgive as you've been forgiven, you can't truly pray. And then mistreatment of your spouse. Husbands are instructed to give honor to the wife that your prayers may not be hindered. 1 Peter 3, 7. That your prayers may not be hindered. Covetousness, other forms of idolatry may result in. Unanswered prayer. Ezekiel wrote, Now some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me, and the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their hearts. and put them uh put before them that which causes them to stumble into iniquity. Should I let myself be inquired of at all by them? Ezekiel 14. 3. Wonder how many prayers of American Christians are unanswered because they put before them that which causes them to stumble into iniquity. Hard heartedness toward those in need can bring unanswered prayer. Whoever shuts his ears to the cry of the poor will also cry himself and not be heard. Proverbs twenty-one and thirteen Prayers go unanswered not just because of sin, but because we ask with the wrong motive. You ask and receive not because you ask a mistress. You may spend it on your pleasures. You pray for wealth or for comfort or for ease or for safety. James 4:3. Prayers go unanswered because what you want is not what's best for you. At least not at this time. Do you think Mary and Martha were not in earnest when they prayed that Jesus would come when Lazarus was sick? He whom thou lovest is sick. They thought that's all it would take. Get this message to Jesus right away. He whom thou lovest is sick. He'll know who we mean. What happened? Jesus didn't come. Lazarus got sicker. Jesus didn't come. Lazarus died. Jesus didn't come. He wasn't there to comfort. A day goes by, another day goes by, another day goes by. Finally, Jesus comes. Why did he not answer? Because he had something better in mind than what Mary and Martha wanted. They wanted him to heal Lazarus. Jesus intended to raise him from the dead. There are uh many single men and women who believe they can't be happy without a spouse. I just can't be happy without a spouse. So they pray God will give them a godly husband or wife But instead of waiting on the Lord and being prepared to accept the answer of not yet, or even no, they force the issue. They form an unequal yoke. with an unbeliever, and then they realize too late that there are worse things in life than being single. They marry in haste and they repent in leisure Paul prayed fervently that God would remove his physical affliction, his thorn in the flesh. God has something better in mind. My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. And sometimes we're just not ready for what we ask for. When our son was uh Nathan, who was about four or five, he came to us and said, Dad, uh mom, can I ch explain A kid in the neighborhood wants to give me a uh a knife. Can I trade my matchbox car for a knife? The kid had uh some connection in the Swiss Army or something, as I recall. And uh and we told him no, no, uh you can't trade your uh You should you should be able to get two knives for one matchbox. No, that's not what we said. Uh obviously he wasn't ready for a a Swiss Army knife. So the answer was no. Was that because we didn't love him? No, it was because we did love him. We knew it wasn't best for him. What could God do in your life? What could God do in your family? What could God do in our ministry? in our church, in our nation, if we would begin to believe that he does answer prayer, if we would begin to believe and act upon that belief. If you become a man or woman of prayer, you have to set aside time for it. Morning, evening, during your lunch break, sometime. Your elders and pastors, of course, pray for you. And prayer is a vital part of our small group meetings. It's a vital part of Bible studies. But uh let me remind you that the church actually has what we call a prayer meeting every Wednesday evening before the other activities of the night. We meet in the in the parlor, so you can tell it's Not a large group. We haven't outgrown the parlor. There is still room for you. Before we close this simple message on prayer, I want to say a word about the most important prayer you're ever going to offer And that is, God, forgive me. God be merciful to me, a sinner. God, I see it. I see my covetousness. I see my pride. I've been ungrateful. I'm harsh with my children. I'm cruel in my speech. I'm a lover of pleasure. I haven't put you first. I've dishonored my parents. I've taken your name in vain. I've engaged in immorality. I've been hard-hearted. I've been unforgiving. My thought life has not been pure. Forgive me, God, and save me. I believe that Jesus lived the perfect life, died upon the cross, and rose again from the dead. I believe your word when it says that he was the substitute who came to give his life in the place of sinners. Lord, I want him as my Savior. Take his righteousness and put it on my account. Take my sin and put it on his account. Forgive me and save me for Jesus' sake. That's the most important prayer you're ever going to pray. That's the first prayer you should ever pray. And finally, nothing is too small to bring to God. Scripture says, casting all your cares upon Him because He cares for you. Cast all your cares upon him because he cares for you. And then of course nothing is too big to bring to God. With God, nothing is impossible. Scripture says says. You don't need a special language when you pray. Just come as a child to his father. Listen to these words of Newton. Come, my soul, thy suit prepare Jesus loves to answer prayer. He himself has bid thee pray, therefore will not say thee nay. Thou art coming to a king, large petitions with thee bring, for his grace and power are such none can ever ask too much. Lord, I come to thee for rest. Take possession of my breast. There thy blood bought right maintain, and without a rival reign. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, I do pray that you will make prayer warriors out of your people. Lord, teach us to pray. Help us to pray fervently, with faith, for things agreeable to your will, with prayers born of your spirit. Lord We are crying out to you for your help in this, as in all other things. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.