Well, I am looking forward to preaching from Nehemiah. I love the Old Testament. If you don't know the Old Testament, you'll never make it through the New And if you don't know the New Testament, never fully understand the Old. I speak from experience because I don't understand either one very well. But keep reading the old, enlightens the new. Keep reading the new, sheds light on the old. Today we're going to look at Nehemiah chapter 2. So we're going to do like three things. I'm going to read the passage for you. And then I'm going to do a quick synopsis of chapter one, and I mean quick. And then we'll work through chapter two and look at some of the highlights of chapter two and then end with some practical, hopefully applications. for our church and school today. So with that, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts would be pleasing in your sight. May your word come alive to us through Nehemiah. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. If you would please stand if you're able to. It is a long passage, verses 1 through 18. And it came to pass in the month of Nisan in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes when wine was before him, and I took the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had never been sad in this presence before. Therefore the king said to me, Why is your face sad? Since you are not sick, this is nothing but sorrow of heart. So I became dreadfully afraid and said to the king, May the king live forever. Why should my face not be sad? When the city, the place of my father's tombs, lies waste and its gates are burned with fire. Then the king said to me, What do you request? So I prayed to the God of heaven, and I said to the king, If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, I ask that you send me to Judah, to the city of my father's tombs, that I may rebuild it. Then the king said to me, The queen also sitting beside him, How long will your journey be, and when will you return? So it pleased the king to send me. And I set him a time. Furthermore, I said to the king, if it pleases the king, let letters be given to me for the governors of the region beyond the river, that they must permit me to pass through till I come to Judah. And Aleta Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, said he must give me timber to make beams for the gates of the citadel which pertains to the temple, for the city wall, and for the house that I will occupy. And the king granted them to me according to the good hand of my God upon me. Then I went to the governors in the region beyond the river and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent captives of the army and horsemen with me. When Sembalat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite of Fisher heard of it, they were deeply disturbed that a man had come to seek the well-being of the children of Israel. So I came to Jerusalem and was there three days. Then I arose in the night, and I had a few men with me. I told no one what my God had put into my heart to do at Jerusalem. Nor was any animal with me except the one upon which I rode. And I went out by night through the valley gate, to the serpent well and the rufus gate and viewed the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and its gates which were burned with fire. Then I went on to the fountain gate, unto the king's pool, but there was no room for the animal under me to pass So I went up in the night by the valley and viewed the wall. I turned back and entered by the valley gate, and so returned. And the officials did not know where I had gone or what I had done. I had not yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, or the others who did the work. Then I said to them, You see the distress that we are in? How Jerusalem lies waste and its gates are burned with fire? Come, and let us build the wall of Jerusalem, that we may no longer be a reproach. And I told them of the hand of God which had been good upon me, and also of the king's words that he had spoken to me. So they said, Let us rise up and build. Then they set their hands. To this good work. Heavenly Father, guide us, we pray now in the moments that lie ahead to see your word and to apply it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. So a quick review of chapter 1 of Nehemiah. The year is 445 B. C. the 20th year in the reign of Artaxerxes. King of Persia. A report is brought to Nehemiah concerning the situation in Jerusalem, specifically mentioning the still broken down walls. and the burn gates, which are the remains of the Babylonian destruction 141 years earlier in 586 BC. Upon hearing these words concerning the state of Jerusalem and the resulting shame, he weeps and he mourns for days, fasting and praying before the God of heaven. This period of mourning is followed by a confession of corporate and personal sin, where Nehemiah acknowledges his sin and the sin of the people. He also acknowledges that the justice of God, as we heard earlier read in 1 Kings, demands exile as the price of their disobedience and unfaithfulness. His prayer of confession ends with a request. Nehemiah has something which he wants to ask the king. And he prays that God will grant him mercy in the sight of the king. He knows with this meeting he is stepping out into the unknown where he has never gone before. Most of you have heard of the phrase life passing before your eyes, haven't you? And you recognize it as something that you've likely seen in a movie. Well, forget about the movies. Have you ever experienced a time when you saw your life passing before your eyes? Maybe while driving a car Something terrible almost happened to you. Or you suddenly receive some medical news about yourself or a loved one. Or you encountered something that stopped you in your tracks, and in a twinkling of an eye, your life, as it were, flashed before you. Time seem to stop. Researchers call this a life review experience. By the way, these experiences increase proportionally when your kids become teenagers. And if you have sons, when you hand them the car keys as they go out the door. Well, Nehemiah has decided that today of all days would be the day he interacts with the king. Not tomorrow, but today. And he realizes that the results are in God's hand. And so into the throne room he goes for his own life review experience. We read that Nehemiah's grief has not been noticed Or observed by the king over the last four months. But this time Nehemiah has allowed his grief to be seen upon his face. And we read that the king could see the grief, see the sadness in his countenance, could see it in his face Could see it in his eyes, reminding us indeed that the eyes are the windows to the soul. Now, some of you Might be thinking that Shakespeare coined that phrase. Some of you, like me, would have no clue But Cicero in the first century BC developed the idea much earlier when he wrote that the face is a picture of the mind. as the eyes are its interpreter. So, if I see any closed eyes this morning, I understand you're praying, not sleeping. But seeing his face, the king asked Nehemiah, why is your face sad? Nehemiah's response was, then I was very much afraid. That's the ESV. Dreadfully afraid, the new King James. And well should he have been afraid, sore afraid, the King James At that moment, Nehemiah is taking his life into his own hands. And he knew it. As he possibly saw his life passing before his eyes. Why? Why would Nehemiah be afraid? Think about it. What is his position? with the king of Persia. He's the cupbearer. For Nehemiah's sadness to be noticed by outer Xerxes would cause suspicion. The king is thinking, and if you're the king, you're thinking, here is my trusted cupbearer bringing me my wine, and he is sad, how unlike him So why is he said today, of all days, is there something in the cup that I should be concerned about? Come to think of it, Artax Xerxes might have thought, my father Xerxes was murdered by his loyal servant. Am I to be killed by my loyal servant by the cup? So that would be on Nehemiah's mind and would be worth being very afraid. Another reason for Nehemiah to be afraid, it's a little bit more complicated. But reading through the book of Ezra and then Nehemiah, which I know you're all going to want to do when you leave here today. Early in his reign, Arta Xerxes and Ezra IV issued an edict to stop rebuilding Jerusalem. Later, in the seventh year of his reign, in the book of Ezra, he decrees Ezra to go to Jerusalem to teach the Jews the law of Moses. So an earlier decree to stop building, but then a decree to teach, mixed signals or Xerxes could be sending to Nehemiah. So how will the king respond? Well, look at Artaxerxes' response to Nehemiah's sadness. It's concern. It's not caution. He's not thinking of any criminality that might be in Nehemiah's mind. He's actually concerned. Seeing Nehemiah's sadness, the king asks him, so what's on your mind? And Nehemiah's response is what? I prayed to the God of heaven, that arrow went straight up first, and then I said to the king, the horizontal question came next. First, the king of the king of kings, and then the Persian king, Artaxerxes. What we see here in this moment God has been preparing both Nehemiah and Artaxerxes in these last four months for this very conversation. in order to restore the glory of Jerusalem Which is actually the underlying reason as to why God in the beginning had Cyrus first issue his edict in 539 B. C. Allowing for the exiles to return to Jerusalem, so that his glory might be restored in the city. His temple and his worship. To bring his covenant children back home, gathering the sheep into their pen, so to speak, is what God's ultimate plan was. We see the same thing, by the way, and Esther 4 and our women's Sunday school class. Remember this When Mordecai beseeches Esther to approach the king, King Xerxes, on behalf of the Jews, Mordecai says to her, And who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for such a time as this. Nehemiah and Esther Have a lot of similar experiences together, by the way. Taking their lives into their hands as they approach their respective kings in their hour of distress With a request on behalf of the people, the people of God, not on behalf of themselves, but on God's people. So the king asked Nehemiah, what do you request? Nehemiah was prepared for this moment, prepared with his answer. That if not handled rightly might never come again. He had to get it right. At 3. 30 a. m. on June 5, 1944, 1944, General Eisenhower met with his commanders regarding the upcoming invasion. The weather prediction allowed for a small window of opportunity for the invasion on the next day, June 6th, which we just had 79 years ago. Everyone wanted to go on June 5th, except one who thought the weather conditions were not quite acceptable. It was Ike's decision. He had to get it right. His commanders asked the question, is it a go or not? Eisena thought for a minute and then said, okay, let's go. With those three little words Unleash D-Day, change forever the course of the war and our varied lives. Three small but powerful life-changing words that Eisenhower had to get right when he was asked the important question. Have you ever had a moment in your life where a decision that you made or an answer that you might have to give Might have life-changing consequences for you or someone else? A possible job change? Moving to another state? A phone call. A letter written or an encounter with a neighbor. How about this one when you're confronted with a question where the answer is life-altering? Will you marry me That's rhetorical. Will will you I'm not even sure rhetorical is the right word. But anyway, will you marry me, right? Now I assume, right, men's to ask the question? Okay Both the question, but more importantly the answer, yes or no , are small words, but packed with life-changing consequences. Guys, think about it. Think about what you did. You asked a question and maybe you took for granted the answer. Think about the power behind that yes or no of your future spouse's life-changing answer. Were you like Mia Meyer, very much afraid? Probably a bit. Guys, did time stand still? You ask the question, but they gotta answer it So speaking of 3. 30, point of personal privilege, that is also the time I proposed to Margaret on January 22nd, 1978. And she's down in nursery now, so she's not hearing this, I don't think. But anyway, let's just say at 3. 30 in the morning I had taken a while to ask that question. And being so tired, which is a good time to ask that question, she said, like Ike, okay, let's go. Well, she didn't say that. She said, yes, then hoping yes, I would go. Life-changing moment in time until death do his part in time. Small words, small answers, small questions, but Life-changing circumstances. As I mentioned, God had prepared King Artaxerxes. as well as Nehemiah for this moment in time. Proverbs 21 tells us what? The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. Like the rivers of water. He turns it wherever he wishes. And since God is not less sovereign or powerful, it is still true of any president or prime minister, their heart is in the hand. hand of the Lord. As an aside, we're told in this passage the queen was sitting with her husband. Did Nehemiah take advantage of the fact that her presence was there, maybe to solicit sympathy? I would have. We don't know. It doesn't say. But what we do know is she's there. An awfully interesting, trivial statement, but she's there Again, why we don't know. Was it a sympathy play? But she's there and she heard it. And no, there's one one commentator I read who said, well, maybe that was Queen Esther. Queen Esther who was married to King Xerxes who's Arto Xerxes dead. But see, Arto Xerxes was murdered, and we have no history of what happened to Esther after the fact. But one individual stated that that woman on the throne, the queen, was Queen Esther, but that is not the case. Scripture is silent with what happened to Queen Esther after her wonderful deeds. And then verse 8 closes with, And the king granted me what I asked, for the gracious hand of my God was upon me. And how had Nehemiah prepared for this critical moment in his life? That critical moment where he stood before the king. Afraid? He done it in his prayer closet. He had been praying. Before he popped the question, he prayed. No reason is given why those four months were a delay, nor are there reasons that we can fathom why we have to wait before God answers our prayers. But often we, like Nehemiah, are placed in a position of having to wait. Who here this morning is praying that God would direct you regarding making a career change? Or talking to your boss about a promotion or a change of assignment? Or maybe you're struggling over a choice of a school. Maybe there's someone here this morning who's been praying for many, many years for a spouse or a family member to be saved. Or you've been praying for weeks or months for someone to be healed. How often we experience waiting? Nehemiah is an encouragement to keep praying in the midst of sorrow and questioning, hardship or dismay. Praying expectantly But prepared also to possibly wait for God 's answer in his time. But we're always given the prop the promise of those who wait. That those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. We pray, sometimes we wait, but we have the promise that God hears our prayers and will answer them in his due time. Arriving safely at the city, Nehemiah is taken off. It takes three days or so, three to four days to get where he was in Susa to get to Jerusalem. He impacts. He rests, he formulates his plan, and on the third day, he determines to head out at night in secret to scout out the land. The reason he did this is because he did not know the ground. He wanted to know what he was up against When reading books on Civil War battles, as I know you all hunger and thirst to do, you'll run across these phrases. Is this good ground question? Or this is good ground statement Or I don't know the ground question. Or this is not good ground statement. Why do I bring that up? You probably know, but if you don't, historians have argued that if General Lee had known the ground better at Gettysburg, He may have positioned his troops differently or decided not to engage the Union Army at all. But he didn't know the ground. And why was that? As he said, the eyes of his army, Jebs to its cavalry, had left him blind. Stewart had ridden off for a few days, harassing federal lines, getting his name in the papers, while Lee was on the move in Pennsylvania. Stewart was supposed to stay with Lee, to alert Lee, and to watch and report and what was going on around Lee's flanks. But he did not perform that task. He left Lee blind, not knowing the ground, which contributed greatly to the battle's outcome. Therefore, knowing the ground is important, whether it's in a battle as well as in a building program. And that's why Nehemiah went out at night. He wanted to scoop out the land. His goal was simply to get a better appreciation of the obstacles that he might face and to formulate a plan to meet these needs head on. He wanted to know the ground. It starts out on the western side of the city. It travels along the southern wall, then travels up the east side, and the boulders are so strewn about he has to leave the east side up by the wall of the city. He goes down to the Kidro Valley, maybe works his way up a little bit on the other side, and as you kept going up that side it would be the Mount of Olives. But he's out there and he's looking at the rubble. It's so bad he's got it says his horse has his the mount he's on, he has to get out of the way. The rubble is so bad. And at night he's scanning he's scanning the ground, he's looking at the rubble, he's looking at the gates, he's looking at the walls But see, it's not a problem in Israel, then or now, for him to examine the wall by starlight. Since not then nor now is there pollution or smog. Around Jerusalem. You can see it clearly. The light of the moon and the stars in Israel is a sight you can never forget. We hear about the Milky Way. We generally can never see the Milky Way here. at least in Baltimore, go to Israel or up in the Poconos, the Milky Way is splattered across the h the heavens, and you can see clearly around you. So he goes out, he scans the horizon of the city and the walls, he gets an idea of what's the ground going to be presenting to him. Then he comes back. Starting with verse 17, he shares with the people the purpose behind his coming to Jerusalem As he had said earlier, he had shown solidarity with Israel and corporate confession of sin in chapter 1. And now he shows solidarity with them as he outlines the work that lies ahead. He says to the men, the people of the city, then I said to them, You see the trouble you are in? Does he say that? No. He says, you see the trouble we are in. How Jerusalem lies in ruins with its gate burned. Come, let us build the wall of Jerusalem, that we may no longer suffer derision. Nehemiah was calling Calling God's covenant people to work as one body to the glory of God. It was to be the work of the many and not the work of the few. Whether it's the people of Israel back in 445 BC or whether it's the folks here at Liberty, it's the work of the many. It's not the work of the few. You know, I really like that that emphasis on let us. Let us. So let's go into the 21st century. Am I right in saying that the last two years have been difficult years in the life of our church, school, and our homes? Well with COVID and the changing of the guard here at Liberty, and the normal day-to-day stuff that goes on in our work and in our homes, stressful times, times of stretching. Various degrees for each one of us, fearful and uncertain times in many ways. As a result. Maybe we've seen cracks around here at the church. Maybe we've seen cracks develop over at the school. And definitely we've seen cracks develop in our own homes. But realizing that now, that now is the time for the work to commence, it's time for us to know the ground. To look to God to lead us forward. And to go forward requires an all-in, all hands on deck, whether it's church, school, or your home. From my home. We prayed for a new head of school. And God has granted us Eric Cole. Now I'm going to I have a little demonstration I'm gonna give here. Can you hear me? We have Eric Cole. You know he's our new headmaster. So this is what I wanted to show you. We added a brick I know that's really stupendous, but we added a brick. And keep praying that other bricks will follow, teachers, aides, staff. God gave us pastor Pastor Arch. Here's our second brick. I'm not sure we could have been sustained without his ministry here. Sustain us as a church as we struggle to move forward. The PSE committee, they they've done such difficult work in seeking a new path. Pastor for us. Which in God's timing, oh, I just have one more, which in God's timing gives us our third brick. Pastor Who? I don't know, you don't know, but one day he'll be right here, maybe with bricks. At the right time, God will send his next pastor and shepherd to us. That's what he does. He builds things brick by brick. Our job is to pray that as a church we're going to be ready and prepared and willing to take on the task of building Christ's church and school. with our new pastor and headmaster as they lead the way, all working together, foot and hand alike, together restoring these areas That are weakened, shoring up areas that need support, working together, all of us, to lift up God's name once again in all that we do. Which brings me to my final thought. I've talked about the church a little bit and I've talked about the school. Would this not be a good time for each one of us to examine our own lives and families? Are there cracks and loose rubble in your life that needs to be cleared away and rebuilt as well? Asking yourself tough questions Usually we don't have a problem asking other people tough questions. We rarely ask ourselves tough questions. Preparing ourselves to hear tough answers. Taking an inventory, knowing your personal ground. Is there sin that you or I need to repent of? This just goes along with what Nehemiah is asking his people. Is there sin that you and I need to repent of? Is there someone to whom you need to go and confess and repent of wrong, seeking forgiveness that will bring about restoration? Is there something in your family or at work that, if left unattended to, will have life-altering consequences? But it is still in your power to correct it and to see it restored. Is your spiritual life teetering and out of alignment, ready to collapse? You know, I don't know your answers to these questions. I need to answer them myself. We are all individually bricks in the process of rebuilding God's church, rebuilding the school, but more importantly, rebuilding our very lives. And now we're going to build for the future. Brick by brick. Living stones, as Peter calls it, in the household of God. So that we like Nehemiah can say, then I replied to them, the God of heaven will make us prosper and We as servants will arise and build. It is now time for liberty to arise and build as well. God desires his name to be exalted, whether in Jerusalem or in Elling's Mills. And he uses the body of Christ, all of us, to accomplish that task. So at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow in heaven and upon the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Our calling, I believe, is to move forward together through the bright days and through the dark days, through the lean years and through the fat years. Knowing that as the good hand of God is on the covenant people of Israel, his good hand is on his new covenant people as well. The church and this church locally. I submit to you that in the next six months, with God's help, God's guidance, Liberty will be setting in place new foundation stones for the future. It's a time of expectation and a time, I think, of great rejoicing. And don't kid yourself, it's a time of hard work. So in the words of Nehemiah, all I can say is, let us rise up and build, as God supplies us, building blocks for his kingdom. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. I thank you for the life of folks like Nehemiah and Esther. and Ezra, who you put into your canon through your prophetic word, as they walk with us, Father, in the The stuff of life. But we can see, we can see how you worked your glory in the past. We can see how you strengthened your people in the present. And we, like them, can look forward to the hope that you have for us in Christ, ultimately as he builds his church, his body here at Liberty. So we look to you. We ask your guidance. We ask you for your patience with us. Commit us, Father, to yourself in greater and more serious ways. I thank you. I thank you for every single individual here today. Together, Father, in your name We will exalt you. Pray in Christ's name. Amen.