With you, I encourage you to turn to First Timothy chapter three. First Timothy chapter three, and we will be reading the first thirteen verses. as this morning we look at the qualifications of a church officer. Now you may be wondering to yourself, why are we covering this topic today? Well, first of all, it is a topic that right we are studying right now in our leadership training class, and so I would like to share it with you as well. And that topic is the role of the elder. Also, we will be electing officers in a few weeks, so it is a timely and important subject for the life of our church today. And as a church, we have been blessed with many godly elders and deacons, men who have faithfully served the Lord and served this church. And so as we read through these verses, I'm sure that many of them will come to mind. But now let's hear from God's word from 1 Timothy chapter 3. Paul writes, This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop then must be blameless. The husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach Not given to wine, not violent, or greedy for gain, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride, he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for g for money holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. But let these also be tested. Then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise, their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their households well, for those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, Lord, we thank you for your word and how you have told us in your word about how you desire your church. To be run in terms of government and polity and in terms of leadership. Thank you that you've not left us to our own imaginations but you that you have given us clear guidance through this passage and others as well. We pray, Lord, that you would impress these words upon our hearts, that you would Would teach us today that we would be more effective in terms of our witness and fellowship with you. We ask this in the precious name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, beloved, as we look at these verses today, Paul gives us quite an extensive list of qualifications for the office of deacon and elder. And we readily recognize the importance of qualifications. Should you hire somebody to prepare your taxes? You want to make sure that that tax preparer knows the tax code inside and out, all 10,000 pages of it. And you wouldn't want somebody to work on your car who doesn't know the difference between a tailpipe or a headlight from a headlight. Whether it's somebody handling your retirement account or a doctor diagnosing you, you want to be sure that he or she meets the necessary qualifications to do their job. So if we care about things which are here today and gone tomorrow and care that they are serviced by qualified people, how much more should we care about those who watch over our souls? One day our cars will rust away. One day our investments will no longer be needed, but our souls. Our souls are eternal. So it's important that we know the qualifications for godly leadership. We need to know what to look for in a leader, because our leaders are charged with the care and nurturing of our eternal souls. And thankfully, the Lord did not leave us in the dark about what to look for in a leader. He spelt it out rather plainly in these verses. Now today, in the interest of time, we'll focus on the qualifications of the elder. And I don't mean to shortchange the important work that our deacons do. But as you can see, the qualifications for both elder and deacon are very similar. They overlap in several areas. So in other words, we can knock off two officers with one stone. Some of you might want to knock off a few officers. I don't know. I hope not, but maybe so. Well, let's turn to verse 1, and we'll look at and see what Paul has to say about the elder. And what does he say in verse 1? Paul writes that if a man desires the position of bishop, he desires a good work. Now, the New King James translation is somewhat confusing because it sounds like Paul is introducing a new office in the church. That of the bishop. But the Greek word here, translated bishop, can also be translated overseer. And the Greek word for overseer and the Greek word for elder are interchangeable. They are used to describe the same office. We see this, for example, in Titus 1, 5 through 9, where the two words bishop and overseer and elder are used interchangeably to describe the same office. So when you read bishop here in the New King James, you need to think elder. If the man desires the position of elder, he desires a good work Or a noble task. So the first qualification for office is the desire to do it. The word here, desire, describes an intense longing. In other words, the elder has a strong sense of an inner call to the office. And Paul is highlighting here that the office of elder then is a spirit-born calling. It is one which is prompted by and empowered by the Holy Spirit We see this in Acts 20, verse 28, if you wouldn't mind. Just turn there with me to Acts 20, 28. In this passage, Paul is addressing the elders at Ephesus before his departure. And notice what he says to the elders. He says, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which what? The Holy Spirit made you overseers So a man is elected to be an elder not because of his business success, not because of his prominence in the community. Not because of his church pedigree. No, a man is an elder because the Lord has graciously called him to the office by the power of his spirit. And his spirit prompts him and then empowers him. And then what happens is the congregation sees the evidence of that call in his life and confirms it by electing him to fulfill the role which he has been supernaturally gifted to do. And it is all then God's grace that he calls some men to the role, just as he gives other spiritual gifts to other people for the building up of his body. And what is this noble task? Well look again back at Acts 20, verse 28. Paul says, the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to do what? to shepherd the church of God. The elders are to serve as shepherds, as Peter writes in his first epistle in chapter 5, verse 2, he says, Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion, but willingly, eagerly. Well, what does a shepherd do? He guides the flock. And so the elders lead the congregation towards health and growth. A shepherd feeds the flock, and so the elder feeds the flock from God's word, so that their coat is fluffy and that their eyes are bright and shiny. The shepherd guards the flock from wolves, and likewise the elder guards the congregation from false teachers who would rip apart the flock. Paul describes being an elder as a noble task. It is a noble task. And it is a noble task partly because of what an elder is called to do. And it is a noble task because of who he serves, the Lord Jesus. These sheep, these beloved sheep, are God's flock. And they belong to him. And they were purchased by the precious blood of Christ. And so they are precious to him. And they are entrusted to us elders. The office of elder is a spirit-born calling. Only the work of the Spirit can explain why any man, any man would desire to shepherd God's flock. For the demands are high and the responsibilities are daunting. Because what do elders deal with? They deal with the muck of people's lives. There's the late-night meetings. There's the family crises. There's the giving comfort to the grieving. There's the binding up the wounded in heart. There's the disciplining the wayward. But to the one called, to the one called, it is a burning compulsion to want to serve in this way, to shepherd God 's people. What and honor, brothers. What a privilege, fellow elders that the Lord, the Lord would entrust his most precious possession in all of the universe to men such as us who have feet of clay. That we are so undeserving of such an astounding privilege to guide, to feed, and to guard God's people, it is truly a gift of his grace. to serve as his elder. We've seen what an elder does, that he shepherds the flock. Now let's consider some qualifications for the elder Now normally when we think of qualifications, we think of skills. Does a person have the right skill set to do the job? And yet, when we read the following qualifications in 1 Timothy 3, what do they focus on? They focus not on skills so much. but on character, on the elder's character. There's only one qualification that has to do with ability, which sets the elder apart from the deacon. and that is that he must be apt to teach. The rest of the qualifications focus on his character. And as we see, these characteristics are again spirit-filled qualifications. The office of elder is a spirit-born calling with spirit-filled qualifications. Now, the calling is only for some in the church. But as we see, many of the character qualities of an officer are ones that all Christians should be emulating The character qualities of an officer are a picture of a mature Christian. If you want to know what a mature Christian looks like, Here they are. Here are some characteristics. Now we know it's not an exhaustive list, but it is certainly reflective of the fruit of the Spirit which should be seen in any Christian in his life according to Christianity. to Galatians 5, that we should be seeing love, joy, peace, long-suffering, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. And where do these qualities come from? They are again a gift of God's grace, because beloved in Christ, beloved in Christ, what has he done for you? But that he's given you a new heart, made alive by the power of his spirit. And he's given you a renewed mind through the power of his word. And he's given you a new desire to love him and to follow him and to follow his word. And yes, we should see these qualities exhibited in our officers, but they are not just for them. No, they are for all of us. All of us. For daily the Lord is chipping away, chipping away, chipping away at our old nature. And he's making us more. and more in the image of our Savior through the renewing of our mind, through the power of his word, and through his spirit. Amen? And yes, they should be representative in our officers because they serve as an example for us, as a flock. But we are able to follow their example. Why? Because we have the same Spirit working in us. making us like Christ, growing us towards maturity. So I encourage you today, don't walk off the reservation and check out mentally now, thinking to yourself, huh? Well, what does this all have to do with me? There's no way I'm ever going to be an elder. No. It has everything, everything to do with you. Because everyone who is a believer in Christ should be moving toward maturity. And as you move toward maturity, you're going to be exhibiting some of these qualities. So as we go through them, ask yourself this question, is this reflective of my life? Do I exhibit these qualities in my life? Well, let's look at these character qualifications. In verse 2, Paul writes that an elder should be blameless, that he should be above reproach. In other words, there can be no charge laid against his character. There is no obvious defect in his life that anyone can point to. And again, this characteristic isn't just for the elders in the church. It is for all of us. For what did Paul say to the Philippians in chapter 2, verse 15? Believers, do all these things without grumbling and arguing that you may become what? blameless and innocent children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. And Peter writes in his second epistle in chapter 3, be diligent to be found by Christ in peace, without what? Without spot, and be blameless. So this is a challenge to all of us, is it not? That we need to ask ourselves, is there anything, anything at all in our lives that could wreck our testimony? Is there anything that could smear the name of our Savior to a watching world? Is there anything that we do that would bring dishonor to our Lord? Well, what does it mean to be above reproach? What does it mean to be blameless? What does it look like? Well, at the top of the it's it is at the top of this list of a qualification for an elder because it serves as an overarching quality for all that follows. And at the top of the list for the qualification of an officer is that he is to be a husband of one wife. Literally, Paul writes that he is to be a one-woman man. Now that has been interpreted in several ways, and I'll just briefly go through them. Some see this expression to be a one-woman man as a prohibition against polygamy Which is certainly wrong, but it was not widely practiced in Paul's day. So it's unlikely that he was referring to having more than one wife at the same time. Some might say, well, this means that an elder has to be married, that he has to have one wife. But then they're forgetting that Paul was an elder himself and was not married Some see this as a restriction against a divorced man from serving. And here it gets a little tricky. Because Scripture does give some allowance for divorce for legitimate divorce. That would be adultery or abandonment by an unbelieving spouse. So it is possible, it is possible for a divorced man to serve depending on the circumstances of his divorce. And it would lead to certain questions. For example, when did he get divorced? Was he divorced before he became a Christian or after his conversion? It would lead to the question of what were the circumstances regarding his divorce? Were they legitimate circumstances for divorce or not? So it gets a little tricky with that, but it doesn't necessarily rule out that a divorced man could not serve as an elder. However, the clearest interpretation is that he must be a man who is a one-woman man, one who is devoted to his marriage, a man who does not have a roving eye and wandering thoughts. a man who is not a kind of Casanova in the church who's flirtatious with a reputation for being a ladies' man. He would treat other women with respect, with decorum. He would treat other women as sisters in Christ. So this quality of self-control tops the list because it is the most common point of attack for men in leadership. If Satan is going to discredit the church and the gospel, where is he going to attack? Where can he get the most bang for his bullet? It is the leadership. And where is the leadership most vulnerable? Given the way that men are wired, it will be in his marriage commitment in regards to sexual purity. And unfortunately, we've seen over and over again that this principle has proven true. How many elders, how many teaching elders, ruling elders have had to step down because they were involved in an extramarital affairs. So brothers, whether you're an elder or deacon or not, brothers, it is a warning to all of us that we need to hold each other accountable for our purity. That we need to be on guard because you know what kind of world we live in, that we have the city of Corinth at the tip of our fingers. at our phones, on our laptops. All we have to do is enter in a few words and press enter and we enter into a very dark world. A world which can destroy our marriages and ruin our families and ruin our testimony. And if the statistics are true, It is chilling to think that one out of every two men who sit on a pew on Sundays looks at porn regularly. So there's a challenge to us, brothers. Are you a one-woman man, faithful in your marriage, pure in your life Well, the next two qualities also center around self-control, and they're similar. Paul mentions being temperate in verse 2. And in verse 3 he says, the elder is not to be given too much wine. Both words convey the idea that the leader is not to become, not to be a drunkard. or abuse alcohol or be addicted to any kind of substance. But the word temperate here has a wider angle view that embodies more than just alcohol addiction. It includes the idea of mental sobriety, that the elder should be level-headed, that he shouldn't be prone to rash behavior That he isn't a man who rides a cheater-totter of extremes. William Hendrickson states it perfectly. He says, a temperate person is one who is not given to extremes. but is moderate, well-balanced, calm, careful, steady, and sane. This pertains to his physical, moral, and mental states and habits. And we can see why this would be important to have for an elder. Because he often deals with conflict and controversy. So he himself needs to be emotionally stable Not one who would fly off the handle easily. And the result of being temperate is that he will be sober-minded. In verse 2, because a temperate person avoids excesses. And he is able to see clearly. Now, when we think of a sober-minded person, we often maybe picture someone who's kind of gray. Grim, colourless, no sense of humor. But an elder can enjoy a good joke. He doesn't take himself too seriously, but he does take the things of God's kingdom seriously. He is not frivolous, but serious-minded about Christ's kingdom. Now, why would that be important for an elder? If you are sober-minded, if you know that your leader is sober-minded, you know that you can go to him with your problems. your concerns and the fact that he is sober minded, you know that he will be discreet. And being sober minded, you know that he will be prudent, that he will listen carefully to you and that he will consider what you say and how he will counsel you. But again, being sober-minded is not just for the officer. It's for every Christian, is it not? For Paul writes in Romans 12 that we are to be what? We are to think soberly or prudently about where we fit in the body of Christ, what our gifts are, and how we can best use them. And 1 Peter 1. 13 exhorts us to be what? Sober, taking seriously our faith in Christ and to live lives pleasing to God. And in chapter 4, Peter exhorts us again to be serious and watchful in our prayers. While again related to being sober-minded, the next quality of self-control is good behavior. The word here comes from the Greek for world and it suggests orderliness. That the elder's life is well managed and that he can therefore be well mannered. You can invite him over to your home and not be afraid that he's going to in any way embarrass you or your family. that he in some way engenders respect. What we expect in our officers should be also, though, true for us. As Peter writes in his first epistle, that our conduct should be honorable among unbelievers, that though they speak falsely of you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they observe glorify God. at the day of visitation. Our next two qualities of self-control are what an officer is not to be, what he is not to be. He is not to be violent, and he is not to be quarrelsome. He is not to be a striker who settles matters with his fists. And he is not to be quick-tempered. That is important for a leader who will find himself in conflict, intense situations. in which emotions run high, he must be a man who can control his emotions. It would not go over real well at a congregation meeting for an elder to begin whacking some of the sheep upside the head. He is not to use the force of his fists and he is not to use the force of his voice. The Greek word here for chorosom means a brawler. An officer is not to be contentious, but rather a peacemaker. In contrast, he is to show gentleness. He is to forbear with others, making allowance for their weaknesses and the ignorance of our fallen condition. He is to be considerate of others, gracious and kind. He is an example of the loving kindness that Christ has shown him by saving him from his sins. But again, I know I'm beating a dead horse here. This is not just for the leader of the church. It is for all Christians. As Paul writes in Titus, we are to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to everyone as a reflection for what Christ has done for us. Would others characterize you as peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to everyone? Paul goes on to say that the officer is not to be covetous, is to be free from the love of money. Now in Paul's day, false teachers were charging for their services. and taking advantage of the naive. And as we look 2,000 years later, nothing much has changed. Examples are ample I remember years ago channel surfing and I came across a religious channel and there was a televangelist hawking prayer towels for $50 apiece. And he promised that he prayed over these towels and that when you received the towel, if you prayed over the towel, your prayers would be answered. So when a person uses the ministry for financial gain, he is in dangerous territory. And Paul warned of such men. Who desire to be rich, they fall into temptation and a snare, for the love of money is the root of all evil, for which some have strayed from the faith and their greediness and pierced themselves through many sorrows Now that might be a problem for teaching elders who are paid to be good, not so much for ruling elders who are good for nothing. It's an old joke, but I love to tell it. Well a leader is to be cont As Scripture says, godliness with contentment is great gain. And yet that is true for each one of us, as believers in Christ, as the writer of Hebrews. 13 exhorts us. He says, let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For the Lord Himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Well, those are the list of qualities that fall under what we would say self-control. And it's quite an extensive list. There are two that fall under the category which we might say self-sacrifice for lack of a better word. Under self-sacrifice, we see that a leader is to be hospitable. In other words, he is to show hospitality. And of course, he would be demonstrating a quality that is true for all Christians. As Paul bluntly simply states in Romans 12. 13, he says, pursue hospitality. And hospitality means literally lover of strangers. And when we do hospitality, it doesn't matter how we do it. It doesn't matter at all whether it's an elegant dinner with linen napkins and china and beautiful flowers, or whether it's a picnic lunch with paper plates. It doesn't matter how you do it. What matters is the heart behind it. What matters is the heart. Why are you doing it? You're doing it because you want to open your home. Because you're opening up your heart to others to get to know them and for them to get to know you as you share a meal together It involves some sacrifice though, does it not? It involves some sacrifice of your time to host others. It involves some sacrifice of your funds to have people over. But what an impact it makes as you welcome others to your home. What ministry you can have to them as you open your hearts and your homes to them. Well, the next item on the list of qualifications deals with teaching. An elder is apt to teach. It is a gift, as we said, that sets him apart from the deacon Now the teaching can take place in many different ways. We normally think of teaching in terms of Sunday school, in terms of a lecture in front of a large group, but the teaching can mean many different kinds of venues. It can be one-on-one. It can be a small group. It can be a class. What is stated here is expanded on in Titus 1. Where Paul says that of the elder that he is to hold fast the faithful word as he has been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convict those who are in error. So in order for an elder to be able to do that, it involves sacrifice, does it not? It involves the sacrifice of his time and his mental energy in studying the scripture and learning the doctrines of the faith so that he can instruct defend and refute in humility, correcting those in opposition. So elders, it means for us that we never graduate. We're always in school. We are always learning more and more. as we deepen our knowledge of God's Word. But it isn't just for the elder, is it? It isn't just for the elder to know the truth of Scripture. It is for all of us to know the basic tenets of the gospel so that we can be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks us the reason for the hope that is in us, as Peter writes. Are you knowledgeable enough of the gospel and of the tenets of the faith to be able to give a defense for the hope that is within you? Well, we come to our last qualification of the officer, and that is his sphere of influence. The question is, is his character that he exhibits on Sunday consistent with the way that he acts throughout the rest of the week in the larger community. If you want to know if an elder is qualified, Paul says look at his home. Does he manage his home well? Look at his children. And by children I mean those who are still living under his roof and under his authority. Are they respectful, obedient to his authority? And what kind of father is he? Does he manage his home with dignity, or does he provoke his children to anger according to the to Ephesians 5. Paul, you see, is arguing here from the smaller sphere to the larger. If he can't manage his own family well, then how can he entrust him with the larger issues of the family of God. And then in verse 7, Paul states, an elder is to have a good reputation among those outside in the church. He must show consistency in all spheres of his life. He is therefore not a hypocrite, one person on Sunday morning and another the rest of the week Now, can you imagine the response if he were? What his co-workers might say. Bob, Bob, Bob is an officer in your church? What a joke! He is the most dishonest employer I've ever seen. He always tries to dip us out of our overtime. Ed? Ed is an elder in your church? Don't make me laugh. Ed is the most lazy worker in the whole office. just sits there and serves the web the whole day. He doesn't do his job and boy does he have a roving eye with the ladies. So it's important, beloved, that all areas of his life are in line with God's will. A leader in the church makes an impact on the world. By the nature of his character, he is a witness for Christ. Christ. The world recognizes that he is different. He's a one-man woman. He's a one-woman man. He's a one I knew I was gonna do that. He is a one-woman man when most marriages end in divorce. He is hospitable and gracious in a cold, doggy dog world. He is not addicted in a society replete with drug rehabs. He is not greedy when others say he who dies of the most toys wins. He is a Christ-like example that points others to Christ. But again, these qualities are not for the deacon and the elder alone. No, they are qualities that we should see in not just in our leaders, but in ourselves As Titus 2. 11 says, for the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should Live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age. Oh, what a challenge! What a challenge this passage is For we have seen this morning and examining the qualifications of an officer, that an elder has been given the spiritual gift of God's grace, that he's been called by God to shepherd the flock. And he has been given spirit-filled qualities of self-control, self-sacrifice, while making an impact on his sphere of influence. And if you are like me, you have been humbled and you have been challenged by God's word, whether you're a leader or not. For these qualities are not just for the elders of the church. church, but they are for all all who profess Christ. This passage is like a mirror That we look into to see ourselves. And when we gaze at it, what do we see in the reflection? Do we see someone growing in maturity Do I see someone who is becoming more and more like my Savior? Or do I see someone who hasn't changed very much at all since I professed Christ? What areas do you need to ask the Lord to work on in you? Where do you need to grow in reflecting Christ? Leader or not, you may feel discouraged. And you may feel disheartened when you look in the mirror. You may think to yourself, I could never ever live up to these qualities. But take heart, beloved. Take heart for the same grace that saved you It's the same grace that continues to transform you more and more in the image of our Savior. We will never attain perfection, not until we get to glory. But we have this wonderful promise that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it to the end. These are spirit-born qualities, and we have the encouragement to know that we have his spirit who is at work in us as we avail ourselves of his means of grace. His word, worship, the sacraments, and fellowship with other believers. So I encourage you as I encourage myself To spend time with the Lord, to deepen that relationship through prayer and study of his word. And as you do, you will become more and more. Like the one who has blessed you with his life-giving grace. Let's pray. Oh Father God, Lord, we are indeed humbled and challenged. By these verses, because we see how often our life falls so far short of them. So, Lord, we ask first of all for your mercy and your grace, and for the empowerment of your spirit And for the movement of your spirit in our lives, that we would endeavor to become more and more like our Savior. Lord, chip away at the rough edges and help us Help us to live more faithfully for Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.