Brothers and sisters, if you have your Bibles, turn with me to 1 Timothy 3, and we'll be reading from the first 13 verses. 1 Timothy 3. as we look at the qualifications of a church officer. Now you may be wondering, why are we covering this topic today? Well, first of all, it is a topic that we are covering in our Sunday school class for church leaders, so it is fresh on my mind, and at 50-some years old, my mind is not that fresh. But more importantly, we are electing officers next week, so it is timely and an important subject in the life of our church. And as a church, we have been so blessed to have so many godly elders and deacons who have faithfully served or who are serving now. So as we read through these verses, I'm sure that many of them will come to mind. But let's hear God's word. 1 Timothy 3, verse 1. Paul writes: This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop, then, must be blameless The husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach Not given to wine, not violent, or not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous. One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach in the snare of the devil. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience But let these also be tested first. Then let them serve as deacons being found blameless. Likewise, their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Let's pray together O Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, that you did not leave us in the dark regarding of how your church, your precious, precious church, should operate. You've given us these qualifications for elders and deacons, and they are challenged to us. So, Father, we pray that your spirit would meet with us today, that you would renew our minds through your spirit. That you would open up our hearts to your word, and that you would enable me to proclaim it concisely and clearly. We thank you and praise you for all these things. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we've looked at these verses, we see that Paul gives quite an extensive list of qualifications for the office of elder and deacon. And we readily recognize the importance of qualifications, do we not? Should you have somebody prepare your taxes for you? You want to make sure that that tax preparer is familiar with the ins and outs of all the tax code, all 40,000 pages of it. And you wouldn't want to let somebody work on your car who couldn't tell a kalepipe from a headlight So whether it's someone handling your retirement account or a doctor diagnosing you, you want to be sure that he or she has the right qualifications, the necessary qualifications for their job. So if we care about these things, which are here today and gone tomorrow, how much more should we care about those who watch over our souls? One day our cars will rust away, and one day our investments will no longer be needed, but our souls live forever. So it's important that we know the qualifications of godly leadership. We need to know what to look for in a church leader Because our leaders are charged with the care and the nurturing of our souls. And the Lord didn't leave us in the dark about what to look for in a leader. He spells it out plainly in these verses. Now, in the interest of time, we will focus on the qualifications of the elder. Now, I don't mean to shortchange the deacons. We love our deacons. But and they do an important work. But as you can see, the qualifications of elder and the qualifications for deacon overlap. So we cannot off two officers with one stone, so to speak. by focusing on the elder. Well let's uh turn to verse one and look and see what Paul has to say about the elder In verse 1, Paul writes, if a man desires the position of bishop, he desires a good work. Now the New King James translation here is somewhat confusing because it sounds like Paul is introducing yet a new office to the church, a different office, the office of bishop. But the Greek word here translated bishop in the New King James can also be translated overseer. And the Greek word for overseer and the Greek word for elder are used to describe the same office. We see this in Titus 1, 5 through 9 where the two words use are used interchange interchangeably to describe the same office. So when you read here bishop Think elder. If a man desires the position of elder, he desires a good work. or a noble task, it might be translated. So the first qualification for office is the desire to do it. The word here, desire, describes an intense longing. It means literally that the man is stretching himself out. He longs for this is a serious longing in his life. In other words, he has a strong sense of an inner call to the office of elder. And Paul is highlighting here that the office of elder is a spirit-born calling. The office for elder is a spirit-born calling, one prompted and empowered by the Holy Spirit. We see this in Acts 20, verse 28. If you could just turn to Acts 20, 28, and we'll take a look at that. Paul here is addressing the elders at Ephesus before his departure. It was the church that he planted, and he warns the elders. And as he's warning them and exhorting them, he says to them in verse 28, Take heed to yourselves and to all the flock among which what The Holy Spirit made you overseers. So a man is not elected to be elder because of his business success, although he may be successful in business Not because of his prominence in the community, although he might be prominent in the community, not because of his church pedigree although he might have been in the church and his family might have been in the church for generations. This all might be true, but an elder is an elder because the Lord, the Lord has graciously called him to the office by the power of the elder. of his spirit, prompting him and empowering him. And what happens is the congregation sees that in his life, the evidence of that call in his life. And confirms it by electing him to fulfill the role. It is all God's grace. It is all God's grace that he calls some men to this role, just as he gives spiritual gifts. to other people, other kinds of spiritual gifts to other people for the building up of his body. It is all God 's grace. And it is a noble task. Look again at ver uh Acts 20, verse 28. The Holy Spirit has made you overseers, Paul writes. The Holy Spirit has made you overseers to do what? To shepherd the church of God. The elders are to serve as shepherds As Paul, as Peter writes in his first epistle in chapter 5, verse 2, he writes, Shepherd the flock of God, elders. which is among you, serving as overseers not by compulsion, but willingly, eagerly. Again, the sense of internal call, this compulsion, this strong desire. To want to serve the Lord by shepherding God's people. Well, what does a shepherd do? A shepherd guides his flock keeps them safe, leads them to pastures and water. And so the elders lead the congregation toward health and growth. A shepherd gives to his flock, and the elders feed the flock from God's word, so that their coat is fluffy and their eyes are bright and shiny. The shepherd guards the flock from wolves, and likewise the elder guards the congregation from false teachers who would rip apart the flock and cause division and dissension. Being an elder is a noble task because of what God has called him to do. It is a noble task because of who he serves. These sheep. are God's flock. They belong to him. They are his sheep. And they were purchased by the precious blood of Christ. And so they are precious to him. And brothers, they are entrusted to us. The office of elder is a spirit-born calling. Only the work of the spirit can explain why a man would desire to do it in the first place, to shepherd God's flock. For the demands of an elder are high and the responsibilities can be daunting. Dealing with the muck of people's lives, the endless meeting, the late-night crisis, going to the hospitals, going to the funeral homes to comfort the grieving, build binding up the wounded in the heart. and discipling and disciplining the wayward, but to one called to be an elder. It is a burning compulsion to want to serve in this way. To shepherd God's people. What an honor, brothers! What an honor! That the Lord would entrust his most precious possession to men who have such feet of clay We are so undeserving of such an astounding privilege to guide, to feed, and to guard God's people. It is truly a gift of his grace. Amen? Well, let's consider some of the qualifications of an elder. Now normally when we think of qualifications, we think of skills. Does the person have the right skill set to do the job? Yet, as we look at the following qualifications for officers, what did they focus on They focus mainly on what? On character, not ability. There's only one qualification that has to do with ability for the elder, which sets him apart from the deacon And that is he must be apt to teach. The rest of the focus is on his character. His character. So as we will see, these characteristics are spirit. filled qualities. They are spirit-filled qualifications. The office of elder is a spirit-born quality calling. With spirit-filled qualifications. Now the calling is only for some, but as we will see, many of the character qualities of an officer are ones that every and any Christian should exhibit and be emulating. The character qualities of an officer are the picture of a mature Christian If you want to know what a mature Christian looks like, then read these characteristics and the qualities. Here are some. Now, this list is not exhaustive. But it is reflective of the fruit of the Spirit, which should be seen in any Christian. The fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Well, where do these qualities come from? Again, they are a gift of God's grace. It's all his grace. Because beloved in Christ, beloved in Christ, what has he done for you? But he's given you a new heart, made alive by the power of the Spirit. And He's given you a renewed mind through the power of His Word. And he's given you a new desire to love him and to follow Christ. And yes, we should see these qualities exhibited in our officers, but they are not just for them. No. Therefore, all of us. Daily, daily, the Lord is chipping away. He's chipping away. He's chipping away at the stone of our old nature. And he's making us more and more like the image of our Savior. So yes, they should be present. These qualifications should be present in our officers because they serve as an example for us to follow. But we can follow their example because why? We have the same Spirit working in us. Making us more like Christ, growing us up toward maturity in Christ. So I encourage you not to check out mentally, not to leave the reservation, not to be thinking to yourself today, well, what does any of this have to do with me? Brothers and sisters in Christ, it has everything, everything to do with you. Because everyone who is a believer should be moving toward maturity and exhibiting these qualities. So as we go through them, as we go through then ask yourself, is this reflective of my life? Do I exhibit this in my life? Let's look at these other qualifications, these spirit-filled qualifications. In verse 2, Paul writes that an elder should be blameless, that he should be above reproach. In other words, there can be no charge made against him No charge laid against his character. There is no obvious defect in his life that anyone can point to. And again, this characteristic isn't just for our leaders, is for all of us. And for what did Paul say to the Philippians in chapter 2, verse 15, believers, do all these things without grumbling and arguing, that you may become what? blameless and innocent children of God, without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation , And Peter writes in his second epistle in chapter 3, be diligent to be found by Christ in peace, without spot, but blameless. This is a challenge to us, is it not? We need to ask ourselves, is there anything Anything in our lives that could wreck our testimony? Is there anything that could smear the name of our Savior to a watching world? Is there anything, anything that we would do that would bring dishonor to him What does it mean to be above reproach? What does it mean to be blameless? What does it look like? Well, Paul unpacks it for us. He impacts for us what it means to be blameless in the following character qualities. Being blameless is the overarching, all-encompassing character quality that is the mark of every Christian that sums up all the rest which follow. And they can be divided into three groups. Self-control. Self -sacrifice and sphere of influence. Self-control, self-sacrifice, and sphere of influence. Let's start with self-control, which is the largest of the list. And at the top of the list is the qualification of an officer to be the husband of one wife. Literally, it means a one-woman man, which has been interpreted in several ways. Some see this as a prohibition against polygamy, and that's certainly wrong, but was not widely practiced in Paul's day, so he's unlikely referring to having more than one wife at the same time. Some might say, well, he means that an elder must be married, but they're forgetting that Paul, an elder, was not married, that he was single. Some see this as a restriction against a divorced man from serving. And yet Scripture does allow for divorce on two grounds, on adultery. and on abandonment by an unbelieving spouse. So a divorced man could possibly serve, depending on the circumstances of his divorce and when he was divorced. The questions to ask would be, was he a Christian when he was divorced? And what were the grounds for the divorce if he was a Christian? Was it a legitimate divorce? Such questions are best and cases are best dealt with individually. But clearly, the clearest interpretation is that he must be a man who is a one-woman man. One who is devoted to his marriage, one who is faithful to his wife, a man who doesn't have Casanova eyes, roving eyes, one who is not flirtatious, one that Treats other women as sisters in Christ. The quality of self-control. This quality of self-control tops the list. I think because it's the most common point of attack for men in leadership. If Satan is going to discredit the gospel, Where is he going to attack where he can get the most bang for his bullet? And that is in the area of leadership. And where is leadership more vul most vulnerable? Given the way that men are wired, it will be in his marriage commitment in regards to his sexual purity. And unfortunately, history has shown That this is true over and over again. Fortunately, not some in our church, but elders have had to step down because they've been involved in extramarital affairs. So brothers, brothers, this is a warning to us, is it not? That we need to hold each other accountable for our purity? That we need to be on guard because brothers, brothers, we know what's available to us, do we not? That we have the city of Corinth right at our fingertips. All we have to do is type in a few words and press enter. And we enter into a world which ensnares us, which can destroy our marriages, which can destroy our families, and which can ruin our reputation and our testimony of faith in Christ. So brothers, are you a one-woman man if you're married If the statistics are true, they are chilling. Absolutely chilling because the statistics say that one out of every two men who sit on a pew on Sunday morning Looks at pornography but looks at pornography regularly. So brothers, again I ask you, are you a one-woman man faithful in your marriage? And if you're not married, brothers, are you chaste? Are you pure? Well, the next two qualities of self-control are similar. Paul mentions being temperate in verse 2. And in verse 3 he says, the elder is not to be given to wine, to much wine. Both words convey the idea that a leader is not to be a drunkard or abuse alcohol or to be addicted to any substance. But the word tempered also has a wider view here that embodies more than just alcohol addiction. It includes the quality of mental sobriety. That he should be level-headed, that he should be a man who is balanced, that he's not prone to rash behavior, that he is a man who doesn't ride a teeter-totter of extremes. William Hendrickson states it perfectly when he says, a temperate person is one who is not given to extremes, but is moderate, well-balanced. calm, careful, steady, and sane. This pertains to his physical, moral, and mental tastes and habits And we can see why this would be important for an elder. Because he often deals with conflict and he often deals with controversy, so he needs to be emotionally stable. Not one who flies off the handle, because if he is, he can do a lot of damage to the sheep. And the result of being temperate is that he will be sober-minded. In verse 2. Because a tempered person avoids excesses, he is able to think clearly and see things clearly. Now, when we think of a sober person, we picture a gray, grim , colorless person with no sense of humor. But an elder can enjoy a good joke. He doesn't take himself too seriously, but he does take the things of God's kingdom seriously. He is not frivolous, but serious-minded about God's kingdom. Now, why would that be an important quality for an elder? Brothers and sisters, why is this important? Well, if you know that your elder is sober-minded, you know that you can go to him with all of your problems and your concerns. And being sober-minded, you know that he will be discreet. And being sober-minded, you know that he will be prudent. That he will listen carefully and consider what you have said. and that he will counsel you sober-mindedly. But again, being sober-minded is not just for the officer. It is for all Christians. Paul writes in Romans 12 that we are to think what? Soberly or prudently about where we fit in the body of Christ, that we need to be able to clearly evaluate our gifts and how we can best use them in the body. And in 1 Peter 1. 13, he exhorts us to be sober, taking seriously our faith in Christ, and to live lives pleasing to God. And in chapter 4, Paul exhorts us again to be serious and watchful in our prayers. Well, related to sober-minded, the next quality is self-control. Self-control. Self-control, the next quality of self-control is good behavior. The word comes from the Greek for world. And what it suggests here is orderliness. It suggests that his life is well-managed and that he is well mannered. You can invite him over to your home and meet the family. And he won't embarrass you at all because he engenders respect. What we expect in our officers, though, should also be true of us, for us As Paul writes in his first epistle, that our conduct should be honorable among unbelievers, that when they speak of you as evildoers, they may be, by your good works which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation. So our lives are to be marked as one as worthy of honor. Next, our next two qualities are of self-control are what an officer is not to be. Not violent, and he is not to be quarrelsome. He is not a striker who settles matters with his fists. He is not to be quick-tempered, and that is important for an elder who will find himself in conflict. intense situations where emotions run high to the boiling point. He must be a man who can control his emotions. It would not go over real well at a congregational meeting for an elder to be striking the congregants, to begin whacking the sheep upside the head. Well, if he's not to use the force of his fists, he's also not to use the force of his voice. The Greek here means a brawler. An officer who is not to be contentious, but he is to be a peacemaker instead. In contrast, he is to show gentleness. He is to forbear with others. He is to make allowances for their weaknesses and the ignorance of their fallen condition. He is to be considerate to others, to be gracious and kind He is to be an example of the loving kindness that Christ has shown to him in saving him. But again, brothers and sisters, this is not just for the leaders of the church. Not at all. It is for all Christians. As Paul writes in Titus, we are to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to everyone as a reflection for what Christ has done for us. So would you characterize yourself as peaceable, as gentle, as showing all humility to everyone? Well Paul goes on to say that the officer is not to be covetous, that he is to be free from the love of money. And in Paul's day, false teachers were charging for their services, that they were taking advantage of the naive. And not much has changed. I remember years ago I was channel surfing on the television. I came across a televangelist who was hawking these prayer towels that he had for $50. $50. And he said that he prayed over them and he wept over them and he would mail it out to you for $50, and that if you held this prayer towel while you prayed, your prayers would be answered. When a person uses the ministry for financial gain, he is in dangerous territory. Paul warned Timothy of such men who desire to be rich, they fall into temptation and a snare. For the love of money is the root of all evil, for which some have strayed from the faith and the greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Now this might be a problem for teaching elders who are paid to be good, not so much for ruling elders who are good for nothing. Sorry, I couldn't resist that old joke. I guess I'm not showing much self-control Well, a leader is to be content. A scripture says, godliness with contentment is great gain. Yet that is true for all believers, is it not? As the writer of Hebrews exhorts us, let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For the Lord Himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Well, these are the list of qualities under self-control. and is quite an extensive list. There are two that fall under self-sacrifice, for lack of a better word. Under self-sacrifice, we see a leader is to be hospitable In other words, he's to show hospitality. And of course he would be demonstrating the quality that is true for all Christians. As Paul bluntly states in Romans 12. 13, he simply puts it, practice hospitality. Well, hospitality means literally lover of strangers. And it doesn't matter how you show hospitality, whether it's an elegant dinner with linen napkins in China. or a picnic lunch with paper plates and paper cups. What matters the most is the heart. Why you're doing it. And why you're doing it is you're opening your home because you're opening up your hearts to others. You practice hospitality to show kindness to others and to get to know them and for them to get to know you. as you share a meal together. And it involves some sacrifice of time, of energy, and of money to host others. But what an impact it makes on the lives of others as you welcome them into your home. What ministry opportunities we can have to those who, as they come into our home, and we welcome them and open our hearts and our homes to them. Well, the next item on the list of qualifications deals with teaching. An elder is apt to teach. And this is the only requirement, as I said, that sets him apart from the deacon Now the teaching can take many different forms. It can be done one-on-one. It can be done in a small group or in a class. But what is stated here is expanded more in Titus 1, where Paul says the elder is to hold fast the faithful word as he has been taught. that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convict those who are in error. So in order for an elder to do that , It involves the sacrifice of his time and mental energy in studying the scriptures and learning the doctrines of the faith so that he can instruct, defend, and refute in humility, correcting those in opposition. But again, brothers and sisters, this isn't just for the elder. It isn't for the elder to know scripture And just him. It's for all of us to know the basic tenets of the gospel so that we can be ready to give a defense to everyone who gives who gives us a reason, who asks us a reason for the hope that is in us, as Peter writes. So, brothers and sisters, are you knowledgeable enough of the gospel, of the basic tenets of the gospel, to be able to give the hope that is in within you? Well, we come to our last qualification of the officer, and that is sphere of influence. And the question is, is his character that he exhibits on Sunday in church consistent with the way he is at home and in the larger community. And Paul says that if you want to know if an elder is qualified, Paul says, look at his home. Look at his home. Does he manage his home well? Look at his children, those who are still living under his roof and under his authority. Are they respectful? Are they obedient to his authority? And what kind of father is he? Does he manage his home with dignity? Or does he provoke his children to wrath, to anger, according to Ephesians 5? See, Paul is arguing here from the smaller to the larger sphere. So that if a man can manage his own family well, how can you entrust him with a larger family of God? Then verse 7, Paul states that the elder is to have a good reputation among the outside, among those outside in the church. He must show consistency in all the spheres of his life. He is therefore not a hypocrite. He is not one person on Sunday morning and another the rest of the week. For can you imagine what the response would be if he were? His employees would say, my boss is an elder in the church? What a joke! Why, he is the worst boss I can imagine. He's always trying to jip us out of our overtime. Or can you imagine what a boss might say of an elder who wasn't living the way he should? He is an elder in the church? Don't make me laugh. He is the most lazy worker I have ever seen. He doesn't do his job. He hangs around the coffee pot all day long. Chatting up the women and checking them out. What kind of elder is that? And what kind of church is that? And what kind of Christ is that that would let this man be an elder in the church? So it's important that in all areas of his life, they are in line with God's word A leader makes an impact. A leader in the church makes an impact on the world by the nature of his character. He is a witness for Christ in an amazing way. For the world recognizes that he is different. He's different. He's a one-man woman. A one-woman man. Gotta get that right. He's a one-woman man. When most marriages end in divorce, he is hospitable and gracious in a cold dog -eat-dog world. He's not addicted in a society replete with drug rehabs He's not greedy when others say he who dies with the most toys wins. He is a Christ-like example who points others to Christ. But again, brothers and sisters, these qualities are not for the deacon and the elder. They are qualities that we should see in our leaders, but also in ourselves. Titus 2, 11 says, for the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men. It's all God's grace. And he's teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live what? Soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age. What a challenge this passage is. For we have seen this morning and examining the qualifications of an officer that an elder has been given a spiritual gift of God's grace. That he's been called by him to shepherd the flock, and he's been given spirit-filled qualities of self-control, self-sacrifice, while making an impact on the sphere of influence. And if you're like me, if you're like me, you have been challenged and you have been humbled by God's word, whether you're a leader or whether you're not a leader. For these qualities are not just for leaders, but they're for the church, they're for his people, for all of us who profess Christ. This passage is like a mirror which we look into. And when we look into it, we see ourselves, and when we gaze at it, what do we see in the reflection? Do we see somebody growing in maturity? Do I see someone who is becoming more like Christ Or do I see someone who hasn't changed very much since I first professed faith in Christ? What areas do you need to ask the Lord to work on in you? Where do you need to grow in reflecting Christ? Leader or not? You may feel discouraged. You may feel disheartened by what you see in the mirror of God's word. And you may think to yourself, I could never ever live up to these qualities. But brothers and sisters, take hard, take hard. For the same grace that saved you is the same grace that continues to transform you more and more in the image of our Savior. You will never attain perfection, not until you are in glory. But we have this promise that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it to the end. So spend time with the Lord, deepening that relationship through prayer and through the study of the word. And as you do, you will become more and more like the one who has blessed you. with his life giving grace. Let's pray together. Father God, Lord, we are indeed humbled and challenged by these qualifications. And Lord, we are, we recognize that we fall short of them in so many ways. But we thank you for your grace and your mercy shown to us through Christ, that our sins are forgiven, and that your grace is sufficient to cover our failings. But Lord, we also thank you for your spirit who is molding us and shaping us through your word to be more and more like you. Oh, Father, what a wonderful privilege. Lord, we thank you for our elders and our deacons and for the ways that they serve us so faithfully. We pray, Lord, your blessing upon them, that they would truly live out these qualities in their life, and we thank you for such godly men. And Lord, we pray that as a congregation we would follow their example. And Lord, that we would indeed be stirred to live lives that are pleasing to you. We thank you and praise you, Lord, and offer you up our lives, and we thank you for the grace that has changed them. In Jesus' name, amen.