Romans chapter 13, let's begin at verse 1. Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God. And the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. And those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is God's minister and avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil Therefore, you must be subject, not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For because of this you also pay taxes. For they are God's ministers, attending continually to this very thing. Render therefore to all their due, taxes to whom taxes are due, customs to whom customs Fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Owe no one anything except to love one another, for he who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, you shall not covet And if there's any other commandment, are all summed up in this saying, namely, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law. And do this, knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly, as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness, not in lewdness and lust, not in strife and envy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray. Father, that is our prayer that your blessing might rest upon your word, and that today, as we consider it, your Holy Spirit will apply it to our hearts. And accomplish eternal things. Father, I pray specifically if there be someone here today, still dead in sins, still without hope, outside of Christ, that you draw that soul to saving faith. And Lord, if there are those here who have no clear understanding of what your word says about civil government and what our history says about our own government, I pray that you will guide us. This day, by your spirit, we pray in Jesus' powerful name. Amen. Last Sunday we began a brief sermon series on civil government, using as our text the rhetorical question from Psalm 11. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? As we look at Scripture, it seems that God established civil government for the institution of justice in a society. And for national defense, you might say civil government was established to defend citizens from enemies without and enemies within. We considered several principles which can be derived from what the Bible says about civil government. First, the civil magistrate is described in Scripture as God's servant or God's minister This is true of Israel's kings, and it's true of the leaders of other nations. God called Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, my servant, and Persian king Cyrus, my shepherd And Romans 13, we just read, makes it clear, there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. The ruler, therefore, is described in Romans 13 as God's minister or God's servant. Secondly, as God's minister or servant, the one appointed by God, The civil magistrate is obligated to make decisions that are just. That is, decisions which are in keeping with God's natural and special revelation. It is an abomination for kings to commit wickedness, for a throne is established by righteousness. Which throne? Any throne? Proverbs 29. 4. The king establishes the land by justice. Which land? Any land. Proverbs 29. 4. God did not exempt pagan nations from his expectations of righteousness, was the third principle we derive from Scripture. God did not exempt pagan nations from his expectations Of righteousness. He held them accountable for moral degeneration. Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Proverbs 14, 34. Which nation? Any nation? Which people? Any people? Sodom, Gomorrah, the Canaanites, the people of Nineveh are examples of pagan nations. Which were nonetheless held accountable for their moral degeneration, for violating the laws of God written upon their own hearts. Fourthly, Israel's justice was intended to serve as a model for other nations. Be careful to observe these statutes and judgments so that the peoples who will hear of them will say Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. Deuteronomy 4. Fifthly, we saw, although vengeance belongs to God The scriptures are quite clear about it. The civil magistrate is under God's orders to carry out vengeance against those who seriously transgress God's law. He's been deputized, you might say, to carry out God's vengeance against those who seriously transgress God's law. We read, the ruler bears not the sword of God in vain. The ruler bears not the sword in vain. It's not just for show the sword that the ruler bears. He doesn't bear it in vain. He is an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. So God gave us in His Word, in His civil law to Israel, lots and lots of laws that were they to be violated, the result should be capital punishment. Sixthly, the wrath of the civil magistrate is intended to display God's wrath upon evildoers. The wrath of the civil magistrate is intended to display God's wrath upon evildoers. Just as Joshua displayed God's wrath upon the household of Achan. You have troubled Israel, you will be troubled by God this day. Seventh, civil justice, symbolized by the sword, could be properly exercised by the civil authority or it could be improperly exercised. We see examples of both in the life of David. It was properly exercised by King David upon wicked Shimei. Remember the one who cursed David, threw stones at him when David was fleeing from Absalom. And David granted him mercy, but Shimei refused to obey the king and the restrictions the king put upon him, and he was justly put to death. But David improperly exercised God's justice when he gave orders to have Bathsheba's husband Uriah killed. He improperly exercised the authority that God had granted to him as a king. Eighthly, we saw that civil authorities who do not administer justice according to God's law Threaten their entire nation with a judgment of God. Civil authorities who do not administer justice according to God's law threaten their entire nation with a judgment of God. Witness the drought and famine in Israel under the reign of wicked Ahab and Jezebel, and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities of the Canaanites that we've already noted. We saw that some of the characteristics, according to God's word, that we are to seek in leaders include honesty, hating covetousness. One who has the fear of God, one who has wisdom, understanding, knowledge, justice, sobriety, fairness, compassion. Knowledge of God's law. Because in order for him to properly punish the wicked and protect the righteous, he must know the difference between the two. All laws are codifications of morals. All laws are codifications morals of morals, morals put into code, in other words All laws reflect the moral positions of the lawmakers or of those to whom they answer. All laws reflect the moral position of the lawmakers or the position of those to whom those lawmakers must answer. Thus, if lawmakers believe it's wrong to steal, they will enact laws that forbid theft and punish thieves If they believe that a woman's right to choose whether or not she wishes to carry her unborn child to term supersedes the right of that child to life, they will legislate accordingly. Every society must have some standard upon which its laws are based. Every society must have some standard upon which their laws are based. And because there is, in fact, a truth, a creator, who is revealed to us as moral law Who further revealed his standards of justice in the civil law that he gave to his people, then clearly, insofar as civil laws are concerned, a nation would be wise to pattern her laws upon his laws. Perhaps this was what was in the mind of the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, John Jay, when he wrote, as we noted last week: Providence has given to our people the choice of their rulers. Providence has given to our people the choice of her rulers. Not every nation has that blessing. Here's what he said: Providence has given to our people the choice of their rulers, and it is the duty as well as the privilege and interest of their of our Christian nation rulers. to select and prefer Christians for their rulers. It's our duty, it's our privilege, and it's certainly in our interest to do so. Said the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. As Francis Schaefer put it, if you do not have an absolute which resides somewhere to which you can appeal. There are only three sociological possibilities. Hedonism, everyone doing what he wants, which leads to chaos. Everyone does what is right in his own eyes. Secondly, totalitarianism, the dictatorship of an individual or of a small elite, or the dictatorship of the 51%, that is the law of majority opinion. The only standard of right and wrong, then, is what the majority says it is. If the justice of a nation's laws Is dependent upon how closely those laws mirror the laws of God, which seems clear, that America has been especially blessed in that our founders recognize that we were created by God And that we were subject to what they call the laws of nature and of nature's God. What we're witnessing today, however, is a relentless drift. From relying upon God's word as the foundation of our law to the third of Schaefer's three scenarios, the dictatorship of the 51%. Thus, if a bare majority of Maryland's citizens who bother to vote still believe that the state should not authorize the marriage of men to other men, women to other women If they believe that, somehow, because maybe they have some recollection that it's somehow inappropriate. Or because the law of God remains, however faint it has become, engraved upon their hearts, then the majority will vote to repeal the redefinition of marriage And if the courts do not presume to override the will of the majority, then in Maryland, no civil authority or member of the clergy will be saying anytime soon. By the authority vested in me by the state of Maryland, I now pronounce you husband and husband. But if in a few short years public opinion has shifted In response to the relentless pressure to view this as an issue of civil rights, and 51% then view this as acceptable, it may be legalized, or more likely, the Supreme Court may rule it to be unconstitutional to prohibit it. Now here's the problem If we no longer recognize God's word as the foundation of our laws, we're left to the whims of a fickle public. Which is more influenced by popular media than by God's eternal word. Or we're left to the whims of judges who see themselves as change agents of society, bringing in a new order. What we began to establish last Sunday was that America's civil laws were originally recognized by all, or certainly most all, to be based upon the Word of God. But this thesis is so foreign to the thinking of modern Americans, including sadly many professing Christians, that I think it's important that we drive home this point again this morning. So you can view the rest of this message as an application to our times of what we've considered concerning God's civil government from His Word. America's founders understood that God's word must be the standard for all law and justice. For example, James Wilson of Pennsylvania was one of only six men who signed both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. He was a man who reportedly spoke on the floor of the Constitutional Convention 168 times. The only one who was reportedly, who reportedly spoke more often than he did was Gouverneur Morris of New Jersey, I believe. He was appointed unanimously by the House of Representatives to the U. S. Supreme Court, James Wilson. James Wilson explicitly stated that Christianity was part of our common law. That is the basis on which all other laws are to be built. I said last week that our thirteen original states at the time of the drafting of our constitution had statements in their own state constitutions which attempted to ensure that only those who recognized God's authority could assume public office. I thought at the time it was all thirteen of the original states. I should have said most of them, because I I understood this week as I studied a little further that there were a couple states that didn't explicitly say that in their constitutions. Although they had uh statutes on the books I think earlier that affirmed it. But those that did have such requirements included Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachusetts. Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Vermont, Georgia, and Maryland. Last week we quoted from the original constitutions of Delaware, Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Maryland Listen to this segment from the original Constitution of Pennsylvania. Each member of the legislature, before he takes his seat, shall make and subscribe the following declaration. I do believe in one God, the creator and governor of the universe, and rewarder of the good, and the punisher of the wicked. And I do acknowledge the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments to be given by divine inspiration. All eight of the delegates to the Constitutional Convention from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania subscribed to that declaration, including Benjamin Franklin. Professor M. E. Bradford wrote in his book A Worthy Company that of the statesmen who framed the Constitution, twenty-nine of them were Anglican, as Church of England, with a doctrine very similar to ours. As Presbyterians, sixteen to eighteen of them were Calvinists of other denominations, two of them were Methodists, two were Lutherans, two were Catholics, one was a last Quaker and sometime Anglican And one, Franklin, was a deist. Although he attended every kind of Christian worship, he called for public prayer, and it contributed to all denominations. It said that 50 of the 55 delegates were members of one of the established Christian churches. But as you know, our history as a people did not begin suddenly with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitutional Convention. For example, the 1606 Charter obtained from King James I for the establishment of a colony in Virginia speaks of, quote, the propagating of the Christian religion to such people as yet live in darkness, to bring a settled and quiet government. Before the pilgrims disembarked from the Mayflower in 1620, they drafted and signed a compact, an agreement, which begins Having undertaken for the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern parts of Virginia, we combine ourselves in a civil body politic The first charter of Massachusetts, 1629, was granted so that, quote, our people may be so religiously, peaceably, and civilly governed as their good life and orderly conversation May incite the natives of the country to the knowledge and obedience of the only true God and Savior of mankind and the Christian faith, which is the principal end of this plantation. The Puritans arrived nearly a decade after the pilgrims. During their journey to the New World, John Winthrop wrote of their intended role, which was to demonstrate a Christian lifestyle. He said, For we must consider that we shall be as a city upon a hill. The eyes of the people, the eyes of all people are upon us so that if we shall deal falsely with our God in this work we have undertaken, and so cause him to withdraw his present help from us, we shall be made a story and a byword through the world. This foundation of course remained firm after we declared our independence. There was a time when I understand President Washington's farewell address was read and studied in our schools. Parents, I wonder if your children studied it. Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to prosperity, Washington said in his farewell address, of all the dispositions and habits which lead to prosperity. Religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness. Reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principles. The Northwest Ordinance was approved in 1787, reaffirmed in 1789. It established the requirements by which territories could attain statehood in the newly united states. It was passed by Congress and signed by President Washington. It reads in Article III, and I could ask you to recite it, but let me read it for you. Religion, morality, and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, blank Shall forever be encouraged. Now I want you to fill in the blank. Let me say it again. Religion, morality, and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind. Blank shall forever be encouraged. What goes in the blank? Bible reading. Bible reading? Good guess. Someone else. I have Bible reading, Bible reading going once. What's that? Religion? Sounds good? Say? Sounds good? Okay, here's what it says. All wrong. Religion, morality, and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged In other words, you want to join the United States? You'd better establish some schools for the propagation of religion, morality, and knowledge. In our early days as a nation, the most widely used texts appear to have been the Bible, McGuffey's Reader, and Noah Webster's dictionary. In schools, I'm saying. The Bible, of course, McGuffey's readers with copious excerpts from the Bible. What is it, Adam, the first, you know, teaches the letter A with uh Um in Adam's fall, we sinned all, things like that. And then Noah Webster's dictionary, which reportedly used examples from the Bible to to clarify word meanings, you know What does this word mean? Use it in a sentence. He used twenty-seven percent of the time he tried to take sentences directly from the scriptures Fisher Ames, known as one of the greatest orators of the revolution, the man who gave us the wording of the First Amendment, became alarmed in 1801 about a trend that he saw in America's schools. Here's what he said. The problem we have is the collective effect of all textbooks is that the Bible is starting to drift to the back of the classroom. Why should not the Bible regain the place it held, he said. The author, in effect, of the First Amendment. Dr. Benjamin Rush was a notable founder. He's been called the father of American medicine and the father of American public education. Here's what he said. The number one purpose of national education is to be sure that everyone knows the Word of God. The number one purpose of national education is to be sure that everyone knows the Word of God. He goes on to say: the only foundation for a useful education in a republic is to be laid in religion. Without this there can be no virtue, and without virtue there can be no liberty. Without religion, I believe learning does real mischief. And of course, by religion, our founders meant Christianity. That's the religion they were referring to. According to historians McDowell and Belials, in their book America's Providential History, Get this, 106 of the first 108 colleges in America, including notably Yale, Harvard, Princeton, were founded on the Christian faith. 106 of the first 108 And until about 1900, college presidents were almost always clergy. The official motto of Harvard was for Christ and the Church Not sure you see that on the on the walls of Harvard today. Gale founded in 1701 by ten congregational ministers had as her stated purpose, quote, to plant and under ye divine blessing to propagate in this wilderness, which it was in 1701, the blessed Reformed Protestant religion To plant and propagate the blessed reformed Protestant religion. William and Mary, founded in 1692, was chartered so that, quote, the youth may be piously enacted in good letters and manners And that the Christian faith may be propagated. The college, which became known as Princeton, declared, Cursed be all learning that is contrary to the cross of Christ. Curse it. Be all learning that is contrary to the cross of Christ. I suspect that curse rests upon Princeton To some degree today. Now we could go on at some length, quoting our founders, attempting to convince any doubters who may be present. That America was indeed established upon God's word as foundational to her civil laws. But let me defer to the testimony of the United States Supreme Court. In a decision at the end of the 19th century, here's what they said. This is a religious people. This is historically true. From the discovery of the continent to the present hour, there is a single voice making this affirmation. And then they begin to cite historic documents They cited, for example, the commission to Christopher Columbus. Quote, it is hoped by God's assistance that some of the continents and islands in the ocean will be discovered. The grant made to Sir Walter Raleigh in 1584 to enact statutes for the government of the proposed colony, provided that they be not against the Christian faith Sir Walter Raleigh, you have the right to enact statutes for the government of the proposed colony, provided that they be not against the Christian faith. The First Charter of Virginia, cited earlier, the Mayflower Compact, the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, were all cited by the Supreme Court. The fundamental orders of Connecticut read in part, there should be an orderly and decent government established according to God to maintain and preserve the liberty and purity of the gospel of our Lord Jesus, which we now profess. 1638-39. They cited the Charter of Privileges granted by William Penn to the province of Pennsylvania. Quote: No people can be truly happy if abridged of their religious profession and worship. They cited our declarations, reference to our Creator, the supreme judge of the world, on whose protection and providence the signers firmly relied, pledging their lives, their fortunes, their sacred honor. And here's what they concluded: there is no dissonance in these declarations. This there is a universal language pervading them all Having one meaning, they affirm and reaffirm that this is a religious nation. Christianity, general Christianity, is and always has been a part of the common law. Not Christianity with an established church, but with liberty of conscience to all men. We are a Christian people, and the morality of the country is deeply engrafted upon Christianity. And not upon the doctrines or worship of those impostors. False religions, in other words Let me read that again. U. S. Supreme Court. We are a Christian people, and the morality of the country is deeply engrafted upon Christianity and not upon the doctrines or worship of those impostors. There, these and many other matters which might be noticed add a volume of unofficial declarations to the mass of organic utterances that this is a Christian nation. Church of the Holy Trinity versus the United States, 1892. No purpose of action against religion can be imputed to any legislation, they said, state or national. Because this is a religious people, this is a Christian nation. Now wait a minute, you say Hold everything Wasn't the Supreme Court aware of the constitutional requirements separating the church from the state? No, they were not. No, they were not. Because there is no constitutional requirement separating the church from the state. For the past sixty-five years or so, Americans have been hearing about the separation of church and state State, to the extent that surveys show that at least two-thirds of Americans now believe the phrase appears in the Constitution or the Bill of Rights. Think about it. Has it ever seemed strange to you that men who would refer to God numerous times in our founding documents, men who would open their own sessions with prayer, men who would establish Christian chaplains for the military and for the Congress, Men who would authorize the engraving of God's words on our monuments and our public buildings, men who would authorize the printing of Bibles for the use of schools, as they did in 1781. Men who would permit their president to be inaugurated by having him swear an oath with his hand upon the Bible Has it ever seemed odd to you, I say again, that these men would allegedly require in the Constitution of our nation the separation of Christianity from our civil affairs? Here's what the First Amendment actually says. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. That's it. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion. There was similar wording in state constitutions. including those state constitutions which also required a belief in God in the scriptures of anyone who would presume to hold public office Here's New Hampshire's. Every denomination of Christians shall be equally under the protection of these laws, and no subordination of any one sect or denomination to any other shall ever be established by law. You see it? In England, as you know, the Anglican Church became the Church of England. That is the national church. And when the church began to depart from the scriptures, it had a a uh what's the word desultory effect upon the whole it had a negative effect upon the whole society. The founders wanted to make sure that would never happen again. That no one denomination would gain preeminence. This is clearly seen from their early versions of the First Amendment. Madison proposed this: the civil rights of none shall be abridged on account of religious belief or worship. That's the Free Exercise Clause. Nor shall any national religion be established. That's the establishment clause An early Senate version of the amendment was, quote, Congress shall make no law establishing any particular denomination of religion in preference to another. I wish that's the one they had uh uh agreed to. That's a lot more clear. And another one was Congress shall make no law establishing one religious society in preference to others. That's what they were getting at. That's what they were trying to To affirm. Here's how the U. S. Senate Judiciary Committee interpreted the Establishment Clause when Congress was petitioned by some people to separate Christianity from our civil government. This was happening in the 1850s. Some people said, what is it? We had Christian chaplains in the military and we had, you know, uh people swearing on the Bible and all this. Let's get Christianity out of our civil government. And so they went to the s they couldn't do it through the courts, they went to the Senate. They tried to do it. And here's how the U. S. Senate Judiciary Committee interpreted the establishment clause. The establishment clause of the First Amendment again is Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion. Here's what they said. The clause speaks of an establishment of religion. What is meant by that expression? It referred without doubt to that establishment which existed in the mother country. And its meaning is to be ascertained by ascertaining what that establishment was. It was the connection with a state of a particular religious society. We would say denomination. They went on to say, we are a Christian people from choice and education. And in a land that thus universally Christian, what is to be expected, what is to be desired, but that we shall pay a due regard to Christianity. The House Committee on the Judiciary declared on March 27, 1854 Had the people during the revolution had a suspicion of any attempt to war against Christianity, that revolution would have been strangled in its cradle. Christianity must be considered as the foundation on which the whole structure rests Laws will not have permanence or power without the sanction of religious sentiment, without a firm belief that there's a power above us that will reward our virtues and punish our vices. Listen to that. Laws will not have permanence or power without the sanction of religious sentiment, without a firm belief that there's a power above us that will reward our virtues and punish our vices. What happened? What happened was in the middle of the 20th century, the United States Supreme Court, ignoring over 150 years of precedent , Recogni uh the precedents which recognized the Bible as the foundation of our civil government, the Supreme Court took a private letter, an obscure phrase from a private letter that Jefferson wrote to some Baptists. who were afraid that they were going to be discriminated against. The Baptists, the way this happened was the Baptists got wind that there was some talk of establishing a a a national denomination. And they thought it might, you know, we might run off with the Presbyterians. So the the Baptists in in their concern rode to Jefferson And Jefferson wrote them back and he said, no, no, you've got nothing to worry about. He wrote back that uh uh Congress has erected a wall of separation between the church and state Clearly what he meant was the state was forbidden to intervene in church matters. He certainly did not mean that the church should have no influence upon the state. But the court 's misinterpretation of that phrase to mean no church influence on the state has had a chilling effect upon our country, and you know it. Fast forward to our day, Dr. Paul Witz conducted a study through the Department of Education. He scrutinized the nation's most commonly used history and social studies books in all grade levels to see how they dealt with religion or religious events in history. In his book, Censorship: Evidence of Bias in Our Children's Textbooks, he wrote, In the first part of the project, a total of 60 representative social study textbooks were carefully evaluated. None of the books contains one word referring to any religious activity in contemporary American life. Over the last several decades, we've had court rulings such as this. It is unconstitutional for a student to pray over his lunch out loud. Reed versus Van Holland Van Hoven, 1965. It's unconstitutional for a war memorial to be erected in the shape of a cross. Lowe versus City of Eugene in 1969. Unconstitutional for kindergarten students to recite We thank you for the flowers so sweet, we thank you for the food we eat, we thank you for the birds that sing, we thank you for everything. Even though the word God is not contained in it. One 1985 court decision ruled that a bill becomes unconstitutional, even though the wording may be constitutionally acceptable. If the legislator who introduced the bill had a religious activity in his mind when he authored it, Wallace versus Jaffery. A perfect example of how far we've come from recognizing the Word of God to be foundational to our laws as a nation occurred when it was announced that the Carroll County Maryland Board of Commissioners had scheduled a seminar on the Maryland Constitution. Did you see that? It was in the papers this week. On the news probably as well. Uh they scheduled a seminar on the Maryland Constitution to be taught by a pastor. Here's the problem, it was going to be taught by a pastor. Well, I should raise some eyebrows, who was also an instructor with the Institute of the Constitution. The Commission came under attack by the Americans United for the Separation of Church and State. And by the American Civil Liberties Union of Maryland for, quote, improperly mixing religion and politics. According to them, the problem of the course is that the institute presenting it believes, according to its own website Get this, the institute presenting this seminar believes that the American view of government is that there is a God, the God of the Bible, our rights come from Him, and the purpose of civil government is to secure our rights Huh. Well, no wonder they were up in arms. In a letter asking the commission to cancel the course, Americans United for the Separation of Church and State wrote, according to the Carol County Times, Quote, the board's selection of the Institute's program and its loud endorsement of employees to attend shows that the board endorses the Institute's religious message that God is the source of all rights. Perhaps no one at Americans United for Separation of Church and State has ever read our Declaration of Independence, which includes the very words: we are endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights. Presumably they would have objected to that language as well. The teacher of the class, Reverend David Whitney, responded appropriately. Here's what he said. He just recited the first line of the of the uh Declaration of Rights in the Maryland Constitution. He said it begins with this We, the people of the state of Maryland, grateful to Almighty God for our civil and religious liberty, etc. Now the ruckus apparently had its desired effect because according to yesterday's Baltimore Sun, the seminar held on Friday included, quote, barely a whisper about God. Now, here's why all this matters to you and matters to your descendants. Who says incest is wrong? Who says pedophilia is wrong? Or for that matter, murder, or cannibalism? Now you respond, well of course they're wrong. They're repugnant to virtually all Americans. Well, abortion was once repugnant or repulsive to virtually all Americans. Homosexuality was once repugnant to virtually all Americans. Fornication. Euthanasia. Unless we can point to God's word as the foundation of our laws, unless we as a nation recognize and understand the connection between our laws and his laws, we're never going to derail this cultural express train to chaos. English jurist William Blackstone was so influential in the framing of U. S. law that historian Daniel Borston wrote, In the first century of American independence, Blackstone's commentaries on the laws of England were not merely an approach to the study of law. For most lawyers they constituted all there was of the law. Blackstone, a Christian, expressed this presuppositional base for law. Upon these two foundations, the law of nature and the law of revelation, depend all human laws. That is to say, no human laws should be allowed to contradict these. Did you hear that? But our laws for decades now have been diverging from God's laws. Think about it, your grandparents would never have believed that the time would come in America when it would be declared constitutional to kill an infant in the womb, but unconstitutional to read the Bible in a public school. They would never have believed that the time would come when rapists and murderers would be incarcerated for a while and then set free to rape and murder again. They would never have foreseen a time when fornication would be encouraged in our culture. When homosexual behavior would receive state approval and the constitutional right of free speech Would be understood to defend pornographers, but not the student who talks about the Lord in a graduation address. Once American law has been completely disengaged from its biblical base, we will find that anything goes. There are already influential voices saying that pedophilia should be viewed as, quote, a sexual orientation, not a disease or disorder. It's just a sexual orientation. Some of you are oriented towards women, some of you are oriented towards men, some of you are oriented towards children. It's just an orientation. It's not a disease, it's not a disorder. One PhD with more than 40 years of experience in sexual research reportedly said, quote, People seem to think that any contact between children and adults has a bad effect on the child. I say that this can be a loving and thoughtful, responsible sexual activity. Now, the typical response of the Christian seems to be: well, we don't like it, but what can we do? Just hope for the rapture and try to get through. But we're called by God to be salt and light in our culture. We're called by God to lift up the truth in our culture, to speak the truth in love, but to speak it. I hope you see that America was established with the Word of God as our foundation for civil law. But if the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? Well there's more that needs to be said on this important matter, I I just want to close this message with some clarifications. First of all, I do believe America was founded upon biblical principles. I do believe that if that foundation is destroyed, this republic will ultimately collapse I believe that Americans who love their country should do all in their power to try to prevent that from happening. But I also believe this: the Church of Jesus Christ is not dependent upon the survival of America for her survival. Amen? The Church of Jesus Christ is not dependent upon the survival of America for her survival. Nations rise and fall, but God's kingdom endures, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against his church. God has mightily used America as a base for world evangelization. And we should be thankful for that, grateful for that. But the next powerhouse and world missions may be the nations of Latin America, or the Christians in Korea, or in China. We have no guarantee that America will survive as a nation until Christ returns. But remember, whatever happens, believers can be faithful in godly nations, and believers can be faithful in ungodly nations, as Daniel and his friends were faithful in Babylon. Secondly, the greatest need of Americans is not a stronger economy, it's not job growth, it's not lower taxes. It's not even a return in our laws to God's Word. The greatest need of Americans is the greatest need of all mankind. It's to be reconciled to a holy God through faith in his Son. And his son 's substitutionary sacrifice upon the cross. Greatest need of Americans is for Jesus Christ. The trends in America are quite disturbing to believers, but let me remind you, America has experienced revivals before, several times in our history, and she can experience a revival again. But those revivals never come apart from earnest prayer. They never did. They never will come apart from earnest prayer. It's time for Christians to get off of their sofas and get on their knees. Finally, if Jesus Christ is the greatest need of all mankind, friend, he is your greatest need as well. He is your greatest need. If you're here without Christ in your heart, if you're here without any assurance that you have everlasting life, if you've never repented of your sins and laid hold upon Jesus Christ If you've never said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, I believe that Jesus died upon that cross and rose again from the dead. I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart and life. Make me your own creation. If you've never come to God that way, if you've never cried out to God that way, that's the greatest need of your life. Amen? And no man knows what a day may bring forth. You don't know that you'll be here next week or be here tomorrow. Now is the time. Now is the day of salvation. Now is the time to cry out to God for mercy. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he's near. Come to him now. God, forgive me and save me. I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life and died upon the cross. Forgive me. Save me for Jesus' sake Bring me into your forever family. Adopt me into your family. Take me to glory to be with you. You pray that prayer and meet it in your heart. God will save you. Let's pray. Father, we have much to repent of as a nation. We have much to repent of as Christians. We have much lethargy, much apathy to repent of. And many Christians don't even bother to vote. God be merciful to us. But Lord, most importantly, we pray if there be anyone here still dead in sins. Please, Lord, that you had compassion upon many of us. Have compassion upon them Open their blind eyes. Take away those hearts of stone. Breathe upon those dry bones that they might live. Bring them to faith in Jesus Christ. which only you can do. Paul said, I planted Apollo's water, but God gave the increase. God, give the increase this day. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.