If you have your Bible with you, would you turn to the Old Testament book of 2 Kings, chapter 21? We'd like to begin at verse 1. Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hevzeba And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, according to the abominations of the nations whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. For he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed. He raised up altars for Baal and made a wood wooden image as Ahab, king of Israel, had done. And he worshipped all the hosts of heaven and served them. He also built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord had said, In Jerusalem I will put my name. And he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. Also he made his son pass through the fire. practiced soothsaying, used witchcraft, and consulted spiritists and mediums. He did much evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. He even set a carved image of Asherah that he had made, in the house of which the Lord had said to David and to Solomon his son, in this house and in Jerusalem, which I've chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. I will put my name forever. And I will not make the feet of Israel wander any more from the land which I gave their fathers, only if they are careful to do according to all that I have commanded them. and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them. But they paid no attention, and Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than the nations whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel. And the Lord spoke by his servants the prophets, saying, Because Manasseh, king of Judah, has done these abominations, he has acted more wickedly than all the Amorites who were before him, and has also made Judah sin with his idols. Therefore, thus says the Lord God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such calamity upon Jerusalem and Judah. That whoever hears of it, both his ears will tingle. And I will stretch over Jerusalem the measuring line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab. I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. So I will forsake the remnant of my inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies. And they shall become victims of plunder to all their enemies, because they have done evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger since the day their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day. Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood, till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another. Besides his sin by which he made Judah sin, in doing evil in the sight of the Lord May God's blessing rest upon this portion of His inspired word. All scriptures given by inspiration of God. All of it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Let's pray. Lord, we ask now that you'll take your word and speak to our hearts. Lord, we need you today. Father, we pray for each one here. We pray for an outpouring of your spirit in each heart and life We pray for those who may be here who are dead in sins, who are without hope, who are without Christ. Lord, we pray that you will bring salvation to souls this day. And Lord, we pray for the believers here. We pray, Lord, that you would take your word and so apply it to our hearts that you would drive us to our knees. That you would bring great conviction of sin. Lord, we pray for an outpouring of your Spirit not only upon our church, but upon our nation. We ask now for your help this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Several weeks ago we began a brief sermon series on civil government. A note that we call the series brief, not the individual sermons in the series. And we use as our text the rhetorical question that we find in Psalm 11, if the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? We began by asking a very basic question: why did God establish civil government? And we summarize the biblical evidence this way. It appears that God established civil government to defend citizens from enemies without and enemies within. You might say, God established civil government to establish justice and provide for the common defense. We attempted to derive from God's word some principles concerning civil government. First of all, we noted the civil magistrate is described in Scripture as God's servant or God's minister. This was true, of course, of Israel's kings, but it was also true of the leaders of other nations. God calls Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, my servant, and Persian King Cyrus, my shepherd. And Romans 13 makes it clear there is no authority except from God. And the authorities that exist are appointed by God. The ruler is God's minister, God's servant. Secondly, as God's minister or servant, the one appointed by God, the civil magistrate is obligated to make decisions which are just. That is, decisions which are in keeping with God's natural and special revelation. It is an abomination for kings to commit wickedness. For a throne is established by righteousness. Proverbs 29:4. The king establishes the land by justice God did not exempt pagan nations from his expectations of righteousness. He held them accountable for moral degeneration Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Proverbs 14 34. Any nation. Any people. Sodom, Gomorrah, the Canaanites, the people of Nineveh are examples of pagan nations which were held accountable for their moral degeneration, for violating the law of God written upon their hearts. Fourthly, we saw Israel's justice was intended to serve as a model for other nations. Be careful to observe these statutes and judgments so that the peoples who will hear of them will say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. Deuteronomy four The fifth principle we derive from what the scripture says about civil government is that although vengeance belongs to God, the civil magistrate is under God's orders to carry out vengeance against those who seriously transgress God's law. Romans 13 says, the ruler bears not the sword of God in vain. It's not just for show. In other words, he is an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Romans 13, 4. Sixthly, we saw the wrath of the civil magistrate is intended to display God's wrath upon evildoers. The wrath of the civil magistrate is intended to display God's wrath upon evil. evildoers, as Joshua displayed God's wrath upon the household of Achan. Seven, civil justice, symbolized by the sword, could be properly exercised by the civil authority, or it could be improperly exercised. We noted we saw it properly exercised by King David when he slew wicked Shimei, who cursed the Lord's anointed, and it was improperly exercised by David when he gave orders to have Bathsheba's husband Uriah. Killed for his own selfish purposes. And finally, we saw civil authorities who do not administer justice according to God's law threaten their entire nation with the judgment of God. Witnessed the drought and famine in Israel during the reign of Ahab and Jezebel, the passage concerning Manasseh of Judah that we read as our scripture reading this morning. You'll find an excerpt from the key verse at the top of the order of worship. Because Manasseh, king of Judah, has done these abominations, therefore, thus says the Lord God of Israel. Behold, I am bringing such a calamity upon Jerusalem and Judah that whoever hears of it, both his ears will tingle. The destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the cities of the Canaanites, for immorality, evidently condoned, if not encouraged, by their leaders. has already been mentioned. And in Jonah's day, the repentance of the people of Nineveh extended even to the king, who covered himself in sackcloth and ashes. Covered himself in sackcloth and sat in ashes, the scripture says. So when we choose those to represent us or to be in positions of authority over us, we are to look for certain traits. These traits include honesty, wisdom, understanding, fairness, a hatred of covetousness, and thus a resistance to bribery. Compassion, and notably a fear of God and a knowledge of God's word, a knowledge of God's law, specifically. Because if a leader is to be expected to properly punish the wicked and to protect and reward the righteous, he must know what wickedness is and what righteousness is. All laws of men are, to one extent or another, expressions of the moral positions of the lawgivers or of those to whom they must answer. If a remote society were to be found in which the citizens or their lawgivers believed, for example, that the catching and eating of fish was morally heinous. Then that society would also be found to have codes or rules or restrictions or laws or whatever you may wish to call them prohibiting that activity and specifying the consequences for engaging in it. If that society happened to believe that eating a fish was more reprehensible, let's say, than kidnapping a child, then their laws would include more severe punishment for the former than the latter. Every society must have some standard upon which to base its laws. And since our Creator has revealed to us his moral law, Both engraving it upon our hearts and upon the tablets that Moses brought down from Mount Sinai. And since when the people of Israel were preparing to enter the promised land, God gave them civil laws to govern their society. Then clearly, insofar as laws are concerned, a nation would be wise to pattern her laws and the consequences for disobeying them upon God's moral and civil laws that are revealed to us in His Word. If a society did so, there would be no civil penalties for catching a fish, but there would be severe penalties for kidnapping or otherwise harming a child. Now, if, as I believe, the justice of a nation's laws depends on how closely those laws mirror God's law. Then America has been blessed in this: that our framers, our founders, recognized that the laws of a nation must be established upon a higher law. They referred to it as the laws of nature and of nature's God. Our founders believed that we as a people were subject to the laws of nature and of nature's God. In our first two messages in the series, we devoted a good deal of time to attempting to affirm that which many forces in our society have spent a good deal of time attempting to deny. That America was in fact built upon a foundation of biblical morality, that the principles of God's word were viewed as a major part of our common law. As the great English jurist William Blackstone put it, upon these two foundations, the law of nature and the laws of revelation, depend all human laws. That is to say, no human laws should be allowed to contradict these. I will not rehash all the uh evidence of our country's godly heritage that we considered in the first two messages of the series, but For the benefit of anyone who was not with us for those messages, I want to cite again the U. S. Supreme Court. After referring to numerous documents from America's early days, Including the Mayflower Compact, the First Charter of Virginia, the Pennsylvania's Charter of Privileges, the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, the Declaration of Independence, the court concluded in a major case, quote There is no dissonance in these declarations. There is a universal language pervading them all, having one meaning. They affirm and reaffirm that this is a religious nation. Christianity, general Christianity, is and always has been a part of the common law. Not Christianity with an established church, but with liberty of conscience to all men. We are a Christian people, and the morality of the country is deeply engrafted upon Christianity and not upon the doctrines or worship of those impostors. False religions. These and many other matters which might be noticed, the court said, add a volume of unofficial declarations to the mass of organic utterances That this is a Christian nation. Church of the Holy Trinity versus the United States, 1892 Now, in affirming that we are a Christian people and a Christian nation, the court was not suggesting that every American or every one of the founders was a believer in Jesus Christ. What they were affirming was, as they said The morality of the country is deeply engrafted upon Christianity, not upon Islam or Hinduism or animism or any other impostor, as they called it. The House Committee on the Judiciary put it this way in March of 1854. Christianity must be considered as the foundation on which the whole structure rests. Listen to that. Christianity must be considered as the foundation on which the whole structure rests. Laws will not have permanence or power without the sanction of religious sentiment. without a firm belief that there is a power above us that will reward our virtues and punish our vices Well, that's a pretty good summary of the thesis of this series, except that we know what our Congress could not possibly know in 1854. We know that there has been, particularly over the past 50 or 60 years, an assault upon that foundation, an assault which may well lead to the collapse of the entire structure. Historian David Barton points to a U. S. Supreme Court decision as a watershed moment in our history. Now, as background, let me remind you, as we said in our last message in the series, A group of Baptists from Danbury, Connecticut, had written to Thomas Jefferson in 1802. Despite the First Amendment statement that Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof These members of the Danbury Baptist Association had heard rumors that a particular denomination was soon to be recognized as the national church. , And they were rightly concerned. Jefferson wrote back to allay their fears. He said, quote, I contemplate with solemn reverence That act of the whole American people, which declared that their legislature should cook should, and then he quotes, make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. Jefferson goes on, thus building a wall of separation between church and state. Well, it was clear from the actions of Congress, establishing chaplains for the military, opening their own sessions in prayer, uh references to God in our founding documents, etc. etc. It was clear. From that, and from Jefferson 's own writings, that he and the other framers viewed this wall of separation, if you want to call it that, as a one-directional wall. In other words, preventing the government from meddling in church affairs, from sticking its uh nose into the church's tent. Or establishing any one denomination of Christians as the national church, as England had done. Jefferson said in his second inaugural address in 1805, In matters of religion, I have considered that its free exercise is placed by the Constitution independent of the powers of the general government. And he wrote in 1798, no power over the freedom of religion is delegated to the United States by the Constitution. And in 1808 he said, I consider the government of the United States as interdicted, prohibited by the Constitution from intermeddling with religious institutions, their doctrines, their disciplines, or exercises. Now, with that in mind, listen to historian David Barton's account of a 1947 Supreme Court decision, Everson versus the Board of Education. In the 1947 Everson case, he writes, the court excerted eight words out of Jefferson's letter, a wall of separation between church and state. And adopted that phrase as its new battle cry. It announced for the very first time the new meaning of separation of church and state, a separation of basic religious principles from public arenas. When the court excerted Jefferson's words in the Everson case, it did not bother to present the context in which the phrase had originally been used, nor reveal that it had been applied in an opposite manner in previous Supreme Court cases Those eight words, now taken out of context, concisely articulated the court's plan to divorce Christianity from public affairs. Once the court adopted the portion of Jefferson's words with which it agreed and ignored their intent, it began declaring state laws unconstitutional. It struck down voluntary prayer laws in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Florida, Alabama, New Jersey, and a host of other states. Statutes allowing religious practice in public affairs were overturned in nearly every state in the Union. Laws no longer were being enacted or removed by the people through through being enacted or removed by the people through their elected representatives. It was now occurring through unelected justices. If as few as five justices agreed, that's the majority of the court, they could overturn the people's will that had been expressed through constitutionally correct legislative means. 1947. So for at least 65 years, activist judges have been chipping away at our foundations. citing that precedent, and we find ourselves in effect in what we might call a schizophrenic nation. We're a schizophrenic nation, and by the way, we live on a bipolar planet. That's Garrison Keeler, I think, came in We still have all those references to God in our founding documents. We have references to God on our government buildings. We have references to God on our currency. Congress can still open their sessions with prayer, but public schools cannot. Any reference to God by government officials is now viewed with suspicion by some. And those who demand that we abide by the court's new view of the separation of church and state are quick to take legal action against perceived offenders. And as you know, this has had a chilling effect. For example, we noted in a previous message that Dr. Paul Vitz, he's now New York University Professor of Psychology Did a study of 60 social studies textbooks that are widely used in our public schools. And this is what he declared Quote, none of the books contain one word referring to any religious activity in contemporary American life. And of course, religious activity in America's history doesn't fare much better. In his 1986 book, Censorship, Evidence of Bias in Our Children's Textbooks. Dr. Witz cites the account of Barbara Cohen, who wrote a children's story called Molly's Pilgrim. A major textbook publisher, it happened to be Harcourt Brace Javanovich, wanted to reprint part of This story, Molly's Pilgrim, for their third-grade reader. But in the process, they wanted to remove all references to God and the Bible. Barbara Cohen refused. She said, You can't remove all the references to God in the Bible from a story about pilgrims. Bitz writes, quote, They called back, dismayed, and tried to convince her to let them go ahead with a heavily censored version. They argued, try to understand. We have a lot of problems. If we mention God, some atheist will object. If we mention the Bible, someone will want to know why we don't give equal time to the Quran. Every time that happens, we lose sales. But she responded, the pilgrims did read the Bible. Yes, you know that, we know that, but we can't have anything in it, in the book, that people object to. This is a textbook for schools, you see. God and the Bible were eternally unacceptable and they had to go. The publisher claimed, quote, we'll get into terrible trouble if we mention the Bible. I remember reading that uh uh one story was censored because uh I guess it was a film that showed the erecting of a cross at Jamestown. And that couldn't be shown in the public schools, even though a cross was in fact erected at Jamestown. Now let me pause here to address a concern that may have arisen in your mind. If I were sitting in the congregation listening to this message, I'd be thinking Man, that guy looks and sounds an awful lot like me. I wonder if it could be me. If I were sitting in the congregation , Never mind. Secondly secondly people awake. Secondly, I'd be thinking If I were sitting in the congregation listening to this message, I'd be thinking, secondly, well this is all very interesting. First Amendment, Danbury Baptist, Molly's Pilgrim, blah blah blah. But I expect the sermon to expound the word of God, not teach American history. And you'd be quite right to think that way I would too if I were in the congregation. So I ask you to view this message and the series with some charity. It's an attempt to relate our particular situation as 21st century Americans to what the Bible has to say about the role of civil government. And thirdly, I might be thinking, okay, all right, fine, I get it. America was founded on biblical principles. Our laws were based upon uh a blackstone what Blackstone called common law What Jefferson called the laws of nature, and nature's God. And over the last several decades, we've been departing from God's word as foundational to our civil laws and our institutions. So what? What does that mean to me? Well, if you don't care about your nieces and nephews, your children and grandchildren, if you don't care about your state. And you have a little interest in your country, you don't care about the future of America, it means very little to you. But if you do, it means a great deal It can already be argued persuasively as the late Francis Schaefer did, that as a society we are functioning morally on the basis of our collective memory. We're already at the point at the point where we're functioning basically on the on the basis of our collective memory. In other words, we still have a vague sense that certain things are right and certain things are wrong, but we're not quite sure why. Once we completely divorce our laws from the moral foundation of God's Word, we will have no compelling answer to, for example, Professor Peter Singer of Princeton, who argues Quote, human babies are not born self-aware or capable of grasping that they exist over time. They are not persons. The life of a newborn is of less value than the life of a pig, a dog, or a chimpanzee. We 'll have no way to answer American University Philosophy Professor Jeffrey Ryman when he says infants do not possess in their own right a property that makes it wrong to kill them. Infants do not possess in their own right a property that makes it wrong to kill them. There will be permissible exceptions to the rule against killing infants that will not apply to the rule against killing adults and children. Think about it. If we are not created beings made in the very image of God, but merely chance byproducts of blind chemical processes. They are quite right. They are quite right. In fact, why stop there? Why is killing an adult human viewed as a more serious interaction serious infraction than killing an infant? More than killing a dog or a pig or a chimp. Is it just because we are more intelligent? Why is that the criterion? Who says, in other words? Removing biblical morality as foundational to our laws is a tectonic shift in America. It is, in other words, an earthquake. An earthquake shakes foundations and brings tsunamis. About ten days ago, we received a letter here at the church from a Maryland state senator serving Baltimore County. Our church, as you may know, is uh is in Baltimore County, right on the western edge at the Carroll County line. The letter was three and a half pages, typewritten, rather closely type, highlighting the issues before the state senate and the particular matters of interest to this particular state senator. There was nothing atypical in the letter. Those of you of voting age have probably received and recycled such letters. But what struck me like a two by four. uh was this. The letter was dated just a few days after the Senate voted to change the definition of marriage in the state of Maryland, as recognized by the state, from the union of a man and a woman to the union of two individuals. In other words, the letter was written just after our state senators voted to ignore the foundation of God's moral law and place the blessings of our state on the marriage of men with men and women with women. Now the letter dealt with proposed or enacted changes in laws about estates and trusts and school boards and animal cruelty in the state budget and taxes and several other things. But regarding what was arguably the most monumental, seismic, life-altering, foundational, audacious change in the law in the 200-plus-year history of the state There was not one word. It was quite simply flabbergasted The most important things going on in the state senate have to do with the states and trusts and dogfighting and school boards. Is that what you're telling me? One wonders if the typical American citizen has a similar indifference to enshrining in our law such a blatant violation of God's moral law. God's moral law already written on our hearts, and of course in his word. Now, before we move to talking about what Christians can and should do about the attack on our nation's foundations, I want to address a very valid question Should Christians even involve themselves in attempting to change government policies? As I read the New Testament, I see no indication that Christians ever had a sit-in to end slavery. marched on Rome to end lethal gladiator contests in the Colosseum, or launched a petition drive to end the grisly practice of infanticide, whereby unwanted children were exposed to the elements to die of neglect. The focus of the early Christians was to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. But the Great Commission, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, includes Not only go into all the world and preach the gospel, but teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. The natural effect of faith in Jesus Christ and the resultant indwelling of the Holy Spirit is a love and concern for others. It's a burden to do to them as you would have them do to you. It makes you become other oriented Which means caring for widows, caring for the sick, caring for the weak, caring for the poor, for the prisoners, for the hungry, for the oppressed, whether they're infants or slaves or gladiators or lepers or sex slaves. The history of the church is replete with examples of people like Basil of Caesarea, who in the fourth century was horrified that the Roman practice of infanticide continued. He spoke against it, he wrote against it, and according to George Grant in his history of the pro-life movement that he calls third time around Apparently, late one evening after Vespers Basil and several deacons went outside the city, city of Caesarea, to dismantle the old Caesarean infanticide shrine. where children would be placed to die. They dismantle it with their bare hands. Hearing of Basil's solitary crusade, the Emperor Valentinian took the first step toward the full criminalization of child killing in 374. Here's what he decreed. All parents must support their children conceived Those who brutalize or abandon them should be subject to the full penalty prescribed by law. And remember, we have a great advantage over And a major distinction from most of the early Christians. We are not oppressed citizens of a totalitarian government We are free citizens of a constitutional republic in which we choose our leaders and in which we are free to help shape our national, state, and local laws and policies. As Lincoln put it, ours is a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. This means we have some responsibilities and privileges that most of the early Christians did not have, but which I suspect they would have been overjoyed. to have. So what can we do to help rebuild the foundations, to patch and repair, shore up that which has been under constant attack? Well, first of all, most importantly, we need to repent of our own hypocrisy and indifference and indolence. Our own conformity to this world, our love of money, our love of comfort, our love of pleasure, our own callousness toward those who are without hope Toward those who are lost, who are without God in this world. We need to be bold in our witness. We need to evangelize. We need to disciple believers. Not just bring them to faith in Christ, but instruct them in all those things the Lord has commanded us. Of course, America needs prayer warriors. We need an outpouring of the Spirit of God. We need revival. And it starts with Christians. It starts with us. Secondly, we can educate our children and our grandchildren and other Christians and non-Christians about America's heritage. We can educate our children and our grandchildren, other Christians, non-Christians about America's godly heritage. Let me speak to the parents here. Have you imparted to your children the truth about America's godly heritage? Do they know it? I guarantee you, they're not hearing about it in public schools. They're not hearing about it on television. Not going to see it in the video game. There are forces that have long been at work to remove any positive reference to God in science, in history, in social studies, in literature, on television, in films, in government, and in civil discourse. So the question is: are you standing up to those forces by limiting their impact in your home and by seeing that your children receive a biblical education that glorifies God? Phil Visher, one of the men behind Veggie Tales, writes in this month's Christianity Today, quote, according to a recent Princeton University Brookings Institution study, the average 11-year-old in America today Consumes eight hours of electronic media per day. That's eight hours of viewing the world through some kind of screen. 56 hours in a week, in each week. And the world that they view is as empty of the divine as it has ever been. The world they are viewing for this 56 hours a week is as empty of the divine as it has ever been. There are 350,000 churches in America. But you won't see one of them on the Disney Channel or Nickelodeon, he writes. No one prays, no one turns to God. Characters help each other and care for the environment. They care for the poor, they care for the needy But never from a religious motive or as a response to God. That much godless media exposure is downright harmful for our kids, he writes. As it teaches them to be comfortably familiar with a world in which there is no God. He concludes: which world do our kids believe is real? The one they hear about for an hour Sunday morning, or the one that captures their hearts eight hours every day? For most kids you could add to that eight hours of media. Six hours of school, minus God. Thirdly, I would say we don't need to shy away. From proclaiming in public forums that our laws and our civil institutions have been based upon the principles of God's word. Because it's true The burden of proof is upon those who want to destroy that foundation to explain how all these references to God crept into our founding documents. Why we have chaplains in our military, God's word engraved on our monuments, and the words in God we trust on our currency. What happened here? Didn't our founders know about Jefferson's Wall Two notes under this point. First of all, there's a tendency to think when we speak to unbelievers we have to use only secular arguments. We have to appeal to their common sense. We have to keep all references to God out of our discussion. But the Old Testament prophets and the New Testament apostles spoke boldly and clearly to their generations. Thus saith the Lord. Yes, they were persecuted for what they said, but they spoke as God's ambassadors and they accepted the consequences. Sometimes, as in the case of Nineveh, when confronted by Jonah, the nation repented Many times the nation did not. But listen, the ambassador is not responsible for how the message is received. He's responsible for how faithfully he delivers the message. Secondly, under that point, the point that we need not shy away from proclaiming this in public forums If the foundation, that foundation of civil laws, based upon God's law, if that foundation is removed, we have a valid question. What do you intend to put in its place? What do you intend to put in its place? Ask someone the series of questions. Tell me, what do you think? Is murder right or wrong? Well it's wrong. Well, okay, how do you know it's wrong? Well, it just is. Well, who says it's wrong? Well, everybody says it's wrong. Society says it's wrong. Everybody. Well, suppose society changed its mind. Would it then be right? No, it would still be wrong. It's always wrong. Well, how do you know? Well, I just know. Murder will always be wrong. Oh, okay, so it's wrong because you say it's wrong. Do you set the standards for everybody else in society? No, no, I'm not saying that. But it's certainly wrong for me. Oh, okay, it's wrong for you, but not necessarily for others. Yeah, that's right. So your neighbor could marry murder your child, and that's okay for him No, no, no. Well yeah, but no. I don't know. Well what do you think? You see the predicament Fourthly, uh, Christian, you're called to be salt and light in this world. You are called to be salt and light in this world. Now we know salt primarily is a seasoning. But it's also a preservative. One of the benefits of having Christians in a society or a community is that they bless that society or community Their presence results in hospitals and missions and homeless shelters and orphanages and schools and colleges, ministries to the poor, the disabled. They uh they reach out to their neighbors in need, they extend hospitality, they volunteer. If you take the time this afternoon to read the report from our missionaries Bruce and Susan Young, printed on the uh inside of the very last page of the bulletin. You'll see that one of the positive effects of last year's earthquake and tsunami in northern Japan is that many Japanese have been impressed at the unconditional help and concern that is being shown by Christians. I mentioned a few weeks ago the Oasis ministry, we heard about a presbytery, a ministry to refugees in Vienna, most of whom are Muslims. One of the questions they frequently hear from the Muslims they reach out to is why are you people doing this? We are strangers to you. They are impacted by the love of Jesus Christ. Jesus said, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. You may remember the story Rabbi Zacharias tells in his book, Can Man Live Without God? He tells of the social critic Dennis Prigger debating Oxford atheistic philosopher Jonathan Glover. I've shared this before, but it's interesting. Listen Prager raised this thorny question in the debate. Now Prager 's the Christian, he's arguing, or Prager's the social critic, rather, debating this atheist. Prager raised this thorny question. If you, Professor Glover, were stranded at the midnight hour in a desolate Los Angeles street, and if as you stepped out of your car with fear and trembling You were suddenly to hear the weight of pounding footsteps behind you, and you turned to see ten burly young men who had just stepped out of a dwelling coming towards you. Would it or would it not make a difference to you to know That they were coming from a Bible study. Amidst hilarious laughter in the auditorium, Glover conceded that it would make a difference. Of course it makes a difference. Robbie Zacharias writes. Of course it makes a difference because there is a logical connection. The presence of Christians makes a difference in a society that even non-believers can see As a citizen of Christ's kingdom, the primary way you impact your world is by proclaiming the gospel by word and by deed. But you are not only a citizen of Christ's kingdom, you are temporarily a citizen of a nation here. Most of you citizens of this nation. Jesus said, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. Sometimes citizens are called upon to take action to defend their nation. It could be said that we are in a war for the soul of our nation. It could be said that right now we're in a war for the soul of our nation. And sometimes Christians have to take a stand. At what point is the approach of danger to be expected? asked Lincoln. He went on, I answer, if it ever reach us. It must spring up amongst us. It cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide. Sounds prophetic today. I heard uh Christian attorney Kevin Shepherd from Tennessee say once that many Christians today are acting like the citizens of Washington who rode out in their carriages with their picnic lunches to watch their Union uh soldiers put a beating on the uh as they thought the Confederates at Manasseh We're like spectators on the sidelines of a war. It was not until the battle got fierce and the horses got stirred and the uh the musket fire began whizzing past the carriages. That the Washingtonians awoke to the fact that this was a real battle, they were in the midst of a real war, and there were real casualties They were in real danger. It's time for Christians to realize this is a real war. There are real casualties. Our nation is in real danger. It's time for Christians to get off the sidelines to get into the battle. Now, for America, it may be too late to turn the tide of this war. The enemy has secured many bastions of power. But if Samuel Adams or George Washington or Patrick Henry could speak to us today, I believe they would urge us to strive to preserve the country. For which they were willing to lay down their lives, for which they willingly hazarded their lives, their fortunes, their sacred honor. I remind you, however, that the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. John Adams reportedly wrote in his diary: Suppose a nation should take the Bible for their only law book, and every member should regulate his conduct by the precepts there exhibited. What a utopia, what a paradise would this region be. Well we can sympathize with this sentiment, but let me remind you that society will not be reformed by Christians gaining political control. Suppose for a moment our president, our senators, our congressmen, our judges, our state and local officials were all believers in Jesus Christ who understood that our laws must be based upon his law. Suppose all of America's laws reflected God's law. Would it be a utopia? Would it be a paradise? Well, not if I were permitted to live there Because if I were permitted to live there, there would still be anger. There would still be lust. There would still be hatred There would still be covetousness, there would still be greed, there would still be indolence, selfishness, disobedience, ungratefulness, boasting, lack of love, etc. The problem is in this world it's impossible for us to completely regulate our conduct by the precepts of God's word. Even those of us who are redeemed, who have a new spirit within us, we still struggle with sin. But if the question is posed, is it better for a nation and more glorifying to our Creator to base our laws upon His laws or to scorn those laws and do what may seem right in our own eyes? For our own reasons , then I think the answer is clear. So how about you, Christian? Are you willing to stand and speak the truth in love? The last verse of our national anthem, written by Maryland's own Francis Scott Key, applies well to the battle that we're in for the soul of our nation, and it will serve as a fitting close to this series of sermons. Francis Scott Key wrote, And thus be it ever, when free men shall stand between their loved home and the war's desolation. Blessed with victory and peace, may the heaven-rescued land praise the power that has made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just, and this be our motto, in God is our trust. And the star-spangled banner in triumph shall wave or the land of the free and the home of the brave. Let's pray. Father, we are thankful for the nation you have raised up here. We know it's never been a perfect nation. It's never been a nation comprised only of Christians But we also acknowledge that we have been blessed to have laws that have been based upon your word. And so, Lord, we've reaped the benefits of that, enjoy the fruits of it. But Father, we see that that foundation has been under attack, and so we pray for your grace, for your wisdom, as we seek to stand up and speak out. We pray, Father, for your mercy. We know we deserve your judgment, but we pray for your mercy. Lord, move in the hearts of your people. Drive home these truths to each one of us. We ask in Christ's name