Amen. Thank you, Bob and Linda, for that wonderful blessing this morning. If you have your Bibles with you, I encourage you to turn to James chapter 5, the last chapter in the Epistle of James. And we're going to be reading from the last two Verses of the last chapter as we consider these last verses this morning. Let's hear God's word. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth, and some Somebody turns him back. Let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude. Of sins. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, we thank you for your amazing, wonderful word, which offers us instruction. For our lives, hope for eternal life, and shows of your love for us and your grace and mercy. Lord, we ask that your Spirit would now teach us That you would give us ears to hear and hearts to apply these truths to our lives. We ask this in the precious name of our Of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. I don't know about you, but as you heard those last two verses of James' letter, You may have been wondering, why did James end his letter like that? It seems like such an abrupt and odd way to end a letter, doesn't it? I mean, there's no warm, hearty grace and peace to you. There's no benediction the same way that Paul would end his letters. No. James leaves us with an ending. That encourages us to bring wandering believers back into fellowship of his church, of God's church Now, when we read these last two verses, it may sound like these final remarks are somewhat like an afterthought. Like James is writing a letter, a last-minute addition to a letter, the same way we might write at the end of a note, P. S. Don't forget to say hi to Aunt Louise when you see her. Don't forget to send money if you're a college student. Things like that. But these two last verses are not a PS at all. In fact, when we consider the broader context of James' letter, we see that verses 19 and 20 are like a bow that tie together two major concerns that James has that run throughout his epistles. Like two ribbons. One concern that James has that expresses early on in his letter is that he wants to see his fellow believers persevere through trial, through tribulation, and through temptation. For example, right at the beginning of the letter in chapter 1, verses 2 and 3, what does James say? My brethren. Count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. And then again later on in that same chapter in verse 12, James says, blessed is the man who endures temptation. For when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to those who love him. So throughout the letter, James is concerned. That believers continue in their faith to the very end. He wants them to finish the race of faith and cross the finish line into glory. So, what encouragement does he give in light of this at the end of his letter? In these last two verses? He says, Fellow believer, if you see another Christian wandering from the faith, You, if you see somebody who is getting off the track and out of the race, what are you going to do? Well, you're going to go after them. And you're going to try to bring that person back on track. You just don't let them go, wander off, but you go get them. If they aren't persevering in their faith, then you need to pursue them for the faith. And this, of course, brings up James's other concern, which runs throughout his letter like a ribbon. His other concern is this. Real Christian faith results in care for your fellow believer. James says if you want to know that if you are really saved, If you want to know if you have genuine faith, then look at your life and see how you treat other believers. If you want to know that your belief in Christ is authentic, then see how you care for others. Because James says that real faith results in the ripe fruit of concern. So he challenges us to a litmus test , particularly in chapters two and three, to see if our faith is really real. And he brings up various issues. For example, he says, do you care for the widow and for the orphan? Or do you take advantage of them for your own personal gain Do you treat rich and poor alike? Or do you show favoritism to the rich for your own personal gain? Do you watch your tongue? Or do you gossip and slander and tear each other up with words? In short, James is saying, Do you show concern for the well-being of your brother and sister in Christ? And so, what does his last two verses highlight? But this very same concern, concern for care for your brother or sister in Christ who is wandering off the fold So in these final two verses, James ties together these two concerns like a ribbon into a bow. And one ribbon is his concern for to see believers continue in their faith and that Face of trial and tribulation. 's the same. And then the other ribbon is his concern that we show care for other Christians and our fellow believers. And these two ribbons then are tied together in a night, nice, neat bow, in which he says, Show your concern for your brother and sister in Christ. Christ by pursuing them when they are not persevering in the faith. Now, having said all that, let's consider what James is insane. instructing us to do. In verse 19, he's encouraging us to try and bring back those who have wandered from the tree. Well, what does he mean by that to go back and bring those back who have wandered from the truth? Well, it's interesting that the Greek word for wander is the same Greek word used in Matthew. Matthew 18, 12, in which the Lord speaks of rescuing the lost sheep which has gone astray. And it's the same idea here: of going after the wandering sheep in the Lord's fold who have gone astray and are in danger. As one commentator puts it, James is referring to those professing Christians who have renounced the principles of the faith or has failed to live by its precepts Are both. So what we're talking about here is very serious sin in a person's life. Those whose life is out of accord with the truth of God's Word. And we can't can think of any number of examples, those who steal, lie, those who are prone to addiction, adultery, so forth and so on. And when a professing bel and when professing believers wander from the fold They not only bring danger to themselves, but they bring dishonor to Christ by their tainted testimony So should that happen, it is therefore imperative, it is imperative for other believers to come alongside that wayward believer and attempt To change his course and turn him back onto the right path. Now, the question is: how How do we do that? Well, today we're going to give a brief crash course in reclaiming a wandering believer. Now James here in these last two verses doesn't give much instruction in the matter of how to reclaim a belief. It's more of an encouragement for us to do so. But we do see that these two verses are in the larger context in that Chapter of prayer, the context of prayer. In the immediate preceding verses, James talks about prayer. And he says, pray for the afflicted. He exhorts us to pray for one another. And then he goes on to say that the prayer of an ath of a righteous man is effective, very effective. And in the flow of the final chapter, James connects prayer with these last two verses, which focus on bringing back a wanderer. believer. So there is this connection here in chapter 5 between prayer and reclaiming a wandering Christian. So it's safe to say that the first thing to do for a backsliding believer is to pray for him or her. For after all, we know, we know that we can't do that. In our own strength. We can't change a person's heart. That is the work of the Holy Spirit. And after all, if they are genuine believers, their wandering is going to grieve the Holy Spirit who indwells within them. And he's going to convict them of their sin so that eventually they will come back. He will cause them through the power of his spirit. To turn back, just like he did in the parable of the prodigal son, that he wakes up and comes to his senses. But for us, prayer is a vital step in reclaiming the world. wandering Christian. Now why is that important? Well one reason it is important is that prayer demonstrates our total dependence. On God to do the work that brings about the restoration of the wayward believer. When we pray for a wandering brother, we are saying, Lord, we cannot change this person's heart. Only you can do that, Lord. Lord, we cannot convict them, but we know that your Holy Spirit can. So do the work, Lord. Do the work. Move your spirit in that person. Sin 's heart. And sometimes, sometimes, praying for a wandering believer is the only thing that is left for us to do. What do I mean by that? Well, let me illustrate. Several years ago, our church had a prayer support group for families who had A gay relative, a gay loved one. And at one of those meetings, we had a representative come from a well-known uh ministry that helps men and women uh deal with same-sex attraction. And sexual sin. And he pointedly told those parents this, I will never forget it. He said, you cannot talk someone out of being gay you can try to reason with them but it will not change them they will always follow the inclination Of their hearts, and that's true of any of us, is it not? That we will always follow the inclination of our hearts. Well, that was the experience of many in the group with their son or daughter or brother brother or sister. We had in our group parents whose adult children made a profession of faith when they were young. But as adults they pursued their same-sex attraction and wandered from And when they first came out, what did the parents do? They tried to reason with their son or daughter, and they confronted them with the truth. And their son or daughter knew where their parents stood on the issue of homosexuality, that they were loved by their parents, but their parents could not accept their life that they had chosen to pursue And having made that clear, all the parents could do at that point was to love them, to keep the lines of communication open, and to pray for them. And they would pray and pray that the Lord would change their hearts That he would free them from the idols that have ensnared them so that they could find the acceptance, their security, and their identity that they had in Jesus Christ. Christ, and that they would find the love that they were looking for in Christ alone. So as a group, we prayed for thee. precious loved ones. So the first step in reclaiming a wandering Christian is to pray for him or for her. The second part of the process is to ponder, to examine your own life first before confronting someone else's. Before confronting someone else about their life. The Lord says in Matthew 7:1 through 5: Judge not, lest ye be judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged. And with the measure that you use, it will be measured back to you. Why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but you do not consider the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me remove the speck from your eye, and look, a plank is in your own eye. Hypocrite, first remove the plank from your own own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Now what is Jesus saying here? Well he's not saying that we should never seek to correct our brother or sister. If we see sin areas in their life. When when he says, judge not lest ye be judged, he's not saying don't ever judge someone else's behavior. Rather, he's saying be careful how You judge. Be circumspect in your judgment. In other words, in your judgment, do not be judgmental, but be careful in your judgment. to become self-righteous and recognize that the sin that you point out in somebody else's life is the very same sin that could ensnare your own life Tensandi says this much better than I in his book, Peacemakers. He writes, Scripture teaches that we should observe and evaluate others' behavior. We cross the line, however, when we begin to sinfully judge others, which is Characterized by feeling of superiority, indignation, condemnation, bitterness, or resentment. Sinful judging often involves speculating on others Motives. Most of all, it involves the absence of genuine love and concern toward them. When these attitudes are present, our judging has crossed the line. We are playing God. So to paraphrase what Jesus is saying in Matthew 7, it is something like this: if you see sin in your brother's life, what are you going to do? You're first going to look at your own life and ask God to show you your faults and your failings. And then you need to repent of those. And once you've done that, then you can go to your brother and Confront him with his sin, with a clear conscience, knowing that you're not guilty of the same thing you're accusing him of. First, we need to remove the board out of our own Paul gives similar instruction in Galatians 6:1. Brethren, if a man is overtaken in any trespass You who are spiritual, restore such a one. How? In a spirit of gentleness, considering yourself Lest you also be tempted. Well, here we see again instruction that when we confront another about their sin, we do so with A sense of humility, realizing that we are just as susceptible to sin and that we need to guard our own hearts against sins which can so in easily intend us Well, moving on, another thing to consider in confronting a wayward believer is this principle You go in private first before you go public. Matthew 18, verse 15 The Lord says, Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, You have gained your brother. But if ye will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a Tax collector. If your brother sins against you, you are to go to him privately. First first, to continue Confront him. You don't talk about the issue with other people, you don't bring it up with others, but you keep it between the two of you. The general rule of thumb, as Ken Sandy points out, is That we should try to keep the circle of people involved in a conflict as small as possible, as long as possible. And we can think of several reasons why this is important. It shows, first of all, respect for the other person. And it shows your concern for their dignity by not talking about their faults to other people. It may be that also that your perception is wrong and there's been some misunderstanding So it gives you an opportunity to kind of clear the air and to set things right without involving others unnecessarily. So you want to keep the matter as private As possible by first going to the other person. We can think of any number of examples. Let's say there's John. And John has a fellow Christian friend who's his Co-worker. And his co-worker is married and he goes to John's church, and his name is Sam. And John has been noticing that Sam has been showing a lot of attention To Paula at work. They laugh with each other and carry on, and she giggles a lot at Sam and swing When Sam sees Paula, his eyes light up and there's a spark there. And then he notices that they both go on lunch break at the same time. And then one evening, he's working late, and he happens to come across Sam and Paula, and they're in an embrace. Now, what is John going to do? How is he going to respond to this situation? Does he say nothing at all to his brothers? Sam? No. His brother Sam is like a wandering sheep. And he needs to warn him for his sake and for the sake of his family and for the honor of Christ. So he needs to respond to this situation, but how? Well, what not to do? He doesn't go around the water cooler and say, hey. Hey, you won't believe what I saw the other night. I was uh leaving late and I saw Paula and Sam embracing each other. They were giving each other a good hug. No, he's Going to pray first. He's going to pray before going to him, and he's going to ask the Lord to give him wisdom and the right words to say. And Jim and John is going to go in the spirit of humility and gently confront His Christian friend recognizing that John is a sinner too. And he's going to go in private to Sam. And he might say, Sam, you know, I noticed your attention to Paula. I noticed how you've been interacting with her and been going off to lunch with her and then one night I I came across the two of you and you're an embrace. Well what's going on, Sam? I'm really concerned for you and for your family and for your testimonies as a Christian. What's going on? And as Sam confesses and he says, Well, you know, you're right, I I'm sorry, I was attracted to her. I got carried away. Uh we hugged, we kissed, but that's as far as it went. Uh no further. I I'm I'm being totally honest with you. Things have been rough at home. Marriage is rocky, kids aren't uh are frustrated frustrating me and and Paula makes me feel so good and and I just got kind of swept away by that. And you're right, I I need help and I I I need to do something. something. Well the Sam confesses, and then there is what? He has won, John has won a brother back. And then the work of restoration. begins. And he says to Sam, Sam, you need to get your life right. First of all, you you need to go to your pastor and tell him what's going on and get high Help you need for your marriage. And you need to break this relationship off with Paula. Don't let it go any further. Don't have any contact with her. Don't text her. Email. Her. Don't talk to her at all. Tell her up front you're married and you want to honor your marriage and you're Christian and you shouldn't be doing this. And then let me hold you accountable. Sam, for what's going on in your life. Let's let's meet together and pray together. Let me hold you accountable in your life. So that would be a great thing. But let's say Sam does admit to what's going on, but he doesn't repent. And instead Sam says What what are you spying on me? What kind of friend are you? You have no right to interfere with my life. Get out of my business and mind your own business. Well, what's the next step according to Matthew 18 Well Jim would ask another Christian brother, a mutual friend perhaps, of he and Sam, or he would go to their pastor of their church to go along with him to once again control Front San and his sin. Well why would he do that? Well the purpose is twofold. As John involves another Christian brother in Sam's situation, the circle of influence is now doubled to two people. And therefore the pressure for Sam to repa And furthermore, the added person would also serve as a witness, should it be necessary for the next step to happen, because Because let's say Sam doesn't repent. So what's the next step? The next step in Matthew 18 is to go tell it to the church, which in our church government means that that sa that John would go to the elders of the church and say, Look, I'm dealing with this situation with Sam and our church. He seems to be w having an affair with one of our coworkers. You need to get involved You need to confront him on the sin. Mia and another brother went with him. We've been following Matthew 18, and nothing's happened. And you need to get involved. Why go there? Because the elders of the church are responsible for the spiritual oversight of the members of the church. Now let's say Sam refuses to meet with The elders of the church and he doesn't repent. What are the elders going to do? Well, they they would say, Sam, you're not repenting. And because of that, we're going to first of all remove you from being able to To receive communion as a discipline, you're going to go under church discipline. And if Sam still r refuses to repent after that Then they're going to say, you know, Sam, we can see by your unrepentant spirit that we think, from what we can see, from your heart, that you really aren't a genuine believer. believer in Christ. And so we're going to have to remove you from our fellowship. And at that point, Sam's situation would be brought before the members Of the church. And without going through all the details, the church members would be informed of what's going on and say, Sam is totally unrepentant and in certain situations. We're not going to go through the details, but we want you to know that we've had to remove him from our fellowship. So what are you going to do? Christians, how are you going to treat Sam now? Now that he's no longer part of our fellowship? Does it mean that we shun him? That if we see him, we're not going to speak to him? Him or turn our back to him? No. What does scripture say? That we're going to treat him as a tax collector and a heathen. In other words, we're going to treat him as an unbeliever. And what do we do with unbelievers? We evangelize them, do we not? We share the gospel with them. Do we not? So that's what we would do for Sam. We would say, Sam, we understand that there's some situation in your life that you refuse to repent about. And we just want to share with you about repentance and about the gospel and about what it means to have a living relationship with Jesus Christ that can change your life. And that you can be free from all of this. You're gonna treat Sam as a unbeliever. And this is the whole process of church. Discipline going from the informal, private, one-on-one confrontation to a more formal intervention of getting the elders And as the circle grows wider and wider, the pressure is put more and more on Sam to con to confess and to repent. With the hope of what? The goal isn't to punish Sam. It's not to humiliate him or to shun him, although through the process he may feel that. No, the goal for San is restoration. To bring that wandering Christian back into fellowship with God and with other Christians. To repair those broken relationships, first and foremost, his relationship with God. And then also with the relationships that he has damaged through his sin. Also, the purpose of church discipline is to maintain the purity of the church and to bring glory to God. Now we know that God does the work of repentance and restoration through his Spirit working in the life of the believer, but He uses us as his conduit through whom his spirit acts toward that end as we pray for Sam and as we witness to him. Let's go back now to James. And we see the reward. James writes: if you turn your brother back from sin, you would save a soul from death. And cover a multitude of sins. Now, what does he mean by that? How can we save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins? I thought It was God who does that. Well, there are two possibilities that James is talking about here. If it is a wandering Christian, in other words, a real genuine believer. Then James may be referring to a physical death. What do I mean? That the Lord takes the life of a recalcitrant Christian, sometimes as a severe mercy, so that they can no longer bring harm to themselves or do damage to the honor of Christ by their mercy. life. We're talking about very serious sins in which the Lord may take the life of a Christian as the ultimate form of church discipline. We see this, for example, in 1 Corinthians 1130. There were those in the church in the Corinthians church who were abusing the Lord's Supper and making a mockery of the sacrament. And they were using it as an excuse for gluttony and for getting drunk. And they would bring all the food and they wouldn't share it with those who couldn't afford it. To bring anything to the love feasts, and it would cause division, and they would fail to deserve discern the unity of the body of Christ because of their fur hurtful, sinful behavior. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 11 30, for this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many are asleep, which of course is another way of saying. James may be referring to physical death here, but actually I think what is most likely is that James is referring to Spiritual death. the In which case the wayward believer was not really a Christian at all. He may have been a professing believer In name only. So as he's confronted with his sin, then he comes to a real understanding and a real genuine faith in Christ In which his sins are really forgiven, and they are covered by the work of Christ on the cross. And the glorious thing, the wonderful thing is that James's encouragement to us is that we get to be a part of that process. Now we know that we don't ultimately say Anyone, we can't rescue them from death on our own. But the Lord, it's the Lord who saves us from sin through His death. But he uses us to proclaim the gospel, that we are his instruments through which his spirit brings about saving faith through the gospel In that way, the Lord uses us to rescue others from death and damnation and to cover a multitude of sins. So the question Is, beloved, are we willing to step in and to step up in such matters as a wandering Believer. We know the dangers that such confrontation is messy, it's difficult, and it's time consuming, and it certainly takes us out of our comfort Zone, but the rewards are worth it, are they not? To see a believer restored to fellowship or someone who provides Christ, come to a real saving faith in Christ. I have seen this time and time again. Just last year, one of the parents in our Support group called me and he said, You won't believe what happened. Our daughter prayed to receive Christ, she has repented of her sin. And she has come to a saving knowledge of Christ, and she knows his love, and she knows his forgiveness. After twenty years Years of praying for her. So that should be an encouragement to us that we should continue to pray for those who have wandered from the faith and to reach out to them. With the love of Christ. For as long as they are alive, there is hope. There is hope that they may yet repent and believe in the Lord. Lord. And the wonderful thing is that the Lord uses us. He uses our prayers, our witness as a means to accomplish his purposes And reaching those who are wandering. Let's pray together. Oh Lord God, when we think of that hymn, prone to Wander, Lord, I feel it prone to leave the Lord our love. Lord, that is our hearts, that is our lives. And we thank you that your sin, that your grace covers all of our sin. Sin. And Lord, that you have promised to never leave us nor forsake us, but that you will hold us fast in your hand. Lord, that is a comfort to us. That you enable us to persevere by your spirit and through your word and through our fellowship with other believers. We thank you too that we can be part of of that process in another believer's life. Lord, help us to be sensitive to others. That when we see them wandering from the fold, Lord, that we would have the courage and the conviction To go after them and to love them and to seek to bring them back. Father, as leaders in the church, help us to be strong and courageous. Courageo in doing that despite the difficulty. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is glorious and practical as well. We thank you Thank you for all these things. And now, Lord, as we come to your table, Lord, we pray that you would meet with us in a special, profound way. For we were one Once lost and you found us. We were once running from you and you grabbed us and caught us and brought us into your kingdom. We thank you, Lord. For your tremendous mercy and your amazing grace. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Beloved, let's stand together and sing hymn number four, five forty-nine, Jesus, thou joy of loving hearts. Let's stand together and sing.