You turn in your Bibles, please, to Ephesians. And let's go directly to chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5. Let's read the first 21 verses. The Apostle Paul writes, Therefore, be imitators of God as dear children. And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us, and given himself for us, and offering it a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling array. Roma. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you as is fitting for saints. Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ in God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not be partakers with them. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth. out what is acceptable to the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them. in secret. But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore, he says, Awake you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. See then that you walk circumspectly. not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord Giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another in the fear of God. God bless this portion of His Word. Let's pray. Father, once again, as we attempt to Proclaim your word. We are in need of your presence and your help. We acknowledge our utter dependence upon you to preach it and and also to hear it. Be attentive to it. Help us, Father. I pray for each person here , man, woman, and child, that the Word of God might speak to his or her heart We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like us to focus this morning on a subject That you no doubt thought a lot about in the week just past. It's a subject that may be on the minds of more people around the world than any other. Each of us almost certainly thought about it already this morning. No one seems to have enough of it, yet many don't seem to know what to do with the amount of it that they have on a I'm speaking, of course, of time. The Apostle Paul wrote to the believers in Ephesus, See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools. But as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. What does the scripture mean when it exhorts us to redeem the time? Well, I think it means more than just using the time wisely. You may remember hearing about that fifth grade class in Aurora, Colorado. A number of years ago, they learned about children in Sudan who were being kidnapped and sold as slaves. Instead of just learning about it, they decided to do something about it. They were as as children, of course, shocked to discover that slavery was still occurring in our day And they learned about a group based in Switzerland, Christian Solidarity International, which redeems slaves by paying Paying fifty to a hundred dollars for each one of them. The class began to raise funds, and through the funds that that class raised, and others who heard about that, They were instrumental in redeeming thousands of Sudanese slaves. To redeem is quite simply to buy back. So the phrase redeem the time suggests that someone already has it who shouldn't have it, and we need to buy it back. It suggests that the time has already been lost, in a sense, that it's Paul says, You once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. Ephesians 2. As our souls have been redeemed, bought back from a course that was leading towards certain death, even so, I think what Paul is saying is that our time should be Be redeemed, bought back from a general drift toward wastefulness. Ben Franklin said, He who values life must value time, for time is the stuff of which life is made. To redeem the time is to be wise, understanding what the will of the Lord is. Paul says, see that you walk circumspectly, that is, carefully. See that you walk carefully, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil. In other words, because there's a great task before us. Redeem the time, because the days are evil. As we launch out into another year, the Course of Wisdom is to redeem the time that God gives us I think I mentioned before that as a child growing up in Northeast Baltimore, I was a big uh Oriole fan and still am an Oriole fan, but uh I remember that as a child uh uh every year that the The team would come up with a new catchy slogan to sort of heighten interest in the season. Remember, I don't know, things like you know, I can't remember the actual slogan. But it would be something like, you know, the birds can't wait for 58, or uh, the O's will shine in 59. Through the years, the slogans have become a bit less optimistic. I think this year it's uh well we can always dream in twenty fourteen. But uh maybe our church should have a slogan. Maybe our church should have a slogan. Let's redeem 2014 or just redeem fourteen because it's unlikely we're gonna see another fourteen. It's obviously this fourteen. we're talking about let's redeem 14. Now how can we do that? How can we redeem 14? Well we could redeem 14 If we will commit to broadening and deepening our knowledge of God through his word. I'd put that at number one: broadening and deepening our knowledge of God through his inspired word. Knowing the Lord is a lifelong pursuit. It was certainly such for the Apostle Paul. Here in Ephesians, turn over to Philippians chapter 3. Very next letter. Look at verse 7. Paul says, But what things were gained to me, these I've counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed, I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish. that I may gain Christ, and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith, that I may know him And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection. Resurrection from the dead. Paul prayed that he might know him and the power of his resurrection. Didn't Paul know the Lord? Of course he did, but what he Have you heard about the little girl who returned from her first day of school and her mom asked, Did you learn anything. And she responded, well I guess not. I have to go back tomorrow and the next day and the next day. Spiritual learning, as all learning, takes place slowly, but it also takes place surely when you allow the Word of Christ to dwell in you richly. Sitting under biblical teaching, seeing that your children are receiving solid biblical teaching is, of course, one way to encourage spiritual growth and to redeem 14. Let me speak to parents directly. If you leave such a critical matter as where you're going to fellowship, worship, and serve the Lord up to your children, they may well gravitate toward a place where, for example, youth activities are are heavy on uh on the fun and very light on the teaching. Where participatory congregational worship has been uh supplanted with the look and sound of a concert venue. And where the coffee may be strong, but the doctrine is often It's the word of God that is empowered by His Spirit to awaken hearts. It's the Word of God that is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Jesus said, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. It's the word of God applied to our hearts that brings about our sanctification. Conversion is not the end of the road for the believer, it's the beginning of the road for the believer The apostles were concerned not just to get sinners on Salvation Mountain. They were consumed with encouraging them to climb the mountain, to progress in their Christian life. The Apostle Paul was writing to the saints in Ephesus, that is, those who were set apart by God, believers in Jesus Christ, as is clear from the first verse of Of the letter. When he wrote, look at chapter 1 of Ephesians and verse 15. Therefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, he says, making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints And what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his almighty power? Which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. He wants the believers to deepen their understanding of God, to grow in their knowledge of him. Look at chapter 3 and verse 14. For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you. According to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might through the Spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love May be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and length and depth and height, to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. It's clear, isn't it, that the Apostle Paul wanted uh Christians, wanted the saints in Ephesus, and all of us as believers. Uh to go further down uh the road than uh or to take a another road after the Romans road. Let's put it that way. He he wants us on the Romans road. He wants us to to know that uh uh all have sinned to come short. to the glory of God. He wants us to know that salvation is by grace through through faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, that we walk by faith He wants us to know that. He wants us to come to faith in Christ. But he wants us to go beyond the Romans road. He wants us to take a walk on Ephesians Drive, Galatians Lane, Colossians Court. Thessalonians Trail, Proverbs Place, First Kings Highway, and Hosea Weia. God has graciously given us another calendar year. That's the grace of God that we are alive in 2014. God has graciously given us another calendar year. In which to get our roots down deep in His Word, feeding upon it, hiding it in our hearts. The first step is for us to be disciplined to devote some consistent time to God's word uh each day, meditating upon it, reading it, hiding it in our hearts, maybe just before breakfast, maybe just before bed, maybe on your lunch break But what a difference it would make in our lives if we would each devote time to God's word each day. All sorts of devotional helps are available, as you know, daily reading guides, devotional Bibles. Monthly resources like table talk. You can download scriptures to your mobile phone. You can listen to God's word as you drive or as you do the dishes or work in the garage. Redeem the time. Buy it back. See? Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. We have all sorts of resources now that the Apostle Paul couldn't possibly imagine. You might remember hearing about Dr. Howard Farron. I believe he's with the Lord now, but he was once president of Africa Inland Mission And president of Barrington Bible College for some 40 years, he liked to tell young people that he memorized the book of Romans in five minutes. He memorized the book of Romans in five minutes. Of course, they didn't believe him, so he explained that as a student at Moody Bible Institute, he had a five-minute uh bus ride, and we We have a student here now. He had a five-minute bus ride East Day. Many of us would have wasted that five minutes. I probably would have wasted it reading the newspaper uh looking at the other passengers. He uh memorized the book of Romans, five minutes a day, on his way to To Moody Bible Institute. You can redeem 14 by getting your roots down deep in God's Word. You can also redeem 14 by developing your prayer life, deepening it Deepening your prayer life. My voice you shall hear in the morning, O Lord. In the morning I will direct it to you. I will look up. Psalm 5. Because he has inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call upon him as long as I live. Psalm 16. 16 verse 2. In Isaiah 43, the Lord upgrades his people. The beasts of the field will honor me, jackals and the ostriches, but you have not called upon me, O Jacob And you have been weary of me, O Israel. I wonder when God considers my prayer life or yours really year past, could he justly conclude that we are weary of him? You say, well I'm too busy. I have important things to attend to. Well, would your important things go undone if you invested some time each day on your knees, interceding for others, praying for God's blessing upon your life, life of your Loved ones, praying for God's uh uh gospel to go forth to the lost, praying for the conversion of your friends, asking him for wisdom You can redeem 14 not only by beginning the pattern of prayer each day, but also simply by thinking about the Lord throughout the day, meditating upon it. And boys and girls, you can do this too. Boys and girls, listen to me now. You can you can bless God, you can uh You can give joy to God by meditating upon him, thinking about him throughout the day. We find some examples in the little children's book, Children's Letters to God. Little Eugene wrote, Dear God, I didn't think orange went with purple until I saw the sunset you made on Tuesday. That was cool. And little Charles wrote, Dear God, I do not think anybody could be a better God. Well, I just want you to know, uh, but I'm not just saying this because you're a God already. And Elliot wrote, Dear God, I think about you sometimes even when I'm not praying. Dear God, I think about you sometimes even when I'm not praying. That's a good practice. For all of us to engage in. And speaking of practice, let me remind you that God designed you to be, among other things, a creature of habit. Uh we're creatures of habit. So you can redeem fourteen by establishing patterns that will aid your growth in Christ. But reject profane and old wives' fables, Paul said. Reject profane and old wives' fables. I wonder if writing today he would have spoken of sexually explicit films and televisions. Programs. Reject, he said, profane and old wives' fables, and exercise yourself toward godliness. Exercise yourself toward godliness. Look at Hebrews chapter 5. Back towards the back of your New Testament. Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 12. For though by this time you ought to be teachers , You need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God. And you've come to need milk and not solid food. Or everyone who partakes only of milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But solid food belongs to those who are of full age, that is, those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. You get a sense of it there. By reason of use, by uh by discipline, by force of habit, you might say. As physical exercise requires time set aside And requires discipline, even so, spiritual strength comes through regular spiritual exercise. As a muscle becomes stronger, as as you use it, so our knowledge of God's word deepens as we uh abide in it and uh and as we develop passion Patterns. And then you can redeem 14 if you'll do something to advance the kingdom of God. Do something to advance the kingdom of God. If you look back over 2013. Is there someone who knows Christ today because you cared enough to speak to him or her last year? Is there someone who knows Christ better now because you were here? In 2013. He who turns a sinner from his way, from the error of his way, will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. How can you be an instrument in God's hand. It may be a conversation at work or at school. It may be a neighborhood Bible study. It may be teaching a Sunday school class. It may be leading a Bible club for kids, distributing tracts, serving on a ministry team as the ESL team, maybe on a missions committee. Maybe you can come up with your own idea to advance Christ's kingdom. I don't know if you saw it was in the news uh last month, I think it was. The story of Albert Lexi, L-E-X-I-E. Albert Lexi, for 32 years, he's been shining shoes at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh. was every day of the week, I think a couple days a week, but for thirty-two years he's been shining shoes at Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh. He charges five dollars for the service Service, but he has donated all of his tips to the hospital designated for the parents who can't pay the medical costs for their children. By the time he retired in December , He had reportedly donated over $200,000 just from the tips he received from people for whom he shined their shoes. It's an example of how even a small act of kindness can accomplish something great over time. You may remember the story author Max Locato He was working in an evangelistic campaign in Hawaii. Somebody's got to do it. And his job We all go do it. And his job I think I think the Bombers are gonna go go do it here in a little while He was working in an evangelistic campaign in Hawaii, and uh his job was to go door to door inviting people to meetings. Uh things weren't going too well. He said no one was rude to him, but no one invited him She couldn't read She had few opportunities to witness, but she'd come up with a way to let her light shine. She uh showed Max Locato a back room in her house with decoupage materials Uh decoupage materials. I can't explain what those are, but I I know them when I see them. And uh she was creating open-faced books to be hung on a wall. And what she would do is paste uh a Polaroid on one side and then put a Bible verse on the other. Now young people a Polaroid is a is a photograph. In the old days we would actually put these photographs on paper And they wouldn't be on on a video screen. And and so uh she she would put a photograph of her friend, uh maybe her with her friend on one side, and then a scripture verse on the other And her thinking was that way her friends will hang these in their homes and and God's word will get an entrance into that household. Lakeda wrote, No sower of small seeds can know the extent of the harvest. No sower of small seeds can know the extent of the harvest. But don't be surprised if in heaven next to David's sling uh and Moses ' rod and the donkey's rope I guess the answer is Jerusalem he's talking about there, you discover a decoupage book with a picture and a verse. You can redeem 14 by using your talents and your spiritual gifts to advance Christ's kingdom in some way We talked about it last week. Use your imagination. God gave you that imagination to advance Christ's kingdom in some way. And then you can redeem 14 by allowing God to sanctify to you your deepest Distress. Sanctify to you your deepest distress. What I mean by that is none of us know , none of us knows what's awaiting us. in twenty fourteen. The loss of a job, loss of health, death of a loved one. First Corinthians 1013 says, There has no temptation, no temptation taken. You no periasmas. It can mean trial. There has no temptation taken you, no trial taken you, but such as is common to man. But God God is faithful. He will not allow us to be tempted or tried above what we're able, but he will with the temptation also make a way to escape that we might be able to bear it. So Christian, will you determine to trust God whatever befalls you in 2014? Father was walking with his young daughter when he decided to enter a new part of the neighborhood. With strange houses, unfamiliar children, different dogs. He became concerned that she might be frightened or uneasy because of so many strange sights. Are you frightened? No. Do you know where we are? No. Do you know the way home? No. Why aren't you frightened if you don't know the way home? I don't have to. You already Do. We have a Father in heaven who already knows the way home. We don't have to be frightened. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? God knows the way home for you. Parents, you can redeem 14 by making it a year worth living for your children. I wonder what they'll be like if they're still in your care. A year from now. It's a pretty safe bet that they'll be bigger. They'll be eating more. What about their character? Honesty, compassion, generosity. Godliness, faithfulness, zeal. Are you praying with them? Are you praying for them? To what influences will they be subjected in 2014 At home, at school, through the media. Are you protecting them against, for example, the epidemic of pornography? Are you protecting your children against it? World magazine reported in a recent Recent issue. The internet has been for pornography what the printing press was for books, providing users with endless images on their computers. And smartphones in complete privacy. A full-blown addiction that used to take nine to twelve months to develop 30 years ago now happens in three or four Weeks. Web users entered almost 1. 5 billion searches for internet porn in the first eight months of 2013. 1. 5 billion internet searches for pornography in the first eight months of twenty thirteen, averaging five for every person living in the United States. States. That's th those are the epidemic proportions we're talking about. And it's not only men visiting these sites, according to World Magazine, women make up one third of the traffic. I think it was Time Magazine that reported recently that the average age children are being introduced to pornography is now between ten and The World Magazine article cited Richard, for example, who grew up in a conservative Christian home and quote, encountered pornography when a tenth grade classmate Slipped a photo into his math book. He remembers the picture as repulsive, but also intriguing. I knew it was wrong, he said. Later in college, he turned to internet pornography, and now in his mid-30s, he cites his 15-year addiction to pornography as the prime reason that he's still single. It has kept me from healthy relationships with women, and it has drastically affected my From World Magazine. In one generation, the average marriage age in the U. S. has jumped from the early 20s to 29 for men and 27 for women. Of course, it's not just a problem for young men and young women. Jim Dennison, former pastor of the 10,000-member Park Cities Baptist Church in Dallas 10,000 member Park City's Baptist Church in Dallas said he took a an anonymous survey of 300 men at a 630 a. m. Bible study, and he found that 70% of them were struggling with 70%. And he said, this is not the peripheral member who comes occasionally. These are the committed members, the staff members, and the deacons. To our elders. Parents, you may not be able to keep your child from harm, but you can forbid him to go skateboarding on the interstate You can't prevent him from ever getting sick, but you can make sure he doesn't swim in a septic tank. If you put your child with an impressionable mind in front of a video screen, you better know what's coming across. Whatever things are true, noble, just, pure, lovely, of good report, if there's any virtue, if there's anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. Philippians 4:8. So, young people, let me speak directly to you. Is that website pure? Is that movie pure? Is that television series you're watching, is that pure? Is it noble? Is it true? Is it worthy of praise? Would you feel comfortable watching it if the Lord Jesus stopped by one evening? Would you and he sit and watch that program together? You may remember Max Lakato's illustration of this. He said, Suppose I ask you to take care of my house while I'm out of town. You pledge to keep everything in great shape, but when I return, the place is in a shambles. The carpet 's torn, the walls are smeared, the furniture's broken. Your explanation is not very impressive. You tell them, well, some bikers came by and they needed a place to stay. And then the rugby team called up They wanted a place for their party, and of course there was a fraternity. They wanted a place to hold their initiation ceremony. As the owner, Max Latin. Cato says, I have one question. Don't you know how to say no? This is not your house. You don't have the right to let in everyone who wants to enter. Paul says, Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? You are not your own. Christian, your body is the Lord's. You don't have the right to open the eye gate and open the ear gate to everybody that wants to enter. Then you You can redeem 14 if you determine to be a faithful steward of all that God gives you. We talked about this last week. When you you get you'll be be getting a statement from Liberty Church if you're a member here or if you're a regular giver to Liberty or if you gave it all, I suppose, in the previous year. Will it amount to uh When it lists the statement of how much you gave last year, will it amount to even a tenth of what God graciously gave to you in twenty thirteen? It said that if Christians in America listen to this If Christians in America would only tithe their incomes, we could put a copy of the Bible in the hands of every person on the earth within ten years. It's reported that there is more spent on tobacco in the United States in a single year than has been given to missionary endeavors by the citizens not just of the United States United States, but of Canada as well throughout history. You can redeem 14 if you'll help those In need of food or drink or clothing or shelter, those in prison, those who are lonely, those who are mourning. It might be a foreign student or someone in her Nursing home, a lonely neighbor, a foster child, a single parent. Where do I start? You might say. Well, you could start right here. Inasmuch as you did it unto one of the least of these, my brethren. You did it unto me, Jesus said. Now, as I close this morning, Christian, let me ask you to close your eyes for a moment. Close your eyes for a moment And imagine that your time on earth has ended. You are standing before the one who loves you with an everlasting love, and he's uh reviewing your thoughts, your words, and your Deeds since he first adopted you into his family so many years ago. Will he see that for the most part your life was consumed? With yourself, your comfort, your pleasure? Will he see prayerless days, hundreds of wasted hours before video screens? Will he see worry and complaining and gossip and covetousness? Will the realization hit you in that hour that your life could be summarized as weeks of wood, months Of hay, years of stubble. Oh, the years in sinning wasted, could I but recall them now? I would give them to my Savior, to his will I'd gladly bow Lord, I took the spiritual gift you gave me. I buried it in the earth. And your steadfast love for me only intensifies my shame. Lord, if you'll only give me more time, just give me more time, I'll serve you with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. I won't waste the precious gift of time. I'll redeem it for your kingdom. may open your eyes because of course it's it's not too late. It's not too late. God has graciously given you another day, the beginning of another Another year in which to serve him. Don't waste it. Redeem it. Redeem the time where the days are evil. Let's pray Father, forgive us for those wasted hours and minutes. Help us, Lord, to uh live A balanced life, one where yes, we relax and rest, but one in which we invest our time for your kingdom for your glory. Lord for the young people here who are determining how to spend their lives, how to how to labor for you, what vocation to to uh have Lord help them uh speak to them Father uh show them uh what they can do for your kingdom and how They can use their gifts and their talents to be a blessing to mankind and to glorify you. Lord, uh, thank you for another year. Help us to use it wisely. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.