Thank you, and it's great to be back with you. I uh need to emphasize a little bit this morning the uh extent of my appreciation for being here You wouldn't know that uh back in nineteen sixty-nine, uh maybe nineteen seventy, when I was attending Randallstown High School And at that point I was a sophomore. And during that particular year, Young Life was very instrumental in ministering to that campus. Uh I came to Christ through that ministry. Actually, my brother Craig, who you know, also came to Christ. And in that first year or two, as we were growing in our relationship with Christ and we were getting a little bit better understanding of the significance of the church. A friend of ours who also was a student mentioned that there was a new church that had begun meeting and they had actually taken a barn and made it into a place of sanctuary. And so uh this friend said sometime you should come. Well back again, maybe nineteen sixty nine nineteen seventy, I attended Liberty at that time, Liberty Reform Presbyterian Church, and I think I only came once But it was enough. And uh I mean at the time for me. So um at the end of my college years after I was finishing up at uh University of Baltimore in a business administration, I was on my way to to enter into the business world and uh specifically to work with my father, I realized that God was possibly calling me into some kind of ministry and it might be helpful if I went and got a seminary degree. And I had heard that there was a new pastor at Liberty, a guy by the name of Mark Pett, and I should visit him and and get to know him. So I did. I I called him up and Uh he was gracious to allow me to come by and we visit and he said, by the way, if you're thinking about seminary, my father-in-law is the president of a seminary in St. Louis called Covenant Theological Seminary, you might want to consider going there. So sure enough Uh in 196 1976, Debbie and I packed up and went out to St. Louis, went to seminary. And I won't prolong the story anymore, but Then from there went to Cherry Hill, New Jersey for several years, followed by twenty years in Oklahoma City, where I began to realize that God was calling me and calling Debbie and I to the ministry uh towards people uh in government and it was decided that we would move then back east to Washington DC in this on this occasion and so since nineteen or since two thousand and three we've been in uh Washington DC and this church continues to extend hospitality and your graciousness to us and you have supported us and encouraged us over those years. And if you're counting, you realize that we're talking a span of some 50 years that this congregation has been so gracious and kind and loving to not only Debbie and myself, but of course to my uh extended family, my mom and my dad, my My brother Craig and certainly my brother Chris and their families and anyway, I just I I I I can't come today after fifty years And not say something to you for the glory of God says, Thank you so much for your encouragement, for your love, for your support Uh and for all that you continue to do for us. So I'm very honored that not only I can come here and worship with you, but you would actually let me be on this side of the pulpit. So thank you for that. Before we get into the Word of God, and since it's already been read in terms of Psalm 138, I think it would be appropriate for me just to pause for a moment. uh and to go before our Lord and ask him to help us as we try to understand better his word. Will you pray with me, please? Father in heaven, thank you for Liberty Church. for the elders here. Thank you for uh the staff, for the the people, and thank you for the incredible history That you have given this church. And I know that I am just, Debbie and I are just one example of many who have been impacted for the sake of the gospel, for the furthering of your word and your truth. for the development of the church, not only throughout this community, but throughout the world. Lord, it's it is so encouraging to see what one church will do to one person. And so Father, I pray that as we look further into your word this morning, that you would help us better understand what our mindset should be in regards to To the political realm, to government centers, to those who serve. Father, we acknowledge that it can be incredibly difficult for us to navigate all this. That the tensions and at times the divisions can be just over the top. And so we ask that your word would help us better understand, remind us of how we should think and how we should respond to our present-day circumstances. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. As I mentioned to you, when I came to Christ, uh one of the things that I did was to begin to look for places of worship and to understand what God was doing through the church and And again, even though it's been some 50 years, I'm still learning quite a bit. As you'll recall, if you go to the book of Romans, chapter 12. Paul there says this, he says, do not conform any longer to the patterns of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, then you will be able to test and approve what God's will is. And I believe that over the last 50 years for me as a growing Christian, that one of the things that's really critical for me is to is to to to basically ask this ongoing question, what is it that I believe, and then list all the different categories of life, right? You you could probably you you can do this as just as well as I can. You know, so you you have relationships, relationships within the family. And I think that what Paul says there in Romans 12, we need to we need to ask our ourselves the question, am I conforming myself uh to the scriptures when it comes to my relationships, when it comes to what I believe about the church, for example, am I conforming myself, my thoughts and my life to what the scriptures teach, to the truth that is there. When uh when I think about my finances and and my um many other areas of life. Am I conforming those areas of my again thinking in to terms of my life to what the truth of scriptures teach? And then specifically this morning, when it comes to the political realm, am I submitting my thought life and my actions to the truth of Scripture Now, let me just say a couple things quickly before we go any further. I don't believe that the pulpit or the church should be a platform for the political arena. In other words, I don't think politics should be coming from the pulpit. All right? I just want you to know that. But today I want to make an exception. Uh because I think that it's important for us not to not to create a political arena out of the pulpit, but to ask the question, what does the scriptures teach us in regards to politics? So that's one. Point two , this is not the the point of your sermon, so don't get confused here. Point two is that I want you to realize Now when I use the term uh political or politics today, I'm not so much referring to the normal understanding of politics in the political arena, but I am referring to government And actually, one of the things that you'll pick up as you're working in a place of government is that really government isn't supposed to be so political. And we kind of divide those two things in our ministry, this thing called ministry of the state, is a ministry to people in politics. It's not political. It's not supposed to be political. And and it can't be political. Because that's not that's not the nature of our calling. So I just want to mention those things in case you're thinking, oh, is this going to be like a political sermon? Well, in a way, but yes, in a in a way it's it's not. So let's just Let's just go from there. It's important, I believe, as we go back to the passage that Barry has read to us this morning, Psalm 138, not 139. 139 is one of my favorite passages, but 138 is one of those sections of the Psalms that oh in many cases in many occasions we don't really connect to. But I do think it's important for us to to better understand it because at it at the heart of 138 is this emphasis on thinking about, and again I'm going to use the term politics or people who rule or governments, that what it does is it helps us better understand how we should view this part of life. And specifically that we should have what I will call a divid a David perspective, which is a redemptive perspective on politics And as you look at Psalm 138, that's really what we're given. We're given a redemptive understanding of the world of politics, of of government, of those who rule. And there are three basic things that I think are worth uh are worthy of our consideration when we think about this passage and what is teaching us about this more redemptive understanding of the political realm. And the first deals with the whole dynamic of honor. The fact that when you consider those in the political realm, consider those who are leaders. And by the way, today is significant for us as a country, you may You may have picked up on this, but you know, it every two years we bring in a new House of Representatives or we re-elect or bring in new members of the House of Representatives. And as well as a third are re-elect or bring in new members to the Senate. So it's a third of the Senate, which is a hundred, and the House of Representatives in terms of the United States. is uh 435. So you've got a new election. You have election every two years, and so today is the day in which they're being sworn in. So over on Capitol Hill, there's a lot of activity going on, and there's a swearing-in of the of the third who were either re-elected or who were new members of the Senate and then all four hundred and thirty-five. members of the house. So it's a significant time. And so as you think about these people and you as you think about uh who they are and how they're ruling, will you consider them from the perspective of David. Now one of the things that, as you well know about David is that uh you you have here uh in this passage a reflection of a king, right? It's not just It's not just a spiritual leader, which I believe David was, but it's specifically the reflections of a spiritual leader who is a king. And he's giving you his testimony. And I think it's I think one of the things that would be helpful for us as a church at large and specifically the PCA, is if we could hear more from the personal perspective of those who lead. One of the things that we do in Ministry to Stay or we've started doing uh even this past month, which was rather challenging was that I went to two different areas of the country and I asked some of my some of our uh colleagues in terms of the pastorate If they would be interested in sitting down with a freshman or or a member or of Congress elect and just hearing from them in regards to who they are and what they believe. Again, not for political reasons, but just simply to get to know them. And so we did an event down in southern Florida and one in southern Texas where these pastors could just sit down and listen th about the life of a new member in Congress. In a way, that's what we have here, except this is like a three thousand year old testimony that we're reflecting on. And and so when I think about David's life And I think about all that he did when he r when he pens under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Psalm 138, I'm reminded of the fact that he what he's he's he's in that's it's kind of pouring out his heart in regards to what's happening here. Here's a guy that that was very, very young when he became a king Uh he's at the age of basically 30. Uh he was he was of course anointed by uh Samuel some years earlier. He really went through quite a period of of trial and and difficulty before he actually took on the reign, took it, took the office, so to speak, that he was given by God And so what what I find interesting is his reflection on the fact that he is not only a king and understands his own position, but he also is expressing what he thinks in terms of the other administrations around the world. Now, if you think about it for a moment, here's a guy, he's very young, and but yet he's very much connected, because he has to be with other kings. Right? And so when he says in verse 4, all the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, he's in this um I'll call it a a a significant quiet time where he's worshiping God. But as he's doing so, he can't help but to think about the other administrations within the other countries of the world and specifically those I'm sure around him. So if you ask the question, well, who might some of these kings be? Well you've got the Amorites, right? The king of the Ammonites. And the Ammonites were worshippers of Moek. And it's interesting to think about just how not just secular these different kingdoms were and the kings who reigned, but the kinds of things that they did, that they they worshiped the sun gods and that they sacrificed children Uh we could go on about these different ones. We don't have time, but think about the Moabites, for example. I'm sure when David said all the kings of the earth, he was thinking about the Moabites, and if you know anything about David, you know that he was related to a Moabite, right? Because His great great grandmother was a Moabite, uh Ruth. And then you've got the Edomites. These are all countries that are circle that are s that are directly around the the nation of Israel. And the Edomites we refer to uh a lot in regards to our understanding of Esau and and Jacob, but then the Amalekites and the Amalekites were the ones that King Saul was told to totally destroy and he did not and therefore was rebuked. And then you got the Philistines and Of course, if you go on you got the um the Babylonians and and the Egyptians and the list goes on and on. So when David is saying what he is saying here about all the kings of the earth He's not talking about like the guys he gets together with and has fellowship because they all worship the one true God. He's talking about people who really have Ways and beliefs that are totally against the scriptures. And yet, he has this perspective on there. In the world today, if you go to DC and you hunt around in terms of all the different embassies that are there, You know, there's there's some hundred and eighty countries that are represented. Uh uh my my numbers might be off a little bit, but not terribly far. Hundred and eighty different countries of the world. And what's somewhat fascinating to realize That those who rule in these different countries aren't much different than what David was thinking about. as he mentions all the kings of the earth in Psalm 138. We have everything in the world from anarchy Yes, there are many countries that have more of a democracy. There are some that are more of a monarch. There's tyranny, there's the republics, there's totalitarianism, there's federations, there's even theocracies actually today, if you if you think about it in terms of places like Iran, there's communism, right? There's all these different kinds of forms of government. By the way, You realize that being Presbyterian is is accenting our form of government, right? You know, within the church we have form we have a form of government and to be Presbyterian means we're accenting the fact that we are ruled by elders. Yes, under under the Lord, but but it's elders that we have, where in some congregations it's congregational, or some It's more of a episcopalian. So forms of government are are significant, but when David is referring to all the kings of the earth, he is predominantly thinking he's not thinking about a democracy Or a republic, he's thinking about a monarch, where you have these individuals that have incredible authority. And the point of all this is to say that as he is thinking about them and he's referring to them in his in his communication, in his prayer, his psalm to God, he is, and here's the point. He is honoring them. He's not speaking about them as if they were trash or to be discarded or whatever. But he understands that they are there by the will of God and the purposes of God. And I think as a Christian that that sometimes we fall into the trap of thinking that there's certain things within life that oh they just can't be that way and and And I'm not uh I'm not disagreeing with the fact that that there are many things in life that are wrong, but we believe according to the scriptures that every aspect of life is under the sovereign control of God. And when it comes to those who rule Even if we may not understand why God would put someone like Nero in charge of the Roman Empire, who would treat Christians the way that he does in say the things about Christians the way that that things were said and why other people even like I mean again think about Israel in terms of King Saul David had every reason to hate this man with every ounce of his life because he was constantly being pursued and there was this incredible amount of injustice. But if you go back into the Old Testament, you'll see that that Saul was greatly always honored by David. And there was an occasion, if you'll recall, when David had the opportunity to take Saul's life. And I'm and there were those who were around Dave who said, this is absolutely the right thing to do and the right time to do it because This king is creating so much havoc in your life and is doing things in such an unjust way, and he's disobeying God, and he doesn't honor God, and so therefore he shouldn't exist. But David's response was always what? No, this man has been anointed by God. And in case of Saul, that was specifically true. And so it's interesting for us to go back into the Old Testament to kind of see these dynamics and then as we flip through The scriptures, the pages of scriptures, and we come into the New Testament, and we go to places like Romans thirteen and we read this in chapter 13 verse 1. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except From God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. And therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. And so all I'm saying here is that when I think about David and what he was saying in Psalm 138, it's reiterated. when you go to Romans chapter 13 or 1 Peter chapter 2, be subject for the Lord's sake for to every human institution, whether it be To the Emperor as supreme or to the governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. Let me just say this before we finish this one point, and that is even the most depraved and corrupt forms of government And by the way, you you can have a monarch, and it can be a very benevolent and gracious monarch that could be, in essence, for the sake of the people, much healthier. than democracies or republics that are just incredibly corrupt, right? But even the most corrupt are what you might call the most benevolent type of leadership today. All of it, though, at the end of the at the end of the day, provides an enormous amount of order. Again, it may be in a corrupt way But there's order. And that order to us, those, if you think about the world as as as crazy as it may seem at times, as Um and you know there's all kinds of I mean we could go down this path and and talk about it a long time, but the point is is that when it seems like it's so chaotic and crazy Still at the end of the day, even the worst governments provide order. And that order is a reminder to us that we live in a world and in a universe that our God is in total control of. And even when it's so tainted, when certain things are so tainted with sin and so and and to such a degree that we wonder how in the world can this function and how can it be healthy at all? It's often much better than total anarchy. And total and total chaos. And the order within the world today of these, if you think about it, 180 Countries with some form of government, but fundamentally there was order. And when that order goes to a point where we have wars and we have conflicts, even under those circumstances If you look at it, there is a order being instituted that eventually resolves that conflict and those wars. And then you go back to a state of peace. And all that is a statement of the fact that the world in which we live is truly under the sovereign control of God. And under those circumstances, it is still under the sovereign control of God. Let me put this aside and come to point two. Point two is simply this. That there is truly only one king With all that I've said, again, today, 180 countries, in David's day, all these different kings and kingdoms, and all the different administrations and the people within the administration. And all the rule and all the authority that's there then and that is existing today, there is only one king. And this is really critical for us to understand. And David understood that. And and there's two things here that David accents in terms of this one king. One is that this one king Is truly, totally sovereign. And even though Psalm 138 isn't Psalm 139, which totally talks about the sovereignty of God, 138 still talks about the fact that God is the one who reigns. And what's amazing for David is that not only does he acknowledge that, but he acknowledges the fact that he has this personal relationship with this living king. Who is totally sovereign, so that there is not one breath, one movement of an atom or a molecule or a virus That is somehow outside of his control. And even though we may not understand the purpose in terms of what God is doing and why he's doing it, and things may seem chaotic. We understand that this king is totally in control and everything he does is for a specific purpose, and that includes those who are the kings of the earth. So David speaks about this king's word and how critical it is. And not only does he speak about this king's word, but he speaks about the fact that when at times when he's offended, That he recognizes that he has to repent. We see this within David's life, of course, with Bathsheba, with Uriah, with the way in which he acted, and in many other places. David says in Psalm 51, I know my transgressions and my sin is always before me. I know that my king has a very definite standard, and I mustn't ever Ever offend it. And when I do offend it, I need to own that offense. And yet at the same time If you look at Psalm 138, you'll notice that each time it speaks about the Lord or God His Heavenly Father, he always uses the word Yahweh. Capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D tells us that that particular word is drawn from the Hebrew And and and he could have used others, you know, he he could have used El Saddai or he could have used Elohim or or other names, Elohim meaning uh the god of creation or el Saddai, all powerful one, that would have been more uh uh prominent or more appropriate for for the context. Uh he could have, but he didn't. He uses He uses the Lord, the Yahweh. And Burkhoth says, the God who reveals himself as the God of grace. It was always, it has always been regarded, Burkhold says, as the most sacred and the most distinct name of God, the incommunicable name of God. The God of his grace, his covenant of grace, where he proves himself over and again his faithfulness to his people. So that as David is thinking about the one true king, he's not only thinking about the king's standards and rules and regulations and laws. And other aspects of the king, but he's thinking about the fact that this king that he serves is a gracious, kind, loving king. And of course, this is what we see. Of course, David is the one that's referred to in Luke when the angel was speaking to Mary. And said the one that's going to be born to you will reign on the throne of David. So this concept of a king, kingdom, And his reign is really significant all through Old and New Testament alike. And today, as we've worshiped him many times, whether it be our music or other readings, we have accented the fact that we Serve King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And that means that in every aspect of our lives we know that He truly rules and truly is in charge. And that must always be remembered when we think about the political realm. As chaotic as it may seem, at times maybe as unjust as it may seem, as irritated we may be because of certain things that are happening in Washington or in Annapolis or other parts of the world. We know that our King still rules. And we can place our faith in him and we can take comfort in the fact that he has a purpose For whatever it is that is happening within the world at large or within our own personal world. And then last of all, if you come back to the passage , There has to be the question. When you come to again verse 4, all the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, for they have heard the words of your mouth. Now, I want you to think about that particular accent that David is giving us. The words of your mouth, they have heard the words of your mouth. Now You know, there's any number of times where David was interacting with other kings, right? Or other government officials And there were times where he would call upon the name of the Lord. We know that there are times where David was very specific in regards to, in essence, bringing the Word of God to these different kings. But I must ask the question. All right, that was some 3,000 years ago. Clearly God was concerned about the nations and And Israel was indeed a testimony to the rest of the world that there was the one true God who reigned. I mean think about going through the book of Genesis and the things, the interaction uh there and then especially in in places like exodus and uh throughout other parts of the old testament where different kings were interacting with with Israel God's word was being proclaimed to them, right? But let me ask this: what about today? Like, what would it look like for the rulers of the world today to be exposed to the Word of God? And again, if you notice, and it goes on in verse five. And they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. Well, I'll just be honest with you. I believe that The agent of bringing the Word of God to rulers today is the church. That's our purpose. Our purpose In the political realm is not to be there for the sake of politics, but we are to be there for the sake of ministry. To administer in essence the word in prayer. Now, I'm not saying that a particular ministry like Minister to State is the only means of doing it. That when you, for example, have an opportunity to interact with those who are representing you in government places, that you have an opportunity to be that agent individually. So that when you speak to maybe a member of Congress or a member of the House, a representative or um the senators here or whether it be in Annapolis or anywhere, that you are an agent. In regards to communicating the word. And you are responsible, and we corporately as a church are responsible for praying for them. One of the privileges that I think the Lord, uh I would say the Lord has given us in terms of Minister of State is the interaction that we have with those in places like Capitol Hill or in agencies and Sometimes within the ministry we have occasions to sit down with a member of Congress, or we or we have done things like prayer breakfasts. with members on the Hill, both Senate and House members. And we've uh done what we call state prayer breakfasts where we bring together the The delegation from a particular state and on Capitol Hill, uh normally on the Senate side, we'll have a breakfast of maybe a hundred or a hundred and fifty. of their staffers and other people from that particular state for the purpose, not for politics, but so we can draw them together and encourage them to pray. for their personal needs and the needs of their state and the needs of our country. And we've seen it year after year after year. This book that I brought today was was one of the instruments, so to speak, that we used uh in terms of the content of it, was used in regards to Capitol Hill for different Bible studies. When we draw together sometimes members or are their staffers, chiefs of staff, or members within the different offices and sometimes agencies. And we give them an opportunity to gather in small groups for the sake of Bible study. The book uh Love and Power is part of that. When the book was being uh put together. I used it as a way of reaching out to certain members of Congress and I'll never forget uh a couple years ago this this would have been three years ago that one member uh called me back and he said he said meet me on Capitol Hill just outside of of the chambers. She said, I want to I want to go over your manuscript. I want to tell you some of my thoughts So for a couple of hours we sat down together talking through these different passages of scripture and how they applied and and his his thoughts on it. There's just all kinds of opportunities for us as a church. to engage with those in the political realm, not for the sake of politics, but for what I believe David was praying for was speaking about here in 139. May all the kings of the earth they shall give you thanks, O Lord. For what reason? For they have heard the words of your mouth, and they will sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. So as a church, we know all about Timothy two. First Timothy two. I urge you then first of all that requests, prayers, and intercession and thanksgiving be made for everyone, four kings. and all those in authority that we may have a peaceful and quiet life. So prayer The word, and I believe the relationships, this incarnational form of ministry we have as a church, and you have, again, as an individual. And maybe some of you have your own testimonies of opportunities where, yeah, you had an issue. And that was the issue that brought you into that conversation with maybe a staffer either in Annapolis or on Capitol Hill. As you had that conversation, as you called them, as you wrote, did you think about your responsibility not just to deliver the concerns, which are legitimate, as a constituent? But did you think about, oh, this is an opportunity for me to be sought and light in that staffer's life, in that particular congressional office, in the life of that particular member? We have as a church the only, and I don't say this arrogantly, but it is true Ministry to state is the only ministry of its nature that represents a particular denomination. There are other ministries In places like Washington, D. C. and other capitals around the world. But ministry to state is the only ministry of a church. That is representing the gospel in places like Washington D. C. other state capitals, and in some cases, international capitals. I believe that That something as basic as ministry to people and government is something that all of us can engage in. All of us can be in prayer. All of us at times can perhaps share a part of the Word of God with those who are in government as a way of encouraging them in their work. David, three thousand years ago, I think spoke to us now And has given us a picture of what it looks like to have a redemptive view of government, of politics. that understands that all those in the authority are to be honored. Because God has some reason, even as even if we can't even begin to understand it, God has some reason For putting them there. So we must honor them. And we must be respectful. And the scriptures speak about that. Secondly, we we need to understand there's only one King, and that's King Jesus. And thirdly, we have the privilege of being an impact upon their lives for the sake of the gospel. Will you pray with me