Is there anyone here of Jewish descent? Anyone here of Jewish descent? see anyone. Oh one? Okay. Well you still need to listen to God's word because it's for everybody, of course. But this particular passage is directed toward the Goyim, the Gentiles. So that means that's most of us, right? Let's hear God God's word. Chapter 2, verse 11. Therefore remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands. That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace. Who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is the law of commandments contained in ordinances. So as to create in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace. and that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity. And he came and he preached peace to you who were far off and to those who were near. For through him we have both access by one spirit to the Father. Now therefore, you are no longer strangers or foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone In whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you are also being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. Let's pray together. Well Father, we know that your word is alive and active, powerful, more powerful than any two-edged sword. Lord, we pray that your word would cut into our souls today, that we would see anew your mercy and your tremendous grace that you have poured out upon us. Renew our minds, strengthen our faith, enliven our hearts. We ask this, all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. And children, you I don't know about you, but I have a difficult time remembering things. Events for me just kind of fade away like ink on parchment paper. I just have a hard time remembering. So is it any wonder then that if you're like me, that helping us to hold on to our memories has become such a dynamic, booming business? Why you can buy supplements that supposedly help your memory. And if they don't work, well there's always scrapbooking, right? Which in uh this year alone has already raked in over a billion and a half dollars in retail sales. And we've made whole technologies that have been developed to capture the moments of our lives. We've gone from celluloid. To video, to digital, so that now at any time, at any place, we can freeze-frame that special moment in our lives with just a click of our phone or a click of our camera. And then there are souvenir shops. Souvenir shops. Just imagine the millions that are spent each year on trinkets made in China All to remember that wonderful weekend that you had in New York City or Washington, DC, or wherever. And we even s received souvenirs from other people's trips. To remind us how we weren't on the trip. Like the classic t-shirt that says, my parents went to Bermuda and all I got was this lousy t-shirt. I got a few of those growing up. And we spend not only large sums, well, we spend not only money on our memories, but we spend time journaling and blogging and posting on Facebook. Why? To make a record of our lives. Why? So that we can remember. So it's perfectly natural. It makes perfectly good sense that Paul would exhort the Ephesians to remember. He says in verse 11, remember that you were Gentiles. He wants them to remember who they were, who they once were. But you know, it's kind of an odd thing because what he asks them to remember is not very pleasant at all. We usually want to remember the happy times, like when Barbara Streisand sings, Memories of the Way We Were. It's the scattered pictures of the smiles we left behind, smiles we gave to one another. Memories may be beautiful, and yet what's too painful to remember, we send Simply choose to forget. And yet, Paul here wants the Ephesians to recall not the smiles we left behind, but the sadness of the state of our former lives. He wants us to remember what we were as Gentiles. Let's look at first, first of all, let's look at verse 11. In this memory here. He says, remember how you were called. Remember how you were called the un circumcision by the circumcision. In other words, remember how you were called names. Remember how you were labeled with derision and taunted as the uncircumcision because you did not possess the outward sign of the covenant given by God to father to the Abraham, the father of the Jews. And because you were uncircumcised, you were ostracized and made to feel inferior by the circumcision who felt oh so superior. Because of their covenant relationship that they had with God. And yet this is not what the Lord had intended at all. No, he had placed the Jews on this strategic strip of real estate. to be surrounded by their pagan neighbors. And their pagan neighbors and these pagan nations would have to travel through Israel. to be able to trade and so they would rub shoulders with the Israelites. And so the Jews were supposed to be different from their pagan neighbors. Through the ceremonial law and the dietary regulations and through circumcision, they were to be set apart from their Gentiles. But the Lord gave the Jews those regulations. So that the Jews would not ostracize their neighbors, but to be a witness to them, to be salt and light. to exhibit through the regulations something of God's goodness, something of God's holiness, something of his grace. But God's chosen people did not choose to do what God intended. Instead, ho-ho, instead they became puffed up. They said with pride, You are the uncircumcision, but we are God's chosen people. We are special, and you are not. And I think we catch just a tiny hint, just a glimmer of Paul chiding his fellow Jews. For their self-righteous attitude, when he writes, the circumcision made in the flesh by hands. Because he is referring to the fact that there must be some other kind of circumcision. If there's one made by hands, then there's another made by another form or means. For the Israelite The circumcision was meant to be an outward physical sign of an inner spiritual reality. What Paul calls the circumcision of a heart. As Paul writes in Romans 2, 29, a true Jew is not one who is merely circumcised outwardly, but one whose circumcision is of the heart, in the spirit. In other words, whose heart has been touched by God's wonderful grace, whose heart has been changed by God's life-generating spirit. The Jews had focused merely on the externals and had negated the spiritual truth that the outward sign was supposed to represent. Of a heart that's been humbled by God's grace, of a person who has received his mercy , when they deserved his wrath and his judgment. So instead they became boastful, full of pride in their covenant privilege, and so decided derided the Gentiles as the Uncircumcision. And they treated God's kingdom as an exclusive glob. The Gentiles would never be invited. Into. And so the Gentiles had to endure the name calling. Well, Paul goes on to describe their former status, and in a nutshell, we can wrap it up in one simple word. Their saddest was one of separation. Separation. And as we read on in this passage, we come to some of the most saddest words in all of Scripture. One of the saddest statements there is, that they were without Christ. They had no relationship with him. And what could possibly be worse? Than to be without Christ. It was the bottom of the bottom of the bottom of the bottom of the bottom of the bottom of the pit. Since they were separated from Christ, they were also separated then from his people. For Paul writes that they were aliens from The nation of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise which the Israelites were privileged to receive. As Gentiles then, they did not experience the wonderful, amazing privilege that the Jews had of being in a covenant community of God's chosen people. They didn't have the opportunity to hear his word, to worship him. They didn't have the covenant promise of the Jews that I will be your God. And you will be my people, in which the Lord had pledged himself to them Yet we know that even in God's plan and covenant promise, that pro plan and promise did include the Gentiles, for he promised Abraham that through his seed He would be the blessing to all the nations throughout the earth. And yet they were unaware of such a covenant promise. That by the Lord's grace they would be included in God's household of faith. For a time, though, that they would be excluded. That there would be separation. If we can use the analogy of boarding a plane, the Gentiles weren't merely just put into the back of the plane and coach while the Jews were sat in first class. No. It was even worse than that. They weren't even allowed on the plane. They couldn't even get through security. They were on the no-fly list for a period of time. And what was the result? That they had no hope. They had no hope and they were without God And when we examine the ancient Greeks and the Romans, we indeed see that they were without any hope. The ancient Greeks could only look back to the golden age of Greece. to the glory days gone by. They had no forward vision. They had no forward-looking purpose any longer. And both the Greeks and the Romans had no clear understanding of an afterlife. They weren't sure really what happened. They had an idea that you entered into some kind of murky underworld Now the Romans had a bit clearer picture than the Greeks of what the underworld was like, that when you got there after you died, if you got your ticket, you could cross over in the ferry across the river sticks, and there you would uh be judged. Uh and the judgment involved three possible scenarios. If you were really good, if you were a hero, though then you were sent right to the Elysium fields. What kind of wonderful paradise where everything is wonderful and spectacular. But if you were kind of like, well, you're good, but you're not so good, you're kind of eh, you know, well, then you got to send to the perpetual middle class suburbia of the underworld where you would spend eternity. But if you were tr really, really wicked, you got sent to Tatarsus where you were tormented by the furies until the judgment had been meted out. But they had no assurance of anything, of where they would spend eternity or how they would spend eternity, so they had no real hope So when Paul writes that they were without God, he was talking about how they had no hope because they had no relationship with God. Now that does not mean to say that they were without God. Gods, they weren't atheists. In fact, they had devised an intricate mythology of gods, gods with a small g. Gods who were capricious and fickle and full of human foibles, so they were not much better than us. So we see here that in their system of thought there was no hope There was nothing solid to look forward to. There was no firm foundation to stand on because they were without the true God. They had no relationship to him. And yet, it wasn't as if God had not revealed himself to them, that he didn't give them some kind of a witness. He had. And so we see in Scripture that there's almost a double darkness here. That not only were they excluded for a period of time from the promises. But they themselves excluded themselves. How? We read it in Romans 1. 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who what? They suppress the truth in unrighteousness, because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them. The Romans and the Greeks could easily see that there was a creator God, and yet, for since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes Are clearly seen, being understood by things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are what? Without excuse. Because although they knew God, They did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools. And change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made with corruptible man and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. We also read in Ephesians 4, 17 through 20, there are thought processes because he tells the Gentiles, don't go back. to your former life. He says, I say therefore and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility Of their mind, having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. Who, being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness, to work uncleanliness with greediness, but you have not so Learn Christ. And so we see how they were in some way excluded from the covenant promises, but they excluded themselves because they were at enity with God. They were hostile to God. They were at war with God. And today, all of those who are without Christ are also those without hope and without God. And it is a very Very, very sad thing. What's it like to be without hope and without God? The only thing I can think of is kind of the back in college, my college days, I was for a period of time, I was an English major. And the English The English department major was the most depressing place on the entire campus. When you walked onto the English department floor, it was almost as if it was shrouded in a dark cloud of perpetual doom. Just imagine this week of cloudiness in an English department. Most of the faculty were candidates for PROZAC. They entered into the class with a deep sense of gloom. One professor, she always wore black, as if she were in mourning for her life. And she was angry and bitter. And they because I think it was because they had embraced, fully embraced, their secular humanist view. They had read Sartre and Camus, and they came to the same conclusion that life without God is meaningless, that there is they were without hope and they were without God. So that when you die, there's nothing. Nothing. And ultimately, even the great works of literature that they were trying to teach To us, to them, ultimately it was all meaningless because ultimately there was no meaning for them. They were without hope. And they were without hope without God. We see it at a funeral of an unbeliever. We see it if we sit in a doctor's consultation room and he tells the patient, I'm sorry. You have only six months to live. We see that bewildered, confused, questioning look on their faces, and we look into their eyes and we We see the deep sadness because they are without hope and they are without God. And Paul says to the Gentile Christians, Remember, remember who you were. Remember your former state that you were without hope. And without God. Remember how empty and desperate and dire your circumstances were. Remember how low you were Remember how the depths down deep you were. Why? So that you can see how high you have been lifted up, that you've been lifted up to the greatest heights. And then we come to some of the beautiful, most beautiful words in all of Scripture. Words of profound blessing. Words which ring out with grace and mercy, but now in Christ Jesus, but now in Christ Jesus, you who were far away. have been brought near. You who were far away have been brought near. What wonderful words. Where have we heard these words before? Well it's language that was used to describe Israel. That the Israelites were near to God. That Moses said in Deuteronomy 4:7, what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord our God is to us? And in Psalm 148, the Jews are called the people of Israel who are near to God. And so that same language, that same relationship. Is now applied to Gentiles. Paul is describing for us grace upon grace upon grace that has been showered down upon them Because they had nothing at all to do with it. They had nothing at all to do with what they had received. Notice that Paul doesn't say, remember, O Gentiles. How you picked yourself up from your bootstraps, how you scraped and toiled and sweat and how you reached your You finally reached that great pinnacle and you broke through that glass ceiling and now you're near to God. Does he say that? Does he say that? No. He says, remember, O Gentiles, how you were brought near to God. It's none of your doing. As Paul wrote in the previous verses, by grace you have been saved by faith. This is not of yourselves, it is a gift of God. You didn't work for it, so that no one can boast. Paul writes to the Gentiles, you couldn't even move. You couldn't even move one step toward God because you were spiritually dead in your sins and trespasses. You couldn't move one inch Toward God on your own, because dead men don't walk. It was all God's grace It was all God's grace. He did it, as Paul writes in verse 4. God himself made us alive together with Christ. and raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places. He drew us near to him. How How did he do that? By the blood of Christ. What Now think about that for a moment. That's kind of strange, isn't it? That those who were spiritually dead and separated from God had been made alive through the death of Christ. Those who were dead were made alive by the death of another. That's kind of odd, isn't it? And yet the Jews certainly understood that. that. They certainly knew that in order to draw near to God, it required the death of another It had been imprinted upon their psyche for hundreds and hundreds of years through the sacrificial system that God had instituted. They knew that their sin separated them from a holy just God. And so in order to bridge that gap, sin, their sin, had to be dealt with. And the problem was that the wages of sin is death. And so when they were to if they were to come before a holy, just God, they would be toast, they would be condemned, they would be judged, unless Unless something else died in their place. Unless something paid the penalty and the judgment for their offense against God. And so God instituted the sacrificial system. And you would take your animal when you sinned. You would take an animal to the temple and before the priest, and you would place your hands on that animal. And it was a symbolic gesture. As if to say, my sin and my guilt and my judgment have now been placed on this animal, and then the animal would be slaughtered, and in that gory, bloody, messy picture. It became clear to the Israelites that that dead animal that's lying in front of me should be me. Its life was given for me. Its blood was poured out in my place. By its death, I can now go and draw near to God. And yet the sacrificial system God had established in the Old Testament, it was only temporary. For how could the blood of boat goats and bulls ever fully, completely wash away sins, they couldn't, as the writer of Hebrews says. No, there had to be at some time one final, perfect, complete. sacrifice that would pay for all time the sins of God's people, Jew and Gentile alike, forever And what was that sacrifice that all those sacrifices pointed to? By the blood of Jesus. By the blood of Jesus, whose death on the cross paid the penalty for our sin, so that we could be brought near to God. His death brought us life. His life was given so that we would no longer be dead. He who was near to God was made far away from God. so that we who are far away from God could be brought near to God. And so we who were Gentiles Had been brought near to God through Christ. And it was Christ who said in John 10, I am the good shepherd. I lay my life down for the sheep. And I have other sheep which are not of this fold. Them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and they will be one flock, and there will be one shepherd. And as you read John 10 and you read those verses, that's you, brothers and sisters. That's me. We are the sheep of the other fold. We are the non-Jewish sheep whom He has called, whom He has saved, whom He has given life by His own Christ is our peace, as Paul writes in Ephesians. For he made peace between us and God. with whom we were hostile to and at war with. And even more so he made peace between Jew and Gentile and the hostilities that were there between them. We'll be looking at that next week as we look at the unity of God's people. But for this week, we have seen how we have gone from separation. to reconciliation, how we were once far away from God, but had been brought near through Christ. Once we were enemies Now we have tranquility. Once we were destitute, now we have destiny. Once we lived in futility, now we have Security. Once we were without Christ, now we are in Christ. And we share in all the blessings of being in union with Him. Paul says, Remember, you Gentiles, where you came from. Remember where you came from. And again we have to ask ourselves, isn't that odd that Paul would want us to be reminded of our former way of life when we We were without Christ? Well, why would he do that? Because, I mean, after all, the Lord Himself says in Jeremiah 31, I will remember your sins no more So why does Paul exhort us to remember our natural state before we were brought near to Christ? Because remembering affects present decisions and actions. Remembering affects remembering the past affects present decisions and actions. My mom grew up in the depression, and she was dirt poor, and she would tell us how often they would go to bed hungry at night. And uh that made quite an impression upon her because growing up, even when there was just the three of us, my mom and my dad and me in the house and all my brothers and my sister had left, even then We had two huge honkin freezers in our basement. One looked like a coffin. And the other one was a stand-up freezer. And I don't even know how my father got them down the stairs, but somehow they inhabited our basement. And you know what? They were always full, full of red meat and vegetables. Why? Because my mother remembered her past. And it affected her present decisions and attitudes. She was gonna make sure that her family was never hungry. Remembering the past affects present attitudes. And decisions. So remembering where we were before Christ can affect our current behavior. How? Well, one thing it can do is rekindle our joy. Rekindle our joy. Let's face it. Let's be honest with one another. That sometimes we treat God's amazing grace as well, not so amazing. After a while, the extraordinary blessings become, well, quite ordinary. The spectacular becomes plain. You might even say dull. You might even say boring. I have heard this so many times. Our faith can be like coke that has lost its fizz. Our relationship with the Lord can become tasteless like day old bread, just plain old stale. And that is why in the Old Testament the Israelites were instructed over and over again to remember the mighty acts of the That God had done for them. How he brought them out of the land of Egypt, how he saved them from slavery, how he delivered them. and redeem them so that their experience of God's salvation would not ever, ever become commonplace, boring, or trite. Our God is a God of salvation, and our joy of God's salvation is rekindled by recalling how far we have come. And what it cost to bring us near. The very blood of our Savior Himself poured out for us on our behalf. It rekindles our joy when we remember how far we've come. It also instills in us an attitude of gratitude. Think about it for a moment. Think about it if you were a homeless person and you were out on the street or in the woods somewhere living in a cardboard shack, and that was where you lived. And you were hungry, you were you were you were starving. And you were what clothes you had on were thread bare and torn, and your hands and your face were just covered in dirt and grime. Your fingernails were black from dirt. And people could smell you from a w a block away. Oh, you stank. And your hair was all matted and greasy, and you hadn't taken a shower in you don't know how long. And then one day out of the blue, somebody just comes to you and they're well dressed, and they roll up in their Mercedes bands. And they say, they roll down the window and they say, come here. And you're too weak to even move. So they they get out of their car and they lift you up and they put you in their car and they drive you to this incredible, beautiful, extravagant palace, and you come into the palace And they show you your room which is bigger than this church. And they put before you a sumptuous feast of filet mignon, or roast beef medium rare, with red roasted potatoes. and gravy. And for dessert, lemon meringue pie or banana pudding. Am I making you hungry? And then after you eat the scrumptious feast, you then go to your room, and there is a a a beautiful bed with down comforters and four hundred count Egyptian And you crawl in and you sleep like you've never slept before. And it's just wonderful. Now do you think that you would ever stop thanking the person who picked you up off the street? Would you ever stop remembering what he had done for you, how he provided for you this wonderful Wonderful, tremendous blessing, how he lifted you up out of the muck and mire of your life and placed you into a palace. No. And so it is with Christ, who rescued us from the darkest depths of hell, that he brought us into his glorious light That attitude of gratitude instilled in us through remembering where we were in the gr is where we were is in the greatest and best motivation. For godly living. What the gratitude that we have is the motivation for godly living. It makes us fall more in love with Jesus as we reflect on how much We have received by his grace. An attitude of gratitude is a motivation for godly living because Jesus said himself, if you love me You obey my commandments. On the flip side, remembering also helps us when we remember where we were. It also regards it guards us against besetting sins and sinful patterns of the past We don't want to go back to that garbage. We don't want to go back to the shack where we were dirty and filthy. No. We were brought near to God. Why would we want to go far away? It also guards us against self-righteousness and pride, in which we might say, I am some kind of Mr. Wonderful. The Lord is just blessed to have me in his kingdom. I am so good. I am so worthy. And I am so I am so holy. Remembering where we come from is an instant cure for such a self righteousness Though some of you, however, may be thinking, hey, I'm a covenant child. I always grew up believing in Christ. I've never known a time when I did not trust God. I've always been near to Him. Well, if you were a covenant child If you are so blessed that you cannot remember a time when you were without Christ, then you can remember this. You can remember God's goodness You can remember how God has blessed you over and over again by providing you with a believing mother or father or grandparent. who loved you, who prayed with you and for you, who read God's word to you. You can be praying, praising God for being in a church where his word is proclaimed and taught. You can be praising God and remembering all those people. in the church, in the community of faith, in that covenant community of faith, how they blessed you, your Sunday school teacher. Your youth leaders, all those people, that web of relationships that encouraged you and strengthened you in your faith, then you can remember that and praise God. Remember those blessings. Well, today we've seen in this passage how far we've come. We've come along Way baby. From separation to reconciliation, from being far away to being brought near to God. Christ. And it was all Christ, it was all his amazing grace. So now let's pray and praise him for his wonderful grace to us O Father God, we stand in all with our hearts bowed, humbly Before you, recognizing that we were once far from you, and that you did not leave us far away, but you brought us near to you. That you have loved us with an everlasting love, that you have pledged yourself to us for all eternity, that you have said to us, I will be your God, and you will be my people. And so Father God, what can we do but to praise you and to remember your mighty acts of salvation in our lives. As your people. Oh Father God, we pray for those who are here today, who are without Christ and without hope. Father, may your life-giving spirit descend upon them. That they might put their faith and trust in you. We ask all these things in the wonderful, natural name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.