Oh no, thank you, Melinda. I uh presume that one or more members of the All right, uh Mark chapter twelve. If you turn there please. Gospel of Mark and chapter twelve And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. Mark chapter twelve uh I'm going to also read a a segment from Romans 13. So let's begin in Mark chapter 12. Let's begin at verse 13 and read through verse uh 17. And we'll turn to Romans 13. Mark chapter 12, beginning in verse 13. Then they sent to him some of the Pharisees and the Herodians to catch him in his words. When they had come, they said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and care about no one, for you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius, that I may see it So they brought it. And he said to them, Whose image and inscription is this? They said to him, Caesar's. And Jesus answered and said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. And now Romans thirteen, the first seven verses Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God. And the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority, resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good. And you will have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid. For he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is God's minister and avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Therefore you must be subject, not only because of wrath, but but also for conscience' sake. For because of this you also pay taxes, for they are God's ministers, attending continually to this very thing. Render therefore to all their due Taxes to whom taxes are due, customs to whom customs, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. May God bless this portion of his word to our hearts Let's pray. Lord, take your word now and use it, we pray. Use it as a sharp sword in our hearts to accomplish things, to take out of us. uh sin and evil and to leave a desire to obey and submit to your holy word. We ask it in Christ's powerful name. Amen. Well, the animosity of the religious leaders of Israel toward this prophet from Nazareth had never been greater. For the three years of his public ministry, they had spied on him, they had challenged him, they had maligned him for ignoring their own traditions. They had accused him of violating the Sabbath. They had charged that he could cast out demons only because he was in league with the Prince of Dons. They questioned his parentage, they mocked him as a Nazarene, and they deeply resented the affection that the common people had for him. But there were three events that brought all these things to a head. First of all, Jesus, in front of many witnesses, stood in front of the tomb of a man who had been dead for four days. And he commanded that the stone be removed, and then he called out, first of all he prayed to his father, so that all those standing about would know that his father had sent him. He said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. And then he cried out, Lazarus, come forth. And he who had died came out, bound hand and foot with grave clothes, the scripture says, his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said, Loose him and let him go. We read, then many of the Jews believed in him, but some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them the things that Jesus did. John 11, 46. The chief priests and Pharisees gathered a council together. What shall we do? For this man works many signs. If we let him alone like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. First of all, they take away our place, right, as the religious leaders. What have you guys allowed to happen there? While we gave you some measure of authority, and they'll take away our nation. And then the high priest Caiaphas responded to those who were discussing this and debating this. You know nothing at all, he said. Nor do you consider that it is expedient that one man should die for the people and not that the whole nation should perish. In other words, why are we even discussing this? You thick-headed uh uh counsel. Don't you see it we we need to just get rid of this guy? Why don't what it's not a matter of discussing We just have to do it. You know nothing at all. Don't you see it's expedient that one man should die for the people rather than that the whole nation perish? And then from that day on, the scripture says, they plotted to put him to death. John 11, 53. So that was the first event that that brought these things to a head. The second was of course Christ's triumphal entrance into Jerusalem. We're all familiar with it. Hosanna, save us, save now, Hosanna to the Son of David. Master, rebuke your disciples I tell you, if these should hold their peace, the stones should immediately cry out. And the third event that must have thoroughly incensed the scribes and Pharisees was Christ cleansing the temple. We looked at it a few weeks ago. Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you've made it a den of thieves. And the scribes and chief priests heard it and sought how they might destroy him, for they feared him. But they had a huge problem. Jesus was widely loved and accepted as a prophet, as a holy man, as a miracle worker, and many believed him to be the promised Messiah. The king who was to sit upon the throne of David. The religious hierarchy didn't want to alienate the masses by being perceived as the enemies of Jesus of Nazareth. And they certainly didn't want to be seen publicly arresting him and seeking his execution, right? If they were concerned about what the people thought of them, that was the worst thing they could do. It would be far better if they could get him in trouble with the Roman government, with the occupiers of their nation, with the cursed occupiers of their nation. In fact, it was, if they were to have Jesus legally executed, a necessity, right? A necessity that the government get involved, as the Romans didn't permit Jewish authorities the right to administer capital punishment. But how do we get Jesus in trouble with the government? Well, verse 13 of Mark chapter 12. Then they sent to him some of the Pharisees and Herodians to catch him in his words. Now, just as the name implies, the Herodians were a party of Jews who supported the Herodian dynasty, right? Herod. R. C. Sperl clarifies the Herods, who were not pure Jews, were puppet kings under the authority of the Romans. And they were thoroughly despised by many Jews. The Pharisees normally despised the Herodians for supporting the corrupt dynasty. But as has been said The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Mutual hatred of Jesus thrusts the Pharisees and the Herodians into this strange alliance. As you know, when one nation is occupied by another, it's not uncommon for some in the occupied land, seeing which way the wind is blowing, to become collaborators with the occupiers, right? Well, the only way to feather uh my nest is to get in cozy with these now occupiers of the nation. Have you people moved back since I was here last? I noticed trying to get further away from me there. It's good thinking, but I just noticed it. So the the uh Herodians were vocal supporters of the king. Uh at that time uh Herod Antipas was the king. He was the man responsible, of course, for the beheading of John the Baptist. Antipas was one of the many sons of Herod, known as the Great, the murderer of the infants of Bethlehem. uh the more infamous than uh famous, uh Matthew chapter 2, we read, they sent to him some of the Pharisees and the Herodians. Right, verse thirteen. Who's the they? They sent to him some of the Pharisees and the Herodians. Well, evidently the Send Sendurs were the members of the Sanhedrin, the official religious leaders of Israel, who were plotting and scheming trying to get Jesus put to death. They had already determined the what, putting Jesus to death. They were still trying to figure out the how. Their intention, the scripture says, was to catch him in his words. So they sent these guys to catch him in his words. Now this is a translation of the Greek word agruo, and it's the only time in all of the New Testament that this word shows up. It's derived from agra, a hunt. So uh the intention is to capture Jesus as one would capture a lion or a bear on a hunt, to trap him. The way they intended to do that was through his words. And if he said something incriminating against the Roman government, Who better to have along with them than the Herodians, who would run right back to Herod and say, guess what we heard this prophet of Nazareth say about you? or say about the Roman government in general. If he said something incriminating, uh he would be reported by the Herodians. Look at verse 14. When they had come, they said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and care about no one, for you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Alright, so that's the setup. We know you're true. You're a man of truth. You'll speak the truth. We all agree. We all agree. You'll speak the truth, whatever the consequences You care about no one. Now that doesn't sound like a compliment to us, but obviously what they meant, as the context makes clear, is that it didn't matter to Jesus if he was addressing a servant or a king. A man of wealth or a pauper. He would speak the truth. Didn't matter to Jesus if he were uh uh addressing a supporter of the Roman government or one who was opposed to the Roman government if he was addressing uh Simon the Zealot. uh one who was opposed to the Rummel government or if he was addressing a Herodian. You're gonna speak the truth no matter what. They knew that. And uh that's what they said anyway And uh so uh uh so that that's a setup. You do not regard the person of men, you teach the way of God in truth. Therefore, presumably And you will answer us honestly, even though we brought with us some men you may recognize as supporters of King Herod, appointed by the Roman Emperor. All right, so much for the flattery and the setup. Now here's the trap. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? It's a trap. As a child uh in the uh northeast Baltimore, uh we spent many, many a day in the woods We actually had woods near our home back in those days. And uh my brother, little brother Kenny and I would go in the woods and build tree forts, as a lot of you did. with your little brother Kenny. And uh and uh because they were called forts, we had to have some fortifications, right? In case uh we were ever attacked by Indians or pirates. uh or older brothers. And these fortifications, I think I mentioned before, included traps dug into the ground near the fort. And we just uh Get a shovel, dig a hole a couple feet deep if we can get down that far, and uh and put some twigs over that, long, long twigs, and then leaves on top of the twigs, and try to make it look as natural as possible. And uh and that way uh if a pirate or an Indian or an older brother uh attack, h he would step directly, uh hopefully onto the twig twigs covering the hole and uh be shocked to find that you know the twigs give way. And he would uh in theory abandon the attack and limp back to his ship or to his Palomino or to our home, uh sadder but wiser, and vowing never to attempt to attack us again. But unfortunately, uh since no one spent as much time around our forts as Kenny and Russy , we were the ones most likely to fall into those traps. And something like that is what is what happens here. The Pharisees and Herodians, with this question, were setting a trap for Jesus. Now, to understand the trap, we've got to stretch our imaginations a bit. Because of America's size and her resources and her military might and her protection from the Atlantic and the Pacific Uh it is very difficult to imagine our nation ever being conquered and subdued by any foreign power, right? Lincoln recognized this In 1838. Shall we expect some transatlantic military giant to step the ocean and crush us at a blow? Never. All the armies of Europe, Asia, and Africa combined with all the treasure of the earth, our own accepted. In their military chest with Bonaparte for a commander, could not by force take a drink from the Ohio or make a track on the Blue Ridge in a trial of a thousand years. At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer, if it ever is to reach us, if it ever reach us, it must spring up amongst us. It cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide You'll note that it was because we were not, in fact, a nation of only three men that we almost did die by suicide just two decades later. But to try to get a sense of what it must have been like for the Jews to live under Roman occupation, I want you to suppose for a moment the unthinkable. that a foreign military presence occupied our country. People who didn't people who don't look like us, uh like most of us, or believe like most of us, or even speak our own language. Imagine that they set up their own puppet government, established their own laws and judicial system, and required all Americans to pay them taxes. Isn't it easy to see that much anger and hatred would quickly be built up against the occupying nation and against anyone who seemed to support their oppressive system? If Jesus was perceived as a supporter of the hated Romans, if he aligned himself with Herod and Pilate and the Roman Emperor Tiberius, it could only lower his esteem in the eyes of the people of Israel. The pressure of popular opinion, the Pharisees must have assumed, would compel Jesus to say something derogatory toward the government. Or, ideally, from the Pharisees' perspective, Jesus would speak forcefully against paying taxes at all. That's what they, I'm sure, were hoping for. If he said something like this, Rome thinks it rules and reigns here, it does not. For too long the Roman boot has been on the neck of our people. Rome has no right to our nation. And no right to our money. Better to throw your coin in the sea than hand it to the pagan dogs of Rome. Now, if Jesus said something like that, they would have him. The Pharisees, with the Herodians present, would have Jesus just where they wanted him. The Herodians would report him as seditious, and he would soon be in custody. So the trap was set. And it was a crafty one. The trap was indeed well planned, said Bishop J. C. Ryle. Surely we may see in it the cunning hand of one greater than man, that old serpent the devil was there. Look at verse 15. Shall we pay or shall we not pay? We just want a simple yes or no. Shall we pay or shall we not pay? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it. But he, knowing their hypocrisy In other words, they weren't seeking the truth. They weren't saying, Master, we have a quandary here. We want to be good, loyal Jews, but we're under the Roman authority. What should we do? Should we pay taxes or not? This wasn't a moral quandary. They weren't actually seeking his opinion. They were trying to trap him. So he said, Why do you text me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it. Now the image on the denarius, we're told, at that time was that of Tiberius, who reigned from 14 to 37 A. D. The fact that the Roman Roman Emperor's image was on the coin made it quite clear that his government was in charge. You see? Who's this? It's like if I pull the penny on, it's got a picture of, you know Lincoln, right? Uh uh representing the the uh American civil government, well uh obviously then the the civil government uh That Lincoln represented is in charge. The fact that the Roman Emperor's image was on the coin made it quite clear that his government was in charge As Ryle put it, they were themselves using a Roman coin issued and circulated by the Roman government. By their own confession, they were in some way under the power of the Romans. Or this Roman money would not have been current among them So Jesus put them to silence and he looted their trap with the memorable words, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. Looking at it, he said, what just happened there? Uh you said that this plan couldn't fail. How did he we what did he we all agreed that after answering this question he would either be in big trouble with the empire or he'd be in big trouble with the common people But somehow he eluded our trap. Once again, he looks wise and we look foolish. So, you know, who came up with this idea? Let's go find it. So so much for what took place. Now, what should we carry away from this encounter? First of all, don't miss the obvious. Jesus eluded their trap because he is the omniscient, all-knowing God man. He knew all men. He had no need that anyone should testify of man, for he knew what was in man. John chapter 2 And as you read the Gospels, you'll see Jesus say things like, why do you reason these things in your hearts? It wasn't just his wisdom that so amazed his adversaries. It was that he he seemed to know their plans, their schemes, their intentions. It's simply impossible to read the accounts of Christ's ministry and not see him to be no mere man, but God in the flesh, Emmanuel, God with us. Secondly, a few minutes ago we reminded you that after Jesus raised Lazarus, as the religious leaders put their heads together and debated what to do, Caiaphas the high priest, in his frustration. Cried out to the the others who were there, You know nothing at all. Nor do you consider that it's expedient for us that one man should die for the people. Don't you get it? Don't you see? It's so obvious. Caiaphas meant Better we put this one man to death than that the whole nation perish. But the scripture tells us, now this he did not say on his own authority, but being high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation See, there's another way to take that, right? Don't you see? It's better for one man to die for the people than for the whole nation to perish. That's precisely what happened. Jesus died for his people. He died so that we wouldn't have to die. So Caicus didn't know what he was saying. I mean, I you know he knew what he meant. But God was superintending what he said, because he was the high priest that here, that makes it all the more effective. He was prophesying, didn't even realize it. Where am I going with that? Well, something similar takes place in our text today. The Pharisees weren't sincere when they flattered Jesus, they were just setting their trap. But what they said of Jesus was in fact true. He was no respecter of persons. Doesn't mean he didn't respect people. It meant he didn't say, Oh, he's a rich guy. I'm gonna really fawn uh to him and and uh the poor b beggar over here, I'm not even gonna pay him any attention. He was no respecter of persons. He did teach the way of God and truth. He did not regard the person of men. He was not an idolater, right? We can't imagine him fawning over some prince or some king or some man of wealth. We can't imagine him in our day as a rabid supporter or follower of some athlete. or entertainer or politician or celebrity. He wasn't an idolater, right? He knew what was in man. Uh so although they didn't mean it this way, uh they didn't Uh although they they meant to set their trap with these words of flattery, the words were in fact true. And although uh Jesus wouldn't speak to a grieving widow in the same way he would speak to to a conniving Pharisee, he would uh speak truth to both. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not know that I have power to crucify you and power to release you? Jesus answered, You could have no power at all against me unless it had been Jesus didn't idolize any man because of his wealth or his talent or his prominence. The Pharisees said these things with wicked intentions, but uh What they said was true. Jesus didn't regard the person of men. He taught the way of God in truth, and you and I should do the same. Thirdly, Jesus said, Render to Caesar the things that are seized. Caesar's. Listen, there are things that are Caesar 's. There are things that are Caesar's. The Lord in his providence has established not only the family, not only the church family, But the civil government. And we are called to render to that government certain things. Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. What are some of those things? First of all, taxes, it comes across in this passage. We are called by God to render to Caesar taxes, tribute. It is a violation of God's word for a Christian to refuse to pay his taxes. Or to attempt to cheat the civil government out of all the taxes that he is required to pay. This is true, even if we think the civil government is wasteful and unwise, and that our tax dollars are liable to float away in a blimp and land somewhere in Amish country. We're required by God's word to pay our taxes. The Apostle Paul said we're to do it for conscience' sake. Why? What does it mean? Because the civil authorities are God's ministers. That means God's servants. Whether they realize it or not, they're servants of God. Why? Because Paul said there is no authority except from God. And the authorities that exist Are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. Romans 13. This is why you said, you see, Jesus said to Pilate, You would have no authority at all over me, except it were given you from above. Pilate's authority was a delegated authority. Delegated by God. That's why Pilate was in that position. He wouldn't be if God didn't want him there. God can remove him as simply as that. The Lord said through the prophet Jeremiah, It is I who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth with the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me. Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant. Jeremiah 28 Now Nebuchadnezzar was at that point a pagan, an idolater. But because God gave him civil authority, Nebuchadnezzar was, unbeknownst to him, God's servant. You may have heard uh R. C. Sproll say that when he was asked to speak on the occasion of the inauguration of a governor, one of the governors of the state of Florida, I think I know which one it was, he was at a prayer breakfast on the morning of the inauguration. I think, and he I think that's where he said these words to the governor-elect. He said to the governor-elect, This is your ordination day. You have been ordained by God to hold this office. The powers that be are ordained or appointed by God. That is why they're called his ministers or his servants. The Prime Minister, right? The Prime Minister of England. The prime servant. And we're called to render taxes to the civil government. Okay, what else? We're called to render obedience and submission to the civil government. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. Unto the authorities, the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Not just Pay taxes. We're required to be subject to them. We're required to obey the civil authorities But wait a minute, what if the governing authorities are unbelievers? What if they're pagans? What if they're infidels? What if they're atheists? What if they're Islamists or Buddhists or Hindus? Let me remind you that when Jesus said, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, the civil government to which he was subject was an oppressive pagan occupying force in Israel. And there was an active movement of zealots attempting to overthrow the government. When the Apostle Paul wrote a few decades later, let every soul be subject to the higher powers. And when he urged Titus to remind believers to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, he was writing, historians tell us, during the reign of the Emperor Nero, who was among the most violent persecutors. of the Christians. See, the message of Scripture to believers regarding the civil government is that the civil authorities are to be obeyed, and the civil law is to be followed, even though we may not like the law. even though we may not agree with the law, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence. 1 Timothy 2. 2 So you said, why should I have to have a permit for that? Why should I have to register this? Do they have any idea how slow 35 miles per hour is? I mentioned we were up in New England we had to take uh or we did we didn't have to, but we took the interstate several times. And sometimes it said fifty-five miles an hour. So I got I got one of these cars you can just set that I just left that baby on fifty-five miles an hour. I'm driving along. I'm fine. People are whizzing by me. Almost banging into me. Now maybe all those people whizzing by me are not believers. That's possible. I wouldn't bet on it. Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For the authorities that exist are appointed by God Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. I don't know how we can make it much clearer. Now this must have been exceptionally difficult for New Testament believers under the idolatrous Roman government. With their multiple gods and goddesses and all those fantastic uh mythological uh stories. And with the emperor worshipped by the people. No doubt this is why the scripture stresses obedience and submission to the civil government so much. I was reading Paul's letter to Titus last night. He says to this young pastor, speak these things, exhort and rebuke with all authority. Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. You're going to have to remind them of this. You've got to remind them of this. Because their natural tendency is going to be to you know try to stone the authorities, to try to shoot the authorities. Now, the clear exception, of course, and I know this is in many minds right now, is if the civil government commands us to do what God forbids. Commands us to worship the emperor, for example. Christians couldn't do that. They said, look, we'll be good uh soldiers, we'll be good servants, we'll pay the taxes, but we're not going to worship the emperor. We can't do it. Sorry The exception is if the civil government commands us to do what God forbids, or uh Commands us to commit murder, for example, the Hebrew midwives were commanded to snuff out the lives of infant Hebrew boys. They couldn't. They wouldn't. They even lied because evidently it's well better to lie to him than than murder. So we can obey the government if they command us to do what God forbids, and we cannot obey the government if they forbid us to do what God commands. Government comes in and says you can't worship anymore. Or you can't worship that way, or you can't say those things, or whatever. Oh, it's in the word. We're going to say it. You can do whatever you want. See? If they if they command us we can't proclaim the gospel. Well whether is it is it right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God? Well you're gonna have to judge that, the apostle said. But we cannot but preach the things that we've heard and seen. But here's where it gets complicated. It seems to me when we're living not under the rule of a king or an emperor, and we're not, thankfully, We're rule living under the rule of a constitution. And if I'm convinced that under our governing documents Under our Constitution, it is a violation of my rights for the civil authority to require me, for example, to sit in the back of the bus. Or the civil uh government tells me that I can only drink from a designated water fountain and not the one everybody else is using. Or if they tell me that uh uh my right to free speech is being infringed, and I know the Constitution says I have a right to it, Bill of Rights Am I not justified to challenge the status quo, which I'm convinced is a violation of the authority of the Constitution, in an effort to challenge the current civil authorities to bring their laws into conformity with the Constitution? See, that's where living in a in a in a republic is somewhat different from living in an empire. Even the Apostle Paul, as a Roman citizen, appealed to Roman law. He said, wait a minute, I appeal to Caesar. Because it says I can, and I do. So what are we to render to Caesar? First of all, taxes, secondly, obedience, submission, and thirdly, honor. Render therefore to all their due, taxes to whom taxes are due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Romans 13, 7 Listen to me now. We are to honor the civil authority because he is the minister of God, the servant of God. We are to honor him or her for the sake of the God-ordained position of honor in which God has placed him or her. If there's any area in which we Christians in America tend to fall short in our civil responsibilities, I suspect it's just here. It's amazing what little honor, or more accurately, what dishonor, even professing Christians tend to heap upon God's civil servants if they're not members of our own political party. Even believers are quick to believe and quick to circulate any accusation or slander that confirms previously held suspicions. Let me give you an example. I could go home If I ever stop talking and post the following message on the social network this afternoon. I could post this on the social network on wherever. Yesterday, the Washington Times reported that IRS documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act revealed the president and first late the President and First Lady made an anonymous gift of $300,000 in 2012. Toward the construction of the Al-Shahib Mosque in Northwest D. C. This was the largest single charitable contribution that the couple made in 2012, far surpassing gifts made to secular and Christian charities. The spokesperson for the mosque would not confirm or deny the report, and White House Communications Director Fletcher Johnson had no comment on the Times article. Unquote. I could put that on social media, I could put a headline, I could put a subject line with the words not a Muslim question mark, and with the introduction, you won't hear this in the mainstream media. And five years from now, that story will still be circulating and being sent to me Even though one could discover in a few minutes that there is no Al-Shahib Mosque in Northwest D. C. there is no White House Communications Director Fletcher Johnson. And the Washington Times has no article in their archives which could be found with a word search for mosque or charitable gift or Obama's. Or all three together. God's word commands us to honor those he has placed in authority over us. God 's ministers to you for good. Certainly that means we should speak of them and to them with respect, and we should not be quick to spread what may be false accusations about them. It's no more fair to do it about them than for them to do it about us. If we're in the officer political party, right? Render to Caesar what is Caesar's. Taxes, obedience, honor. Now we're almost done, but stay with me a bit longer. The church father known as Justin Martyr was a second-century convert to Christianity. He wrote several works in defense of the Christian faith. His first apology dedicated to Roman Emperor Antonius He reigned from 138 to 161, argued that believers, although they could not worship the emperor, were nonetheless peaceable citizens, and they should not be persecuted for their beliefs. So here's Justin trying to defend the Christian church against one of her persecutors. And he's saying, look, it's true we don't we'll worship you as the emperor. But that doesn't mean we're not good citizens. And he said this, I must tell you that of all men living, we are the greatest promoters of peace. By teaching that it is impossible for any worker of iniquity, any covetous or insidious person, anyone either vicious or virtuous, to hide himself from God. And that everyone is stepping forward into the everlasting misery or happiness according to his works. As to tribute and custom, no man living take such pains to pay their collectors so faithfully as we do. For when some came to him with this question, is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not? Tell me, says he, whose image this money bears. They say unto him, Caesar's. Then saith he to them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. Accordingly, we render unto God only the tribute of worship, and to you and A cheerful obedience in all things else. No wonder the Lord kept urging us to do this because that's what He wants. He wants us to be the best citizens. So that others, even our our enemies, look at us and say, Wow, these people they keep all the laws that we don't end up have to throw them in prison. They don't get arrested for crimes because they don't commit crimes because they they're trying to obey God They pay their taxes. We don't have to go after them for that. They're the best citizens. Let me let me just share this from 1 Peter. And then we'll close. First Peter. It wasn't just Paul. It wasn't just the Lord Jesus that urged this. Here's what Peter said. First Peter Peter chapter 2 and verse 11. Beloved, I beg you, as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation. Therefore Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the king as supreme, or to governors as to those who are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers. and for the praise of those who do good. For this is the will of God that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men who accuse these Christians of all kinds of terrible crimes, you see. As free, yes, you're free, but not using your liberty as a cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God. Honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. You get it? You see what God is urging us to do? Some of us need to be reminded to render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's: taxes, obedience, honor. And some of us need to be reminded to render to God the things that are God's. Worship and love. Submission. Have you submitted to him? Have you come to God and sincerely said, God, I see I'm a sinner and I'm sorry. God, I repent. I see my pride and my selfishness. my iniquity. God forgive me and save me. God take away that sin. I believe that Jesus lived that perfect life, died on the cross, rose again from the dead. God give me this eternal life, the Bible talks about about. That's what we're to render to God. And then obedience to all his word. Are you rendering to Caesar the things that are Caesar's? Are you rendering to God the things that are God's? Let's pray. Lord, this is your word. We pray that we would obey it. Work in hearts, I pray, and we believers here, lift up those who might be here outside of Christ. Father, please, as you have mercy on us, we pray you'll have mercy on them. Open their hearts, draw them to faith. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.