Thank you so much for that. This is uh indication of the the gifts God has given to uh his people here at Liberty. We're really blessed to have. uh our musicians and singers singing the glory of God. And if you missed the concert Friday night, uh once again we encourage you to uh go home, grab a bite to eat. Uh Come back at 3 o'clock this afternoon for a wonderful time of praising God. If you have your Bible, turn please to uh Matthew chapter 2 For our scripture reading, and as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. Matthew chapter 2 And uh while you're turning here, I also should mention uh I just found out that next this week uh it's gonna be uh Bill and Mary Caldwell's uh anniversary. Bill, are you back where are you there? Okay, well how many years is this now, Bill? 53. 53. I was thinking 53. Good. That's great. Because I remember the 50th a few years ago. Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 to 12. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? For we've seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, but you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who shall who will shepherd the my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise man, determined from them what time the star appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. And when you found him, bring back word to me, that I may come and worship him also. When they heard the king, they departed. And behold, the star, which they had seen in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. When they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. When they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed for their own country another way. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, as we meditate again upon this old familiar story, we pray for your Holy Spirit. To speak to hearts this day. Lord, bring conviction of sin. May your Holy Spirit move in the hearts of the lost here and draw them to true saving faith And may you encourage and edify your people this day. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Mankind, as you know, has experienced momentous events in our brief history. Things like the rise of the Greek city-states, the founding of the Roman Empire, the invention of movable type The voyage of Columbus to the New World, the Renaissance, the Reformation, the signing of the Magna Carta, the drafting of the Declaration of Independence The abolition of slavery in the British Empire, the collapse of communism in Europe. And the news of any one of these momentous events was met with different responses. both positive and negative, depending upon the mindset and the heart attitude of the one who heard the news. Even so, the news of what was, at least up until that point, up until the point of the resurrection, the most momentous events in the history of mankind. The news that the author of life had written himself into his own story, the news that our Creator had taken on flesh to come and dwell among us. That news was met with very different reactions, depending on the hard attitude and the mindsets of the one receiving the news. I want us to consider three of those reactions this morning. First of all, the response of King Herod. Now, some background information. Although Herod was not a Jew by birth, he was supposedly a convert, he had been given the title King of Judea by the Roman Senate in about 40 B. C. Historians tell us that he had been reigning a long time , about 35 years at this point, the point when Jesus was born. But he had retained that power only through intrigue and terror. He was intensely suspicious and jealous, historians say. His own family was in constant danger from him It was not uncommon for one family member to attempt to turn Herod against another. By this point in his reign, he had already ordered the execution of several of his own children. whom he viewed as rivals to his throne. And he had taken ten wives, historians say , His sister Salome had reportedly turned him against his favorite wife, Mariamne , saying, quote, You will never be safe, my brother, while she lives. Historian Elizabeth Latimer wrote, Herod summoned a meeting of his counselors and with their assent condemned to death the woman he loved. After his sentence had been carried out, his passionate love for his wife returned, he'd become a victim of mad paroxysms of remorse. He fancied he saw before him the woman he he adored and when he and the and the one whom he had murdered He spoke to his lost wife. He called for her. He gave orders to send for her, to distract his thoughts. He plunged into nameless excesses. He hunted frantically. He rode furiously. Jewish historian Josephus put it this way, the ghosts of princes he had put to death wandered through every chamber in his palace, threatening him with the last judgment. Elizabeth Latimer continues, he was ever after subject to a strange irritation, physical and mental. On the smallest pretext, he would send his servants or his best friends to the torture chamber or to the scaffold. Now consider his reaction to the news that a new king of the Jews had been born. Listen again to the first three verses. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? For we've seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. He was troubled, Taraso it is in the Greek, in fear or perplexity, frightened, terrified It was used as the reaction of the disciples when they saw a figure walking upon the Sea of Galilee at night. It was used to describe the reaction of old Zechariah when the angel Gabriel appeared to him in the holy place of the temple. Herod was frightened. Herod was terrified. Herod was troubled. And knowing what we know of him, it doesn't surprise us to read that when he was troubled, all Jerusalem was troubled with him. Into Jerusalem comes a caravan of men from the east, probably the regions of ancient Babylon, Persia, and Mesopotamia. An area including what we would call today Iran and Iraq. They inquired, where is he who has been born, King of the Jews? We've seen his star in the east that have come to worship him Now, Josephus, the Jewish historian, tells us that Herod had spies everywhere. He would quickly learn of a band of foreigners who had entered Jerusalem, having traveled hundreds of miles, inquiring about the birth of a king. So what does this despot do? How does he respond to the news of the birth of the one who was at least believed by these foreigners to be the promised Messiah? He schemes to discover where he is so he can order that the child be killed. Herod's pride, ego, ambition, jealousy are controlling his actions. The scripture says of some their inward thought is that their houses shall continue forever, and their dwelling places to all generations. They call their lands after their own names. Psalm 49. Evidently, Herod couldn't conceive of anything greater than his own kingdom. He couldn't imagine anything more wonderful than his kingdom's continuance. And he couldn't imagine anything more tragic than his own kingdom's end. You'll note that at this point Herod, we're told, was almost 70 years old One would think that even a man who had lived his whole life for himself might at this point begin to think about his own soul, begin to think about eternal things. Begin to think about great issues such as repentance and forgiveness and peace with God. But instead, Herod is quite willing to cap off his life of evil with the crime of all centuries And cast into the cesspool of his wicked deeds the very child who was called the promised Messiah, the anointed one. You see clearly here the depravity of Herod's heart, but it's rivaled by the irrationality of Herod's mind. Because the way he endeavors to discover where the child was born is to consult with the chief priests and scribes. The scribes, consulting God's word, tell him that Micah the prophet Who wrote some 700 years before, declares that the Messiah, the anointed one, would be born in Bethlehem. I wonder if you perceive Herod's irrationality here. You see, the prophecy of Micah is either true or false. If it's false, then it's foolish to send the Magi to Bethlehem because there was no reason to think that any new king had been born there, and no reason to think that if there was such a person that that uh That he would be the uh the Messiah who had been uh promised by God, if these prophecies are false. If the prophecy was true, then the birth of the Lord's anointed, the one who was described as he whose goings forth had been from old, from everlasting. The birth of God's anointed one had been foretold 700 years before his coming. Now, on that basis alone, a rational man would have to conclude that something supernatural was happening here. One would think that Herod would have meant it when he asked the Magi to send back word that when you find a child, tell me so I can come and worship him too. You you would think that he would have begun to think Wow, if he is the Messiah, foretold by the Old Testament prophets, maybe there's hope for me. Maybe I can be forgiven. Maybe I can be cleansed. Maybe I can have life. Maybe I can have forgiveness. Instead, Herod seems to acknowledge that God could foretell the coming of the Messiah without Herod's taking the next logical step. And concluding that this child could in fact be the Messiah sent by God to be our Savior. As irrational as Herod's actions seem, when you think about it, They're no more so than the actions of thousands who hear or read the prophecies of Micah or Isaiah or Zechariah and simply shrug them off. Well, uh, yeah, okay, I I see those prophecies, I've heard those prophecies, but perhaps Jesus intentionally fulfilled prophecies so he would be perceived to be the Messiah. Well, perhaps. But that doesn't really solve the dilemma. Because somehow he would have had to arrange the place of his birth, Micah 5. 2. Bethlehem. The time of his birth, Daniel 9. 25, the prophecy of the 69 weeks, periods of time. The manner of his birth, Isaiah 7:14, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. The manner of his death, Psalm 22, they pierce my hands and my feet. The reaction of the witnesses to his death, they look and stare upon me. They laugh me to sworn, they part my garments among them. Upon my vesture they cast lots. He would have to have arranged the circumstances surrounding his own burial. Isaiah 53, he made his grave with the wicked, but with the rich in his death. And he would have to have arranged his own resurrection. For he said, on the third day he would rise again, Luke 18, 33. And any man who could arrange such things is clearly no mere man. You would wonder how Herod could have accepted the prophecy. You wonder, I mean what I meant to say is we wonder how Herod could have uh accepted this prophecy of Micah as true. And therefore send the wise men to Bethlehem while not embracing Christ as Messiah. Well, the way he could do that is the same way men and women reject Christ today, despite all the evidence. Josh McDowell wrote, I was counseling a person who was fed up with Christianity because she believed it was not historical And there was nothing to it factually. She had convinced everyone that she had searched and found profound intellectual problems as a result of her university studies. I listened and then I asked several questions. Within 30 minutes, she admitted that she had fooled everyone and that she had developed these intellectual doubts in order to excuse her immoral life. Yes, it's true the mind has to be convinced of the truth, but ultimately the problem is one of the will. One of the heart, you might say. You will not come to me that you might have life, Jesus said. Men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. John 3. I suspect that for some here, your continued rejection of Christ Despite the evidence, in the face of greater evidence than Herod had, is because of your unwillingness to bow the knee to Christ. In other words, to put it bluntly, you enjoy your sin too much to give it up Jesus said, if anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. John 7, 17. Now, you may have thought of this, but I think there's another possible explanation for Herod's behavior. Herod may have simply been a cynic who had talked himself into believing that there was nothing of reality. In uh uh nothing real beyond this present life, no life beyond this one. And he didn't really believe all those Old Testament prophecies, but he knew other people did And he was simply trying to preserve his own throne and the lifestyle to which he had grown accustomed. Even the the people's misguided belief that a new king had been born was a threat to Herod. And he may have reasoned that way. If Herod pictures for us those who reject Christ out of love of comfort or pleasure, Then the chief priests and scribes picture those who reject Christ due to the pride of life. The chief priests and scribes. were consulted by Herod. He came to them and said, where is the Christ child to be born? They said, well the prophecy says, in Bethlehem. They surely would have heard of the journey of these magi from the East inquiring about the birth of the Messiah. If not, they surely should have been suspicious of Herod's newfound interest in ancient prophecy. They knew enough of Scripture to tell Herod that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem, but it's striking that there's no indication that they journeyed. The six miles from Jerusalem to Bethlehem to find the Messiah themselves. These were religious traditionalists They had a form of godliness, but they denied the power thereof. How many religious men and women this very day, at this very time are giving finely worded homilies about the true spirit of Christmas, love, joy, peace. But they will not tell their people the way of salvation because they simply do not believe it. Many of you attended Lutheran churches. Methodist churches or Presbyterian churches or Episcopalian churches or Roman Catholic churches in your youth, but the message that you heard It was the same message I heard Sunday after Sunday. It was basically God is love. And we should love one another and be kind and be good and be friendly and be considerate. It's basically what I learned from Romperoop. Do be a good doobie. Don't be a bad doobie. Others learned the same message from Mr. Rogers, Sesame Street, Barney and Friends, Dora, Diego Westminster West Seminary Professor Michael Horton asked this question in Modern Reformation magazine. Listen to it carefully. What would things look like if Satan actually took over a city? Think about it. What would things look like if Satan actually took over a city? You're starting to picture it. He writes, the first frames in our imaginative slideshow probably depict Mahan on a massive scale. Widespread violence, deviant sexualities, pornography in every vending machine, churches closed down, worshippers dragged off the city hall. Over a half century ago, Donald Gray Barnhouse, pastor of Philadelphia's 10th Presbyterian Church, gave his CBS radio audience a different picture of what it would look like if Satan took over, uh took control of a town in America. He said, quote, all of the bars and pool halls would be closed, pornography banished, pristine streets and sidewalks would be occupied by tidy pedestrians who smiled at each other There would be no swearing. The kids would answer, yes, sir, and no, ma'am. And the churches would be full on Sunday, where Christ is not preached I suspect that many of the chief priests and scribes showed no personal interest in the birth of the Messiah, or at least no personal interest that was recorded for us. Because they did not perceive in themselves any personal need of a savior. They did not perceive in themselves any personal need of a savior. They viewed themselves as righteous, as holy, as religious. And those of them who believed in life after death believed it had already been secured for them by their own righteousness. And those of them who didn't believe in life after death, we know the Sadducees said there was no resurrection, were probably interested primarily in keeping their own positions. You may remember some 30 years later when the ministry of Jesus was perceived as a threat, the religious leaders got together and they said, What shall we do? For this man works many signs. If we let him alone, then everyone's going to believe in him. And the Romans are going to come and take away both our place. And our nation. The Romans are going to come and they're going to take away our place as the leaders, as the religious leaders, as the religious elite. And also they'll take away our nation. John eleven. Perhaps I think for some of the scribes and Pharisees Maybe it wasn't unbelief that kept them from seeking out the Savior as much as fear. Fear of how Herod would respond if they aggressively sought out a new king of the Jews. The late Leslie Nubigans spent his career as a missionary to India. When he returned to his native England in the late 20th century, he discovered that it too had become a foreign mission field. He wrote, What I've been so horrified by is a kind of timidity by Christian preachers and ministers, the kind of attitude that says, Well, I happen to be a Christian, but of course I wouldn't expect you to think that. People in our society, as you know, have begun to talk about my faith tradition. In my faith tradition, blah blah blah, and I say, who cares a fig about your faith tradition? If you don't even believe that your faith tradition is necessarily true, and true for everybody, no matter what their faith tradition The reaction of the chief priests and scribes to the momentous news, which was evidently no reaction, pictures for us the horror of religion that's all formal, all formalism. It's religiosity. It's tradition. It's self-righteousness. It's not real. It's a facade. It's a stage set. It can be pushed over. There's been no new birth. There's been no true repentance. There's no saving faith Thirdly, contrast the indifference of the religious leaders with the response of the magi. The religious leaders evidently couldn't even travel the six miles to Bethlehem The Magi may have traveled a thousand miles. You know, we sing, we three kings of Orient are bearing gifts we traverse afar. But the fact is they were not kings per se. They were not from what we commonly think of as the Orient, although the word can be used for where they live. And there's no good reason to imagine that there were only three of them There might have been dozens in their caravan, I suspect there were. Enough to cause some commotion as they entered Jerusalem We know they came from the east, as we said earlier, probably the land of ancient Babylon, what we would call Iran and Iraq today. They're called in the Greek Magoi, which originally referred to the priestly caste of the Medes and the Persians. They were religious, presumably Zoroastrians, believers in one God , philosophers, perhaps court advisers, in a position very similar to that of Daniel with the Babylonians John MacArthur describes them as kingmakers because they had risen to such a prominent position that their support among the Medes and Persians was critical For anyone who's who sought to be a king, for the royal family to continue in power. You know, there are still religious leaders in the Middle East, are there not? Who have a say over who the prime minister is or the or the leader of the land politically. These men were intensely interested in the study of the stars. As someone put it, theirs was both the best science of the day and the most spiritual strain outside of Judaism. By the way, it's not surprising that those who study the heavens would be curious about the Creator. Dr. C. A. Chant, professor of astrophysics at Toronto University, reportedly said, quote, I have no hesitation in saying that at least 90% of astronomers have reached the conclusion that the universe is not the result of any blind law, but is regulated by a great intelligence. Unquote. If the Magi were in fact from the ancient lands of Babylon, then they were probably familiar with Daniel's prophecy that would indicate the Messiah might be born at about this time. Daniel 9. So seeing something unusual in the heavens, they were somehow persuaded that this indicated something momentous. And they had some reason to think it indicated the birth of the promised king of the Jews. It's entirely possible God gave them some other sort of special revelation to send them on this trek. They came to Jerusalem, evidently drawn by the Holy Spirit. And as they're Gentiles, they reminded us, or they remind us, and they picture for us That Christ came to be a light to the Gentiles as well as to Israel. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. The Magi represent the unconverted of the Gentiles, in whom God is working. God's Spirit has given them a hunger for truth. They're praying for enlightenment. They're dissatisfied with the myths. That they'd been taught. Some of you may remember me sharing the story when uh Don and I went to Israel in 1974, I think was the year, we went with the college, Shelton College, the college I attended in my last year of college. Our friend uh Ed Gross uh went along on the trip. He is now a pastor in Pennsylvania. Ed entered into a conversation with an Arab shopkeeper at a tourist stop. My recollection is Ed explained the gospel to this man and the man prayed with Ed and received Christ there in the shop. But why I mention it is uh is the man said to Ed that he had had a similar encounter with someone uh years before. A Taurus, in other words, had begun to tell him about Jesus. But then I presume the bus had to leave and the tourist tourists hopped on the bus and and this man then was left with sort of half the story. And he said he'd been praying for light. He'd been praying that someone would come and complete the message, so to speak. Well, the Magi, like that man, endeavored to follow the light that they had, and they sought more light. Listen to verses nine and following. When they heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star, which they seen in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother and fell down and worshipped him. The Magi may have arrived in Jerusalem many months after the birth of Christ. But Mary and Joseph had evidently not returned immediately to Nazareth after the birth, which is what we would have expected them to do. Perhaps they wanted to avoid the talk of the people of Nazareth who knew that Mary had been with child before she and Joseph were officially wed. Or perhaps God instructed them by revelation to remain in Bethlehem for a time , to make it easier for the Magi to find them, I suppose. But when the Magi did find them, they were in a house, the scripture says, verse 11. So perhaps a relative opened a home to them, or perhaps they who knows what. But they were in a house, and evidently in Bethlehem. Although the scripture doesn't say specifically they were in Bethlehem, but it leads us to believe that. Whatever that light in the sky was which led these magi to the child , Listen, it was no mere conjunction of planets, right? Nothing that we would call a star. You know, the term was used loosely We would have another name for it probably, but nothing that we would call a star. Well, how do we know that? Because it went before them until it stood over the house. Where Jesus was. No conjunction of planets does that. No star in the heavens can do that. This is something supernatural. And as our theme is their response, I want you to I want to underscore verse 10. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. What a contrast with Herod's response. What a contrast to the response of the chief priests and scribes. Now, we can't in a in a message such as this uh delve into the great mystery of God's calling and election. But we must point out that those who responded to the news of Christ's birth with joy were not those who were most conversant with Scripture. Not the scribes and chief priests. Not the privileged king of Judea who had power and prestige and wealth, but lowly shepherds. And foreigners. They're the ones who responded. Now the application of this message should be self-evident We've considered the response of the vile King Herod. We've considered the response or the lack thereof of the self-satisfied scribes and chief priests. We've considered the response of the Gentile Magi, drawn by God's Spirit. And the question of most importance today is: how will you respond to this momentous news of the birth of the world? of Christ. Or how have you responded to this momentous news? I hope you understand that the time is fast approaching when you will stand before your Creator. The one who is declared the soul who sins must die. The wages of sin is death. It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. In that day the Bible says every mouth will be stopped, and all the world will be revealed to be guilty before God. And when you stand before God And you are held to account for every violation of his law, for your idolatry, for your love of money, for your deceit and pride, for dishonoring your parents. For your anger and bitterness, for your refusal to forgive others, for your murmuring and complaining and gossip and slander , For your ungratefulness, for your covetousness and jealousy, envy, for your impure thoughts and sexual sin, for your self-righteousness For taking God's name in vain, for taking things that don't belong to you, not returning things you borrow, and a hundred other transgressions. And when you're held to account for the things you should have done but neglected to do, you will not be able to plead innocence in that great day. It will not matter on that day that you knew others in this life who, at least in your opinion, were more vile than you. It will not matter on that day that you could point to several things you did on earth that could be described as good and charitable The issue on that great day will be who is going to pay this great sin debt The Father could say to you on that day, I sent my own dear son to perfectly keep my law in your place. I sent him to the cross to lay down his life as a substitute for sinners such as you. I raised him from the dead to verify these things were so. I sent His apostles him into all the world to proclaim this good news. I brought this message to you. To as many as received him I gave the authority to become the sons of God. And so the question is God may say to you that in that day, did you receive him or did you scorn him? I scorn him. Speak up. I scorned him You determined to pay for your own sins, did you not? To stand on your own record. Isn't that what you said? I did. Gabriel, is this name written in the book of life? It is not. Does the defendant have anything else to say? I do not. It gives me no pleasure to say this, but I must find you guilty of violating my holy law. And as you wish, you will bear your own punishment. Cast him into outer darkness. There, there's weeping. Gnashing of teeth. Friend, if you reject Christ, the very fact that you are here today, hearing the way of salvation, will bring you no comfort in that day. It will be but another link on that weighty chain of your conscience. But if the Spirit of God is working in your heart today, you can come to Him Jesus said, it's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is of no avail. John 6 You realize you've sinned against the holy God. You realize you violated his holy law. And you come to him and you say, God, forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. If you confess your sins to him, if you acknowledge yourself as a vile sinner who deserves his wrath, and you believe that Jesus died on that cross and rose again, you can come to him today. God, forgive me. God, save me. Give me this precious gift of everlasting life. I don't earn it. I don't deserve it. I haven't earned it. But Jesus Christ died on that cross in my place. He came as my substitute. I believe that, Lord. God saved me. Friend, if you'll come to God that way, if you'll pray that prayer, He promises. I tell you, on the authority of God's holy word, he who believes in me, Jesus said, has everlasting life. You can harden your heart as Herod did. You can stand upon your own supposed righteousness as the chief priests and scribes did. Or you can follow the light that God has provided, the light that leads you to the Savior, as the Magi did. And if you do that, then you will, as they did, find yourself rejoicing with exceedingly great joy. Let's pray. Father It's not by works of righteousness which we have done. It's according to your mercy that you saved us. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. We had no hope. We were without God in this world. And you opened our eyes, you gave us faith to believe, you breathed upon the dry bones that they might live. You took away our blind eyes and gave us sight. Took away our stony heart, gave us a heart of flesh. Lord, this is your doing. It's marvelous in our eyes. And every one of us here who knows Jesus Christ, Lord, we know deep down that It's not because of anything in us. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us. But unto thy name be glory for thy mercy and thy truth sake. Lord, I pray, we pray, for every boy and girl, every young person, every man, woman here, Father, everyone here is still outside of Christ. Everyone here who hasn't experienced the true joy of Christmas, oh Father, may they know that joy this year. Draw those souls to true saving faith. Open those hearts. Open those eyes. We ask it in Jesus' glorious name. Amen.