Chapter seven of Revelation verses nine through seventeen. After these things I looked and behold a great multitude which no one could number of all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues standing before the throne. And before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, saying, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and the Lamb to the Lamb. All the angels stood around the throne, and the elders and the four living creatures and fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom, thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders answered, saying to me, Who are these arrayed in white robes and where do they come from? And I said to him, Sir, you know So he said to me, These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation and washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will dwell among them. They shall neither hunger any more, nor thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any heat. For the lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and lead them to living waters, living fountains of waters, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding which comes from his word. Please be seated. It's probably no excuse, no uh surprise to you now that I get excited when I see things in the Bible really coming together. It really is a magnificent book, and I'd love to see how the various stories that are in it fit together So like a beautiful jigsaw puzzle, you pick up one little piece and you say, boy, isn't that nice? Look at the way it's cut out and all of the pretty things. And then you put it in exactly that right spot and it fits together with everything else. When you step back then and get a glimpse of the whole thing, that's when it can take your breath away. Today's passage, and in fact the whole of chapter 7, is like that. Standing on its own, it is a beautiful picture of God's salvation who could help but get excited and thrilled by the words that we just read. But when we step back away from it and see it in the context of the whole scripture, it adds even greater dimensions to it. It doesn't stand alone. In fact, in order to understand it with its full impact, we really have to see it through the lens of other scriptures. And then we recognize that what we see here is the beautiful culmination of all of God's purposes in history. the beautiful culmination of all of God's purposes in your life and in mine. And when we see it see it in that uh context, and particularly today, as I want to bring it to you in the context of Palm Sunday, another passage in Scripture. then it really leaps off the page, as it did for me. Because you see, Palm Sunday is one of those, I think , underappreciated passages in Scripture Every year as we get into the Christmas season we start off with Palm Sunday and everybody's happy and we uh come in and it is a joyful service and we give out little palm fronds to the kids and they go around stabbing each other in the eye with it. And you know, i i it's a nice service, it's a beautiful service. But everybody's thinking, Good Friday and Easter are coming. Palm Sunday, you know, let's just get into the good stuff. But what if we are missing something? What if Palm Sundi is really the main point? What if Palm Sunday embodied or portrayed or was a glorious divine metaphor for the culmination of the whole purpose of creation? Could it be that Palm Sunday and the way that it was celebrated was actually at the end of Jesus' ministry here on earth and set the stage then for what he was going to enter into with his next stage of ministry Which was to be going to the cross and risen from the grave and ascended into heaven to start the final phase of all of history. And this, Palm Sunday, looked forward to what was coming at the end of that phase. What if the cross, the resurrection, and the Lord's ascension were the final, necessary, essential steps? To fulfill 2,000 years of prophecy that we find in the Old Testament. And what if the Palm Sunday celebration was in fact pointing forward to that event? I think that's his case here in chapter 7. And that points us in that direction. We have to see the chapter as a whole. We can't just skip over the first part of it. So let's look right first of all to see how I could even think to take what we see here in this passage and link it back to Palm Sunday. Well, look at verse 9. We see there a great multitude of people standing before the throne. Well, there was a great multitude of people standing there in Palm Sunday, right? And what do they have in their hand? Palm branches. Well, that's interesting. Now, in all of the gospel accounts about Palm Sunday, in all of the Palm Sunday accounts, Only one Gospel speaks of the people having palm branches, and that's the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John, John wrote it, John is the one saving this. So there's no question in my mind that this is not a coincidence. God reveals to John here in this passage what it was that we really understand was going on in Palm Sunday. And so we ask ourselves, how are these two events related? And my answer is that I believe they are related as sign pointing towards the final fulfillment or event. The first Palm Sunday being a metaphor for what we see here in starting in verses 9. And all of it, as the people in the first Ponsundae understood, all of it is in fulfillment of passages in the Old Testament that had been there for 2,000 years. So today I'm going to ask us to look back at some of those prophecies and then to put it in a larger context in order to see that what we have here is the God's purpose in all of history reaching its culmination. Well, this passage we're looking at here doesn't stand in isolation. It's part of chapter 9. And we looked at the first eight verses in chapter 9, not chapter 7, sorry. Chapter 7 last week, or last two weeks ago actually. And there we saw that the 144,000 were sealed as the uh by God of the tribes of Israel Now we looked at that and I made a big point of the fact that this is not really tied to the ethnic people of Israel, but rather the visible people of God on earth The true sons of Abraham, in other words, those who have been made sons of Abraham through the faith of Abraham And the point here is that being, is that within history, God knows who are eternally his, and he seals them. And they make up the sum total of his elect on earth, his eternal church, and they sell in those verses that they are the ones who are going to be preserved as they go through. history and through the tribulation that is coming upon God's church in time. Now here's the big point. You see, John here is being seen giving a vision of what's happening on earth. His eyes are focused at the tribes of spiritual Israel on earth. But there's a shift. When we get to our passage for today, we see that he is now looking at heaven, at the very throne of God. It's a shift from the time of uh from space and time on earth to the eternal reality that you see in heaven. And what is it that he sees there? He sees a great multitude of people from all nations and tribes and tongues. I submit to you that what he sees in heaven is the same body of people as what he saw on earth The 144,000 represented the sum total, the entire number of the electone Earth And here we see this huge number, which 144,000 would in fact represent a great multitude, drawn from all the nations of the earth. And they are no longer being looked at in space and time. Rather, you're looking at the fulfillment, at the end of time, at the culmination, after the tribulation is over, and after Jesus has come back. and finished the salvation that he brought about on earth. Why? Because the people are rejoicing. They're rejoicing in the salvation that Jesus has brought. An accomplished fact. There's no looking forward to further tribulation here. There's no crying out how long as the martyrs cried out. This is it. The good stuff So we see them before the throne, and we see that God says he is with them. Now these two visions have to be taken together. Chapter 7 is an integrated whole. The first is God's church, the Israel of God passing through history. And on its way to the second vision, where these will all be gathered together before God's throne and their joy will be complete. Now, both of these visions point us toward the fulfillment of God's great plan for all of history. Now here I have to ask you to go back and check a few things with me in your scripture if you're able to get to it. And I'll start with Genesis 12, verses 1 through 3. It's a well-known passage, so I doubt that you will have any trouble remembering it, because it's where Jesus, God is speaking to Abraham, and he is first beginning to give him his commission and establishing his covenant with him. And what is it that God says to Abraham? Now the Lord had said to Abraham, get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you, and I will make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. In you All the families of the earth shall be blessed. Brothers and sisters, what is God's great purpose for time and history? What what is he doing in time and history? He is bringing about this blessing, the fruit. uh the the the end point or the culmination of this promise to abraham because the faith which abraham has initiated the people of God who have the faith of Abraham, and in that all the nations, all the families of the earth will be blessed. Now, isn't that exactly what we see in chapter 7 of Revelation? First, we see the 144,000 who are specifically linked to Abraham. specifically linked to him in terms of being 12,000 from each of the 12 of the 12 tribes. And then what else? They're called the the children of Israel. So here we see that this is specifically coming and tracing back to Abraham in that first scene. And then in the second scene, we see That it's from all the tribes of the earth, all the families of the earth that are going to constitute this people. Now you say, okay, that's all right that's all right, Arn, but that's one passage. You know, you can't get all worked up over one passage. Well yeah, I can, but but the point is I don't have to It's not like this is the only time we see this promise. In Genesis 14 and 22, God essentially repeats this promise. And later on, God reminds his people through the prophets. And I want to turn, I want to point you towards another beautiful passage here, Isaiah 43, verses 5 through 7. Isaiah 43, verses 5 through 7. Now just kind of get into it. Let the wonder of these verses fill your heart as we read them. What does God say comfortingly to his people as they're doing this? Think of those people years ago. Hearing these words, just as we're hearing these words today, only we're considering revelation, and understand it's the same. The same hope is being given to us. And what did God say to the people through Isaiah 43? Fear not. I am with you. That's good news. Fear not, for I am with you. I will bring your descendants from the east, and I'll gather you from the west. I will say to the north, give them up, and to the south, do not keep them back. Bring my sons from afar, my daughters from the ends of the earth. Everyone who is called by my name, whom I have created for my glory, I have formed him. Yes, I have made him. God's promises here. God's plan is to go out over all of the earth. The four points of the earth here are mentioned in this passage. And in the beginning of chapter 7, we see that angels are posted at the four corners of the earth. Now this same basic thought is said again in Isaiah 49, 9 through 12. I'm not going to read it because it says essentially the same thing. And what is it that is being promised? Brothers and sisters, God has established a day when he is going to gather from the whole earth all of his children into one place. He is going to gather them to himself. And he here, as it says in this passage, I have called him, everyone who is called by my name. In chapter 7, there, at the beginning, we see that the 144,000 are sealed by God And that ceiling by God is essentially stamping God's name on their head. They are called by his name. And what do we see here? They are created by God for my glory. Brothers and sisters, I want to tell you here today. That if you're here today and you profess with your mouth and believe in your heart that Jesus Christ is raised from the dead and you belong to him then you can say with absolute certainty that you have been created by God for one reason, and that is to bring Him glory. God intends to be glorified in every person whom He has created for Himself. He has formed us, this passage says. He has made us for that reason. That's one of the things we have to guard against because in our na in our world and in our culture, our idea is, yeah, okay, but what do I get out of it? I'm created for God's glory, he gets all the glory. What do I get? I get stuck on this earth here having to deal with stuff. Traffic and people cutting out in my lane and all that business. I don't think that if the Lord has changed you, that you can stick with that for very long Because what an honor, what a privilege it is to be one of those people who are going to stand before God, giving him the glory, as this passage indeed tells us. Because on Salvation Day Like it says here. Like the hosannas that the people sang in Ham Sunday On that salvation day, they're going to glorify God because they're going to sing in the words of our passage, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. They're gonna wave those pom fronds and they will have great things to celebrate Because all of God's promises on that day will have been fulfilled. I submit to you that something similar to this was going through people's minds on that first Palm Sunday. And they didn't realize the full impact of what Jesus was. But what is it that caused them to gather out there in that blazing hot sun? To see Jesus walking in the, or riding that donkey in the midst of a crowd. Have you ever stopped to think how tall a person is when they're sitting on a donkey? Their feet just about drag the ground. Mine would, for sure. And they're basically at high level. And so in order to see Jesus, you had to push over. Little people had to look over taller people's shoulders in order to see him. And there's hundreds and thousands of them. Why did they get there? Why did they come out? Was it just to see the spectacle of a man who did great miracles? Well, there was part of that. Some of them were sightseers. Some of them were tourists. Just occurred to me, my son told me that the number one import in Hawaii are tourists. The number one export from Hawaii is sunburnt tourists Okay, I believe it. But I'm sure that there were some tourists there that day on Palm Sunday But not the majority. The majority were there because they had been longing for the consolation of Israel. They were there because all of these promises of which I have read earlier were part of their history and they saw Jesus coming into Jerusalem on the back of a donkey in fulfillment of prophecy saying, it's here. It's going to be today. And therefore, Hosanna to him who comes in the name of the Lord. They thought On that day, that what Revelation 7 is teaching was happening then In one sense they were correct. Jesus did come into his kingdom in fulfillment of prophecy. And only after he entered into earthly Jerusalem was killed and rose up to heaven, where he sits on his throne to this day could he continue to do the work to bring about what was promised or what was symbolized in that first Palm Sunday So let's look at the reason these multitudes are celebrating. Picking up in our passage where he said So he said to me, These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation and washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lord, the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in this temple, and he who sits on the throne will dwell among them. They shall neither hunger any more nor thirst anymore. The sun shall not strike them nor any heat. For the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and lead them to living fountains of waters. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. I think we see here that that multitude gathered before the throne had great reason for celebrating. They have come out of the great tribulation. Their trials are behind them. There's no more wondering how you're going to get through this day. There's no more wondering what axe is going to fall next. There's no wondering whether your children are going to be able to make it through their life. There's no wondering of what it is that is pulling apart our society. Whether it's going to leave us room for our grandchildren to grow up and prosper. Those kind of things. have been put behind us. They have come out of the Great Tribulation. They have been washed in the blood of the Lamb We 've been given spotless robes. There's no more getting out of bed in the morning saying, Lord, protect me from sin, because if I have a choice, I'm going to sin. There's none of that. There's no longer petitions for God to do his will on earth as it's done in heaven. There's no longer any give us this day our daily bread. Because at that point, everything we need for a flourishing life Has been provided. We've been washed in the blood of the Lamb, and all of our guilt, that shame that still clings to our consciousness, and is in the back of our minds Even though we know we've been forgiven, yet we carry those burdens. They are gone. And where are we? We are in the very presence of God Himself, welcomed into His presence as part of His family. We are told that God is going to dwell with us forever and ever. God will n there will never again become a point where we feel like we're distant from God, where where, you know, I pray, but it's just going up bouncing off the ceiling. We don't have that anymore. Because our God and our Christ are right there. As Peter and John reached out and touched their Savior in his resurrection, as even doubting Thomas put his finger into the holes in his hand. So we will be able to touch our Christ because we will be transformed even as he is. The Lamb will be their shepherd, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. This goes right back to the prophecies in the Old Testament. I'll just point to one of them as I begin to bring this part of our service to a close. Isaiah 49, verses 9 through 12, which I alluded to earlier That you may say to the prisoners, go forth, to those who are in darkness, show yourselves. They shall feed along the roads, and their pastures shall be on all desolate heights They shall neither hunger nor thirst, neither heat nor slum shall strike them, for he who has mercy will lead them. Even by the springs of water he will guide them. I will make each of my mountains a road, and my highway shall be elevated. Surely these will come from afar, there's that promise again, those from the north and the west, and those from the land of Sinin. Israel's vision overlaps with these verses in Revelation 7 quite a bit. God is seen as bringing his people to himself. From the north and west, the lands of Sinam, which may have been China, but which was probably more the southern part of Africa. The point is, God's gathering his people from all the earth. He brings them on roads that he carved out to them. You may think that one day you found God. And you did. But what you don't realize, or what we don't realize often, is that he tore down mountains and built roads to get you to the point to where you saw them. Same thing here, every person that will stand before the Lord God on that day will be the result of him bringing them to himself on roads that he has carved out for him. He leads us and feeds us along the way. The sun does not strike them. That's the repeat of the passage in Revelation 7. And they don't hunger or thirst, as Revelation 7 speaks. The main point of all of this is simply this. God's promise to Abraham to bless all the nations is fulfilled. by bringing people from all the nations to himself and then giving them an abundant, joyful, eternal, flourishing life with himself. I I submit to you that's something to celebrate. That's good news. That's one happy day Would that not lead a person to shout out, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb? Go back in your mind to that first Palm Sunday. There you are standing in that same hot sun. You see Jesus riding on that donkey. You've got a palm leaf in your hand, you find yourself shouting, Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes to the name of the Lord. The question is Why are you shouting that? Why are you thinking of him in that way? Doesn't it mean That you see him as bringing about that great day that God promised over 2,000 years ago. Don't you think today is the day of salvation? That now Jesus is going to start bringing blessings to all the families on the earth. And he will start with us, with Israel, with Jerusalem. That first Palm Sunday, if you had been there, isn't that why you would have been rejoicing at the top of your lungs? Well, brothers and sisters, I've got some good news for you. You weren't there on that first Pond Sunday. But you are going to be there at the great palm sandy that is yet to come. The Lord has created you for himself. Through faith you belong to him. And that means that absolutely You are one of those from every tribe and nation that has been brought to the throne room of God. Uh to me, I can get excited about that. And I hope you can too. Let's pray.