If you're able, please stand as we turn our attention to Revelation 14, picking up with verse 14 and reading all the way down through chapter 15, verse 8. These are the words given to John the Apostle. This is the word of God. Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud sat one like the like the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown. And in his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him who said on the cloud, Thrust in your sickle and reap. For the time has come for you to reap, for the harvest of the earth is ripe. So he who sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. Then another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar, who had power over fire, and he cried with a loud cry to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in your sharpsickle and gather the clusters of the vines of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripe. So the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth and gathered the wine of the vine of the earth and threw it into a great winepress of the wrath of God. And the wine press was trampled outside the city, and blood came out of the wine press up to the horses' bridles for 1,600 furlongs. Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them the wrath of God is complete. And I saw something like a sea of glass mingled with fire, and those who have the victory over the beast, over his image and over his mark. And over the number of his name standing on the sea of glass, having hearts of go of God They sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are your works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the saints. Who shall not fear you, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy, for all nations shall come and worship before you, for your judgments have been manifested. And after these things I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened. And out of the temple came the seven angels, having the seven plagues clothed in pure bright linen, and having their chests girded with golden bands. And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever. The temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one was able to enter the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed. And may God add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Please be seated. Well, in line with my earlier comment, I suppose you could say that God got our attention this week. Not that everyone saw God in the events of this past week, but across the globe people were shaking their head in disbelief at what was happening. We thought people had become too civilized for full-scale war. You know, we had come become accustomed to the idea that wars should be limited conflicts. We have avoided that, although Vietnam was a major conflict. At the same time it did not avoid direct confrontation of the major powers. But we had Iraq, Bosnia, Afghanistan, etc. They were definitely limited in their scope and their impact. But the idea of large conflicts with hundreds of thousands of soldiers and tanks and airplanes and missiles and the possibility of tactical nuclear weapons. was simply unthinkable. Provoking another world war was something we didn't believe any sane government would ever undertake. But this week, that daydream was shattered The stupid and the stupidity of liberal beliefs that mankind is ultimately rational And governed by a common principle of decency was fully repudiated. Fallen mankind has at its core is governed by sin and a desire for power. Now, that's the Babylon of which we have been speaking. You're probably getting tired of me talking about it, but the Bible talks about it. I'm going to talk about it. So the idea here is that that idea of that I've just mentioned is in fact Babylon raising its head out of obscurity. It is staring us in the face. It is present in Putin and his government. Now China has also made it clear that it intends to make its bordering areas, its regions, including Taiwan. its own sovereign playground. And here again we see that same kind of movement that the Revelation calls Babylon. Now I may be reading too much in these events. I'm not the prophet nor the son of a prophet. That's what Amos said. I identify with him. So I could in fact be reading too much into it, but I don't think so. Perhaps But I believe it's more than a possibility. It is a framework that fits what's going on around us. And since the revelation was given to us for the very purpose of providing us a framework to understand our world. then we've got to apply it. If we're wrong, if it's not, what I will be talking about today, it still fits. And we are to understand it that way. So that's where, if this is what we're driving at, and we're in this section of Revelation where we're talking about the very last days of the earth. And if this fits, then truly we may be in the very last days of the progress of history. But revelation calls us, as I said, to see patterns developing in our world. And let me give you just a brief, this is not a, I'm not here to give you a history lesson. But let me speak of history just a little bit. And let me see, let us see how this history that we've had in the recent past applies. Let's go back to the early 20th century from the year in 1914 the Treaty of Versailles was signed and ended World War I. Well, it wound up with the humiliation of Germany. And that led to Hitler's invasion of Poland beginning World War II roughly 20 years. Now, from the desol uh from the uh disillusion of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics To Putin's invasion of Ukraine in Crimea first in 2014 was guess what? About 20 years. So Crimea was the beginning of the Ukrainian war, and the second part is just simply a a second phase of it. But the parallels between Hitler's action and Putin's action border on uncanny. Each one wanted to restore his country to some greater glory of its former empire. Each one was a power-mad dictator, and each one believes that the other nations were too weak and had no strength of will to resist. Now I talked last week about how the revelation points to a crescendo, a rising crescendo of events as we move from what I called judgment as usual to watch out. Here it comes. Well, that's what we're talking about here. We're talking about a movement in which a accelerating tempo of events are to give people an understanding of what's going on. The Ukraine and the Ukraine I said the situation in the Ukraine was the most dangerous type we have faced since the Cuban Missile Crisis, and this week we have seen that to become true. Frothers and sisters, the satanic delusion of power, world power, that the revelation calls Babylon, appears very much to be making itself known. Christians of all people should recognize this. Because if it's true, then we must conclude The time is short. I'm not a prophet, as I was saying, but I would be dumb to discount the possibility. We may very well be facing Armageddon in the not too distant future. Well, let's see how this passage today points us into that same conclusion. It continues that same transition to the last judgment that we talked about last week. It builds on those three angels that we talked about and begins and lays down the foundation for the next section, which is the seven bowls. Now these seven bowls that are coming up, which today actually heralds, and we will use some of today's passage to set up the seven bowls next week. But anyway , those seven bowls are specifically said as possessing, as being that in which the wrath of God is complete. Now, what has Revelation been talking about up to this point? What has been a major theme of the Revelation? Okay, somebody's awake, I hope. The wrath of God, is it not? It's not rocket science. So if the wrath of God has been a a major theme of everything that we have been doing thus far And these bulls are talking about when the wrath of God is complete. Ergo, what are the seven bulls heralding? The very last day of judgment. Now , this literary pattern, these verses that we talked about today, will follow that same literary pattern that we have seen already It provides an overview of what's coming, and it provides a frames to God's judgment, even his final judgment, in terms of the everlasting gospel. that last week's angel proclaimed. So let's look at this passage now in that light. Now the first thing we have to notice in order to understand it, it's a big long passage. But, and so I'm just going to basically have to give you an overview today, but what we see here is its literary form, because its form dictates to us how we're to understand it I don't think that Chapter 15 begins a new section, actually. I believe that it parallels Chapter 14 So it paralyzes and amplifies the first section, and I will lump that together. So chapter 14, verses 14 through 20 that you might look at. divides into two sections. Please notice that. There are two sections in that first portion. Verses 14 through 16 speak of a being. He is said to be like the Son of Man, in our English translation. But it is actually there is no definite article in the original language. So it could be read the sun uh like a son of man having a sickle, and there is um eschatological literature that that does talk about angels and calling them uh like a son of man. So it could be the Christ on this cloud, or it may not be. We know he's regal because he wears a golden crown. So it it is I mean we're talking one powerful angel if it's not the Son of God. However, it is uh uh a question here as to whether it is indeed supposed to be the Christ. The fact that he has another angel tell him what his uh the Father God wants him to do. uh tends to discount that. Who's Jesus our Lord, the Son of God, knows what the Father wants. He doesn't need another angel to tell him what to do. So I I tend to think that maybe, maybe not, but it's always wise when we go maybe, maybe not, not to make too many definite statements, and I'm not. So the major point is that this mighty person is reaping a harvest of grain. That's what this first one is. It doesn't say grain in the passage. But it is set up in such a way that we're to understand it as a harvest of grain. And I will tend, hope to show you that this is the final harvest of God's elect. And then in verses 17 through 20 we speak of another harvest. And here we have the harvest of the grapes of wrath. There are two angels here, one has a sharp sickle like the first, and another angel who is a messenger from God the Father. And tells that angel to reap the grapes of wrath from the earth, which he does in a fairly gruesome manner. So the two sections are the final reaping of the elect and the final reaping of the reprobate. Now when we take and look down at chapter 15, we see it divides into two sections also. The first, there's a sign in the heaven in which position, which calls the seven angels to take their position. But then we see a party going on. And there is the elect of God singing the song of Moses and the song of the Lamb. I think this corresponds to the first reaping of the electa above. And then In verses 5 through 8, we see the seven angels come forward, and they're the ones who are going to pour out these last bowls for the wrath of God. That's the subject of chapter 16, which we'll take up next week. And so this chapter, this portion here, is actually a part of that which is coming. And I'm kind of hauling them all together because I wasn't going to read chapter sixteen today. So uh when we look at that we need to think of it that way. But I would submit that this section corresponds to the reaping of the grapes of wrath that was in the first section. So that's the literary form. And if we understand that that is the literary form, then we understand how to interpret it. It tells us what's happening in the first section, and then the second action, half uh second section shows you how it's uh working out. So let's then look at these two sections, and I'm going to take them together. The first section with the sickle and the second section with the party. Now, the reaping of the elect and the party in heaven then come together, and they come first before the grapes of wrath and the uh uh the second section with the bowls. They come before that in order to set us up for what we should take from this passage. The grapes of wrath are going to be reaped and it will be terrible. No question about it. But brothers and sisters, what this passage teaches us Is that we're not to fear that. We're not to fear that final judgment. Because we will be reaped by the person who is like a son of man. And when we are doing that, we're going to be ushered in to a party. No matter what happens in this world. No matter of what, we have a promise here that sustains us. What is that promise? It is that in fact, in the very last days The harvest of the earth will be when the time is ripe. As any farmer will tell you, you don't cut the hay until it's ready. So God is using a farming analogy here to remind us that He's created this earth, He has put this earth in place to function as a field, a field that in the passage that Dave read earlier, I'm going to be amplified. It is a field in which he is to grow his grain. The wheats and the tares that Dave said. That's this what we're seeing here is a fulfillment of that parable God allows this field to grow throughout the years. He is gone from the time when he first created the heavens and the earth, and he brought about all the things that are in it And he did it for one purpose, to have an environment, a field in which to grow his people. God allows this field to grow. Yeah, he allows the weeds to come up in it also. In this passage, they are the grapes of wrath. But he allows it to grow until it is the time of harvest. That's his time. time of celebration. That is when it is complete to his delight. Imagine the triune God, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, saying, yay! Now they don't. You know. They're rejoicing because in their in whatever environment it is that a triune God who is outside of time and space can do things, they're already rejoicing in this. because it's an accomplished fact in their will and purpose, therefore it's already done. However, for us to envision that, think of that, think of Think of the anticipation of that when his eternal purpose has finally come to fruition when the field is ready for harvest. And then he sends his angelic servants out to reap the harvest. And then they come And that's the sickle that comes through the field, and then he reaps his wheat. He separates them from the tares. And a wheat goes into his storehouse. And as we'll get to, the tares go into the fire pit So God's eternal plan is to create a people unto himself, and it has come to conclusion when the wheat is ready, and the one like a son of man reaps it. This wheat is taken to God's kingdom. And there in chapter 15, we see them singing. A song of salvation. It is like the song of Moses. Only now it's updated to the song of the Lamb. We see them singing their hearts out. Brothers and sisters, do you think they're crying on the day of judgment? They're not We see them praising God for his mighty works, especially in bringing a harvest from the nations of the earth. That's specifically what it says here. We have missionaries who are going all over the world. We've had missionaries to the Ukraine. I think they're all out now. But we have missionaries in some very dark places. And what are they doing? They are spreading the word that God has a people, and He is they are inviting those who hear them from all nations and tribes and tongues. They're inviting them. To come to this Christ, to be healed by him, and to be united with their brothers and sisters across the world In this harvest that our God is bringing. Notice the crowning statement that is made in chapter 15. Your judgments have been manifested Your judgments have been made known. The beauty and perfection of God's plan and his actions are to thrill our souls. In the midst of this, brothers and sisters, we have to see the good news We have brothers and sisters in the Ukraine right now. And the message they need to hear Is that the eternal gospel is at work in them right now It must sink deep into their Christian minds and hearts, and they must find comfort and trust in that. You see, in the midst of judgment, God saves his people. We, they, may suffer physically But as God brought his people out of Egypt and occasioned the song of Moses, so the song of the Lamb tells us that we will not be forgotten, nor will they. We shall be reaped. And we shall be reaped to eternal joy. Let the rulers of Babylon do their worst. I'm not asking them to do it. You know, we don't pray that we break our leg, but if we break our leg, we know that God has a purpose in it. So let the rulers of Babylon do their worst. They are part of God's eternal plan also. Vladimir Putin will not make a dent in the kingdom of God. And he will not make a dent in the kingdom of Christ in Ukraine or any other place in the world. Now there's a lot more detail in these verses. I know it. But that's the overall teaching of this first section of these combined passages. So let's move down to the reaping of the grapes of wrath. And we see right away when we look at that first description of it that this is one fearful and terrible display. The angel who has the power over fire tells the angel with a sickle to reap. Now, you might say, what is this power over fire business uh part of Jewish cultural thinking in those days, uh outside of the Bible, but their cultural thinking was kind of a halfway step or a kind of a compromise with paganism. Paganism postulated that there was a a God in the fire. There was a God in the water, in the streams that are coming by. There's gods over here and there are gods over there and there are gods all around. Well, the Jewish people were, of course, trying to make converts of these pagans, and like the proliferation of saints in the Roman Catholic religion. They began to think of angels having certain things like the fire has an angel that is associated with fire. Just so you understand what that passage means. I am not saying there are angels that have power over fire. I'm just saying that is what that context is. And what is it that this angel tells? The angel with a sickle. He says, the grapes are fully ripe. In other words, God's divine plan, which we have just said , was to bring about a people unto himself also has a plan for those who are evil in this world And that plan is to bring them to full ripeness when they have served their purpose, and then they are to be reaped and destroyed. We're right back to God's sovereign purpose. Brothers and sisters, I'm here to proclaim something you already know. Nothing in this world happens by chance or coincidence. Even evil men and the evil they do in some way serves God's purpose. That's how great our God is. Like the evil men and the evil they do, serving God's purpose, when Pharaoh was raised up by God, told by God, I raise you up for this very very reason. To demonstrate my power to you in bringing my people for salvation. Notice that. God told him I raised you up. It was also true, as we read in Acts, of Judas Iscariot, where we are told that along with the Jews and the Gentiles, he did what God had predestined them to do. Now think about that. God did what? He predestined them to put our Lord Jesus on the cross. Thank God. Right? Because if he hadn't, we would still be lost in our sin. God causes all things to work together for good, for those who love him and are called according to his purpose. That is my life verse. Because I have seen it work out. And it came home to me at one point in my Christian walk when I realized he's going to use even my sin for good. Now that doesn't mean I need to sin mightily, which I would have been all too willing to do. But it did say that for those whom he loves, he uses even their sin. Now that frees us up to do a lot of stuff individually. But we have to take one step beyond the sin that exists in the life of God's elect. We have to look at the sin and the evil that's in our world today, and we have got to see and believe that God is causing good to come out of it. This world may appear to be tilting out of control, but it is not. Evil exists in this world to prove the glory of God in judgment. Romans 9 teaches us this specifically. I would encourage you to read it many times. These rulers, according to the words of Romans 9, are vessels for common use. And they're meant to be broken to pieces once their purpose. has been served. So here we are told that when God's plan is complete, they will be reaped. In verses chapter 14, 18 through 2020, we're given graphic images of the horror that awaits them. I'm not even going to describe that that horror in the terms that the scripture uses it, because brothers and sisters, it if if you read those passages and it doesn't scare you to death, then I don't know what good You know, the idea of having blood up to the horse's uh harness is and flowing for miles and miles and miles is meant to shock us. Even more than shocking us, it's meant to shock the people who don't know God. Because that's the faith that awaits them, whatever the significance of these words are, there is terror in their future. It is there for this one reason. Let's take the two sections. The first section and this section, second section. First section talks about a party Second section talks about blood flowing for a hundred miles. In which group would you rather be? That's what this section is intended to say. It is intended to confront us with the alternative, the only alternative. To placing our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and to have the assurance of the Holy Spirit that we are part of the elect. Would you rather be going to a party on a sea of glass? Would you rather be thrown into a wine press and squeezed? These are the only two outcomes open to human life. Eternal joy or eternal horror. Now this is significant stuff. The gospel is a two-edged sword. It proclaims life and it proclaims death. That's human existence. Like our brother Joshua in the Old Testament, we must choose This day, whom we will serve. It's Satan and Babylon and the gods of power. And human autonomy, if those are the real gods, serve them. As for me and my house. We will serve the living God through Christ. Brothers and sisters, do you believe this? Does your belief in these things govern your every waking moment? Are the events going on in this world what certainly got our attention, are they turning us to Christ in repentance and faith? We, like Vladimir Putin, have done many evil things. We, like him, deserve wrath for the things that we have done. And should we not examine ourselves and see if we have truly repented? Is faith burning in our hearts like a hot ember? Is it causing us, even in the face of looming catastrophe, to declare, our God is good and everything he does is good? Whatever he's doing in the world right now, I can rest. It is good. I see no reason to believe that Vladimir Putin believes this. Because if he knew about these verses and saw himself as being among the grace of wrath, I think all of his arrogant swagger would dissolve into terror and shame. But this we know. Our God is glorifying Himself in the progress of history, and our job is to cling to that gospel and trust in the one who is wearing the golden crown. He must include us. We are included in the harvest of grain he is reaping. And so therefore it is our duty to proclaim the two-edged sword coming out of our Christ's mouth. He will destroy our enemies and his. What is happening right now in the Ukraine is a terrible thing. But there is an even more terrible day. That may be dawning even now, the day of wrath, when all the grapes of wrath are thrown into the fire And the faithful God, our faithful God, will invite us to a party. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, we thank you that you have given us these reminders that nothing in this world is according to chance. But it indeed is ruled, governed by your sovereign purpose. We are too far removed from your heavenly wisdom. to truly understand how you use evil in this world. What we know is this. Your word declares to us that you do. And so as we encounter evil, as it has been graphically made known to us this week, Lord God help us to turn to you and cling to what the truth you have declared about yourself is. Grant, Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ, that we may find comfort, that we serve a holy God, a sovereign God. who has absolutely no intention of letting puny little human beings interfere with his purposes. And in that, Lord and God, give us strength, Purpose and courage to face whatever comes our way from the viewpoint of trusting in our Holy Christ. In the name of Him who saved us, I pray. Amen.