Today we're looking at Revelation 18, verses 1 through 8. I would invite you to look at that. It's either published in your uh Bullstone or if you wish to open your Bible This will be the first of two sermons on Revelation 18. And today we will be talking about a specific and very Shall we say challenging verse here? We'll be focusing on verse 4. So I would ask that if you would please stand as we consider God's word. as it was given through Christ to his servant John, the Revelation. Chapter 18, verses 1 through 8. After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven having great authority, and the earth was illumined, illuminated with his glory. And he cried mightily with a loud voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and has become a dwelling place of demons, a prison for every foul spirit, and a cage for every unclean and hated bird. For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. The kings of the earth have committed fornication with her. And the merchants of the earth have become rich through the abundance of her luxury. And I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her plagues. For her sins have reached the heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. Render to her just as she rendered to you, and repay her double according to her works And the cup which she has mixed, mixed double for her, in the measure that she has glorified herself and lived luxuriously, in the same measure give her torment and sorrow, for she says in her heart I sit as a queen. I am no widow, and will not see sorrow. Therefore, her plague will come in one day, death and mourning and famine. And she will be utterly burned with fire, for strong is the Lord God who judged her, who judges her. May the Lord bless the reading and understanding that comes from His Word. The sermon titled is Come Out and Come Home. Please be seated. As I mentioned, this is the first of two sermons, and today our focus is on the necessity for the church to be separate from Babylon. And you might think, well, duh, Arch, I mean, after all, Babylon is evil, and the church ought not to be evil. Well, okay. But it says here very clearly that that's what we should do. There's an old proverb that says, a man is known by the company he keeps. And the Bible puts it even more strongly than that. A person who is unequally yoked with unbelievers bears guilt. with them in their adulterous sins against God. That's what Dave read for us earlier from 2 Corinthians. And verse 4 of this passage, we see that cleanly. Come out from her, my people, lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her plagues. In other words, if you run around with a harlot, you go to hell with a harlot. Pretty straightforward. Today let's explore what it means then to come out from the harlot and be separate from her. That is the main concern of this sermon. Now, what is it that God is really commanding us here? I submit that this is one of the most serious challenges facing a Christian, any Christian in any age. Fellow by the name of Richard Niebuer published his book, Christ and Culture, way back in 1951 And I remember reading that in seminary and it uh it touched me uh and impressed me a great deal. And he agreed with that statement that this is one of the most significant challenges facing Christians in any culture. The entire book that he wrote is about how over the years Christianity has tried to understand its own relationship to the culture around it. and how they are to pursue their own separate agenda, if you will, in the face of it. Now he said, and I'll have to agree with him, that no single Christian answer in the form of an agenda has been found. In other words What we're dealing with today here, brothers and sisters, is that there ain't any bumper sticker solutions. It just isn't. Hal Views isn't There are no bumper sticker answers. Well, you might ask, what's so hard about it? Well, what's hard about it is that we simply can't escape the Babylon that is in our modern cultural climate. Now okay, yeah, we could go out and build our underground bunker and seal ourselves entirely off from the world We cannot help but, otherwise, we cannot help but be affected by the ideas, moral pressures, and ideological propaganda that surrounds us. So it's a it's a legitimate question. How do we separate ourselves from it? The thing that we hear, the kind of Christian platitude that immediately comes to mind is, well, we're supposed to be in the world, but not of it. Okay. That is basically a circular question. Circular answer. It doesn't really give us anything. What it does show, though, is that there's a certain tension in our lives. God clearly commands us to separation, both here and in 2 Corinthians 6, which is the predominant passage on it. So let's look at how some Christians, and I get into a bit of an academic mode here, don't go to sleep on me. This is important. Okay, so we want to get into a little bit of a discussion here of how Christians have come at this problem and tried to address it. First, there is what I will call the Amish approach Now there is much to admire in the Amish culture. I dunno I can will never forget when that guy came in and shot up that all the children in that Amish church. And the Amish burned that church to the ground and built another one and forgave him. I was just astonished You know, that's a that's an amazing thing. I think it was the Amish, not the Mennonites. I may be wrong. But anyway, the question here is we all know what the Amish stand for. We see them riding in their uh There are wagons up and down the streets in Pennsylvania, and they build great houses, and we get a lot of good food from them. But is that what the Lord expects of us? Are we to build an entirely distinct and separate Christian culture in the world? Some think we should. Some think we should build separate Christian communities, communes. We should associate only in any meaningful manner with other Christians. We should only watch Christian movies. Listen only to Christian radio. Listen only to Christian rock if that's not a contradiction in terms. Just just kidding. Okay. Just kidding. I am so you get the idea that complete and radical separation is there for some people who have tried to see it this way. Now this is called the Fortress Church mentality. And many fundamentalist Christian churches are wholly given over to this idea. It's a radical separatist movement. It's of them against us. You don't polish the brass on a sinking ship idea. We have nothing to do with that culture out there. Because it's gone to hell. We need to be here in the church. Often, but not always, in this culture And this is unfortunately true. In this kind of fortress mentality, there is a very decided anti-intellectual Stance. It's just assumed that if you get an advanced degree or you think very deeply about stuff, then you've probably been brainwashed. Now, Christ, does Christ want us here at Liberty Church to assume a fortress church mentality in order to be separate from Babylon? Well, there's another way of people who think about what does it mean to be separate? And I'll call this the salt and light. City on a hill attitude. Now those who take this, those who take this as a Christian's most pressing duty, they push for a total opposite to the fortress church. They teach a total immersion in the world. Children should be sent to public schools as a witness for Christ. Christian adults should be involved in every aspect of cultural life. Now to some extent we saw this way back when in the Christian coalition back in the old days. Christians must, they push that Christians must consciously involve themselves in every aspect of culture And they should exert Christian influence in the arts, politics, philosophy, etc. The problem here, and we've all seen this, that in churches that really go this way, and individuals who go this way, Is that even among sincere Christians, it means that while they're bearing witness to the culture around them, the culture is bearing witness to them. And as a result of that, it leads oftentimes to compromise. That More than one church, and more than one church, has fallen prey to this because making common ground with the culture in order to influence the culture Can lead us into making compromises or adopting things to make the culture more amenable to what we say There's another approach, and here it's called Christian Reconstructionism. If you're familiar with Doug Wilson or before him, R. J. Rushdoney, then you know these guys. And what they believe is that the duty of the Christian is to seek to transform the culture into a Christian social state. They make no bones about it. RJ Rushdie, he was a grand old man. and uh I have much respect for him. He's a very gentle guy. But there was no question about what he taught. In other words, to a reconstruct Christendom, which is what Reconstructionism stands for, It comes about because just about always these folks are post-millennialists, and they believe that the church must in time come to dominate the world across the cultural spectrum. They should dominate the government. They should dominate all of the arts and sciences. They should be absolutely on top. And as a result of that, they should enforce Christian principles, if necessary, by force, on the people in their countries. And so when this post-millennial kingdom comes about and this witness is established on earth and everybody's going along hunky-dory, then the Lord will return. Now right away we see that this requires in some sense force Perhaps not direct physical force, very soon, very seldom do they come out with that, but at least direct political force is implicitly implied Supreme Court justices must abide by the Constitution interpreted through the teachings of Scripture. Civil laws must give precedence to Christianity over all other religions. Some reconstructionists, such as Gary North, who recently died, I believe. advocated what he thought was a base, a biblical economic policy, which means we should go back to the gold standard for our economy. Now you see there's a three places there. Those three approaches show a pretty wide diversity. And anyone who thinks that the tension between these positions is easy to solve simply doesn't understand the problem. It's reductionist to think that we can simply ignore the tension between them and just choose one or two The plain truth about all three is that to some degree biblical teachings support each one. You can find biblical teachings to support each one. And yet each one standing by itself is in somewhat opposition to the others. So I admit to you, submit to you, that each contains truth, but none are comprehensibly true. I love Rashtani. I've read a great deal of his books. I admire the Amish. I agree with such ministries as Ministry to the State, which we in fact support. But it is under the salt and light category. And we Christians have to live in that tension that we see here. Doug Wilson needs to be read with a grain of salt. And the fundamentalist fortress church mentality, like the Amish idea, may be admired. But at points it must be resisted. So today I'm going to focus on Christ's command in this passage to come out from her and be separate. And try to get to it in such a way that we don't fall into error. We must admit we must not, by pursuing, I'm sorry. We need to come out from her and be separate, but not fall into error. We must not, by pursuing separation, become inward. like a fortress church, we must generally not take the position that there's nothing out there worth saving So let's look at the passage and embrace that tension of which I tried to set the tone Let's take a quick survey of the passage as it is written. Let's take a look at it. As we look at this passage and we see the way it's broken out, the first thing we see there is this angel. who possesses great authority and glory. Now I will only speak briefly to him, but it says the whole earth is illuminated with his glory. Now that's similar to Christ But Revelation does not ever identify Christ as an angel. And so therefore we propose that propose that maybe it's a very serious angel, a very high-ranking angel, perhaps even Michael himself. The archangel, but that is, he is still an angel, a messenger from God. And what he is a messenger from God, he brings a message. And what is that message? Babylon is fallen. It's fallen. Now notice here that this is viewed as an accomplished fact. It is finished, like it says in Revelation 10. 6 and 15. 1. The eternal counsel of God, viewed from a heavenly perspective about the world around us, already sees it. As finished, as judged and done away with. That's certainty of judgment. Even as our salvation is certain, so is judgment certain. So this judgment that we see here, this finality that this angel proclaims is something that we have to undertake in our understanding of becoming separate. And it becomes part of the way that we are to view ourselves and view the world around us by being separate. We have to embrace this in the same way, I would submit to you, that a fellow named Lot Had to embrace the message that came to him about the city he was living in. All the nations have drunk the wrath of her fornication. the angel says. Now this is the same as saying about people who are murderers. They deserve, they are guilty. They deserve to die. All the nations of the earth, of the God-denying culture around us, will drink the wrath of God, even as they drank the wine of the harlots, fornication. That's a fact, Jack. That's the way it is. We have to embrace that as a confident reality We have to see it. Sometimes it means it brings us to pity people in the world around us. You poor soul. You're so blinded by the lies. Don't you realize that what's coming and that you're going to be part of it? Think of what it would mean to have that soul of pity for the world. Would it not lead us to learn from those who talk about salt and light to say, well, maybe that's one way. We can be separate and yet. Active in our community, reaching out to those whom God has raised up pity in our life in order that they might hear and be safe. When Jesus cried out, it is finished on the cross, your salvation and mine was a done deal. Yet we know that full salvation is yet to come. Being separate from the world, brothers and sisters, means we have to embrace the truth of the fact. That Jesus' words also speak to the judgment of evil. When he said, it is finished, it was not only salvation that was accomplished. It was in fact his attainment to be the just judge who will judge all evil in this world. This is what this angel proclaims with great authority. Now, surprisingly, after this angel, we'd be sitting there shaking in our boots if we saw him. But now we hear something else. A great voice comes out, and we hear a voice from heaven. It issues forth from the temple, from the throne. Now, brothers and sisters, this is not an angel. This boy, the angel, had great authority. This boy, that's authority. This is Jesus or God the Father speaking. And he speaks as he spoke from Sinai. You remember when the children of Israel gathered at the foot of Sinai? And there's all this rumbling and clouds and smoke and all that kind of stuff. And they've been told, don't even touch it, don't even let an animal touch that that uh mountain. Put yourself there. Would you be shaking in your boots? I would be. You know, this that's God's holiness, God's power, God's sovereignty, God's unmatched glory. Is amazing to us. That's who is speaking here. And he is speaking as he spoke from Sinai And brothers and sisters, he expects everyone who hears his words to embrace those words seriously. Now that adds overwhelming significance to the imperative to heed this message. This is our God speaking. And so what is it that this God voice commands? Come out from her, my people. Lest you share in her sins and lest you receive of her plagues. For her sins have reached to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities Render to her just as she rendered to you, and repay her double according to her works, and the cup which she has mixed with mixed double for her, and keeps going. Notice in what he says here that there are two main thrusts. First, there is come out of her, my people. And then there is render to her double for what she has done, and later on give her torment and sorrow. Now clearly the first is directed towards God's people. Says so. Come out from her, my people. But the second, render to her, to whom is that directed? Well, let's take the second one first, because it is the most difficult. According to the grammar, as all of you good Teachers in the audience will or in the congregation well know. According to grammar, an indefinite personal pronoun like you should refer to someone in the immediate context. In other words, the referent according to grammar here would refer back to God 's people. But the wider testimony of Scripture makes this very doubtful. Christians are told that we will judge men and angels in glory. We know that. But the assignment of destruction as a result of judgment is God's work. And he uses human and spiritual agents for this task. But it does not give us in the New Testament any directions to do that. Just about all expositors, therefore, believe the voice is shifting away from God's people. And that he is pointing towards those that he is going to raise up to bring about the destruction of the kingdom of the harlot and the beast. Now, on earth, this will be both physical and spiritual. And since Jesus said that his people do not use the sword, this is most probably directed towards external agents who will be doing God's business for bringing down the beast. So, when the church is called to be separate, I believe we're not called to take up arms. I know the idea of a Liberty Church militia says a lot to appeal to it. And some people are already saying, sign me up. However, I just don't believe that having our own militia is what is called for. So let's get serious about the first point then, coming out from her. This is directed toward us. Liberty Church. God 's people. It's not exactly like any of those three things I mentioned at the beginning. So what exactly can we say it does mean? I believe that we should understand coming out from her as a call to what you've heard me call before, radical Christianity. I mean that I believe it's calling us to follow the example of Abraham as it is presented to us in Hebrews 11, 8 through 10. I would invite you to listen to this. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out of the place which he would receive as an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he waited for the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. I want you to stop and think for just a minute about what it means to be a foreigner. What does it mean to be a foreigner in our country? Ignore the temptation to think about it just in ethnic terms. For many ex for example. Many people of Mexican descent, Hispanics, are not foreigners. And we shouldn't just assume that they are They have been fully assimilated into the culture. If they immigrated here, and quite frankly, if you're in Texas, they were probably here first. So the idea of being uh uh simply a foreigner because they're of a different ethnic background is not true. So what is it? Think about someone of whatever original ethnicity that you would call a foreigner. And why? It's because they're radically different in the way they act, the way they think, and the way they believe. Sometimes they dress differently. But beyond that, when you talk with them, you often find yourself saying, you ain't from around here, are you, bud? They speak English, but they speak it differently. They have a vocabulary. that the way they emphasize words or that they think about words. Some words are different in the way that they use them than others And they have deeper meaning for some words than we do. So when you stop and think about that , They are recognized as foreigners because they're radically different in their goals and their means of achieving them. Coming out from Babylon, brothers and sisters, means taking on an identity that is radically different from Babylon. To be in this world and not of this world means living as a foreigner in Babylon. But don't think that this is simple. In order to be a foreigner, we have to know what it means to be radically different from the culture around us. I would submit to you that very few Christians have any idea, true idea, of what this means and what it entails. All of us, every one of us in this room, both sides of this pulpit, have been infected in our thinking And our conversation by the world in which we inhabit, we are immersed in it every day, like a frog in gradually heating water. We're at risk of having our Christian witness killed without even knowing that it's being threatened. So that means that not only are we to be radically different, It means that we have to consciously undertake to decide and learn what it means to be different. Now, quite frankly, this means we need discipleship. We need to learn this culture. And understand it well. What basic presuppositions motivate the people around us who live in Babylon? That's a serious question. Can you answer it just off the top of your head? Think about any issue that comes before us in the world today, any serious issue. And can we, with some degree of authority, express the presuppositions that wrong thinking is trying to shove down our throat? We may react against their conclusions. Because we have just a visceral against it. But brothers and sisters, that's not sufficient. It's not based on a understanding of what God's Word says about the presuppositions that brought about that thought coming to us. We need discipleship. We need to study the culture so as to understand it What do the scriptures say about the world in which we live clearly and articulately and specifically? Like Francis Schaefer, we need to ask a question, how then shall we live? Which means that we must have first asked What influences are being exerted on me and my family and my church and everybody that I hold dear? What influences are being exerted on me to live like a follower of the harlot? We have to know our enemy before we can be different from him. Yes. Boy, overwhelming flood of response here, yes. I I just love it when I'm riding a wave, you know. This I I agree, this this sounds a bit academic. Okay. It is academic. Why? Because it speaks to the basic problem of doing what our Lord says. And that doesn't that makes it not academic at all. These are not trivial questions. They are not questions that just having a personal devotion every day is going to answer. Unless you're someone like Augustine or Schaefer himself Just studying the scripture, you would have to be exceptionally qualified to be able to make the jump from taking scripture and then applying it to the things that we are influenced on And so God has given us pastors and teachers to equip us to do the work of the ministry. And therefore, we should expect to be equipped in our church for understanding the culture as it is bearing on us. Well, I can get it off the internet. Well, there's no falsehoods on the internet, right? Well we can certainly get in-depth training there, right? Okay. What we get on the internet. is affirmation of stuff that we already believe when we go and visit places that believe like we do. And that doesn't advance our knowledge at all. So, what we really need is a disciplined study that leads to informed conclusions. The last thing, brothers and sisters, we want to do in striving to be different from the world around us, separate from it, is to build it on knee-jerk opinions That come about because they correspond to our prior opinion You have to ask here. Think about it. We all have opinions about stuff. But the basic question is on what are my opinions formed? Do I think this way because this is the way I was brought up? That could be good. It could also be not good Or in my opinions, directly mostly result from a passionate desire for things to be different according to the way I want them to be Which can, in fact, lead us astray. I see too many Christians today shooting flaming arrows on social media. I had to just take down a comment off of one of my Facebook posts the other day from a fellow who was a missionary over in uh Tibet, I think it is. And uh but he I had to just take it off because it was a flaming arrow of very um unchristian-like tone. And we we don't need to be doing that. What is clear in these cases is that they don't have anything to offer positive in response to the negative statements being made. So, I have always believed that elders should be scholars. I believe in the pastor scholar. I believe in the elder scholar. They have to have, at least in some degree, a scholarly discipline, and hence I am calling on you today, particularly as you begin thinking right now about who who you're going to be calling to be officers this next year. We're going to be issuing here in the next few months, uh probably in the in less than a month, a call for nominations. Who do you want to be in over you an officer? I would encourage you to require of your elders and your deacons and your new pastor. that they pursue further training in cultural discernment and analysis. And I would call on you to benefit from this by requiring of them that they pass it down to you. You know, we all need it. When we begin to get into what Babylon really believes And why they believe it, then suddenly we see just how much danger we're in because we have been close to falling for a lie And we need to come out and be separate from it in every particular. And when we start speaking, think differently thinking differently, approaching problems differently, offering different solutions to issues as they come before us. In that way, people will look at us and say, you ain't from around here, are you? That's exactly what it means, in my opinion, to be said Let's pray. Our Lord and God, I thank you for the gift of your word. I thank you, Lord God, that you have given us clear direction as to what you want. And so now, Lord God, I pray that what you want is something that we want also. It's so easy, Lord God, to fall. It's so easy to stumble. And so, our Lord and God, I pray that you will give us eyes to see and ears to hear That you will raise up among us those who are gifted with study and discipline and analysis, and grant, Lord and God, that through them we may learn. How to approach the issues of our life and our world in such a way as to constitute our lives differently than those living the life of the harlot. Grant us, Lord God, joy in doing that. Grant us to know that in doing so, we're actually coming home. Coming home to a truly biblical worldview And therein, Lord God, finding our delight and our joy and our blessing, grant us these things, for I ask it in our precious Lord's name. Amen.