Being a preacher is filled with good things to do, like children's sermons and baptizing babies, and something else that's a lot of fun to do, and one that I always look forward to are weddings. They are such happy events normally. It's such a big deal. You know, there's these weeks and months of preparation. And and that's as it should be, although I submit that today I think the costs have getting gotten a bit extravagant. But it's what has to be done, you know. It's a big deal, a big day. For the bride and groom, it's the beginning of a new era. Nothing for them will ever be the same after that day. My sister, now deceased, I miss her very much, Joyce Marie, once said, I remember being 12, and I remember being married, and I don't remember anything else but those things But after all that planning and all that anticipation, finally that day arrives. And you know what my favorite moment in a wedding is. It's up near the beginning. When the groom and usually I are standing and gathered with the best men and after the bridesmaid's process ends. They're all stretched out across the front. And the congregation stands as the music switches into the bridal march, and everybody kind of turns and looks backwards, but I don't. The bride appears. There she is, coming down to her husband, but I'm looking at the groom. Of course, she is beautiful. It is the law of nature. There are no ugly brides. But it's the groom that strikes me. I'm watching his face change. He gives he goes from being just a bundle of nerves. Please Lord, don't let me screw this up. He goes from being a a bundle of nerves, twight as a tight as a wound-up toy. Trying not to do anything stupid, and then forgetting all about himself. His face changes as he sees this bride. It changes to absolute delight. She is coming down to be with him from that day for now on. That change, that shift in his expression, that victorious moment makes it all worthwhile. All of that time that was spent planning these things. For this is the day he's been waiting for. And now there she is. She is his. And he is hers. That's my favorite moment in the wedding. Now In our passage today, the Holy Spirit chooses the metaphor of a bride adorned for her husband as the best and most clear illustration of what it's going to be like one of these days. When on a great and wonderful day that is yet in our future at this moment, on that great day when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back to claim his bride. It's common, folks. In that day, as our passage says, the sanctuary doors will be heaven itself. That is where the bride appears, coming to her husband. It pictures Jesus as standing on earth, a new earth, waiting to receive her. And I can't help but think. That our Lord's face is blazing with delight You know, he's no longer the sorrowing servant. That's all behind him. He's rejoicing. He's having a good time. He's partying with us today just as we are. But that day will be a special joy. This is the day that he and his father had planned from before the beginning of creation. This is in fact what creation is all about. The reason why we have an earth The reason why we have all of those stars and galaxies out there, and the Baltimore Sun said today that the Hubble telescope is Bringing in uh images now that have never been seen before. I'm looking forward to see how those are. But all of those, all of those things out there, so far away from us. All of those were created for that day when our Lord receives his pride to himself. The Holy Spirit used this metaphor to show John and us what was coming. And it is indeed coming. But in a very important way that I want to focus on today, it's already here Remember through the revelation series, if you haven't forgotten that yet, I have mentioned to you that the revelation is mostly about now, understanding our now. Well this passage is also that way In a very important sense, this vision that we see here has been already partially fulfilled. Jesus of Nazareth On Good Friday has already spoken these words. It is finished. And in verse 6 of Revelation 21, we see God saying, It is done. And the underlying original language, they're identical words. What Jesus said on the cross and what God says here are the same. It is done. It's over with. So my purpose here today is to look at some of the things taught in these verses and to see the Lord Jesus Christ risen from the grave in them. And to understand that as our now. To see that that first Easter morning as the day when the groom, with absolute delight, saw his bride for the first time. They started their life together, a life that is going on right now and shall go on until one day, in complete fulfillment of these words, she is brought in her risen and resurrected state to be with her husband forever. Well, the first thing I want to notice here is that if this is our now and we are looking at Christ as our groom who has received his bride to himself , The first thing I want us to note is how it says here that he has made all things new. I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven, first earth has passed away, also there is no more sea. That's verse 1 of chapter 21. And then in verse 5, God on the throne says, I make all things new. Now, if there is any one phrase which best summarizes The life, death, and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, it is that which is said here, behold, I make all things new. When he rose from that dead from the dead, that's a new thing, brothers and sisters. I mean other people have risen from the dead, but not this way. He rose to establish an entirely new set of circumstances in the world. We live in a world where Jesus Christ is alive. That could not be said about Lazarus, although he is with God in heaven, but the point of it is that Jesus, when he rose again from the dead, he didn't rise again to dead to die again. The life that he rose from the grave to live, he ascended into heaven and continues to live even now. And so making all things new is the big deal here. There is a over and over in the New Testament, we see this written, Paul says that there is a new creation There is a new covenant that is proclaimed in the Old Testament and again in the New, and there is a whole new way of life, a new beginning for God's people that has been ushered in. It's here. Open to all who wish to enter into it. And what kind of new thing is it? Well, it's a thorough, going, comprehensive set of new things. It really is the case that all things have been made new. There is a new relation that has been established between man and God. It's real, but it's spiritual, that the old earth, the old relation that existed between God and man and the old covenant has been fulfilled and replaced And a new earth or a new covenant relation has been brought into being. We talk about the sea of history here. And it existed prior, as it existed prior to Jesus, has been fulfilled. But in the fullness of time Israel, the subject of history in the Old Testament, gave birth to its son, the true promised son of Eve. And in giving birth to that son, her time has passed. A new time has begun. Israel's history is over to be replaced by a new history, the history of the Church. Now, one day the history of the church as it exists now will be completed also. And afterward which all of history, the entire sea of history, will be over And he will do things which were never imagined and never before possible. But it is his time. The new era that we now live in is filled with new possibilities and new powers. We just have to believe that. It's easy for us caught up in our daily lives seeing all of the stuff that's going on in the world around us and dealing with the issues that we face to forget that that we live in a charged atmosphere of spirit power. The Holy Spirit has been unleashed in this world. It is his time. It is the age of the Spirit in this new era. And with this, as he came into the era, as promised, he came to bring about incredible changes. He empowers his people, those in his church, to do things greater. Catch this, as our Lord Himself said , He empowers Jesus' disciples to do greater works than Jesus did. Mountains are to be removed, to cast into the sea. The spiritual blind, spiritually blind, and deaf and dumb are to be restored. Jesus, rising from the grave, came forth to send his Holy Spirit to the ends of the earth As he himself said, to bring forth from the earth his bride in this time, and to adorn his bride in robes of righteousness. He rose on his wedding day to stand at the altar as you wish, and to call his bride to himself. So let's focus now on his great delight at seeing his bride, the church. The new Jerusalem descends to the earth. The bride of Christ, glorious in her beauty, given to him by God the Father, who is delighting with his son. and with his son in his bride. When Jesus rose from the dead, from the grave to see his church and the new creation He sees her not with earthly eyes as we see her now. Now Liberty Church is a good church. Lots of good things going on here. But I don't think any of us would say we were perfect. Maybe a couple. But you know, maybe there's a few things that might yet be tweaked. But the bottom line of it is we're a good church. But are we at that point yet to where we can say we have been purified? And so sometimes in our daily life, sinners that we are, we see things perhaps in our church that just kind of set us off a little bit. I wish it wasn't like that. Or there may be some problems here or there. I'm not speaking of anything in particular. I'm just speaking to the usual condition. And we wonder how Jesus views us. He views us and looks at us and says, hmm, I died for that. Is he disgusted with us? Is he disgusted with his wife because there's a few maybe warts still around? Brothers and sisters, that's not how he sees us at all. He doesn't see us that way. To our Lord Jesus Christ, he already sees us as we are. Purified. Perfect. Dressed in the robes of righteousness that He gave us. And that is true for each of us who through the Holy Spirit have been brought into a saving relationship to him, and it is true to us as a true church of Jesus Christ, which Liberty Church is. We may have some things we're working on, but to our Christ, we are perfect in his eyes. We're right where he wants us to be. And he is working in and through us to further sanctify and cleanse us in our present state Such that we grow to be what we are spiritually before Him and God in the heavenly places You're here today to celebrate Easter, but brothers and sisters, do you believe what I just said? Then you ought to rejoice. That's something worth partying for. Our Lord sees us as dressed in the finest robes of purest white. Dressed in the righteousness of purity and holiness, cleansed of all of our sin. Because that's what he did on the cross, where he said, it's finished. Spiritually, we have been purged of every wrong motive. We have been vested with every perfect virtue. We are righteous because he is righteous because that was his work, his love for her, his church. Led him to bear her sins on the cross unto the sin. His justification, her justification is why he was crucified. And he rose from the grave. He rose again from the grave for our justification, as Paul teaches. And therefore, her perfection has been achieved. And now here she is. She is glorious in her magnificent fullness. No more, no mere provincial beauty here. No obscure small-town beauty winning the local beauty contest. She is glorious with the fulfillfulness of the image of God shining in her person. And as we look at her there and we see ourselves We see her with all the glory of all the nations of the earth gathered in her person. With all of those who walk in the light comprising her character, here in this room, black and white, Asian and Oriental. speaking all, the language of man, and yet praising God with one voice. That didn't exist before, brothers and sisters. Our Christ made that happen. Jesus sees his bride as the manifold beauty of what humanity was always designed to be. When God created Adam and Eve and told them to go out and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, it was to bring forth a church. A church that would be righteous as Christ was righteous. One people, with God the Son in their midst, the family of God as his sons and daughters, and with Christ as our big brother. That's how Christ our husband sees us now. We as the church fulfilled a prophecy given to Hosea so many years ago. I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness and justice, in loving kindness and mercy. I will betroth you to me in faithfulness and you shall know the Lord. I will betroth you to me, and you shall know the Lord. Is that you? Is that how you understand yourselves? You shall know the Lord as a wife knows her husband, with intimacy and complete transparency. You shall know the Lord. through a living and loving companionship with him. The first Easter was the day that our Lord and we began our life together He came to dwell with us, to shine his light on us and be with us, as he said in Matthew 28, Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. He rose on Easter to indwell his people in the most intimate fashion possible. making it possible for us to know him and to love him. We have to learn to live with him as a wife does To recognize him and depend on him as we live together through our lives. And like a good husband, he governs us and rules over us. and promises to protect us from all his enemies and ours, and provides for us and gives us our daily bread. And holds us up and enables us to persevere when our knees are weak and trembling. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ When he walked out of that tomb on that first day, he received his pride, and all things were made new as he began to live with her. And so, let's look then at the last thing I want us to look at. The life that Jesus commenced with his bride. was a life in which he brings healing to the nations, the gathering of fruit that is to be borne by them. And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb, in the middle of its street, and on either side of the river was the tree of life, which bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. The life of Christ with his bride is a life of purpose and activity. away with this idea that the life of a disciple of Christ is basically sitting somewhere in solitary solitude contemplating his perfections. Now that's a good thing to do. I'm not discouraging that, but it is a subset of the life that a disciple leaves. The life of a disciple, the life of the church is a life of being an instrument through which the healing waters That flow from the throne of God are applied to the lives and hearts of people in the world. It flows through the streets of the city, through this, through the aisles of the Church of God, if you will. Jesus and his wife have a ministry together. With her husband, the church is on a mission to make disciples of all the nations. And how? It gives us a method very clearly. Do we bang them over the head and drag them kicking and screaming into the temple? Sometimes I'd like to, but no. What we do is that we offer healing. Now, to offer healing, as any good physician will tell you, Michael here say that, you've got to know your patient. You don't just walk up to him and say, hey, you know, I just met you yesterday. I know exactly what's wrong, but you do this, this, and this. No? To know someone needs healing, you've got to know their life. And you've got to know where it is that the illness that needs healing registers And then through the Lord's leading as our great physician and as our husband, we bring the healing news of how their life can be made whole. We bring we are the vessel of the Holy Spirit, as He undertakes to wash those whom the Father is bringing to Him with the waters of regeneration, the waters which give life and are life. Jesus and his wife are baptizing disciples, both babies and adults. And proclaiming the great covenant promise that through the washing of regeneration, the bride will rise to her full complement of glory. Go back to Genesis 1. Fill the earth. Subdue it. Fill the earth with your children. Well, who are your children? Those whom you call to yourself. Those whom the Holy Spirit works in you to bring into you, to bring you to the full complement which is the family of God. for which all things have been created and with whom our risen Christ will live forever. In bringing in people, we teach them to obey. And we see that right here in verse 4. They shall see his face And his name shall be on their forehead. They see him, they recognize his hand, and then as they walk with him by obedience, They reflect that his name is written on their foreheads. How does the world know us as being those whom God has set aside for himself? Just like the wedding band that identifies a bride, a woman who has had her name changed to reflect that of her husband. So the conduct and profession of the people of God show forth as their wedding band, showing they are sealed To their husband, our Christ. Brothers and sisters, we gather here today to celebrate our Christ, risen from the dead. And we should focus on the fact that on this day something brand new happened that we could have never imagined. But we also celebrate that something is happening now. Brothers and sisters, the new creation is going on, and you're in it as you leave here today to celebrate Easter Remember, it's not just about something that happened long ago. It's about something that is happening right now with you, in you, in our church. Please pray with me. Lord and God, I thank you for this day. I thank you for the teaching that you have given us. I ask, Lord God, that you seal us to the understanding that you have imparted through your word Let us know, our Lord and God, the joy of the resurrection. And let us know it from a very personal viewpoint In the sense that what you did is not only for us, but with us. That in you we also triumphed over death. And in you, our Lord in Christ, we will be constituted as your bride for boy. In your name we pray. Amen.