We come now to the final um passage from Revelation that we'll be covering in this calendar year. We'll pick up after this passage uh in January. But if you would stand as I ring to read today's sermon passage from Revelation, and we're speaking of Revelation 12, verses 12. Verses uh one through uh twelve, I think it is. Now a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars. Then being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon having seven uh heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his heads. His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born She bore a male child who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God in his throne. And then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, that they should feed her there 1,260 days. And war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought with the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought, but they did not prevail, nor was a place found for them in heaven any longer. So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceived the whole world, and he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. Then I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brethren who accused them before our God day and night has been cast down, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. And they did not love their lives to the death. Therefore, rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them, woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea. But the devil has come down to you having great wrath because he knows that he only has a short time. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Would you please be seated? And some of these young folks think that reality TV is a relatively new thing and they watch stuff. I don't ever watch them. I've heard of a few that some survivor or some Such thing as that. I don't know. But anyway, there's this idea of reality shows, and people watch them on TV for some reason. And But for for for close to 40 years, the very first reality show to come on TV starts way back in black and white only TV. was called This Is Your Life. And it was hosted by Ralph Edwards. Now, by today's standards, it was a bit hokey Quite quite frankly, it was a bit hokey by those stage standards. But it was interesting. They would arrange for people to show up at some time and supposedly this person was completely in the dark of why they were showing up. And then they would be surprised because there'd be TV cameras there and all of these people they haven't seen for years. And there would be a gathering up of information about how they've led their life and Ralph Edwards. could come up to them and they'd say, such and such, this is your life. And then they would proceed to show that. They'd show pictures and home movies and people they haven't seen for years would come forward and renew their acquaintance. They never quite told the whole story. I mean, after all, it was the 50s, so they only hit the good stuff. And but the outcome did give an overview of the person's life. Brothers and sisters, what I challenge you to do today as we read this passage is think of this. This is your life. This is my life. Every other person's life is a story, and that's important. Human beings can consciously or not understand the world in terms of story. They think of the now, of their present existence, in terms of how they got here. There's a story of what's gone before. And then there's also the projection into the future of how they think about this story going forward, whether it does so or not. You might not think this, but the story that you have adopted, that you understand your living, determines a great deal about how you understand right or wrong. It's how we are conditioned to think. It's part of the story. The traditions of our lives make us think in those areas of what we should be doing and how we should be doing it and how we treat people. Whether it's driven by a pagan myth or by family or national traditions , How we act flows from what we have adopted as our story. That's why God didn't just give us a user manual for our lives. He didn't give us a recipe with a bunch of these things written out. As for it, the Bible contains propositional truths, it absolutely does. It contains principles that we're to adopt and live by. But brothers and sisters, for the most part, the Bible outlines a story. It is a story. And propositional truths like the Ten Commandments or even the Sermon on the Mount, any of those teachings sit within this story. And the only way you can understand them Is through the story that provides their context. And so, God has designed the Bible this way for a reason. He intends for us to understand our lives through the story that the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches us our story. We, you and I, are to understand our lives within a flow of events which the Bible declares to be the truth about the world we live in and us in that world. In many very important particulars, faith in Christ Jesus is in fact A embracing of the story. Both Old and New Testaments proclaim the story and his person and the sinner. It's not just his story, though. It is very much our story. This is our life. We are the offspring of Abram, Adam , Abraham , Isaac, Jacob. We are the continuing Israel of God, the body of Christ in the world. And this self-awareness of fitting into this story and continuing as this story continues to develop is very much what is part of a true and vital faith. We d it is impossible for us to really uh understand just how important this is, I suppose. If we think of faith as just simply embracing a few propositional truths, even the proofs like the Apostles' Creed, we're missing the point. That Apostles Creed talks about historical events. And when we say we believe those things, what we're saying is that that is the story. into which I live. And so it becomes not just head knowledge, but life knowledge as we submit to it. Perhaps more than any other passage in Revelation, this particular chapter in these verses Teach us that we are part of the story that is told in them. This is a story of, for example, almost the, well it is a story from Genesis right down to where we are today. And we fit within that story. And that story is conveyed to us in terms of two signs, a woman and a dragon. Now let's start with those two signs. We've been dealing with symbols all along, and I have, you know , talked to you about the beast, and I've talked to you about those things coming from hell and going out and I 've talked about them in terms of these are symbols, these are metaphors, these m mean, this, that, or the other. We've had lampstands representing churches and locusts from hell. But this is the first time any of those things that John has seen have been called signs. And other than one instance in chapter 15, verse 1, these are the only times that Revelation ever uses this word, signs. So what significance should we assign to it? In biblical terminology, signs are very important things. Jesus spoke of all of his marvelous work by using the same word that is here translated, signs. So there are translated signs there also. When Daniel survived the lion's den, Darius, the king, a pagan, praised God and said these words. Listen to this. I make a decree that in every dominion of my kingdom men must tremble and fear before the God of Daniel, for he is the living God and steadfast forever. His kingdom is the one which shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall endure to the end. He delivers and he rescues, and he works signs. and wonders in the heavens and in earth, he has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions. So science, as is applied here, are particular historical true events that point beyond themselves. to some higher truth. Daniel being rescued from the lion's den, properly uh interpreted by this pagan king, Darius, as pointing to the God of Daniel and therefore to his being the one who can rescue from the power of the lions. So signs point to something else and validate the truth of what they convey beyond the previous metaphors that we talked about, which we understood in terms of symbols representing a spiritual reality. These signs are particular because they point to a historical reality. Now let that sink in. We talked about those things coming out of the pit of hell. We said that these are symbols here going along, but they point to a spiritual reality. They are out there running around. But we didn't go out in the front yard and say, there's one of them Because they were spiritual realities, not actual historical events. They are indeed metaphors, these signs are metaphors. But they point as a metaphor to a historical reality. So what does that mean? That means that the woman is a real thing And so is the dragon. Well, what are they? It's not hard to figure them out. The woman is the historical true church of God. You can't read the passage without figuring that out. The first thing we notice about her is that she is spectacular. And we ought to learn something from that. The Church of Jesus Christ is a glorious thing. She is pictured as being clothed with the sun and has the moon at her feet. In other words, she is the reflection of God's glory in all of creation. Now in the Old Testament we see this church in terms of a remnant, starting in Genesis 3. 15, which is what this passage is all about. The seed of the woman are at war with the seed of the serpent. That's Genesis 3. 15 Now Genesis carefully details this remnant that came out of Eden after Adam fell. And do we talk about it? Do you see that being preserved through Noah, who was alone righteous in the whole world at his time? And then it continues on through Abraham and his seed, Isaac and Jacob. And in other words, God here has always had in the world a remnant of true witnesses to his power and glory. And it was clearly told in Scripture and prophesied that it was through this remnant That would come the Messiah. A child would be born And we will be getting into that in Isaiah when we talk about his being a wonderful counselor and the mighty God and all that. But the bottom line of it is there was a remnant that God preserved through all years, and his promise was that from that remnant A child would be born. And it goes back to 315, where it was promised there that the seed of the woman would be in warfare against Satan. So we see in this passage then And in the fullness of time God brings forth this male child, the one who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. Verse 5. Do you see how often Psalm 2 shows up in the Revelation? It seems like every time I preach. I mentioned Psalm 2, and that's from this also. And this same child was then caught up to God and his throne. So we see this, we go back to chapter 5 when we talked about that with the lamb who was slain coming forward to take the uh scroll. And once again, right back chapter 4 and 5 are about all of history, and so is this passage. And we see that we have a pinpoint in time here, and that is when this child was born and then ascended into heaven. And then, as we said back in chapter 5, that is the turning point of history. History is gauged by that. This woman then flees into the wilderness where God has prepared a place for her, and she continues there Throughout the same 1260 days that we have already seen mentioned several times in the past two or three chapters, whether it's time and time and a half or whether it's three months or whatever But the bottom line of it is the same period of time. And so that same period of time represents the age since the ascension until the Lord comes again. So this woman, the continuing church of Jesus Christ, now take this. Please take this And to me this is just so beautiful and it means so much that I that I hope it really strikes you. This church, this beautiful woman, this glorious woman who's hiding in the wilderness now, but has always been present in the world. Is God 's sign The church, the living reality of the church, is God's sign in the world. It is a historical event It is an historical existing reality and its very existence throughout all of the years in which Satan and his tribe have tried to stamp it out. Have failed. For the 2,000 years before Christ was born to the 2,000 something years up till now, the church has been preserved. Now, let me ask you, brothers and sisters, uh has Liberty Church been preserved because of your efforts? I don't think so either. Somebody said, I don't think so over here. I'll leave it to you to bear testimony to that. But what has preserved Liberty's Church? The power of God. The continuing power of God preserves it to this day. Because Liberty Church, in its essence, is this beautiful woman that God has now got into the wilderness. We'll talk about that in a minute. But the bottom line of it, it is the sign of God's power in the world right now. I just love that. Yeah, when I was back when I was actually working for a living and and I was preaching to the church that I that we I was in before. I used to say to them, brothers and sisters, remember this. The purpose of the church is to be the church. And all else that goes into that, yeah. But being the church, as Scripture teaches us that the church is to be, is a supernatural event. And it is a sign that God is in this world, preserving and keeping it, just like he did with Daniel in the lion's den. This woman is our story. This is our life. Now the other sign we see here is the dragon. We don't have to take any question about who he is. He's explicitly identified in verse 9. He's the same serpent from Genesis 3. 15 that we mentioned earlier Now, here's the first thing we want to take about it. The church is a real thing, right? That's what it means to be a sign. Well, this serpent is a sign also, not of the same magnitude as the church Uh the church was said to be a great sign and then uh Satan said, yeah, and there's another sign also. And uh here he is. So it's not uh doesn't have the same worth, if you will But he is a sign. The dragon is a sign. And brothers and sisters, that means he's real. Just like the church is a real historical entity, so is Satan. He is not, as you have heard preached in some uh some churches who profess to be Christians That Satan is just a myth, that he's an a representation of the evil in the world. Well, brothers and sisters, that ain't true. Satan is a real being Like the church, he exists in space and time. And what we read here in his interaction with a woman is the outworking of Genesis 3. 15. And there in Genesis 3. 15, God curses the serpent and as the Satan, the dragon, and he says, you You will have war between the sons of the woman and the sons of Satan. And here's how we see it worked out and is being worked out now. Throughout history, Satan and his sons, those earthly powers that he through which are his real offspring have warred against the sons of the woman, the true church of Jesus Christ, embodied in her one seed, Jesus. They have attempted to exterminate them. That's the warfare that you see in Genesis 3. 15. And they, before Christ was born, they seriously tried to exterminate the people or the seeds of the woman so as to prevent the Messiah from being born. Now Satan wanted to devour the church. And so in the time of Moses, what do we see him doing? Through the Pharaoh, he seeks to kill all of the male children born to the Jews. In the time of Herod the Great, after the visit of the wise men, he sought to kill all the male children in Bethlehem. But Jesus and his family had fled to Egypt. Satan was relentless, but relentless. But he could not prevent the child being born. And when that child was born, war broke out in heaven And Satan the dragon was cast out of heaven. We read about him in Job being in the council where God was, remember? So there's some way in which he existed in heaven differently than how he existed now. And Satan, that dragon, was cast out of heaven. Jesus said, I saw Satan fall like lightning. Now this is a real historical event. And it happened during Jesus' earthly ministry. So now the sign of our times is that there's a real Satan in some way walking on this earth along with his very real angels And the truth of the matter is he is really ticked off. He is filled with wrath, as it says in verse 12. And the reason why he's filled with wrath is because he only has a short time. Brothers and sisters, this is your life. This is our life. Luther sings in his hymn, A Mighty Fortress, which we'll sing shortly. That this is our life. Satan is real, but we tremble not at him. Our lives are lived out in the midst of Satan deceiving the whole world, as this passage says. But we are the remnant whom Satan cannot fully wipe out, no matter how hard he tries. All he has left is his rage. He's angry. He's looking for someone to devour, as Peter teaches us. But like the brethren spoken of in verse 10 and 11, we overcome him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of our testimony. That is the little word, by the way, of which Luther speaks and the hymn and says will fail him. Our lives are to be understood as being lived in constant warfare. This constant warfare in the world is the wilderness into which the woman has ri uh has fled. Remember the wilderness where Satan was tested, or Jesus was tested by Satan, and that's the same sense of how we will be tested by Satan in that same sense. Satan tries to deceive us, as he deceives the nations. He seeks to undermine our faith by introducing false doctrines. trying to get us to embrace another gospel as Paul teaches in Galatians. And he moves among us To try to move us from a steadfast confession that Jesus is the Lord and to keep us from having our lives devoted to Jesus' service. as the Bible clearly teaches we are to do. And this teaches us, this reminds us, that we're simply not to see Christianity in the same light as other religions. At their root, all non-Christian religions which call themselves Christians are religions of works. They teach us that by being good in the manner that they define as being good, that that is the guarantee of our ultimate salvation. But the remnant doesn't believe this way. It never has. The remnant thinks That Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, is the true ruler of this world. And that we are born into this world to be his servants. And their story of their lives is that of service to their great king. doing whatever he puts in front of them to do as any servant would do, but doing it not because they think that by doing that they will earn his pleasure. They do it because they've already earned his pleasure on the cross. And so the works are expressions of gratitude. And not unto the end of gaining salvation. So the remnant then It's those who believe that Jesus of Christ, Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, has ascended into heaven and is now Lord over all things. He is our God. He is the only God. And we love him, as is spoken of in this passage. More than we love our own life. The testimony of the woman is the truth of her actual existence. And it stands as the proof of the truth of God as it is revealed in Scriptures. And this is where we find the reason for our life and our calling before God. And so I want to just briefly close by asking this question. What is the nature of our calling? It is not only to accept the story this passage teaches, but to embrace it. Brothers and sisters, the woman is living in the wilderness. The wilderness, by definition of scripture, is a scary place where scary things happen. But that's our life. And I don't think anyone in this room will deny it. We read daily how savage animals roam the landscape. We read of those who think they have to, in order to survive, they must kill and eat. And sometimes through greed and others out of hatred. They do terrible things, but always because their master, Satan, controls their minds. There are many beautiful things in this world, and don't ever think that I that I don't believe that to be the case But as beautiful as it is, it still remains a wilderness. And a wilderness can be very beautiful. So This is our our calling is to remain faithful and true. And to speak out the truth and most importantly, live out the truth as the embodiment of our testimony. And we do so, no matter what reaction Satan or his disciples show forth. We are at war. That's what this passage teaches. We must accept it. And quite frankly, we must embrace it. Virtually every book in the New Testament tells us this is true. Paul calls us to watch and stand fast and be brave and be strong in 1 Corinthians 16. In Ephesians, St. Paul asks, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness. in the heavenly places. Doesn't that sound like being in the wilderness? It's the same teaching. Brothers and sisters, I fear that the Church of Jesus Christ has become too comfortable in the world. The Church of Jesus Christ has become too comfortable. We are not stripped Down in order to put on a suit of armor. We like our leisure and our relative prosperity Both sides of this pulpit. And I ask us, all together, is it possible that we love these things more than we love our Christ? But that must not be who we are. We must not worship Mammon while we profess to worship Christ. We are at war, and we must not cower from the battle. We must be strong in word and deed, each of us individually, and most importantly, all of us corporately. That's the first thing that we should think of. We're in the wilderness and we must fight. Secondly, we like Satan must realize That the time is short. We must embrace the truth that we are in the last days and start living like it. It's not rocket science. Jesus taught us through parables that he will come like a thief in the night. And when he does, he expects to find his servants busy and not sleeping. Rather, they're to be about doing their master's biddings. In other words, he's expecting his servants, the church To not be content to simply sit and wait. They actively seek to show forth to their faith to the world, and they know, as James teaches, That any person who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. When Christ returns, he wants to find us, his church busy with a ministry of saving souls. It's important for us to grow in our faith and to expand our understanding. We must constantly be growing as disciples. But always, brothers and sisters, when we grow in disciples, it's unto the end of equipping us for every good work. Why? Not because these good works, as I have said, will get us into heaven, but because these good works flow from a heart that longs to do His master's biddings. This is our calling. And this passage says that we must have a sense of urgency about it. Time is short. Let Satan rage all he wants. We tremble not for him. We bow our knees to Christ and we simply ask, Lord, What would you have me, what would you have us to do? And let me tell you, you ever pray that prayer, he'll show you. There won't be any doubt in your mind. This is his way. This is our lives. And let us be about our Father's business, even as Christ did when he was on the earth with us. Amen. Let's pray