Well last week we in our sermon we talked about something called the wilderness. And it evidently struck a nerve. I had uh two or three people come up and say that they had uh that they had been challenged by that this week and had spent some time meditating on it, which is I just praise God for. One fellow came to me this morning and said something like that. Um I said, well, strap on your seatbelt. We're heading into some more stuff. And that's what we have today. Revelation 13, verses 1 through 10. I'll remind you of the context before I have you stand, and that was in the previous chapter. It had closed with the sermon be uh with the serpent being enraged that the earth had swallowed up his the stuff he had spewed out of his mouth, and he turned to make war on the children, the sons of the woman So I would ask you to stand now as I read from God's Word about how that warfare is going to manifest itself in one important way. Revelation 13, verses 1 through 10. Then I stood on the sand of the sea, and I saw a beast rising up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns. And on his horns ten crowns, and on his head a blasphemous name. Now the beast which I saw was like a leopard. His feet like the feet of a bear, his mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave him his power, his throne and great authority. And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was healed. And all of the world marveled and followed the beast. So they worship the dragon who gave authority to the beast, and they worship the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? Who is able to make war with him? And he was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies. And he was given authority to continue for forty-two months And then he opened his mouth and blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, his tabernacle, and all those who dwell in heaven. It was granted to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. And authority was given him over every tribe, tongue, and nation. All who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose names have not been written in the life, book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. If anyone has an ear, let him hear. He who leads into captivity shall go into captivity. He who kills with a sword must be killed with a sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Please be seated. As I just mentioned, last fun Sunday we confronted the truth that we live in the wilderness. And we talked about how Satan's delusions prevented us from seeing this wilderness as such. Satan works on us from our very first breath to brainwash us into seeing the world his way, the way he wants us to see it. And we're so used to thinking the way that we have been enculturated to think about it that it takes a major slap in the face for us to, in fact, see it differently. Now this is a well-known and acknowledged sociological observation. Sociologists don't often link it to Uh Satan, as Christians affirm, but there's a name for this understood within academic circles called the sociology of knowledge. And a well-known Christian, broadly Christian, I I dare not call him an evangelical. I think he may be, but I don't know. A broadly Christian sociologist named Peter Berger, I'm sure many of you have heard of him, has written on this topic quite extensively in a little book. called a rumor of angels, he actually seeks to reintroduce into modern discourse and particularly scientific and academic discourse the idea of the supernatural It's a pretty good introduction to his work. I would encourage you to read any of his writings because they are well worth reading. Some are a little more dense. So the bottom line is that I accept, and so do you, that we are sociologically influenced to understand and to recognize what is true. We Christians don't dispute this. We actually build on it We raise up our children in the nature, nurture, and admonition of the Lord. We bring them up in the church. We admit. And we call it discipleship, that we are trying to socialize them, if you will, into a biblical worldview. Now, however, like Jesus said in another context, sometimes we have to remove the plank from our own eyes. Before we can help others get the speck out of theirs. Which brings us up to basically where we left off last week. How can we break through Satan's blinders that he has put on us when we don't even recognize them for what they are. And therefore, that's what our Lord has provided us help with. Breaking through that blinder, those blinders, is a major purpose of the book of Revelation. And chapter 13, verses 1 through 10 is crafted specifically to help us accomplish this in a big way, in one tremendously important area. It has given us here what we need to know to break off Satan's blinders and to see his right hand beast. Therefore, before we get into the details of this passage, I'd like to have set a biblical framework in order to see this beast. and to understand him from an overall biblical context. The first beast in verses 1 through 10 Is not something new. We must not think of it that way. It's been around, basically, for as long as the world has been around. What Christ is doing here is unmasking the beast. Presenting him to us so that we can see him. He wants us to break through Satan's deception and see this thing as it exists now. And it goes back to chapter 12, where, like I said, Satan is waging war against us. Brothers and sisters, I submit to you that this beast is Satan's major weapon against Christ and his church. And our job is to understand it as such. To stand up against it where it is necessary we stand, and as our Lord calls us to do. So what is this beast? The beast is the demonically inspired ambition present in every generation of human beings. for mankind, fallen mankind, secular mankind, to bring about a controlling culture backed up by government in many times That subjugates and controls the whole world under one dominating cultural authority. Did that come through okay? Everybody understood that. It it's the movement, the demonically inspired movement. That has always been around, that moves man to build a culture, including a government, such that it controls the whole world under this one Cultural society slant government. It is the desire for world domination And it is specifically a domination that is intentionally and explicitly opposed to Christ. The beast will be present in a powerful government. But brothers and sisters, we must not think of it only in terms of government. To do so is to have Satan's blinders still firmly in place. Rather, the beast is a comprehensive cultural mindset that unifies the whole uh society, if you will. And it controls all of the institutions that fall within it. So, yes, the beast is going to be present in government, but it's also going to be present in the schools. the social media, the press, the transnational businesses, which effectively have already laid the foundation for world government And all too often, it's present in complacent and compromising churches. Let's look at this beast in history. The beast, as we see him in chapter 13, is no new creature. Rather, he is just the latest incarnation of it. Now we can recognize that right away from the description. Now you heard David read today from Daniel 7, and you heard about those four beasts that he talked about there. Now, each one of those beasts was an actual civilization. And they made no bones about it, each one of them, that they were out for world domination. The first was Babylon. And then the next one was Persia. And then there was Alexander the Great. You remember that guy? Okay. And lastly, of course, was Rome. Now this beast, as he is pictured in Revelation 13, can readily be seen to be a combined version, if you will, of all four of those beasts. It has bears feet like Daniel's second beast. It is pictured as a leopard, like Daniel's third beast It is given iron teeth and ten horns and eyes like a man and a mouth speaking blasphemous words, like Daniel's fourth beast. Now this should show us two things, and I really want you to, this is critical for you to understand where we're headed today. This beast is the culmination and reincarnation of all four of Daniel's beasts. So this picture we see in Revelation 13 is the reincarnation, if you will, of all four of those beasts. And in fact , Each of those civilizations are thereby taught to us as having been this same beast in their day and time. So Persia, Alexander the Great , Babylon, and obviously Rome, which is the clearest application of this beast in this passage They're all the same beasts. Just the latest incarnation. And you said, well, I'm glad it's behind us and it's all over with. Well, no. I wouldn't be up here if that was the case. It didn't start it didn't start with Daniel's dream. Those four beasts in Daniel's dream. And it didn't end with them. Didn't end with Rome. This beast goes back and was present when men built the Tower of Babel in Revelation or Genesis rather 11. Now if you think back to that chapter, you see explicitly that the whole point was world domination. all of mankind to be brought together and unified in one despotic civilization. Come, let us build a city and a tower to make a name for ourselves, so that the people of the earth The people of the earth would not be scattered and dispersed, but rather unified. Brothers and sisters, in every age we have this same demonic impulse present. And it is building and getting more and more possible. Rome came closest to making it happen. Nazi Germany made no bones about it. The thousand-year Reich was supposed to basically cover the earth. Soviet Union had a larger empire than Rome. China has already announced its intention to be the premier power in the whole world. Now, what I want us to see is that this beast didn't first appear in John's vision. And it didn't die when Rome fell. It is with us in the world right now And Jesus wants us to strip away the blinders that Satan has put on us and learn to recognize it wherever it may appear, even and especially when it appears in our own society. Therefore, it is most important that we recognize this beast. That is why Christ presents him to us in this vision. So now let's turn and look at the actual beast as he's presented to us in Revelation 13 and do so in a little more detail, just only his main features. I don't have enough time. We've got a congregational meeting coming up So I don't have as much time to go into it as I would like. Most importantly, when we turn and we look at this, and brothers and sisters, nail this down. Take a look at it. See it. This is so obvious once you see it there. This beast presents himself as the true Messiah. This beast makes no bones about it. He essentially says, I am the Christ. The beast, for if that's the case, is the incarnation of the Antichrist, at least the spirit of the Antichrist. Now notice the precise word that I just use, Antichrist. Antichrist. Against Christ. Anti-aircraft shells. Against airplanes, right? He is the enemy of Christ. This beast manifests himself as the ultimate goal and desire of human beings. It is he that provides the the people with everything that they need. He is their comfort and their security. He is the one that guarantees their well-being, etc. etc. etc. It is he who promises peace and comfort and security and prosperity. Look at verse 4 and 7. He's been given authority over all mankind. Remember when we opened up the service with the words from Matthew, all authority in heaven and earth has been given to me? That wasn't a beast. That was Christ. Verse 8. He is the one to whom all the nations are to bow their knees and call him Lord. And most blasphemy of all, blasphemy, blasphemously of all, it is he who is to be worshipped as the Messiah in verse 8. Do you see? At every point, this, and I use this word intentionally, this damned beast Presents himself as the true Christ. Now this is most explicit in his claim to be raised from the dead Now throughout history, the greatest historical testimony to the fact that our Lord Jesus Christ is in fact the Messiah is his death on the cross, his resurrection from the dead, and his ascension to the right hand of God the Father Almighty. We see it throughout the book of Acts. This was the gospel That built the Church of Jesus Christ in its earliest stages. And what do we see here? This bees Proudly proclaims that he has been killed over and over again. He has risen up in history and has been overcome in history. Powerful world dominion-seeking nations have risen up only to pass before the power of God and the power of his church. So this beast has been killed over and over again. But he keeps getting resurrected. And that becomes one of his major selling points. Because here is how he manifests himself to us and to our children. He clips keeps pointing to the ages that have passed. And the teachings and actions that have been in the past. And he says, look at the history of the world. Look at the history of the human race. Look at how they have they have uh killed each other and how they have uh abused each other and how they have brought about a sense of of uh dominion over each other. Human beings are governed by greed and they have they have been taught uh they have been always out to bring about more evil than good. What we need is a government and a culture that will keep that in check. And there's only one way we can do that. We have to just face the fact. Nietzsche said it first in the late 1800s and still needs to be read today for his arguments. There is no God. God's dead. We are captains of our own fate. We are the ones who have charge of our own souls, and we are rulers of our own destiny. This is the lesson of history. Don't you see it there, young person, old person too. No often, no matter how often it has been uh uh it has been defeated It keeps coming back. The idea of dominion and human beings ruling Is the way, the truth, and the life. This is godless Humanism. It is the celebration that hope is achieved and is furnished Through human authority, working autonomously without all of that supernatural hobgoblins of talking about God and Christ. That's called blasphemy. And that's what you see in this passage. The beast explicitly identifies Christ and his people as enemies. Verse 5, he speaks great things and blasphemies, as I just mentioned. In other words. He is the means by which the great jack dragon in chapter twelve spews forth lies and delusions from his mouth. In other words, he's the mouthpiece for Satan. And you're going to see next week that basically Satan, the serpent, plus this beast and the beast that is coming in the next passage, that they basically are a counter to the Trinity. A humanist counter to the Trinity. We'll talk about that next week. But anyway, we see here that in verse 5 he speaks great things and blasphemies. as the mouthpiece of the great dragon. And he is seeking to drown the woman, the church, and her sons. And that is the spirit of the Antichrist at work. He is dedicated to the idea of the maximum he can do so under the restrictions God has placed on him. to destroy the witness of Christ in the world, and that means stamping out his people and stamping out or rendering irrelevant his church. So in verse 7, he makes wars on the saints and overcomes them. Now I understand this to mean that he he basically attacks the visible church. And he overcomes the visible church except for a remnant. The beast defeats many lukewarm and timid Christian communities. And some of them, as we see in our world and in our nation too often, buy into his lies. They buy into the delusion. And essentially they begin to follow the beast in giving in proclaiming his perverse teachings and his practices Uh I'm not going to go into all the ways that is. Read the newspaper. You see it uh throughout the evangelical community in our nation today, as we depart from doctrine. Emphasize experience and don't know what in the world we're doing. So Too many churches will begin to buy into this and hence be overcome. But in verse 8, we see he does not overcome those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. That means, quite frankly. But the whole point is that the remnant becomes small. The remnant becomes small. If you look around you and you see that the true belief in the Lord Jesus Christ and the proclamation of his word seems to be heard less and less Fewer and fewer who proclaim it, proclaim it in its intensity and fullness , brothers and sisters, that's the way it's going to be. The whole point is that the remnant becomes small, because verse 10, many will go into captivity and be killed with a sword. As we see this and as we begin to ponder it, we realize that it's not just the government, it's the whole culture that surrounds the government. It 's the whole culture that is building up an anti-Christian theology and ideology. As we see this, we back away from it and say, this is huge. This is tremendous. And so he appears invincible. As the blinders are removed from our our eyes, and I hope that this is beginning to happen even now. When we see what's really happening, we as Christians can begin to doubt. This beast is everywhere. He is entrenched. We can't get away from his propaganda. His authority and power are present in every institution that we might otherwise trust. And so in verse 4, even we who know the truth might be prone to think, who is like this beast? Who is able to make war with him? And therefore, this is where we've got to get to verse 10. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. If these verses in John in chapter 13 were all that John reveals about this beast, we might very well think that resistance is futile. That the beast is the true Messiah, and mankind can in fact overcome all obstacles and prove that they are right in their teachings. We might think that the morals and the teachings of the majority, since they are the majority, and since they are flooding the world, there must be some truth in them. So some of these perverse doctrines that are being crammed down our throats, since most people believe them, they must be true. But no. Christ here calls us to patience and to faith. Because we will read of this beast again. We've already read about it at one point. If we go back to chapter eleven We see that there the angels proclaim that the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of the Lord and of his Christ, not the serpent's Christ. The kingdoms of the lower world have never become his authority to his Christ. The authority and power of the beast will be stripped away, as that chapter proclaimed. And then all the way over in chapter 17 that we'll get to sometime. The beast that John saw would go there we see the beast, this same beast going into b perdition, along with the spirit of Babylon, which we're going to get to, which is the actual instantiation, physical instantiation of the Antichrist. And then in chapter 18, we're going to see something great. The world will be astonished and grieved at its own error. When they see that Babylon the Great is fallen , is fallen. Here is the patience And faith of the true remnant. Here we see that there is only one God And there is only one Christ. And he is Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God. And he will not tolerate this blasphemy to go on forever. He will not allow his faithful remnant to be lost and stamped out. He will always have his remnant. And on the last day , it will be only they who stand with him on the earth. Only they will have the blood of the lamb and the blood of the lamb marked on their foreheads. And they and they alone, with all of the multitudes that have followed this beast. Will not only survive the judgment which is coming, but they will rejoice in it. They will not weep over the fall of Babylon They will throw a party. They will bear the scars of the persecution they endured. Those scars will be marks of honor. And the crowns that the beast wear will perceive be proven to be false. The true crowns will be those that have been given to the blessed saints. And they will cast those crowns before their Savior's feet And they will sing, holy, holy , holy is the Lamb. Brothers and sisters, if this beast doesn't sound scary to you If you're comforting yourself with thinking that this vision is probably just a myth, and it describes ancient Rome as it existed in those days and how the Christians survived its fall Well, I'm afraid you haven't been paying attention. Not just to me, but what our Lord says in this passage. Christ gave us this vision to strip the blinders from our eyes. We live in the age of the beast as he is becoming more and more and more and more capable of having one cultural world-dominating power or society. We live in an age The 42 months that are mentioned here, which is the time from the ascension till the Lord return. And we must be clear-eyed and vigilant. We have been called to patience and faith, and that's our duty, and our obedience. You realize I left my cell phone down in the office. Do you realize that you're carrying on your person a tracking device? That's what it is. It's a tracking device. We also use it to talk to people. We like it. We go on it and tells us where to go on our GPS and all that stuff. But do you realize that that instrument given to us feeds into massive computers such that powers that exist in this world right now Virtually know everything there is to know about you. We lost any sense of true privacy in this world about 30 years ago. You realize that those same institutions that are out there now, because of the threat of terrorism and other such things. Are very closely monitoring the activities of the people in their respective nations. Now, one nation, China makes no bones about it. They track every one of their people. How they can do that, I don't know. Billions of people. But they don't, they do what is basically being done by all of the nations, the technical nations on this earth. And it's all converging into the idea of a world society wherein people 's nationalities will be reduced in importance And what we will be encouraged and demanded to be are citizens of the world. And you will hear that propaganda come forth. And doing so, all we're hearing is the blast from the beast, because that's where he is headed. We live in the wilderness, but the dragon and his right-hand beast are furious, deadly, and filled with terrible resolve. But we know how it's going to end. And we must know who also is going to bring about that end. The wilderness is a scary place filled with great danger. The serpent and his beast are building in their power. But we have the true Christ. And through faith we will see his victory over this beast and the serpent. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, teach us not to fear, even though even though it's daunting what you teach us in this passage. And Lord grant that we with with eyes that have been open to see what's going on may be acquainted with it. And take steps to deal with it in whatever way we can you allow us to do. But Lord God, I pray for us. I pray for every soul in this church or who is hearing my voice over the internet or whatever, I pray, Lord God, that you will fix in us an even greater dependence upon you Let us see the power of the beast with clear eyes. Let us see his malevolent spirit. But let us, Lord, always look to you. As the sure and certain answer to that guy, and that Lord, you will have the victory. For you and you alone are worthy to be praised and worshipped. You and you alone possess all authority in heaven and on earth. And we, Lord and God, are your people. Comfort us, protect us, give us peace, and give us hope. We ask it in your name. Amen.