Brothers and sisters, we come today to chapter 5 in its entirety. And I've told you before that chapter 4 through 6 is really the heart of the revelation that was given to John And uh perhaps chapter five is the heart of chapter four, five, and six. And so it's extraordinarily important. Uh and as we go on, I would encourage you time and time again as we go through the revelation to come back and see how everything is really summed up in these words in these three chapters, and that the outworking of the whole rest of the revelation in many ways is the expression of the things that we see here with the opening of the seals in chapter six. And the revelation of the Lamb in chapter five, all being superintended by our God sitting on his throne in chapter four. And so those things all fit together. So we're here today to look at chapter 5 and its entirety, verses 1 through 14. I would ask that you stand as I read our sermon passage. And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside and on the backs sealed with seven seals. And then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to lose its seals? And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look at it So I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll or to look at it, but one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals. And I looked, and behold, in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as though it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. Then he came and he took the scroll out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. Now when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the lamb. each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song, saying You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. And then I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures and the elders. And the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousands and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom. and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth And under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, I heard saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be to him who sits on the throne And to the Lamb forever and ever. And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the twenty-four elders fell down and worshipped him Food lives forever. May the Lord add the blessings to the reading and understanding which comes from his word. Please be seated. Sermon titled Today is A New Song for a New Day, and that's going to be the theme of what I'll be developing within it. We start off by reflecting with some nostalgia back in the day when I was growing up and crying Crying was not as acceptable as it is today. It seems like every time I turn on the TV and watch a a modern drama of some sort It seems like the guy, the the big the king guy is always sooner or later gonna wind up weeping. We have to show how sensitive we are, you know, that type of thing. Brothers and sisters John Wayne never cried. He just he he he just didn't. And that that's the way it was when I was growing up. My mother had a way of dealing with us kids. Or yeah, us kids right. With us kids, uh, whenever one of us threw a temper tantrum, she would say, you keep that up and I'll give you something to cry about. In other words, you don't have any good reason to cry now, adding perspective to our current situation, and implying how the fact that we don't have anything now to cry about could change. Well today's passage is certainly not about crying. It's even not about spoiled children. But we might take my mother's words and change them up a bit and make them apply. Imagine God in heaven hearing the prayers of his people. And as they are mentioned in verse 8, the incense bowls which are lifted up to him, the prayers of the saints, and he answers them this way, I know you're crying now. But pretty soon I'm going to give you something to sing about. I admit to you that this is pretty much how this chapter ought to be read. It fits Psalm 30, which I am sure many of you have taken to heart, and which has been a great comfort to you. Psalm 30, verse 5 says, For his anger is but for a moment , his favor is for life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. Those are encouraging words, aren't they? No matter what God puts us through here on earth, we have this to take to the bank. Joy comes in the morning. And what we have in this passage is a big picture of that morning. And when the morning when joy comes and when the world is given something to sing about. Here's what I hope that we will or that you will gain from the development of this passage. We have reason to sing, brothers and sisters, because our Savior Was worthy to open that scroll. We have reason to sing because of the privileges which our Savior has brought to us And we have reason to sing because that scroll has indeed been opened. Well, let's take a look at those. We should sing. We should sing in this life now because our Savior was worthy to open that scroll. Beyond a shadow of a doubt, it is the Lamb who is the center of this chapter. In chapter 4, it was God, the triune God. expressed normally as God the Father, but in fact it was the triune God sitting on that throne, which was the center of that chapter But now there's a perspective shift. And in chapter five, everything revolves around the Lamb. The Godhead sitting on the throne is still there. Ebody provides the stage or the backdrop for the rest of the chapter to center on the lamb It is the Lamb who is the center of focus. In fact, this idea of him being the center is very much emphasized within the passage itself. Look at verse 6. And I looked, and behold, in the midst of the throne, and we should read this, and in the midst of the four living creatures, And in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as though it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. Now, that's a pretty amazing description, right? We got a lamb who doesn't look very much like a lamb at all. He's got seven horns and seven eyes and that kind of thing. A and it he's there looking as one that has been slain, which in some way represents the fact that he was offered up as a as a bloody sacrifice. So We don't have any idea how to really put this together. John himself didn't. He called it one like a lamb that had been slain. Go back to chapter 1 when we talked about Jesus there and how he was pictured in such a way as to convey images to us. Well, the same thing is happening here. This is our Jesus. This is our Christ, our Lamb. But he is depicted for us in such a way as to tell us something about himself. That's what it's all about. And notice how Jesus is depicted as being in the center of everything. He is in the midst of the throne. He is in the midst of the four living creatures, and he is in the midst of the elders. Now that tells us he's conveying to us a lot of stuff. Jesus is the center, the focal point of all that John sees here. Now each of these in the middle of things is taken to mean something that's going to basically affect the way the songs are sung at the end of the chapter. And to get taken together, these middle of statements are what also gives us a reason to say. It gave a reason for the heavenly vision for the people there to sing, and it's what gives us a vision to sing also. Each of these points directly towards a sphere of being that helps us understand our Christ. Jesus is depicted as essentially being in three places at once. Now if we think only in terms of of time and space and we think of that way, that doesn't make sense. It's pretty hard for us to be three places at one time. But if we look at it beyond the idea of space and time, then we understand what is being taught to us here and what is being conveyed. So let's go into each one. We're to understand that our ascended Jesus is in the midst of the throne. Okay. Yeah, so what? Think about it, brothers and sisters. Whose throne is that? Whose throne is that? Nobody knows. Okay. That's where God the Father was sitting. That's where the triune God was sitting in chapter 4. Now Jesus is being presented as being in the midst of that throne. Here we have a real human being, Jesus of Nazareth, who is indeed the Christ of God, is pictured as being on the throne of God, in the midst of the throne. That means, brothers and sisters, he possesses all power, authority, all of the things that go into it, the holiness of the throne itself, all that goes into the idea that you have a right to be in the midst of that throne. That's the key to understanding why he's pictured with seven horns. Horns in eschatological literature always conveys the idea of authority and power. And so seven horns is the fullness of authority and power. And that's what he is pictured as having. He is also pictured as being having seven eyes, which are the, as is told us there, is the Holy Spirit, the man of the earth. And in other words , Here we have Jesus with the horns representing the fullness of power, authority, glory, and holiness that is reserved for God the Father Himself. And being pictured as having all of the Holy Spirit, seven eyes, the fullness of the Holy Spirit present in him, I submit to you that this is a beautiful picture of our Christ as the Trinity. The triune God. He's pictured there, right before us. He is portrayed to be worthy to worship, worthy to be worshipped. Now, think about that. It is no accident that the one on the throne was the one that was worshipped in chapter 4 by the same creatures that we see in chapter 5. And now in chapter 5, the Lamb is worshipped with the same vigor and intensity and by that same group. In other words, all the worship that is due to God the Father, the triune God sitting on the throne is due to the Lamb. And here, what that's communicating is the incarnate Christ. The incarnate Jesus. is now in some mysterious way part of the Trinity and whether to be worshipped And uh as such. And brothers and sisters, if that doesn't ring your chimes, you need to check your bell rope. That should just get to you. There should be just little shivers running up and down your spine right now. This is amazing stuff. This this lamb-like person. Is somehow, some way, God, the fullness of God , the Holy Spirit and the Father. And He's also a man. This vision is teaching us that the Lamb is worthy to be to open the scroll because by his victory as we've seen last night, last week. He's worthy to open that scroll. And as such, he, our incarnate Christ, has been elevated to the throne of God itself. Now stop and consider. If you're facing a tough time, it's been kind of a tough week for my me and my wife and our whole family, and so maybe you might have some sympathy with that. Perhaps you've had a difficult time. Perhaps there's been some unweeping. Perhaps some weepings. Perhaps there's been some uncertainty in your life. Perhaps maybe you've even discovered yourself, beginning to doubt a bit. Can you, and you might even have to admit that your faith is kind of at a low ebb, can you think of anything that might lead you to finding joy in the morning? than the truth that you have a Savior who is a man just like you who has been elevated to the very throne of God He won the victory for us. And that means he's on our side. That means he's already demonstrated his amazing love for us And with those truths firmly fixed in our minds, is there anything that we can't really face? Even if As was the case with those early churches to whom those letters were written, the future may bring tribulation. No, as this passage teaches us, we have reason to sing. We have reason to sing even when the world appears to be beating us to a pulp. Job said this same song, although he sung it with a different tune, I'll have to admit. Job sang, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Job sang through gritted teeth, he wasn't happy with God. We don't have to sing through gritted teeth. Though he slay us, we will trust him. We can sing with a smile on our face and joy in our hearts. Because we have Jesus Christ sitting on the throne of God, and nobody can remove him from it, and therefore no one can take away from us that which we have received through him. That's a new song we're singing. Well, we have reason to sing because the Lamb is also pictured as standing in the midst of the four living creatures. Now no doubt you remember back in chapter 4 we made a We made the point that the four creature living creatures represent all of living creation. Each one represents a different category of being in living creatures. There are wild four-footed animals, there are domesticated animals, there's human beings and birds. And I made a kind of a snarky comment back then that I don't know about the fish. Well, I had a very nice talk with a person from the congregation this past week or so, and that person told me that hey, fish are included under the birds. that they have there related there, it's family stuff. I'm not going to go into the re detail for that, but I'm going to accept it. That's pretty good stuff. So you can learn something every day, even when you're old as I am. So anyway, the fourth beasts represent the full range of God's living creatures. And here we see the lamb standing in the middle of them, the same lamb that's in the midst of the throne. is also presented as being in the midst of the four living creatures. Brothers and sisters, our Christ is represented to us as being in the midst of creation. Creation is not under his curse in such a way as to separate him from it. Creation has been defaced by sin. And but in its most basic created essence, it is still good. Our Lord created the heavens and the earth, and he said, it's good. And sin has not changed that fundamental essence. So our Savior loves and upholds and gives creation hope. Now this is another way to sing and find joy in the morning. Isaac Watts did just that same thing. I'm sure you've heard of Isaac Watts. He wrote a hymn, and the name of the hymn is God of the Morning. It opens with these first lines, God of the morning, at whose voice the cheerful sun makes haste arise, and like a giant doth rejoice. to run run his journey through the skies. And then it goes on to trace the sun 's uh S-U-N, the sun 's uh work throughout the day What the hymn is doing is celebrating the wonder of creation as exemplified by the sun, Shewin. And this was part of his morning meditations that came out of it, because he saw the glory of Christ. In the midst of creation. Brothers and sisters, we can do that too. We can do that too. We can find reason to sing by seeing Christ in creation around us. We have to have spiritually awakened eyes, but we can in fact do it. We must not fall prey to the despair that Satan. Would use to undermine our joy. He wants us to believe that there is nothing really good in this world at all That the evils that are in this world far outweigh any good that is in it. And therefore we have no real grounds for joy. Now, brothers and sisters, that's a damnable lie. Christ is in the midst of his creation, and therefore I, we, have something to sing about. All we have to do is open our eyes to what's there. I'm going to deviate from my plan remarks because I got about two minutes to kill. You may not like that, but I am. I want to tell you a story. I I spent the most, the first part of my life, rushing through life. Like I was running down some big super highway, just my eyes focused on getting where I was headed. All I saw What was that those lanes whipping by, you know, ninety miles an hour? Spent most of my early life doing that. I never looked out the side windows. I didn't see the world as I was passing through it. One of the great benefits of photography is that it makes you stop and look out the window. Photography enabled me to stop and notice the world around me and in fact to see connections and colors and contrasts and to understand them in a different way. And so photography helped me to begin to see Christ in creation. Whatever it takes. Stop, look out the window. See your world. Understand your world. Christ is in your world. And let it add joy to your life and give you something to sing about. You've also probably figured out that the last thing we have to sing about here is Jesus being pictured as being in the midst of his church. He is in the midst of the 24 elders, the elect of God in every age. We've already spoken about this in previous chapters because it was spoken of there in particular. But brothers and sisters, here's something that we can sing about readily. I want you to stop and think. of how fortunate you are. I want you to just put yourself in this man. Okay, he's going to tell me I've got a real blessing. Well what is this real blessing that you've got? Brothers and sisters, you have something to sing about because God has brought you into the presence of Jesus Christ by uniting you to his church. Liberty Presbyterian Church has Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, dwelling among us in our very midst. You gotta stop and think about it. You know, if you're just focused on going down the highway like I was, you might not see it If you stop and think about it, start taking account of it, start looking for him here in our midst, you're going to find him. Jesus indwells every true believer, absolutely. But there is something special. There's a very special intimacy that comes about in his church. in the fellowship that is experienced in his church, where people of like mind and like hearts gather together for the purpose of worshiping and serving him. It's a great blessing to wake up every morning, no matter how many tears you have shed the previous night. And to remember that you're not alone. You're not alone in those tears. Jesus will comfort you through his people He will comfort you through his fellowship. If you feel like your life is wasted, you don't have anything to do, there's no purpose in your life, it's all just passing by and there's nothing really being accomplished in it. Well brothers and sisters, look to what you can do in the church. Look at what God is doing in his church, and you will find things of eternal significance that you also can participate in. But most of all, it's in the fellowship. I'm not just talking about congregational worship. Certainly God is present among us when we gather as a congregation to worship. It can be the most intimate, warming, spiritual thing that can happen. But I'm speaking about this word fellowship, which is in fact a primary ingredient and characteristic of God's church. Fellowship, which is a uniting of people in fellowship in heart, uh in heart and love. It is a uniting where we bound to each other in which we actually begin to think of each other in the same relation we might think of of our bloodkin. And then sometimes, brothers and sisters, if our bloodkin is one of the causes of our despair We may discover that it's in the fellowship God has brought us into that we find our true family. If you're not finding that family here at Liberty, it's coach you're not looking for it. Because it's here. Now I want to ask you, how'd you get here? You know all of those passages in Genesis and on where it goes through all of those tedious things, you know, somebody begot somebody and he begot somebody and he begot somebody else. You know those those passages? Yes? You guys have read Genesis, right? Okay, good. Well those are very important passages because they always culminate in somebody. Like Abraham. Brothers and sisters, God is teaching us that He controlled history, the union of people to bring about a specific person. That's what those passages teach. And I want you to stop and think about your life. And I want you to think about your history. I don't want you to think about your lineage going all the way back to wherever it was that your lineage that you've traced it to. And I want you to understand that God was in control of every bit of that for the purpose of bringing you into this world. To the end that you are united to this church. If he did all of that for you and for your history to bring you here to be part of this body. Then this must be a pretty important fellowship that has been created. Christ is in the midst of his church His people, right here at Liberty Presbyterian Church. The last thing that I have time to share with us about is that we have reason to sing for what our Savior has done for us. Look at what the Church of Christ and all living creation sings about in verses 9 and 10. You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And you have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. Now that we shall reign on the earth is going to be the subject of chapters 20 and 21 at the end of this, 21, 22, and the end of this uh of this book, this letter, the Revelation. But let's look at what's happening until we get to that point. Look at what we have been given to sing about. Just go through them. We have been We can sing about the fact that we have been redeemed unto God by the blood of the Lamb. There's a whole sermon. We have been redeemed to God. We have been purchased back. We have been Brought close to him by the blood of the Lamb. We have been redeemed out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. I just walked you through that just a few minutes ago Right here in this room, we have evidence of every tribe and tongue and nation, although there's probably only about five families in Liberty Church. Because everyb everybody seems to be related to each other. But the bottom line of it is that bringing all of those relationships together trace back goes to all of the nations of the earth. And that's what God is doing. And He has torn down anything that might separate us as a result of that. There are no Jews and Gentiles in here. And brothers and sisters, there's no black and white in here. There's no rich and poor in here. In this body of Christ, we have one primary characteristic. We have been redeemed by the blood of Christ to our God. And that's who we are. The redeemed of God. We have been made now and declared now to be kings and priests. We don't feel like that very often, but we are. We've been promised that we shall reign on the earth. I'm very tempted to preach on those things alone, but brothers and sisters, here I'm going to basically focus on the overall effect. There's a grand old gospel song, his eyes on the sparrow, that this is the very first word, our very first verse that says, Why should I feel discouraged? Why indeed? His eyes on the sparrow, and I know he watches me. But there's a lot more than just watching going on. Our God has translated us out of whatever reason it was that causes us to despair, and he has set us on thrones. He has made us Kings and priests. We have been elevated above common humanity, if you will, in that sense. So in his infinite wisdom, he has worked faith in our hearts and united us together as a new people, a different tribe. The Christian community, the Christian church is an entirely separate nation. It's a separate nation, a separate people, a separate ethnic group. We are the covenant people of God, redeemed to God, and sharing the common characteristic of being part of His New Israel. He has made us kings and priests. He has given us authority as kings and priests to act in his name, to pray in his name, and to bear fruit in his name. And that's no mere mind game. We've got to get out of that. We've got to stop thinking that this is just God talk. This is day-to-day practical living stuff. Jesus said, whatsoever you ask in my name, believing, it'll get done. You believe that? You got to. He said it. Are you practicing it? Are you putting your faith to the test? You're a king, you're a priest. You have the right to exercise dominion on this earth under your king As uh under God, as his king, and you have the right as a priest to pray in his name for things that are appropriate for his kingdom with assure certainty and hope that it will be done See in this vision, brothers and sisters, that the Church of Jesus Christ is the most powerful nation on earth. This country that we live in has a magnificent set of armed forces. And we have an economy, amazingly as it is, that is still the envy of the world. But this nation pales in comparison to the Church of Jesus Christ, because that is where the true power lies. Brothers and sisters, we have reason to sing because of these great things, and we have reason to sing because the scroll has indeed been opened. I'll go into the scroll more as we open it up next week in chapter 6. And we'll talk about its seals. I give you some homework to do. I would ask that you would go home and read Daniel 12, beginning to end. So that we can talk about the scroll next week and understand how it works. Basically, the scroll is the revealed counsel of God, eternal counsel of God. That explains how he's going to bring about the culmination of all history. What I want to leave you with here today is simply this Brothers and sisters, we got something to sing about. And that ought to be the characteristic of our life. Wake up every morning knowing that we have every reason to rejoice. Because joy comes in the morning. Let's pray