We come now to our sermon passage for today, which is Revelation 5, verses 1 through 7. I'll warn you ahead of time. We'll be coming back to this next week. There's going to be two sermons on this passage. Let's go ahead and stand and read our Lord's Word as John has recorded it in chapter 5. And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside and on the back, sealed with seven seals. And then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the scroll and to lose its seals? And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open that scroll or to look at it. Now so I wept much because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll or to look at it. But one of the elders said to me, Do not weep, behold the lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals. And I looked, and behold. In the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as though it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent out into all the earth. Then he came and took the stroll out of his right hand of him who sat on the throne. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Please be seated. Today I'm just gonna jump right into this sermon. Uh it doesn't really need an introduction. The key to the passage and perhaps of all of Revelation is found in verse 5 of our passage today, and I would invite your attention to it specifically. It's the only one we're really going to cover. But one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and to lose its seven seals. We'll talk about the scroll and the details of the rest of the chapter next week, but for now I want to focus on how this person described as the lion and the root has prevailed to open the scroll. And I want you to think about what that must mean. The English word prevail here translates the same word that was translated overcomes when we talked about the seven letters. In other words, when Jesus said things like, he who overcomes shall not face the second death, well, that's this same word that is now translated, prevailed. Now here Jesus is spoken of as the one who has indeed overcome. In other words, he has prevailed. It's spoken of in the past tense. And that implies something very impressive, very important. It means, in fact, in a sense, he won He defeated all his opponents. All his opponents. He won the gold. You're probably thinking, well, duh, that's pretty obvious. Let's get on with it. But I submit to you, brothers and sisters, yeah, it's obvious, but it's indeed something very profound. It is so profound. It is so important that I'm going to focus on this one point in this sermon and not talk about anything else in the passage. Jesus' victory. Jesus' victory is the foundation for every good thing we have from him. Our salvation, our atonement, eternal life, our resurrection from the dead. All of it flows organically and inevitably from his victory. The entire gospel of Jesus Christ is grounded on this truth. Perhaps we ought to stop summarizing the gospel of Jesus Christ as saying Jesus saves. And perhaps we ought to summarize it as Jesus won. Because every benefit we have in Christ. is directed directly traced to his victory. Now this point of view that I'm talking about to you today has a technical name as all of these things do. And it's called Christus Victor. Now that is Latin for Christ victorious or Christ is victorious. And it is the most ancient and continuous view of the work of Christ. What is it that this view teaches? Well, first, it hinges on the ancient idea of a champion You guys are all familiar with 1 Samuel 17 and the story of David and Goliath. Well, after today, I hope that you never think about that particular passage the same way again. Because there's a lot more to it than simply a neat little story to tell your kids. In verse 4, Goliath is called the champion of the Philistines. And he arrogantly calls out to Israel and he says, you know, send me your champion, and we will fight. And whichever one of us wins , That will determine the outcome of the entire battle. If I win, you guys are going to be our servants. And if you win, then we're going to be your servants. That is the heart of the biblical idea of a champion. It overlaps with another biblical idea called a covenant head, because the battle that is waged means that whatever the victory is, the entire people of God have a vested interest in how it turns out. They are on the line To sum this up, to the victor belongs the spoils. And in the conflict that we see in the book of Revelation, indeed of all scripture, the spoils that are at stake Are God's covenant people in their entirety? That's who's on the line In the battle that's fought, Old Testament and New Testament, you and me, Christians in every age, there's a battle that is being fought and a battle that has been fought. And that battle is about us. This verse teaches us that Jesus is our champion. And it also teaches us that he has won. For all eternity, this was the plan. The Messiah in God's eternal purpose was going to enter into time and space, and he was going to confront Satan in a desperate battle. And in doing so, through that battle, he was to redeem his people and save them. Now we see this in God saving his people out of Egypt. We see that as a metaphor for God's eternal salvation. And if we look at Isaiah 49, which you might write down the passage and then look it up later. God says that the righteous captives will be delivered because he, God himself, will fight for the ones that are warring against them or warring against us. The letters to the churches that we have looked at thus far all picture God's people as being attacked. In other words, they're under fire. So in Isaiah, God says that he's going to fight against the one, that very one, who's fighting against us. And then God says, I will save your children. He will win the battle. He will save us, our children, from our captivity. Now, Matthew 12, Jesus talks about this directly. Jesus says, how can How can one enter into a strong strong man's house and plunder his goods Unless first he binds up, ties up, shackles up, however you want to think about it, the strong man. The key to understanding that particular metaphor is that God's people, ever since Adam, are in captivity to Satan Satan has bound them in chains of sin. We'll cover that more. They, we, if you will, are in Satan's dungeon. And we cannot escape. So Jesus shows us that our salvation is that he comes, binds the strong man, overcomes him. Fights him and then releases us from our chains One more passage, one that I dearly love. 1 Corinthians 2, or I'm sorry, Colossians 2. 15. If you look at that, Paul there says, speaks of Jesus having disarmed the principalities and powers. And then he makes a public spectacle of them. Now this is the language of a Roman triumph. It's when Caesar or some. general has gone off and fight fought a war, fight a battle, and he comes back to Rome and they stage a big hoopla. And he comes marching in, you know, all proud and all of this kind of business. There was a uh this just occurred to me, it reminds me that in his chariot he's supposed to have a slave always whispering in his ear as all of the crowds are yelling, Yay Caesar, this servant is supposed to be whispering, remember, thou art but a man. Uh I don't think many of them actually believe that. But uh but the bottom line is it was a big deal and and that's what Paul is saying here. is that Jesus has staged a triumph over all of the principalities and powers, and he has brought them in his train as now his overcome, his defeated foes. He returns in a triumphant parade. And brothers and sisters, as part of that triumphant parade comes all of those people Who were freed from the chains of slavery and now owe everything, their freedom and everything, to that general. who fought and won their release. Brothers and sisters, I submit to you that this is the foundational and most basic way to look at the work of Christ. I want to go over with you right now the entire gospel in terms of Christ victorious. First, I want to go back and look again at the fact I want us to see who are all of these who are in chains that need saving. Notice verse 4. No one was worthy to open and read the scroll. There's much to say about this. We'll come back to it. But now notice that not one person among those 24 elders which effectively represent all the elect from the Old and the New Testament. And none of the angels were worthy of the honor of opening that scroll. Thus, the person of Christ is the only one who has earned this privilege and the honor of doing it. Now here's the firstborn of the gospel. Jesus our God has set aside from all eternity a people unto himself, from all eternity God has set aside a people for whom they will be his people and he will be their God, a particular people made up of specific individuals. You belonged to Christ from all eternity. Your name was in his mind. A particular people, saved by grace. Jesus speaks of this often In John 6, he talks about how the Father is giving people to him, and he says, all of those whom the Father has given to me will come to me. Okay, all whom the Father has given to me will come to me. Who was left out? Any of those whom the Father has given to him? This is not rocket science. This is not a trick question. All of them, all whom the Father set aside at the beginning of time for Christ, will come to him. That's the only way to really read that passage correctly in context. And he then says that he will raise them up on the last day. Who's he going to raise up on the last day? All of those the Father gave him who came to him. And then, beautifully in John 17, Jesus prays to the Father in verses 1 and 2, some of my favorite verses in Scripture. I say that all the time. But I love these words. He says that his purpose in coming into the world was to give eternal life to as many as God the Father had given him. As many as the Father had given him. Eternal life is given by Jesus to those whom the Father has set aside to receive it. So this establishes that from all eternity in the in the in the very deepest counsels of God, there was established a people who needed saving. A people who needed saving. And verse 4 here highlights in our passage that none of these people who need saving can save themselves. None of them could earn the privilege of eternal life through their own merit. Ever since Adam sinned, they are chained in sin. They are chained by the guilt of Adam's sin itself imputed to them, and they're also chained by the corruption of their own bodies, from which all of their own sin flows. Brothers and sisters, that is fallen man's desperate plight. He is chained by guilt and sin so tightly he cannot escape on his own And brothers and sisters, if you sit here, if you're in here today and the sound of my voice and you know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, then brothers and sisters, that's how you were. Before Christ transformed you by his saving grace, you were lost. And if you're here today and you can't claim the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, then no You're chained by your sin. You can't break through it. It's impossible for you to break through it. Everything that is not done of faith is sin, as Paul tells us in Rome. So that is our desperate plight. That brings us to the next point of the gospel. In order to get out of that, we have to have a perfect champion to defeat Satan and to break those chains. We need a champion to do for us what we can't do for ourselves. And the gospel is that God has sent this champion. Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God. Well, what is it that a champion does? Again, it's not rocket science A champion fights, right? So what is this battle? What is this battle that our champion fought? How was it that the Lamb prevailed? Now we must understand Jesus' life here through the framework of conflict. Jesus' entire life from day one was a battle with Satan. We will see this graphically portrayed in Revelation 12, where Satan is portrayed as a great fiery dragon and he's crouched before a woman waiting for a child to be born so he could devour this child Well, the woman is of course Israel, the entire nation of Israel and all of its history, whose history came down to one point. They were there for the purpose of bringing Messiah into the world. And when he was brought, then they had fulfilled their purpose. So what was happening here? The Satan uh Satan does the fiery dragon is pictured there, waiting to grab this baby as soon as it as it uh is born in order to devour it. And Jesus was engaged with Satan from the moment he was born. Like Moses having to be hidden among the bull rushes bull rushes when Pharaoh was trying to kill all the babies because he was told that, you know , there was his kid out there that was a threat. Remember Herod trying to kill or killing all of the male children in Bethlehem because he had heard from the wise men that the true king of Israel was come? That was the outworking of this battle. That was the powers and principalities that were gathered against Jesus. That was Satan with all of his legions bringing, using everything he could to fight and war against Jesus. The conflict reached its first major distinguishable crisis when Jesus was baptized by John. Because immediately after that, Jesus was snatched away into the desert. And he spent 40 days getting hammered by Satan. Now we must not think of that test and Jesus' victory in the wilderness as being all that Satan did, you know. No. Okay, he had forty days, okay, now Satan goes away and Jesus is fine. Well no, it wasn't that way The battle was fought throughout his entire life because Satan kept hammering away from him, even though it says there he departed from him for a time. It was departed from the direct conflict with Satan right in front of him. and rather Satan working through intermediaries. Satan used many devices, he used many weapons against Christ. He used evil men. He used pain. He used hunger. He used temptations of the flesh. We are told that Jesus was tempted in every way as we are tempted. Satan had Jesus' own friends desert him, and Satan even prompted one of his own disciples to betray him. Jesus, as our sin bearer, was subject to every form of pressure that Satan could bring. This was the spiritual battle that was fought. And what is the nature of that test? What's the nature of that battle? It was the same as it was with Adam, and Adam of course failed it But the test, the battle was a test of obedient faith Jesus had to prove himself obedient, even unto death. He had to persevere in faith. That's exactly what he tells us we're to do. This is a battle we fight every day, and we fight it in order to persevere, in order to be obedient through faith. And the outworking of our faith. But you see, we're not perfect in it. Nobody on this side of the pulpit is, I can guarantee you. Maybe not you either, in your heart of hearts. You have to admit obedient faith is what I'm called to do, but I'm not all that good at it. My brothers and sisters, Jesus had to be perfect. He had to face up to temptations of sin far greater than we ever actually experience because he experienced the totality of temptation that all people uh experience and he could not Slip even once. Not once Try as he and wait. Satan could not bind Jesus with guilt or corruption. Satan then did the same thing to Jesus as he did with Job. And Job 2, Satan asked permission to strip Job of everything in life that is good. He strips Job of health, wealth, family, home, everything. And his purpose was to bring Job to the point of believing God had abandoned him. And God said, okay, you just can't take his life. Well, Satan does the same thing on the cross with Jesus. Only here, unlike with Job, Satan is allowed. To take Jesus' life. On that cross, Jesus cries out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And boy when we hear that, it sounds like Satan won. It sounds like Jesus is there crying out to God, even as Job cried out to God and sinning because he doubts God's goodness. He thinks God has forsaken him. Well, brothers and sisters, that's not the point of Psalm 22 quotation there at all. When Jesus points back to Psalm 22, he says, These are the verses. You know them well. Now go back and read that psalm and you'll know what I'm going through. You'll know everything from beginning to end of what I'm enduring here on this cross. And if you look at Psalm 22, brothers and sisters, and I hope you read it again real soon, you'll see it is a psalm of victory. Victory. It hinges on verse 21, where the psalmist sings out, You have heard me. You have heard me. And the whole tone of the psalm changes. The rest of the psalm is the celebration of victory. On the cross, Jesus maintains his faith and gains the victory even when on the cross He is enduring the punishment that was reserved for his own people. On that cross The guilt and the corruption that bound the people of God to Satan were completely and totally washed away. The punishment due for their guilt was endured in their stead by their champion. The corruption of sin in their flesh was washed away by their champion's very own blood. This brings me to a point where I think we ought to talk about the atonement very briefly in case there's some confusion. When we speak about the atonement of Jesus that Jesus made for our sins, we reformed folks usually place it in what's called a forensic view of the atonement. And that goes back to our Reformation heritage because that's the battle that was being fought there. We talk about it in terms of a metaphor in which a sinner stands before a judge and is found legally guilty of sin, then the judge rightly should condemn that person to hell. And Jesus, as the person's advocate, says, no. That penalty for his sin, the penalty which he righteously paid or deserves, has already been paid. I paid for it. I suffered the equivalent of an eternity of hell for this sinner, since the penalty has been paid according to biblical judicial ethics. The sinner is set free. And he's restored to full membership among God's covenant people. It's not like our system where when a person has paid their dues when they've gone to prison and they're put out there under the status of a convicted felon for the rest of their life Biblical ethics does is not that way. Biblical ethics, after you've paid your punishment, the judges in play, you are restored to full membership and all your rights of the covenant people. Now I'm not disputing any of that. I do not think that I do. You will hear me preach from about the uh forensic uh state of the atonement all the time. I uh but firmly believe it. But uh what I want you to see is that that view of the atonement is built into and is over is under the overarching framework. of Christ victorious. It is an instrument of the victorious Christ in bringing out the salvation of these people. The guilt and corruption is removed by the atonement of Jesus. That means the sinner, you and I are free to participate in Jesus' continued work. We are no longer under the dominion of sin. Brothers and sisters, I ask you, do you believe that? Do you believe that you are not under the dominion of sin? That means that you don't have to sin. That chain has been broken. Through faith, you can, in fact, not sin when you're tempted. Now you're going to be tempted all the time and you're not going to be perfect. But you can win some of the time You're not under the dominion of sin. Charles Wesley's Greatest Hinn says it this way. My chains fell off. My heart was free. I rose, went forth And followed thee. You see, that's what understanding Christ as Christ victorious does for us. It brings us the freedom of living for Christ. It opens up the possibility that as Christ overcame and was victorious, so we also can overcome. As Jesus has told us to do in these seven letters, we can be victorious also through Christ Jesus. I can do all things Through Christ Jesus, who strengthens me. Sin no longer is our master. Satan is not our king. That is the victory Jesus has won for us. The last thing that Christ's victory frees us from is the tyranny of death. Jesus, winning over Satan, took away Satan's best and strongest tool, the fear of death. No longer can Satan hold us, trembling in chains before him, threatening us with our death and hell on the other side of it. Jesus rising from the dead demonstrated that he defeated death, and that in his death We also are freed from the free or in his resurrection. We are freed from the fear of death. In closing, I would just like to point out to you that chapter 5 in Revelation points towards a specific point in time. We're going to be looking at Revelation and we're going to be looking at it as being basically an overview of history. But there's one specific point in this overview of history that is specifically and explicitly called out. And that is the Lamb appearing before the throne. That is specifically Christ Jesus ascending to heaven. And it is portrayed for us being juxtaposed between chapter 4 and chapter 5. Chapter 4 is history from all creation. Chapter 5 begins history from the ascension. through the end of time. And that presents to us a view of history where the turning point of history is Christ's victory. Now I know we s we have these things A D and B C and that's linked to Jesus' birth. I do not use A C E and B C E It was Christ, not the Christian era that we have But Satan, think about it. Biblically, the dividing point in history was Christ's victory registered in his ascension to heaven. The apostles certainly knew this because that's what they proclaimed in the book of Acts. And that is what we should believe also. The gospel that is proclaimed today, and the gospel that I hope you take to heart, is that Jesus is alive. He died on a cross, and then he ascended into heaven. That means there's a new sheriff in town. Jesus of Nazareth has been declared the ruler of the whole earth. He is a judge of all nations. God has declared this by raising him from the dead, as Paul specifically says. The times have changed. It is now time for all nations and all people of the earth to come. and to acknowledge him as their Lord and Savior because he is the champion that has won. That's right.