Well, for those of you who are visiting with us today, we are working through a sermon series on the book of Revelation. Today we are up to Revelation 16, verses 12 through 21. And so I would ask, if you will, please stand as I read that passage. It's written out for you in your bulletin, and you can follow along there. Revelation 16, verses 12 through 21, the last two bowls. Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up. So that the way of the kings from the east might be prepared. And I saw three unclean spirits, like frogs, coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet For they are spirits of demons, performing signs which go out to the kings of the earth and of the whole world. To gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. Behold, I am coming as a thief Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame. And they gathered them together to the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon. Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple of heaven from the throne, saying, It is done And there were noises and thunderings and lightnings, and there was a great earthquake, such a mighty and great earthquake has not occurred since men were on the earth. Now the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and great Babylon was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. Then every island fled away, and the mountains were not found, and great hail from heaven fell upon them, each hailstone about the weight of a talent Men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, since that plague was exceedingly great. And the title of today's sermon is Gathered for the Defeat. May the Lord bless the reading and understanding that comes from His Word. Would you please be seated? Well, today comes Armageddon How many movies do you think have been made around the the basic theme of Armageddon? Not the biblical theme, but just the idea of it Now there are some explicitly, others to a lesser extent, in which the good guys face off against the evil empire, and everything is on the line. Star Wars. Lord of the Rings, the magnificent seven. Yeah, some of you old guys remember that one And the movie Armageddon itself. Not Bruce Willis's finest day. Not at all. But it's named Armageddon There is something in our psyche, the reason why we have movies and we have novels, and this theme is built into them is You find it often the theme of the of the big great battle in which everything is society. You see that throughout the literature of the ages, not just recently, it's throughout all of history. Because there's something in our psyche that actually longs for such a conclusion. We endure the difficulties of life and we grow to hate the evil that we see in the world around us. We think this can't go on forever. The gathering clouds of evil and doom press in upon us. And we want to have a showdown. We want a single ultimate decisive battle where freedom, righteousness, and the American way win. The good guys in white hats get the girl and they ride off on the horse into the sunset. The revelation tells us that this is no pipe dream. The white hats are, but this is no pipe dream. It's going to happen. How it happens will in fact be a surprise to every one of us when we see it, and we will see it. So it'll be different than what we imagine with us. God is like that. He is a very surprising God. But it's coming. And it draws nearer every day. Today we're just introducing the topic of Armageddon. We will go more deeply into it in coming chapters where it is more explicitly brought out. But as is the case throughout the Revelation from John , given to John, the verses before us today encapsulate the whole teachings, and so in a sense , We have Armageddon presented to us in summary form. It's a big picture in our passage today. By way of transition to the actual verses itself, I want to remind you of a verse that we have already looked at in our progress through the Revelation. Chapter 10 verses 5 through 7. If you want to follow along with me at turn in your Bibles, that's great Here are the words that we read there. The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised up his hands to heaven and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heavens and things that are in it the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it, that there shall be delay no longer But in the days of the sounding of the seventh angel, seventh angel again, when he is about to sound, the mystery of God will be finished. As he declared to his servants the prophets. Now you just on surface inspection, you see there's a lot of overlap with the passage today in the sixth bowl. And so that's uh this is bringing out what is there. But what this particular passage, the reason why I introduced it, is that last statement, not only is that it's finished and when this bowl is poured out But it is that he declared it to his servants, the prophets. Now notice what this is all about. There's no more delay. The purposes of God will be finished in this last sounding And please carefully notice that it has been foretold to the prophets. I believe these closing verses of chapter 16. amplify what we were introduced to in chapter 10 verses 5 through 7. So everything that we read in these verses point to us and show to us and emphasize to us. That nothing that we see in these verses is God's backup plan Now the idea of Armageddon isn't something that just creates a whole bunch of warm and fuzzies in our heart. But we do respect it. And what it tells us is that there's a day sealed in concrete When God is going to decisively take on the demonic evil that plagues his creation and he will defeat it once and for all. It is finished. And further, we recognize that his plan to do this has not been kept a big secret. I looked up quite a few of the passages in Scripture where God has foretold the day of his coming and this battle. I have certainly can't take time to list them all. But sometimes you really ought to just go and take Ezekiel 38 and 39 and read both of those chapters. And what do we see in them? Just a few of the verses. We see Ezekiel being told that there will be a great earthquake on that day, just like we see here in verse 18. And we are told of how God is going to work things so that a mighty army made up of all the peoples of the far north Which is the kings of the earth that we see in verse 14 will proceed to this battle. And Ezekiel is told that they're going to swoop down through the plains of Megado. And God himself will fight on behalf of his people. And rain down hailstones, fire and brimstone on the forces of evil. Hailstones, as we see listed in the last bowl Now, in Ezekiel 38. 23, we are told specifically that this day when it happens is going to be so that God's glory will be magnified and he will be sanctified. What does that mean? He'll be understood as being holy. We don't sanctify God. But the idea is being sanctified in the vision and in the understanding of mankind. Because he sums this up when he says, on that day, because of what I'm going to do All the nations shall know that I am Lord Is that not what we see on these verses today? The parallel between these two chapters in Ezekiel, once you go and Maybe look at Zechariah 12, chapter 10, 12, verses 10 through 14, Jeremiah 50, verses 40 through 42. Isaiah 14, 12 through 15, and especially Psalm 2 that I mentioned today, or that I introduced the service with, just to lift a few, list a few, it cannot be ignored, brothers, brothers and sisters. What we're dealing with here is not just some extraordinarily exceptional, oh, by the way, type of thing with the book of Revelation. The great battle that lies that is presented to us is a central component of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Wait a minute, Arch. Gospel is good news, right? Yeah. It is good news. You cannot present the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fullness at all without including in it. The day when God brings judgment on what we call Armageddon. It's not just some literary device. It's not an interesting puzzle given to us so we can sit back in the comfort of our homes and drink a cup of coffee and ponder it. We cannot, this might get you catch your attention a little bit, we really can't claim to know Jesus Who he is, what he has done, and what he has promised until we fully grasp the truth about Armageddon. Because he's the one that's going to be doing it. It is an integral aspect of our faith. So once with that kind of extended introduction, let's look at these last two bowls with a more intense interest. And let's take it to heart what Jesus is here teaching us in them. Now, as we look at these bulls , First thing we notice is that there's demonic spirits, frogs, running out into the world, and they're gathering the kings of the earth to battle Verses 12 through 14 clearly present a well-laid out satanic strategy. Because what has to happen? The Euphrates River, which has always symbolized a boundary between the forces of good and the forces of evil. You know, on the other side, on the uh eastern side of the Euphrates, is all of that darkness area. That's where all of those bad guys are, where they where they come swooping in suddenly to take on the good guys which are in Israel and uh the western area around the Mediterranean Sea So that was always kind of a symbolic wall between good and evil. Well when it's dried up It don't preserve, it doesn't preserve any longer a barrier. It doesn't present one at all. It means then, in our spiritual understanding of why it's being dried up, it means that the restraining hand of God is being taken away. God is allowing the forces of evil to gather together in a somewhat different, more explicit and recognizable way. He is opening up a path for the armies of evil to advance. We are confirmed in this thought because it is specifically said that the way of the kings of the East is being prepared. Now remember the kings of the East as they were understood by by people with a Jewish background or who were familiar with the Old Testament in those days were places like Assyria and Babylon and Persia And so the Euphrates here being dried up means that all of those people who were viewed with terror By the people of God in the older days, that that was being dried up. Here we see that the spirits of demons are unleashed. Those frogs are spreading out. in order to infect the kings of the earth, and indeed explicitly says the whole world with a form of insanity. We talked about this previously as we worked through some of the previous chapters. about how that is what uh what Satan does. He goes out and he infects the the powers of darkness and the powers that are in the world, those who represent the principalities and powers. And he infects them with a form of insanity. It's chapter 9, when an angel from the Euphrates unleashed a horde of locusts Like demons, and sent them throughout the earth. And it said that their power was in their mouth and in their tails. In other words, these demons had the power to deceive by their words and and to infect people with an idea that was ultimately going to lead them into a battle they cannot win. And what they accomplished is to convince the powers of the earth, the whole world outside of Christ, that the time would come to cross over the spiritual divide. The spiritual sphere is in some manner opened, and this evil dominating kings of the earth are readily identified as exactly that. The veil of delusion is lifted, and they are seen for what they are. Enemies of Christ. Enemies of all that is good and noble and perfect, and only there for the advancement of their own power and for the impression of unrighteousness. upon people that come under their their power. Brothers and sisters, on that day, these evil-dominated kings will be readily identified. There'll be no more guessing as to who's a good guy and who's a bad guy. Satan's forces will display their true colors, and they are gathered to do battle on the great day of the Lord God Almighty. Now you might stop and say, well, you know, that's never going to happen. People are never going to explicitly say they're evil. Well, no, because they don't call what is evil evil. They call what's evil good And so as a result of that, it will be clearly seen that that which they proclaim is that which is directly counter to the Lord God and of his Christ. And so the people who have knowledge of good and evil, who know it for what it is, will readily recognize them. because they will stand in stark contrast to Christian teachings. I want to ask you to just step back for just a minute in your pews there and think about , I don't know, take the last three or four months. Take the last year, I don't know, take for a lot as long back as you can survey. Can you not see the powers of evil moving in this world by the kind of agendas they're announcing? They're advancing Is that a yes? I hope so. Didn't they stand up and say we're evil? No, they don't say that Because they have the audacity to say what they're doing is good. The state of Maryland's just about to pass. A constitutional amendment that will declare a right, constitutional right to abortion That's the kind of thing that you see. They will gather to do battle on the great day of the Lord God Almighty. How will this take out take place in detail? I can't really say. But it will be a focused attempt on God directed by finding God in his people. And so the actual ground zero for what they will be attacking is the gathered people of God that we call the Church of Jesus Christ. Now here we need to take note of a distinct literary feature of these verses. I'd just like you to scan through the verses that we're looking at here today and notice some things Notice how throughout both of these bowls the word great is used over and over. We have great this and great that. Now, uh the Greek word for great translated in the Greek word that is translated great here is the vera or megos And it's used 11 times. That Greek word is used 11 times, although depending on your translation, you might only find eight that it is translated great. But it's the same word again that is translated when voices and sounds are made as loud. It's a loud voice. So what is the effect? As we read through these verses, what is that telling you? You know, this is used more often in these verses than any other chapter and uh or any other uh writings in the in uh the Revelation. So th there's got to be a point to it, right? So what is it that is coming across? Or what impression does it make Great this, great that, great day of the Lord, all of these things, great hailstorms, great earthquakes, is telling us that these are not going to things that are happening and we don't notice it It's telling us that these are huge events. This is not something that if we happen to sleep through it, we wake up and say, oh, that happened? I'm surprised. No, this is a great thing. And it is, this word is used to impress upon us the tremendous scope of what is happening. Now, we talk of the day of the Lord in the usual sense. There is a usual sense of the day of the Lord. Jesus is incarnation. when he came to walk among us as a man in this on this world. That was in a sense the day of the Lord. And as a result of that, we also have been living in the day of the Lord. The entire church age is the day in which Christ ascended into heaven Is ruling and reigning in his church in a manner that we call the day of the Lord. But when we look at this We see that this is the great day of the Lord. And there's only one of those. Well, is it 24 hours long? Uh-huh. It's probably more than twenty-four hours day day, uh actual hours and hours, space, and time. But there will be no No question that there is a beginning and there's an end to this segment of time, much shorter than the day of the Lord we're living in now. And therefore this is not business as usual in any sense. Brothers and sisters, we are taught in this chapter, these closing verses, that this day will rock the earth to its very foundations. The earth will shake as with a great earthquake. Verse 18 The great city, which is the entire gathered uh sphere of influence that we call Babylon which is the spiritual dominion of Satan that covers all the cities of the world where his will is being fought. And where God's uh where his will is being followed, Satan's will is being followed, over and against God and his people, that great city, which is the spirit that spiritual dimension, will be divided and all the nations will fall. In other words, we must be impressed with the worldwide nature of this great day. Brothers and sisters, there's gonna be no place to hide. All the evil power we will be dealt with in one time. Great hail will fall from the heavens. There's going to be worldwide natural disasters. Because God 's beautiful cosmos Will itself turn in violent rejection against the forces of evil Jesus here is deliberately seeking to astonish us with the scope of his power in opposing the invading horde. That is coming from the father of evil. And then they are we are told that they gather at a place called Armageddon Now the actual place that is called Armageddon is highly disputed. Literally, the word Armageddon means the Mount of Megado. Now Megado is a well-known place and many battles have been fought there. But brothers and sisters, it's a broad plain. There's no mountain there And uh it's kind of like going out into Kansas where or maybe Montana, beautiful state, but you can look around you and you can see miles and miles of miles and miles. And and that's what Megado is like. It's a very flat place. So theologians and biblical scholars for quite of quite a long time are wondering uh exactly what this means, the Mount of Megado. And there is an actual word, the word that is actually translated Armageddon here as it is present. in our New Testament may have been corrupted over the years by the scribes as they have transmitted it down to us. Nothing real serious, don't get any ideas that I'm preaching against the inerrant thin infallibility of the verbal inspiration of of God's Word. If I ever do that, you're very welcome to tote me out of here on a rail. But the bottom line of it is that there are words in the in the New Testament that are disputed as to whether they represent the original words. Well, there's another Hebrew word that sounds very much like harmigano. In other words, there's a word that is in the Old Testament that sounds a lot like that. is written only slightly different. And it's possible that the original word that Jesus used was that word instead of the word that we have in our new translations. And that word means mount of gathering. But it's used often in the Old Testament. And I'm very open to the notion that that's the word that should have been preserved in our script. Because the internal writing here is that that word has in its sound the way it is pronounced sounds very much like the word that we have here for the word gather. So when it says that he gathers the kings of the earth together, that word gather there, the Greek word. Sounds very much like the Hebrew word, which means Mount of Gathering. And so I think that there's a wordplay that's going on here, that the kings of the earth are gathered. To the Mount of Gathering. And in the Old Testament, that Mount of Gathering was Mount Zion. And so I have, I am very open to the idea, the Lord may show me I'm wrong someday. But I am very open to the idea that this is actually Mount Zion. Now, there's one way to understand this. Because Mount Zion, as we've already said, is the spiritual de spiritual designation of the place where the covenant people of God are in fact in the presence of God Himself. And if that is true, then that opens up this passage for us even more. The kings of the earth gather to attack God's people. Right where God's people are gathered, with God's legions of angels gathered with him. Here is Christ coming. Think of it. You got the g think of God's people gathered. There's Mount Zion. And God in heaven, Christ in heaven, looks down on Mount Zion and he sees all of the world converging on his precious church. And he departs from heaven to come down and be with them and to defend them. Here is Christ coming to defend his people against the last great attack of Satan. That last great attack of Satan will go by the name of the Great Tribulation, and you will hear more about that. But Armageddon will be the battle to end all battles. It will be the great day of God Almighty When he takes on all of his enemies and our enemies and puts them to shame forevermore. Now this is where we discover the second major point of this passage. Seemingly out of the blue, Jesus speaks. Now we know it's Jesus' words, not because the words are written in red ink. We know it is Jesus because this verse is almost verbatim from those words that he said in Revelation 3. 3. There he said, Remember therefore how you have received and heard what you have received and heard. Hold fast and repent. Therefore, if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief And you will not know what hour I come upon you. And then here it says, Behold, I'm coming as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame. Now this again goes all the way back to Matthew 24. And there Jesus was telling us and his disciples that on the day in which we are talking about here There's going to be wars and rumors of wars that will lead to a great tribulation. And then love this. Like lightning flashing from the east to the west. Notice the coming from the east. Lightning flashing from east to west. The Son of Man will appear, and all the nations of the earth will mourn. What Jesus said fits the picture that we see in these verses like a like hand and a glove. The kings of the earth conspire together against God and his people, and Jesus comes. to save and to judge. And just as it was in that passage, Jesus is saying here that his people must be prepared for that day. Now all of a sudden it starts getting, you know, he inserts himself. uh right in the middle of this revelation passage and speaks to us so that we don't get all caught up in what it almost like a science fi or science fiction uh picture here, that we don't get caught up with that. And remember this is about Christ. It's about him coming again. And we have to have that as a frame in which we understand it. And so Jesus is saying here that his people must be prepared for that day. Because it's going to come quickly. Just when things appear at their darkest, when God's people must be watching and keeping their garments. Now remember the first Passover? I'm sure you do. You know, there's Moses and he's gone down there and all of these great things have been done against Egypt. And Pharaoh keeps saying no, no, no. And then there's that last great thing. And it gets dark. It's a day of darkness and not light. And God proceeds to judge Israel and judge Egypt. And you know that all of their firstborn sons died. But what about God's people? What are they doing while all of that is going on out there? when outside of their walls of their houses they can hear the wailing of the people of Egypt as as their first as they discover their first Firstborn sons die. And what are God's people doing? They are gathered around a very basic meal. A very basic meal. And they're wearing their traveling clothes. And they got their bags packed. Because they are waiting and watching in faith. And these are they who will be delivered from darkness and death. The darkness and death that falls on Egypt under the wrath of the Lamb. The point of these words is that, brothers and sisters, Jesus' coming will be out of the blue. And they are not out of place in this passage at all. As a matter of fact, they give it a foundation. On the great day of the Lord, when the forces of darkness have gathered and the people of God don't see any way out of what's coming And those who are faithful, those who are prepared through faith, who are confessing the Lord Jesus Christ in the face of danger, these and they alone will be saved These and they alone will be saved. Can there be any more clear uh application for what we have read God 's people have to be committed. They have to be passionate. They have to be standing strong. Most especially when it's terribly scary to do that. When everything's on the line, and if Christ does not save them , And the events of the time makes it clear that they will suffer terrible consequences. But if he does, then their faith will be vindicated. They will be dressed in traveling clothes because they know that when salvation comes, they got somewhere to go. And they're going to go quickly. They need to be dressed and ready to go. They must not be like the virgins in Jesus' parable, who let their candles go out while waiting for the bridegroom. For only those who are actively standing for Christ and confessing Christ will be saved when the lightning flashes. And the last trumpet sounds. And that brings us to the third and last main point. When this day comes, it will be proclaimed to all the world, indeed, to all creation, both spiritual and physical. It will be proclaimed. It is done. Verse 17. God himself speaks from the throne. Notice this doesn't come from any of the angels or anything This comes from God Himself, from the throne, from His very voice, and He says, it is done. And this reflects back to Revelation 10, 7 and verses 15, or chapter 15, verse 1. It's repeated again in Revelation 21, and we'll get to that if God wills. The word used here is not exactly the same as to what Jesus said on the cross when he said it is finished. A literal interpretation of this word as it's phrased would be, it stands as having been completed. It is spoken by God and points toward God's great plan for mankind, his eternal purpose of redeeming a people out of their sin and misery, and cleansing them and preparing them for eternity. with him. The great plan of salvation has been completed in the great event which was to be from all eternity past. The last act of God's salvation. Now, the new heavens and the new earth Which from that day God created, when God created the earth and Adam and Eve in it, was his purpose for all things. Great Babylon. all of the combined institutional evil that is in the world. And the seed of the serpent from Genesis 3. Have been destroyed by the seed of the woman promised in that passage. The good news has been that the proclamation of God's people For centuries has happened and it is now over. That's the promise of verse 17. Brothers and sisters It is the hope that this our faith provides us. It is the hope that is essential to our faith. That everyone in this room, along with many others, will see this. We'll be there We'll be either coming back with Jesus or we'll be standing on the earth looking up to see him come. Though there may be weeping in the evening through the great tribulation, joy will come in the morning. For the day of the Lord fought at Armageddon or the Mount of Gathering will herald a new life for God's children. Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, will stand with us and among us. We will touch him We will hear him speak with our very own ears. And he we will hear him say something uh equivalent to how he has longed for this day to come. Wouldn't that be great? Maranatha, Lord Jesus, come quickly. Let's pray Our Lord and God, as we stand before you confessing these things, we recognize how little of it we actually understand. We have been given through your word some some fairly good insight as to the broad outlines of it. But Lord God, uh we you have not revealed to us the explicit detail. But we know this. It's gonna be a great, great morning. And so, our Lord God, I thank you that you have given us this hope. I pray, Lord God, that you will equip us with that wisdom that we need to be prepared for it. And to be standing and counted as faithful, as we proclaim to the nations, that there is a day coming in which God's anointed will judge the earth in righteousness, as Paul told the gathered philosophers at Mars Hill. And that day, when it comes, Lord God, will be for many a day of darkness and not light. But for your people, it will be a day of rejoicing that we cannot even comprehend. So Lord God grant us that as we ponder these things, that they sink deep into our souls and become a motivation for us. to ever be mindful that every day is precious because it is a day when we still have a chance to bear witness to your kingdom. And the power of your Christ. Grant us, Lord and God, that we take that to heart and that we prepare ourselves for that great day which is to come. We ask this in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.