Our sermon passage today is Revelation fourteen, verses six through thirteen. And by way of introduction to this, uh it's probably no surprise to you when I say how much that I'm I really love the book of Revelation. And I do. And one of the things that strikes me as being uh makes it such a wondrous piece of work is that the more you study it, the more you find that it's a literary masterpiece. It really is. I am convinced that no human author on his own could write this book. It is just too intricate, it is just too tightly connected. For example, this passage we're reading today goes back to Jeremiah and And speaks to uh some of the prophecies that he made there, and it it ties into Jesus' teachings in in uh Matthew. And Whenever you look at the revelation, as you go through it, you're just drawn into the majesty of this writing, its literary content. And of course, it's true. And so how can we how can we not be excited about it? I certainly am. I hope you are too And as we come to a very interesting passage today from the viewpoint of its literary insertion at this point, as I'll get into in the sermon. I would ask as we as you stand and I read it, pay careful attention to these words and how the simplicity of the teaching becomes so profound Please stand as I read Revelation 14, verses 6 through 13. Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth. To every nation, tribe, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment has come. and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water. And another angel followed, saying, Babylon has fallen, has fallen that great city, because she has made all nations drink. of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast in his image and receives his mark on his forehead, or on his hand he himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of his indignation He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever. And they have no rest, day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. Here is the patience of the saints. Here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Write, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors. And their works follow them. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Please be seated. As I said, this is a really interesting short passage in this beautiful book Now the casual reader reading through the Book of Revelation may in his travels through it think that it's kind of a bit strange. The story of the three angels just seems to pop out of nowhere. And we wonder why. You know, how does this fit in what went before? On the face of it, as we read it, each angel 's proclamation is pretty clear. We're not having to interpret a bunch of symbols here. I mean, who's the beast and how many heads and all that stuff? I mean, it's what he says is pretty much right in our face. But each as we have uh as it comes out, we remember we just left 144,000 having a party on Mount Zion. And just before that, we were dealing with beasts and dragons and stuff. And now seemingly here out of the blue, these three angels, it just strikes us as being oddly placed. And then as we dig into it, as we really begin to study this passage and study the work as a whole, which is what we have to do, you have to read the work as a whole to understand it. Then as we dig into it, we realize that's the very point. It's supposed to appear strange to us. This passage is a marker. It's a dividing point. Between what went before in the revelation and what is coming next. Jesus is here shifting our perspective in the progress of the narrative. And we are moving from a time of what I will call judgment as usual to a time of watch out. Here it comes. And that's the kind of thing this heralds. We are to understand the revelation is here to teach us how to understand our lives now, as I have been telling you over and over again throughout this series. But we've got to realize that our now changes. The now of today is not the now of before. And most certainly the now of the very last day is not the same as what came before. And so when the nouns begin to change is when we leave the last days, which is what we have been in. From the time when our Lord ascended into heaven, and we have been looking at the first part of this book or this uh uh revelation. And we've been saying basically this is the status quo, the judgments and all of that. We're to understand them in terms of what God is doing. But now we're looking at the last day. And I'm submit to you that this passage is calling for us to shift our perspective in just that way. Now what makes you th you might be asking, you guys ask great questions, as I've said, you might ask, well, what makes me say that this is now in a different sense? Well notice verse 7, if you will. For the hour of his judgment has come. Yeah, that's a pretty definite statement. Verse 8, Babylon is fallen. Again, a very definite state. Something's changing here. And then verse 13. Very interesting. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. In other words, there's a shift here We're shifting from that judgment as usual to watch out. Here he comes. And that's the point of what this is saying to us And we, of course, have to understand it in that way. Verses 7 and 8, the verb there, and for all of you Greek scholars, the verb is that of an accomplished fact. This has been done. And that points us forward then in the book of Revelation to Revelation 17, verses 15 through 17 as well as verses chapter 18, verse 2, and we will get to those in due time, but this is basically heralding and pushing us to look at the very close of the book. And both are unambiguously speaking of the last event in time as we know it. Judgment comes. Verse 13 teaches us, starting with this passage in chapter 14, that there will be further deaths due to persecution. Blessed are those Who shall die, who die in the Lord from now on. Now, we've been talking about people dying for the Lord before, and they certainly are blessed. But somehow another, this is different. And here we're talking, of course, about the what I'll get to, the high point in the crescendo of judgment which is called the Great Tribulation. So, therefore, this passage is about the last hour of human history as we know it now. Not the last minute. It seems to be the last stretch of time. This is when the crescendo, as I will refer to, of judgment, is rising and it's to its deliberate and glorious ending. Now let's step back from this book just a minute, this uh passage just a minute, have it out in front of you so that you can see it And I want you to see this passage now as a beautiful summary of what Jesus taught in Matthew 24, verses 27 through 31. Now here's our Lord speaking. This is our Lord. Of course, it's our Lord in Revelation 2. But this is Jesus saying, for as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, So also will the coming of the Son of Man be, for wherever the carcass is, there the eagles will be gathered together. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its life, the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. But then the signs of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth, all the tribes of the earth will mourn. Babylon has fallen. They will mourn. And they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds from one end of the heaven to the other. And you see here, as we look at this, Jesus back there in Matthew 24 was speaking of those days, the tribulation of those days, looking forward to the future. In other words, the last hour of persecution and suffering, when all the tribes of the earth will begin to mourn because, as I said, Babylon is falling, and then at the end of that time the Son of Man appears. So these angels essentially embody and parallel Jesus' teaching himself. Now, let's draw a contrast between this as what we're talking about now, with what we have said before. Heretofore in Revelation I have been encouraging you to consider understanding it as history ongoing. Under God's chastening judgments, which are terrible enough. Remember those four angels that came and and you know they basically dumped uh stuff on the earth and and people died and animals died and the fish died and all of that. Well, those are kind of steady state judgments as I'm using the term under the period it's ongoing. But the last day or the last hour has always heretofore been presented as future. The whole idea was living under God's ongoing chasteness, looking forward to that day, that last day when he was coming. Well, starting with this passage in the progress of the Revelation, we will be focusing on the last hour itself And the teachings of this passage serve to condition us for that. We must at least consider, as we're talking about these passages We must at least consider that this may be the last hour. In other words, we might be in it. With that solemn thought, let's turn to the specifics of the passage. Here it is literarily perfect. You've got the three angels, three points, Presbyterian sermon, followed by an epilogue or summary, and that's good sermon form, too. So we take them in order. The first angel comes across at first glance as sending us a mixed message. He sings out an everlasting Everlasting gospel message and everlasting good news. It's good news, folks. And he is proclaiming it to every nation, tribe, and people, just like Jesus said he would. Over there when all the wor uh nations of the earth will hear it. And then he says, this is the good news. The hour of judgment is come. Now we have to see this for what it is. It is good news This is the dawning of the last period of time before Jesus comes back. In other words, folks, our wait is just about over. That's good news In other words, the gospel is preached in terms of this is your last chance Let that sink in. That's what he's saying. The everlasting gospel is being preached again, or preached to all of the nations, just like it's been preached before. But now the urgency is the judgment is come here. The hour of judgment has come. In other words, you better listen up, folks, because this is your last shot. Jesus told us this in Matthew 24, 14, when he said, this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all of the world as a witness to all the nations. This gospel that here this angel is saying is being preached to all the nations. And Jesus says, after it has been preached to all the nations, then the end will come. Now isn't that exactly what this angel was saying? The gospel is being proclaimed to every nation, tribe, and tongue, etc. and along with the statement that the hour of judgment has come. Brothers and sisters, it is my solemn duty to tell you that there's a limit to God's patience. He's not gonna put up with this stuff forever. That's good news for some of us Romans 2 says, God's patience allows sinners an opportunity to repent. And Paul says, though, if you don't repent, then you're storing up wrath for the day of wrath. Now, brothers and sisters, I encourage all of you to save up in the banks for you know having money set aside for when you need it. But I don't encourage you to save up wrath. Not a bit. Think of it in terms of bearing compound interest. Okay. That's what we're talking about here. These the the analogy that Paul is bringing. Is that the longer sinners deny Christ and refuse to hear his gospel, the greater his wrath will be. Brothers and sisters, it's time to wake up and smell the few remaining roses that are left. Our world is a runaway locomotive heading for a cliff. I'm going to give you just a few examples. Between 150 and 190 species of birds, species now Have become extinct since the year fifteen hundred. Since nineteen seventy More than one quarter of the entire bird population in the United States of America has disappeared. One quarter. Now, this is on top of losing about one half of the total fish, marine animals, and reptiles. Since 1970. If you like hunting and fishing, that's alarming. If you like to eat and breathe, it's more alarming still Now when I grew up back in the Dark Ages, I could lay up at my bed on the spring night. As I did, I was very used to it. I loved it. Windows are open because the only air conditioning we had was in the winter when it was freezing. But But I could lay on that bed. And right as the dawn, as the sun began to set, you could hear the whippo-wheels. And you could hear them all over the place. And then as the night progressed, stars came out, moon came up and all of that, you could hear the bobwites. And you could hear them all over the place. Well not start over there and they'd be responded to over here and then behind you. And just all over the place there were these birds. Brothers and sisters, I bet you there are people in this room that are over 20 years old that have never heard of Whippo. And Bob White 's quail, about the only way you find them in Maryland fields, is when they have been put out by professionals so that people can hunt them They are just about disappeared as a wild, wild stocked field. Now To me, that's bothersome. I hope it's bothersome to you. But that's not even considering the violence of men against men. We're as close right now, as Steve alluded to earlier, to a worldwide conflict than we have been since the 60s and the Cuban Missile Crisis. I don't know what's going to happen. But anyway, what I do have to see is that all of those ongoing judgments that we have talked about over the years That have been or that we've talked about in the first part. To me it comes across as a rising tempo A rising crescendo of judgments. God is striking this earth and the seas and the creatures Mankind is increasing in violence under demonic influences, and there appears to be, and every one of us can feel it. There appears to be an unsettling sense that we're headed towards a crisis. Well, how in the world should the church respond to that? Well, let's look at this angel. What does he say to do? Proclaim the gospel. Surprise. If we truly believe that the times are scary, and we should, and if we have kids and grandkids, they may have to endure tough times in front of us, and this angel says that our passion to preach the gospel should match the crescendo of events that are going around going on around us I got one. I like that. I heard an amen. Yes. The passion of the church to preach the gospel should reflect the issues and the c the the uh um the tenor of the times There should be a crescendo of good news to match the crescendo of approaching judgment. What does he say? He says, Fear God and give glory to him. Worship him who made the heaven and earth, going all the way back to chapter 4, with the opening scene of God sitting on his judge on his throne with the uh uh crystal sea in front of him. Fear God and give glory to him. Worship him because there's still time to repeat, repent. There is no hope for this planet. There is no hope for this planet that can be found in the pockets of politicians. Amen. There's a war there may be a war coming that we may very well have to win. Well, brothers and sisters, I just ask you to imagine the rubble that will be left behind. The U. S. is no longer protected by two oceans. They're there, but they provide no protection. Our economy is no longer isolated. We're no longer the arsenal of democracy. We are linked to all the other world markets. We do not have the power to fundamentally alter the trajectory of events that are going on in this world. But we know who can alter it. We know who can bring revival. The Church of Jesus Christ needs to get worked up. We must point people to Christ in repentance and faith, and we must not do it just within the walls of the sanctuary and the walls of our houses. There are people out there who need to hear this everlasting gospel. And we need to be getting the message out to them. Now let's move on to the second angel. He's proclaiming that Babylon has fallen. I'm not going to spend much time on this. We've actually already considered this teaching when we looked at the beasts, and we're going to pick it up again when we talk about them in just a few weeks. I'll just remind you that Babylon is that delusion of Satan that leads mankind to get drunk on his own arrogance and highly overestimate his own abilities. And they seek, Babylon is those, the representation of those who seek to displace God as the one who brings promises of peace and prosperity to earth. Babylon is rooted in corruption and the lust for power. Power that gets centralized. And when it becomes, and as it becomes centralized, it gets even more corrupt. Power that can unleash the police on a bunch of truckers. We're just trying to make a point. Babylon is power and control in competition with God. And in the crescendo of events, brothers and sisters, we should expect to see Babylon more and more explicit and visible. In other words, rather than trying to solve the problems as we should, you'll see the idea of entrenching government full uh uh government or totalitarian uh type ideas. You'll see that become more and more entrenched. Because the issues are so so great, the thinking is only an all-powerful organism like the government can fix it And so when we see that happening and we see it moving towards the idea of a world domination , And brothers and sisters, we have to remember that what this angel is proclaiming is, as far as God's concerned, they've already fallen That whole idea will fail. Do not fear, little flock. I have told you, says our Lord. The rise of Babylon is happening and will happen in even greater clarity. But that sets the stage for its total humiliation and fall. And with that, we hear the third angel calling for patience. Now, the third angel in his proclamation is simply this. Nah not simply, but it's this. The third angel's proclamation is, don't be fooled. Hell is real And it's scary. Verses 9 through 11 are perhaps the most comprehensive teachings about hell and all of Scripture. Jesus talked about hell and eternal judgment more than any other single character. He spoke of it in many ways. But Jesus generally did not dwell on it. He didn't bring out a lot of detail. He treated it basically as a fact of life. Of course there's a hell. It's a fact of death he spoke of in the same way. Perhaps the parable of Lazarus and the rich man is the most explicit teaching But here, look at what this angel proclaims and take it to heart. All of those who serve the beast and wear his mark can expect to drink the wrath of God at full strength. All that wrath that's been stored up Released in full strength. Now that's scary. They will not be just left in the cold and dark of non-existence, as some of those who profess. to be Christians but cannot believe that there could be such a thing as hell, say that we should understand. I had a beloved man back when I was uh at Forest Grove Presbyterian Church as a very young family in the 70s. And I love this guy. He was the uh head of uh Department of Philosophy at Beaver College and he was a interim pastor just like I am at the church while they sought another one. But he was as liberal as they go and he was a pacifist. All the way. He opposed entry into World War II. And he's in the pulpit one day, and he says, you ask me if there's a hell? Well, of course there's a hell And I said, okay. And then he said, but only a fool would believe anybody's in it. No, he was not in the PCA. Well, I'm one of those fools that believed it then and believe it now. Because this the Bible plainly teaches it They will drink the wrath of God at full strength. They will be tormented, it says, verses 10 and 11. It repeats it twice. Now a person has to be conscious in some form to go through torment. That's why I love full anesthesia. Doc, if you're gonna cut on me or explore my internal regions, I wanna wake up when it's over. So to be tormented is to be conscious. And that tells us that consciousness Continues through death. Consciousness of great joy for some. But consciousness of absolute terror for others All of those who have suffered under the power of evil , who have suffered under the power of evil men and women, this angel teaches. will see those very same men and women begin to suffer. I don't think they will have to watch them for an eternity, but I think they will see them cast, we will see them cast into hell. So their torment will be visible to those whom they persecuted. I wonder what would happen To all of the politicians and leaders in our country, if the reality of this truth struck home. Do you think they would be living off the backs of people? Who actually work for a living? There are some good ones. Of course there are. But in uh but there are plenty of ones who are not so good to go around And what is true for politicians is true for every person who abuses power. Wherever power is shown in the home Abusing children or abusing those who are weaker, like perhaps their spouse. In a community where crime is proliferating, in a church where the leaders are more concerned for ego than they are for Christ. Everywhere, those who abuse power and its corruption will face this issue. Brothers and sisters, the abuse of power and corruption is the worst pandemic we're facing. But one day it will end. The piper will have to be paid. Take it to the bank. Hell is real and it's scary. And that's good news for the righteous, because we will see our vindication, and we will see how those who despise Christ will wail in anguish at their own stupidity. Thus, the third angel. That leaves us with the epilogue Here is the patience of the saints. Here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors. Their works follow them. I would really love to develop this passage more, but it would take a complete another sermon. And we have already considered these verses to some extent. I r uh used this verse when I preached on the 144,000. So here I'm just going to bring out, highlight a couple of things. In the midst of these three angels , in the midst of the teachings of these three angels, our calling is the same as it has been throughout this book. We are called to patience. We are called to fortitude, perseverance under stress. We are called to strengthen our spiritual needs and cling to Christ Now, this is the same calling as it is in every age, so it will also be in the last day. But as that crescendo of pressure rises, As we see the gathering storm clouds that can in our mind only end one way, Lord willing, I hope it will. We must be prepared for a period of modern persecution. We must be prepared for a period of modern persecution. That is even more intense than those that these Christians suffered in the first century. After all, is it not a time of rising trial? That's why the angel says, and these are solemn words, that's why the angel says, Blessed are those who die in the Lord from now on. In other words, it's more blessed to die than to go through what's going to have to be gone through. There will come a time when it'll seem like death is better than living. But our Lord tells us clearly that that doesn't mean suicide is the answer. Rather We are called to patience even when the crisis seems unbearable. Our God is good Revelation proclaims that to us in spades, even though it's a very solemn teaching. Our God is good, and we know how all this is going to turn out. And it's knowing how it turns out that will become our patients. That's what we cling to. As evil multiplies around us, so we must multiply our good works. We must remember that as our souls are eternal There's a certain aspect of our good works that are eternal also. Christians don't think about that as often as they should. We are told by the Holy Spirit that when we die in the Lord, our works follow us. That's what the Spirit says He doesn't lie. I don't know exactly how that works out. But I'm in good company. Because nobody else knows how exactly how it works out either But we are absolutely taught in Scripture that we are saved by grace through faith, but we are judged. by our works. You heard the passage that Dave read earlier today? Said it explicitly there. Paul makes this crystal clear in Romans 2. We will all give account of our lives before God. All of us. Brothers and sisters, it will be our joy to lay down our good works before Christ. Some of us bringing tenfold, some of us bringing fiftyfold, some of us bringing a hundredfold. But all of us who know and love Jesus will have works to present And in some mysterious and holy way, we will all be rewarded accordingly. Now this is the great thing, one of the great things about this idea. None of us will feel cheated. None of us will feel jealous of what another person gets. Our Christ is absolutely just We shall receive the just wage for our service, and we will rejoice in what He has in store for us. What should our attitude be about our good works? Well, first of all, we shouldn't be doing them out of pride and seeking to to, you know, just make sure my mansion is better than that guy's 'cause I really am a better Christian than he is. You get you got a problem with that kind of idea. Rather, our uh our attend our attitude towards this should be something like the verses or uh uh the lyrics of an old gospel song. Lord, all I want is just a little cabin in the corner of Gory Land. That's all the singer wanted, just a cabin. Well, brothers and sisters, a cabin in Gloryland would seem a lot like a mansion to us. This is our patience. To cling to the truth that the evil that is in this world will be punished. And I think it's not going to be very long in coming. And when it does come, we will see our reward in a glorious way. Our Christ has told us what's going on. And in this passage, he has told us how we should respond to what's going on as it goes on. Let's pray. Lord God, this is your word, and we have to love every bit of it. We have to love the Lord our God who has come into this world to save us from our sin. We have to love the fact that he is righteous in all that he's done. We have to cherish the thought that he has extended mercy to us. Now that he has made not only it possible, but he has done everything necessary to ensure that we are being held. to uh salvation as it will be accomplished in the last day. These are the beautiful things that that comfort our hearts and grant us, Lord God, lifted spirits. Lord God, you are the God of judgment. We can't anywhere come close to understanding how that all fits together. But your word clearly teaches us that such is your character. And that you have decreed that all of those who stood against you Will fall, and that their end will be such that it would have been better if they'd never been born. These are solemn teachings, Lord, but they do touch us at the depths of our heart and make us remember that our lives here on earth are not just to get through stuff, but that we are here to bear witness to the God of grace. And judgment. Grant us conviction, grant us power, grant us opportunity, lead us in the way we need to go, and bless us individually and as a church as we follow your footsteps. In the name of our blessed Savior we pray. Amen.