Well I invite you to turn in your scripture to the uh text that's printed out for you. Today's sermon passage is Romans from Revelation 13. I'll actually be starting with verse 10. uh in order to set the stage for the uh primary passage which is 11 through 18. So I would ask that as I read our passage today, would you please stand? He who leads into captivity shall go into captivity. He who kills with a sword must be killed with a sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. And then I saw another beast coming up out of the earth. And he had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon, and he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence, and causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast. whose deadly wound was healed. He performs great signs. So that he even makes fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men. And he deceives those who dwell on the earth. By these signs which he was granted to do in the sight of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image of the beast who was wounded by the sword and lived. He was granted power to give breath to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed. He causes all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on their right hand or on their foreheads And that no one may buy or sell except one who has the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name. Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beasts. For it is the number of a man. His number is 666. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Would you please be seated? My goodness, you would think that Jesus our Lord is trying to get our attention Look at the space that he has developed, that he has devoted to these things of which we have been speaking. There was first of all back in the previous chapter Satan, the fiery red dragon in chapter twelve. And he gets cast down to the earth and he's enraged and he's frustrated And so we are told in the closing verses that he went out to make war on the rest of the women's woman's offspring. Us. Oh, goody And then last week we looked at that terrible first beast rising from the sea. He is Satan's right hand, and he appears almost invincible. This beast is the continuing power that we spoke of last week, a mindset, an ideology, if you will, that seeks to replace Christ With human achievement and advances. He is the demonic, delusional, power-advancing Satan's agenda. Satan is the father of the lies, and this beast is the comprehensive outworking of those lies. So we just get done with that guy, and now today here's another beast. Now quite understandably, some of us today might be thinking, here we go again. But brothers and sisters, I encourage you, I exhort you, please don't turn off. Our Lord Christ says we must understand these things. If he didn't, he wouldn't have revealed them to John and had it written down for us to study. So, we need to know this stuff. It's important that we have insight into the world in which we live. It's important that we be wise as serpents, even as harmless as dust, and we must be able then to know these things in order to understand what obedience in these things constitutes. Jesus our Lord calls us to patience and to persevere. Well, patience and persevere in what? Patience and persevere in the reality of Satan and the woman, the reality of the first beast and the reality of the second beast. So in a nutshell, our Christ is here calling us to think bigger, to look for the big picture. Now, left to ourselves, we would focus almost entirely on the narrow circle of our own lives. We would think I got enough on my plate to deal with. I don't need some beast running around. It's income tax season. Again. There's always something going on with the kids or the grandkids. We know that. Seems like I'm working all the time, perhaps even working at two jobs. I don't have time to ponder things like fiery red dragons or crazy beasts. Well, brothers and sisters, consider this. What are the things I just described about not having any time because all of this stuff is in fact uh encroaching on our time What if that spiritual warfare that is behind all of these troubles in our lives? Remember Jesus' parable back there in Matthew 13? He talked there about the seeds. And I know you know this parable, but the third seed. He talked about the thorns which choked out the seed of faith. And he said that these were the cares of this world. And the deceitfulness of riches. That's what Jesus said. Now, isn't that spiritual warfare? And doesn't that sound like the second beast whispering in our ear? Causing us to shift our eyes away from Christ, who is to be our security in peace, and to look at things more in the near term And in order to do so, miss out on the promises which are our hope. Jesus is here saying that we won't understand the challenges that we face in our spiritual walk. Unless we look at this big picture and see it in those terms, to get a stronger grip on this spiritual warfare that we're engaged in. Today's passage we see the unholy Trinity in plain sight. We see Satan, the fiery dragon, who would have us substitute him for our Heavenly Father. We see the second beast claiming authority over all the world. which we know is only held by our Lord Christ the Messiah. So we have the second person of this unholy trinity aiming to take the place of the Christ. And then the third beast, who we see here today, has a twofold character. One, he points the people's eyes to the second beast, pointing towards the the fake Christ, if you will. You've heard of fake news? This is the fake Christ. Alright? And he points them to it. Now that's exactly what the Holy Spirit does with the true Christ. He comes and he points our eyes to the true Christ. So here we see him acting like the Holy Spirit. He also acts in the capacity of going before the first beast. as kind of a prophet, and he is explicitly called a prophet. Now, brothers and sisters, this is very intentional This is part of Satan's delusion. The entire strategy is to control our minds and trap us into this delusion so that, as we said, we don't see the wilderness in which we dwell, but rather we accept this. quote, virtual reality that is presented to us by Satan, and then we conform to those things and embrace the importance of things as he presents them to us. And so we must think big terms, big word in big terms. And this underlying trinity, brothers and sisters, this unholy trinity, is all around us. So with that, let's take a look at the specifics of this passage. And right away we notice that this beast is similar to the first beast, but different. John sees this beast rising up from the earth, though the first beast rose from the sea Now this is easily overlooked, but there's importance to it. Chapter 17, verse 15 says that the sea represents the mass of peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. And so we should think in terms of history, the first beast coming up out of the sea is the beast arising again and again and again in history. the rise and fall of civilizations, and then civilizations that are based upon the satanic ideas that are put forth. So, the first beast rises up from this sea and represents the constant desire of sinful man to replace God with his own authority and power, as we said last week. And so the beast from the sea is the spirit of rebellious man, of humanism. It is demonic ambition built on pride and arrogance, and its number, as we will get to, is 666. Now, this beast that we get introduced to today rises from the earth and is not a general, but a specific arrogance, a specific creature. This is not the satanic delusion itself, that's the second beast. Rather, it is the preacher, if you will, of the satanic gospel. In Revelation 16, this very creature is called the false prophet. Not in the sense of predicting stuff, although there's some extent to which he does. But rather, like God's prophets, particularly in the Old Testament, they proclaim, He proclaims the second beast, and He proclaims him in terms that makes people then want to put their trust and faith in him. So unlike the first beast, this beast is a lot more concrete. Someday, I believe, in the progress of God's plan, that this particular beast will find itself either in a single man or will be uh instantiated in a single man or else in a single institution that will be the fulfillment of all of history leading to this point And that's the passage that Paul speaks of in the revealing of the lawlessness, the Antichrist. But this beast is around, even if it's not the ultimate fulfillment of him yet. And what we do know is that this beast Wherever the first beast is gaining power, this second beast is there speaking for him and turning people to this first beast. He is Satan's propagandist. And he can be deadly. I want you to think all the way back to June of last year. Seems like a hundred years ago, but You know, just June of last year. And I preach preached on the church at Smyrna. I'm sure you remember it. Laughing. Okay. But anyway, the power structure we talked about in Smyra. was that they tried to be more Roman than Rome itself. That was the second beast, or first beast. That was the ideology presented in Rome, and it was presented as everything about Rome is good and all of these things. This is what we want to be. We want to be the best Roman colony in this area. And so all of the things that Rome stand for, Smyrna stood for it. Their goals and ambitions were those of the satanic power structure that underlay the Roman Empire. But there was something else there. When you look back at Smyrna, you see there are a bunch of Jews who call themselves Jews But Jesus reveals him to be a synagogue of Satan. That's what he says. Here we see people who profess to know the true God And we see them having gone over to the dark side. And they become apologists for that same power structure that is in Smyrna. They they in fact in some way kind of endorsed it and and spoke as people of the one true God, but saying these the the goals and ambitions of Smyrna are good. And as a result of that, they were the worst enemies of the Christians in Smyrna. Therefore, they are called a synagogue of Satan. This synagogue of Satan, I believe, on a lesser scale. is an instance of this second beast arriving arising out of the earth at a particular time. And we notice that he's also, as we look at this passage, that he is like the prophet Elijah. He is given power to bring down fire from heaven on his enemies. Now, if you stop and think about that, that'd be pretty impressive to a bunch of Jews. You know, they they remember Elijah, they remember them doing that. But he's not. He's a prophet of Satan, deceiving people and causing them, as it says in this passage, to construct idols. Now I don't know that those idols in every instance are going to be somebody like what the king in uh Daniel's time did was build an image out there and go tell everybody to go worship that image. I don't know that, nor does anyone else But we do know that they will point towards that which is not God, and they will say, this is God, which is the essence of idolatry. And look what happens. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, like the Gospel of Jesus Christ, this satanic beast reaches out to the small, verse 16, to the small and great, to the rich and poor, to the free and slave. Doesn't that sound like something in Galatians? Well, in the kingdom of Christ there is no rich or poor, slave nor free, male nor female. Do an agenda. Doesn't that sound just like that? You see what's happening? He's substituting a satanic kingdom for exactly the same goals that the godly kingdom has. Because that's what appeals to the depths of our hearts. We want what the kingdom of God offers, as we read in the call to worship this morning. Where Jesus came to preach the kingdom of God and to call people to it because that is God's plan for us, to live in his kingdom and find our hope in it. So, he calls them. He makes a similar appeal. The gospel of Satan will sound like an awful lot of good things. Here is peace. Here is unity. Trust me. You know, trust us, we have a plan. Bring us all together. And then he calls them to receive a mark on their hands and on their forehead. Now this is not a mark like that which we have discussed already about the seal of God, which is faith But rather it is a mark such that only they can buy or sell or financially prosper in this world if they possess this card. Well, brothers and sisters, anybody ever heard of cancel culture? Anybody? This is cancel culture at its ultimate. It is exactly what is behind such thing. It is so entrenched into the society that these two beasts bring about that it's an ideological, anti-Christian doctrine or dogma. And it becomes so entrenched in the culture that it becomes a shibbilath. You have to say the right words, you have to be politically correct, you have to say exactly what we want you to say, or you're out of here. You're done. Ultimately, you can't buy or sell. Ultimately, you can't hold a job in my Hold down a position in my workplace. Ultimately, we, to the extent that we have the power to do so through whatever facilities the government offers us, Ultimately, we are coming after you. How dare you say things to people in, for example, a school board meeting that we don't approve of Now, this might sound political. I'm not preaching a political sermon, really not. I'm opening our eyes to the reality of what we're dealing with Can you accept that? All right. I'm not, I have no intention of getting up here and telling you how to vote. But I'm going to tell you how, perhaps, we ought to think. Because I believe that's what our God is calling us to. So it sets apart those people who have compromised with the beast and become true believers in the satanic gospel. And the people who hold power in such a society, not just the government, refuse to extend services to those, like Christians, who reject their teachings. And so educators are not allowed to get tenure. Nonconforming private schools are taxed out of existence. The collecting, shipping, and distribution of goods, services, and even food becomes preferential. Only those who are approved can get the largesse. You see, this is what it means to be a beast from the earth. It is an enforcing agent. that is both prophet and priest. And his whole purpose is to point people towards this false Messiah. He's the head brainwasher and he has great power and can be very effective Let's talk about that a minute. Let's talk about the power of deception that we see in this beast. A major problem posed by the beast is how reasonable and attractive is his appeal. Even Christians will be uh will look at him. He has two horns like a lamb. Oh, he's a nice, cute little thing. You know. Don't have to be worried about him. He's one of us. He's a nice guy. But he speaks like a dragon, which means he speaks with force. The fact that he is like a lamb makes him appear harmless. He presents well He tells us that he has our best interest at heart. He offers prosperity to us, and he seems to back it up. The stock market is through the roof. He is very convincing and he's very diplomatic. He may usher in an age of peace. Remember in the days of Caesar Augustus? When all the world was at peace for 50 years or so. So he presents himself well, but he speaks like a dragon. Powerful propaganda comes out of his mouth. He points to the first beast and he says, Behold your God. Behold your Christ. And he points to the remaining Christians, the remnant, the few that are there, and he says, behold your enemy. Well, I gotta go back in history and bring this out, just simply because the parallel with Adolf Hitler here is just too obvious not to mention. Germany came through the great deprivations that were part of the Great Depression better than virtually any other modern state with the exception of Missolini's Italy, and you see how that turned out. But he built up an infrastructure And he built up the infrastructure of Germany after the ravages of the Depression. He put common men in an automobile. You may have heard of it, called the Volkswagen. And he built great highways. You may have heard of them called the Audubon. He brought back national pride and built up the armed forces again. And what was his main message? Here's where the appeal comes from. Imagine yourself, a German, living in the early 30s through the mid-30s. He taught, we have been unjustly treated by the Allies of World War I, which, by the way, the United States generally agreed with. We never signed the Treaty of Versailles. But it was thought to be that the treaty was uh somewhat unjust. And so he had, he was building on partial truths And then he said that we need living space. We are the largest community here, the largest country in this area. And we don't have enough land to support our people. And then he points towards all of those redistricting, what we uh what what do they call it today when they are redrawing the uh the voting lines? What I'm sorry, say that again. Gerrymanders. He points to the gerrymandard gerrymandered uh uh national lines that were drawn after the World War I ended. And he he pointed to how a whole bunch of Germans were put off in sections artificially separated from their their root stock, their historic historical stock in Germany, in a p land like say the Sudetenland. And he pointed at that and said, This is unfair. This is not right. They should be part of Germany. We need land. They want to be part of our of our culture. And so as a result of it, it became quite famous and quite popular. These things rang bells and lifted hearts all over Germany. But there were still problems to be faced, particularly in the financial institutions like banks and stuff. And so you had to have scapegoats. And Jews just happened to be very strongly entrenched in that cult in that financial area, along with other non -Aryan non-German people. And so as a result of that, he had his people to blame it on. I give you this example for one reason and one reason only. This is it. This is the only reason I brought up Hitler at all. You're not supposed to bring you're not supposed to talk to Hitler. The argument is that if you the first person to bring up Hitler loses. But you know, that's not what I'm here. The reason why I bring that up is for one reason only. It's happened before. The beast rose up out of the sea. He stirred up an anti-Christian mindset and agenda. Then another beast rose up from the earth. Adolf Hitler and his entire party, it caused people to worship the gospel of the National Socialist agenda and submit to having the mark of the beast applied to their person, and you know how that turned out. Brothers and sisters, if it happened before, it can happen again on a larger scale. These beasts are not myths or fairy tales. These beasts are as real as the politicians who sell their souls for power and the demonic ideas of those who are all too ready to buy the politicians. and advance the lies. These trends are all around us, and they will continue until they reach a climax. And when that happens, the rest of Revelation teaches us our Lord Christ will destroy all three of them. Let's just briefly talk about this number 666. I can't spend much time on this, so I'm going to ask that you accept a few things. Just as I bring them up. In ancient times, and continuing down to today, people put a lot of stock in the numerical equivalent of a word In both Greek and Hebrew, each letter has its numerical equivalent. And thus when you come up with the name of some person , And you add up what the letters in the uh name stands for, then that has s significance. And there is there are people who really practice this called Gamatria, and people who put a lot of stock in it. I can't remember the name of the fellow who used to own uh family radio. But this was a major part of his um understanding of how to read the Bible was to keep track of the numbers of the of the uh words that are used in it. Now this word is used to like I say it's gamatchia and it's been the cause of some pretty wild ideas about the Bible And has been the cause of some pretty wild ideas about this chapter in particular. What is the best way to understand this number? I, like most reformed theologians, think this way The number six, by itself, is associated with man. It is one number short of seven. That's a real insight. Okay, it's one number short of seven, which especially in Revelation Is the sign of ultimacy, of perfection, of having a fullness And thus you see the revelation is built upon a series of sevens. There are seven uh trumpets, there are seven uh uh um Bowls. There are seven, you know, seven, seven, seven throughout the whole thing. And when we stop and think about that, that shows the completeness of all that God is showing. The sixth seal in all of these things, the sixth trumpet , the sixth seal that was on the document, the sixth bowl, is where man's Where God really pours out his anger on man because man's sin reaches its maximum. So the number six Stands for less than perfection. If you've heard the word penultimate, that's what it stands for. And 666, then basically implies mankind as being triply short, triply short of perfection. 666 is humanism, fallen humanism, in its fullest striving against God. It is mankind standing in God's spotlight. The one that revealed to us, and as the God hater that he really is. Brothers and sisters, man was created on the sixth day He was the premier creation in God's creating work. He was created in the image of God, and on the very next day after he was created, he was allowed to worship. That essentially sums up God's plan for humanity. To bring about a people unto himself, and on the Sabbath day of history. To bring about the fullness of worship. So that was man's created purpose, but he wasn't perfect. And because he remained imperfect. And because he gave up his soul in giving to Satan that which is God's alone, then he fell. And it hasn't been good since. So the number 666 is the triple representation of imperfect man. And when we see that full instantiation of both the first and second beast, then we will know that this is fallen humanity in its most arrogant form. Now you might think that that's already come. It might be. The Lord might be coming tomorrow. Or in about 30 minutes. I hope he lets me finish the sermon But uh the bottom line of it is, uh the Lord can come back at any time, and as soon as he does, we will see the first and second beast clearly before our eyes, because then we will see and know all things. In closing, I'm going to spend just a few brief moments on what we're supposed to do with all this. Well, obviously God wants us to think about it. He's telling us to wake up, but not in order to smell the roses, but rather to smell something else. the sulfur that is coming out of God, Satan's mouth. And he says here, particularly, here is wisdom. Now that's what this is all about, wisdom. It's not the gaining of some academic expertise so that we're able to talk with great insight as to what these beasts are. Wisdom, the gaining of knowledge, is that which is necessary for a person to live well, even when the world is falling apart. Living well, not so much in physical prosperity, but in dealing with whatever comes our way, from a viewpoint of seeing it through God's eyes, and therefore reacting to it, as God would have us to do. I think that that's what we have to do here. I think I'm going to deviate a bit from where I was going next. And just bring up something that happened this week that I'm going to say is kind of illustrative of where we're going with this. This week I received a great phone call, an absolutely great phone call. It's from a young man. And he said, Pastor Arch, I want to ask you a question. I said, what is that? Says you you've been preaching on this beast business, and you've been telling us to watch out for this beast. And that to not give any respect to this beast and to know what we're dealing with when the beast is all around us. I said, yep. And then he says, well, why in the world are you telling us to wear a mask? Now two things I want you to get from this. One, it's a great question. And secondly, he listened to the sermon. Oh man. I'll take those kind of calls all the all week long. I I love it. Spent some time with him on the phone and we talked through it Well, the point of it is that yes, I agree that while I believe that the whole mass thing is rather trivial. I do say that it points towards an abuse of power by the beasts that are present in the world around us. The question comes down to it, plainly and simply. How are we to respond to it? Girsashin has said the way we respond to it is that we wear the mask because we believe that's the way we're going to honor God. by conforming to Revelation 13 in such uh Romans 13 in such a way as to show that we're conforming or we're obeying the powers placed above us as if they as a means of obeying Christ Himself. And as a result of that We believe that the a mask or something that we're going to wear. By the way, we think that maybe next week the mandate will be over with. We'll get back to life as we ought to live it. But the point being is figuring out how to respond to these things is going to be where we need wisdom. And that wisdom is not trivial. Brothers and sisters, please take this. If nothing else , Christian ethics cannot be written out on a bumper sticker. You have to think through this stuff. That means sometimes that the understanding of what the Bible is calling us to do in any one given instance can't be written out in a series of four bullet points. It takes thought. It takes deep thought. That's why you pay your elders those high salaries. Okay? They're supposed to get into these things, figure out what is there, and then to bring the outworkings of the biblical wisdom that they have gone through to you. And say, brothers and sisters, this is the way we should go. I'm not telling you here that you have to agree with them every time. But I am saying that that's what they're elected to do and ordained to do. That's why God has set them over you. And people should think long and hard. About what our Christ is calling us to do. To have patience and to persevere. Now think about those two words: patience and persevere. That's what God has said. that we're to do in the presence of the two beasts. Patience and persevere under a Roman Empire that was throwing Christians in the arena and causing them to be eaten by lions in the presence of their children. And what did God call them to do? Show patience and persevere. Now that's pretty tough. I think patience and perseverance can be such that we can address things like wearing masks. And we can do so with the full expectation that God is going to have a victory over that, shall we say, abuse of power. even as he had the victory over the Roman Empire, who threw people into a Colosseum to be eaten by lions. He can do it. He will do it. He wants us to believe it. Okay. And in the words of that powerful philosopher, um I hate it when things go out of my mind. Horace Gump. In the words of him, that's all I got to say about that Folks, you have a great bunch of elders. Trust 'em. They are not trivial, they don't think trivially, and if they call on you to lead in the way that they how they decide to call you, lead, trust them. And trust God to work through them to lead us as a church in the pathway of righteousness. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, I thank you for the opportunity that you have given us to serve you. Lord, uh it is difficult sometimes when we see the kinds of things that get thrown at us. to understand how you would have us, in fact, with thought. And Lord, we struggle with that. We struggle with the plain teaching that there's a world out there that hates your guts. And not because they hate your guts, they hate your church. And do things, Lord God, to abuse your church and your people. Oh, Lord God, help us. Help us to understand that. But Lord, don't lead us into the pathway of passions, of anger, of deep resentment, of all of those kind of things that will destroy our witness. Lord, lead us in the pathways of showing forth, even when we have had our face slapped, what it means to turn the other cheek. And to show forth our love and trust for you, so that our Lord and God, all we do reflects your glory. Give us that hope. For I ask it in the name of our blessed Savior, the true Christ. Amen