Today we consider chapter ten, so I'd ask if you would please stand as we read God's Word, the subject of which the sermon is built. I saw still another mighty angel coming down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow was on his head. His face was like the sun, his feet were uh was like pillars of fire. He had a little book open in his hand, and he set his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the land, and cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roars. When he cried out, seven thunders uttered their voices Now when the seven thunders uttered their voices, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Seal up the things which the seven thunders uttered, and do not write them. The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his hand to heaven and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in it, the earth and the things that are in it and the sea and the things that are in it, that there should be delay no longer. But in the days of the sounding of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, The mystery of God would be finished, as he declared to his servants, the prophets. Then the voice which I heard from heaven spoke to me again, said, Go, take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the earth. So I went to the angel and said, Give me the little book. And he said to me, Take and eat it. And it will make your stomach bitter, but it will be as sweet as honey in your mouth. Then I took the little book out of the angel's hand and ate it. And it was as sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it, my stomach became bitter. He said to me, You must prophesy again. About meeting peoples, nations, tongues, and kings. And may the Lord have his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Please be seated. I think most Christians are a little ambivalent about the Old Testament prophets. Perhaps you've considered their life and what it must have been like to to be able to receive the direct communication from God. But, you know, most of the time, as we are constantly reminded, they were just ordinary people, just like you and me. Without deodorant. So we have to remind ourselves that things were not just as pleasant not very pleasant all that time uh back then. I I mean no disrespect to my brothers of the face back then. They were magnificent men of God. They didn't have air conditioning. They didn't They didn't have all of the things we take for granted. And so while I love the thought of of their spiritual state, I don't envy their lives very much. I've gotten used to Sunday morning showers More than more than one, not just Sunday, but it was not just having to live during those harsh, uncomfortable times. That impresses me about them. It was also the nature of their calling. Our passage today has roots in Daniel and in Ezekiel and Isaiah. as well as Moses in the book of Exodus. Isaiah in the temple. Ezekiel seeing all of those wheels. Moses at the burning bush. Those were terrifying experiences. But even more terrifying was what they were told. Imagine hearing God say this I am the Lord God Almighty. Listen to me. Go. Tell the kings and princes and the people that I am coming in judgment. Tell them what I have revealed to you But when you tell them for the most part, they're not gonna listen. And they will not be happy that you spoke to them. They will not treat you kindly and say, well, he has my best interests at heart. Rather, they will seek to do you harm. But that must not deter you. I am entrusting you with my word. And it's my word about history as it is lived out into the world. And it is my word about what will happen in the future. So go, be faithful, and have good courage. For I am with you. All three of these prophets that I've mentioned, plus others, heard essentially that same message. And in verse 11 of our passage today, John hears it also. Using Old Testament language, John is here said to be again amongst the prophets. He has the same scary vision. He hears the same voice. He receives the same command. And brothers and sisters, the point I wish to make to us here today, all of us on both sides of this pulpit. That this is a message to us. God is commissioning us as prophets also. This little book, which I believe and I'll get into, is the revelation itself given to John, that we are to take this little book and eat it. It will be sweet to our taste, but it will be bitter to our stomach, because this is given to us to equip us. For our great prophetic calling. That's why God placed this chapter, I think, in chapter 11, here in the midst of this book. Because this is the pivotal point for what he is teaching us in the whole book. Chapter 10 and 11 constitute a transition or turning point. They are the interlude, if you will, in the literary sequence for both the trumpets and the seals. And starting in chapter 12, the focus is going to shift. It will be more and more directed and concentrating on the last day. rather than with the previous trumpets and seals having the consideration of the last day embedded with other things going on now. Now one more set of judgments is coming. The bowls. But we'll see that when the bowls are poured out, then it's not treated like the previous seals and trumpets that we have gone through. So chapters 10 and 11 should be viewed as concluding the second main section of the work. Chapters 1 through 3 First main section, chapters four down through eleven, as the second So let's look at this passage real quickly as an overview. The passage is divided into three main sections based on the angels speaking. First, he cries out, he speaks out, and there are these thunders. Second, he stands and swears a great oath And then third, he speaks to John about eating the little book. As you can see, there's lots going on in this chapter. All I'll be able to do is focus on the highlights and hopefully an overall application. So let's look at these highlights. First of all, there's this mighty angel and seven thunders. A mighty angel comes down to earth. Who is he? Who is he supposed to represent? Well, at least we can say this. He is one impressive dude. He is He will get your attention. He comes down from heaven. That means for John, John must now be on earth looking up in order to see the angel coming down. And so therefore we have to see that there's a change in perspective here. Now what John is being revealed is how we see things horizontally in this world as look as before looking up to heaven. to get a heavenly vision for how we understand things in this world. Now what does he look like? Well he is glorious. He is impressive. He is tradition intentionally reminiscent of God. As a matter of fact. He has a rainbow in his head, and if you go back to chapter 4, there was a rainbow over the throne for God. This angel Unlike those who are we talked about in at the River Euphrates, this angel is no demon He is the direct emissary, the direct apostle, if you will, using it in its proper way, he is the direct ambassador for God. This is most clear in the second section where he swears by the Creator God. He doesn't swear by himself, he swears by the Creator God. And also like God, he takes a sovereign stance on the earth. He puts one foot on the land and one in the sea. That means that he's got the whole earth covered. So he is bringing a message for God to the entire earth. He's pictured in such a glorious and impressive manner that some people do think that he represents the Christ. I doubt that, since the voice speaking from heaven is the authority here, unlike Christ, whenever he appears, he speaks with authority. I doubt that. And John goes boldly to the angel and says, give me the book. I don't see John approaching his Jesus and saying it in quite that way. So Here we have a special angel with a special message, and we'll get to that. But now let's just think about these seven thunders. The mighty angel cries out, and we aren't told anything other than he cries out. It's kind of like Jesus standing before the throne or before the uh tomb of Lazarus and crying out Here, though, it is not an expression of grief. He cries out something like a lion's roar. And as soon as he does. Seven thunders peal out over the earth. Now this is where we must remember that John is now on earth and previously he saw things from a heavenly perspective. But like us, he's now looking up at heaven, and he is listening to these thunders That helps us understand these thunders a bit because they are to be interpreted in terms of people on the earth looking up. How are we to interpret them? Well, thundering in apocalyptic literature is always or nearly always synonymous with judgment. So these thunders say something about judgment that God wants kept secret. That doesn't mean their meaning will never be revealed. But rather, it was like that little scroll that we talked about previously in chapter 5, that scroll that was given to Daniel back in those days. In Daniel 8 , Daniel was told that a scroll that he saw would be sealed until the last days. And in chapter five we saw that the last days are here and that scroll was being opened, has been opened. And uh that's where the trumpets came from. So we were given insight as to what that scroll contained in it, what's doing well. But these thunders tell us That God is not going to tell us everything. The revelation here, while it gives us a great amount of things, does not tell us everything. The very last day, the last judgment, the last climax of it all, is to some extent going to be hidden from our sight. And like Daniel, we will be told, we are told, that we will have to wait until God Himself unseals those thunders. Here, I think, is our first great lesson of this chapter. Though we have been given much, so that we may understand all things. 1 John 2, John speaks to us and he says, You have been anointed by God, and you know all things. It's always impressed me the idea that through Christ and the vision he's given us, all things, which means all the world can make sense to us. And through Christ alone is that possible? So we have what it means to be blessed. We are not in the dark, we are in the light. However When we think about that, and we have learned much even in these preceding chapters, and we know now that we have nothing to fear about God's judgment. That God has told us that nothing's going to separate us from his love. We stand secure, blessed with the assurance that he and we will prevail. But still, it remains for us to live by faith and not by sight. The character of our lives, even with all that we have been told, is such that we must reflect to God and absolute trust. Especially in those things, those areas where he's not revealed everything to us. We are to be persevering in faith , and hope and obedience. And that faith, hope, and obedience is to be the character of our lives, even when we confess. That as we look at the world around us and what God has revealed about how we should see it, still there are great things going on that we don't know. Brothers and sisters, let's take this to heart. Think about your life Think about embracing Jesus in our hearts and rejoicing in his victory that he has won every day. Think about looking at this world around us with all of the confusing things that are going on in it and beginning to see the world through the eyes of faith. That's what God is calling us to. Sure, there's going to be things in it we can't explain. Why is God letting that go on? We don't know. He does. But what we have to do is is embrace that and we must begin to discern how God is working in the world around us. We have to discern how he is working in our lives. and bringing specific things to us for us to see through the lens of faith. That's what it means to know all things, as John spoke about. And that is to see God at work in all things, and most especially in the things he puts before us. So, we, through faith and hope, walking by faith and not by sight, are able to find Him and his glory and delight in it in building up Christ's kingdom on the earth. Think about that to have our lives directed towards the mission , the purpose that God has given us prophetically, to build his kingdom. And to see that the things that we're doing to build his kingdom have eternal significance. Maybe we don't know exactly how. But knowing that nothing not one thing we do in his name will be wasted. That's what I believe these thunders teach us. We're to walk by faith and not by sight, because God has many surprises yet in store. But we have enough for what we need, and we need to thank God for that. The second section now concerns the angel swearing an oath. Now here's another reason I don't think the angel is the Christ. He swears by God, particularly God the Creator, as we saw him pictured in chapter 4. And notice how he describes God. I want to walk you through this. To him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in it, the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and all things that are in it. Well, you might look at that and say, yeah, Orich, okay, you've heard that before. Why are you drawing attention to it? Well, brothers and sisters, this is almost word for word how God reveals himself in Exodus 20. Exodus 20, verse 11, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea And all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. This passage, by the way, in my mind and in many others, does give New Testament support for the idea of the ongoing requirement to observe the Sabbath But that's a sermon for another day. And I'll get to it more than But speak in this way points to the fact that the angel is pointing towards God in framing him in terms of his creator status. He highlights in doing so that he is speaking for God, but that he is not God. And therefore I don't believe this could be the Christ. But what's the main point of what he makes? Well, the angel cries out that when the seventh angel, who is yet to come , sounds the blast trumpet, the mystery of God would be finished. He makes it clear that it will be finished exactly in the same way as what God had revealed to those prophets that we talked about at the beginning of the sermon. Now I take those prophets here to be both the Old Testament and New Testament prophets, not just the Old Testament ones. Certainly God, certainly John the Baptist is included among those, other apost and along with the apostles, because I read Isaiah this morning when we opened call to worship. And he certainly was the one who went before Jesus. And so I believe that he is implicit in the prophets that are included here. So John himself is told that he is to prophesy to peoples, nations, and kings. in verse 11. So John now is in the same category of these other prophets. So the revelation given to John cannot be understood without reference to what God has revealed before. Now, especially with Daniel, Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel, the use of the common symbols that are employed in it. Like this little book, for example, The Beast that we have looked at. They all make it clear. God wants us to study those old books. We're to understand them now through the New Testament and this revelation, and we're to look in there and understand these Old Testament works with greater clarity. But also We're to read this revelation through the lenses of those old prophets. Otherwise, if we don't do it that way, we're just spinning our wheels. That's a bad pun about Ezekiel, by the way. The thunders here teach us that something that some things are still sealed. That we live with a mystery of God has not completely disclosed. But the good news is it's not going to be like this forever. Because as this angel says, like Jesus on the cross, one day soon our God is going to say, it 's finished. We are told that this will be during the sounding of the seventh trumpet, the last trumpet. And therefore, this should help us understand what is coming. We will read about the seventh trumpet in chapter 11, verse 15 and following. So looking ahead, we should understand that seventh trumpet when it sounds through this passage here, that it will now concern mainly the last day. Up to now, as I said before, the seals and the trumpets have given us much information about today, our lives now. as well as what's coming, but here on out we're going to be starting seeing things in terms of how things end. Now what should we learn from this? That we live our lives by faith and not by sight, as we do that, but we are to look forward to a day when God is going to bring about an end to all things as we know it. And on that day he will be glorified as the God of creation. And and there won't be anything holding back in it. The mystery will be revealed. There will be no more questions. We will know what he has been doing all this time. Our faith will be tested perhaps severely during this time, but one day that testing will be finished. Now the final section is John taking up the book and eating it. We have to ask what is this little book? And as I said, I think it's actually the revelation that we're reading given to John. In chapter 22, 10, which we'll get to, God tells John to not seal the words of the prophecy of this book. He said to seal up the book where he wrote down about the thunders, but he said, don't seal this one up. The revelation is not like the thunders. It is given to be heard and understood by the entire world. And it fits very well then with what John is here further told to do. Verse 11. And he said to me, You must prophesy again about many peoples, nations, tongues, and kings. Now John was old. He was in exile. And I'm not so sure exactly how this hit him But he was told explicitly, your life is not over, nor is your ministry. He was to go again into the world from which he had been sent in exile, and he was to talk to all the nations of the world, all of the peoples of the world, in every tongue that the world presented itself to him in. to those kings that were out there, the powers of the world that are out there, all of those folks that we spoke about before, particularly uh previous weeks who were under the very demonic delusion that we spoke about That's why I think this book was sweet to the taste, but bitter to the stomach. What good news it is that even in old age, God is not through with us. He gives us life, he gives us breath, and as long as we have life and breath, we have ministry. We can serve our God. That's good news. But also, that's the sweet part of it, but also as we digest this book, the word of the God's Word It becomes a burning imperative in our stomachs, in our hearts, in our soul. It won't let us sit still. Brothers and sisters, saving faith. is in and of itself an internal work that moves us and says, I must share what I have received. Now we may quench the spirit, and we may get so disgusted with stuff that we turn our head like Jonah and try to run away from God But as soon as His Holy Spirit starts working back in us again, then that gospel, that totality, that whole counsel of God, which we have received. now starts working in us. And it means that we are moved to speak. We can't keep it to ourselves. What we have been given is not just for us. It's there to thoroughly equip us for every good work. And here's where I think we have the great application for this chapter. The people of God, as represented by John, are to fearlessly take the things that we know and have been revealed to us and tirelessly proclaim them to the world around us. Every tribe and nation has to hear the call of the gospel so that they may turn and be saved, those among them whom God calls. But just as importantly, brothers and sisters, and this is where we must not ever forget , this proclamation that the church makes is, yes, an evangelistic call. But it is also the other side. It is telling the world, you're in deep trouble. Because our God is not happy. The call of the gospel to turn and Be saved is sweet. We love doing that. What a great privilege it is to share the gospel with someone and have that person you can just see it come over 'em. You can see it begin to flood their heart. And you're drawn into the into the uh occasion with them as it as it begins to transform their lives. What a what an standing privilege that is. But then there's still the times where you have to stand on your own hind feet And you have to look someone, perhaps someone important. And you have to say, thou art the man, using the words of Nathan. What you think is wrong, speaking with certainty and authority in a world that hates the idea of certainty and authority. The church has both missions. And we must utter and speak to the world around us about the delusion that they are under. There is a God all around us who has created all things, and their adamant rejection of his word and his commandments will not go unpunished. They cannot pretend To be ignorant. God has not been silent, and his people must not be silent either. Brothers and sisters, there are many instances of injustice all around us. And we must speak to them and about them for God. wherever and whatever they may be, especially as God brings them to our attention, both as individuals and as a church. There are injustices that are being imposed on the people, and there are injustices that the people themselves are doing to themselves. There is great confusion in our world about what is just and what is not. And we must look at this as the time being ripe. The fields are white for the harvest. We, you and I, must take up the mantle that God has given us. We must think of ourselves as wearing the mantle of a prophet. And this prophecy that we give forth is not prophecy that comes from us. as if it originates from us, but rather it is the prophecy that is given to us. And we must speak it out. No opportunity that God brings to us must be allowed to slip by. Whether it is the corporate proclamation of our church and we have many things going on that need corporate proclamation. You be in prayer for our Presbytery this coming Tuesday, two weeks from now, as we take up some of these things. So there are many things that corporately we need to proclaim and speak about. But we also have to individually We must be prepared for the times and seasons, and we must be confident that we know the truth, as John told us. Whether over coffee or lunch with friends or writing letters to the newspapers, in our sitting down and in our rising up, we are to be obedient to the faith And speak. And teach. And admonish. That's why God gave us this book. That's why we have it. And in doing so, we will be hastening the day when he finally does say it is finished. On a side note, I would love to see us start a discussion group or a teaching group here on the subject of how do we speak to the culture around us. How do we understand the world in such a way that we can frame a discussion? And how should we be equipped to speak to it? I'm very open to any who might want to undertake just such a thing. However, what we must not leave here today without is a sense that we have been called. And we've got a job to do, and our God expects us to do it Thank you. Let's pray.