Well, continuing through our study of the uh revelation of of Christ that was given to John, we've arrived at uh chapter fourteen. Uh I'll just remind you that next week we will not be Looking at Revelation, we'll be having the ordination and installation of Oscars. So we look forward to that. So this seems to be a great passage just to find a place to break for a uh for a brief time. I would ask as you you would stand, please, as I read God's word given to us in Revelation 14, verses 1 through 7. And I will also read verses twelve through thirteen. It's kind of an appendage Then I looked and behold a lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000, having his father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven, like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of loud thunder. And I heard the sound of harpists playing their harps They sang as it were a new song before the throne, before the four living creatures and the elders, and no one could learn that song except the hundred and forty-four thousand who were redeemed from the earth These are the ones who are not defiled with women, for they are virgins. They are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were redeemed from among men, being firstfruits to God and to the Lamb. And in their mouth was found no deceit, for they are without fault before the throne of God. And then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people. saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water. Verse 12. Here is the patience of the saints. Here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works follow them. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Would you please be seated? Last Sunday I mentioned that some of us might be thinking, well, here we go again , because we introduced yet another beast. The one rising from the land, following the beast rising from the sea, and both of them were follow- were following the fiery dragon who was making war on the saints, namely us. And at this point in Revelation, we might have been feeling a little bit beaten down. You might think that the message of Revelation is life is tough. Then you die, and then it gets better. It 's not actually too far wrong, but uh but that's not what we should take from it See, the revelation is good news. In verse 6, the angel sings an everlasting gospel, everlasting good news. But we might not be feeling that current good news as the current as the slang goes So Jesus knows that we need some encouragement. And that's what's so beautiful about this book, this epistle that was given to John, the revelation of Christ. And so he includes this passage right at this point, almost as if he knew, almost as if he knew that we would be thinking we need some relief. And he presents this to us, this passage, as a vision in order for us to then understand that he is going to make it all worthwhile, no matter what we're going through. Now I want you to think about that for just a moment. He makes it all worthwhile. Well, what does that entail? It means that the end which is desired Is attained through whatever it has to be endured, or faced, or undertaken The end which comes about is somehow connected inevitably to the things that happen that produced that end. When we say it was worth it, are we not saying that there is a necessary relationship between what went before and that which comes after? So in terms of these chapters, I am saying that Jesus is here showing us in chapter 14 not only what comes next in the progress of of time, the inevitable idea that one day it's going to be better, as we mentioned, but also he's showing us t the end to which the stuff we're going through now is directed. That it's connected It's not just we go through the beast and the uh persecution from the serpent, but rather this end, this joyful thing that we see is directly related to the fact that we went through those. It's not separated from it at all. He's showing us that to what end the things we face in our lives now are directed and how what we're facing is necessary to bring it about. Now you might be tempted to say here, that's a bit of a jump, Arch, even from you. And so it is my hope that we can develop that. Consider Ephesians 1, 7 through 12, which we used in our call to worship. In it, Paul says that the mystery of God's will has been made known, that in the dispensation of the fullness of time, God's will Is such that he would gather together in one all things in Christ, both the things in heaven and the things on earth. And brothers and sisters, that's exactly what this chapter proclaims, these verses. This teaching undeniably teaches us that God is working in all things to bring about the consummation of his purposes in history in eternity. And therefore God is working in the stuff we're going through. God is working on the stuff we're going through and including the things that we've been reading about, these beasts running around. And he's working in those things that are present in the world today. And he's working in each of our lives in the things that we face. And he is all bringing it to a glorious end, the end which we see in chapter 14. And we have to constantly keep this in mind as we read and go through life, no matter how busy, how messed up, how joyful, how grief-ridden How confusing our lives may be, they are not without purpose. We are headed somewhere And the path we are walking, no matter how scary the beast might make it, is that path which God says is necessary for us to walk. And in the end All creation will explain, including us, it was worth it. Well, we ought to get our mind around then what that is. What is it that lies ahead of us that will make all of this stuff worthwhile? I'm glad you asked. We see it presented to us in these verses, the end towards which all things are directed, your life and mind. Is that day when Christ the Lamb is standing on earth, which is his Mount Zion? And gathered around him are his entire flock of sheep. All of them. Not one of them's missing. 144,000, the number of perfection and of completion. We discussed this before in a previous chapter. And it is, as we see, a day of celebration. There are voices from heaven sounding out like thunder. There are harpists thrilling the universe with chords of happiness. The four living creatures, which we saw in chapter 4. The fullness of all living beings are shouting in praise. And all of this is going on before the throne of God Okay? Mount Zion and the throne of God. Catch that. It's important in this passage. God in heaven is looking down on earth. Only now, in this passage, there's no division between heaven and earth. The lamb on Mount Zion is standing before the throne of God in heaven. with all of his gathered saints. We'll talk about that a bit more shortly. Brothers and sisters, talk about a party This is a party. You ain't seen nothing yet anywhere close to the kind of celebration that is pictured here. And in some mysterious way, every trial and difficulty we face in this life will produce just the right gifts in us to bring to that party. Think of them as the party favors. Our works, our endurance, our perseverance Everything in life. The times of joy that we give praise to God. The times of sadness when we wonder, God, what are you doing? All of those things will be with us as we bring them to God and will produce those gifts appropriate to give Him. They will verse 13, which I included for this very reason, says this, that our works follow us. They will then contribute to the glory and beauty of that day Okay, everything is necessary. Everything is worthwhile. That's what this passage teaches us. Now let's see how it does that. Let's turn our attention now to the specifics in the passage. And the first thing we notice when we turn to this passage is the central figure, that which is Right there, right in our face. Then I looked and behold a lamb standing on Mount Zion. Now, this is sometimes difficult for young people and old people both to get really clear and really appreciate. It requires a bit of a mind change, and somehow or another uh it can be a bit difficult for us. Brothers and sisters, that which makes it all worthwhile That which really does make it worthwhile is simply Christ. Now I didn't say what Christ does for us. I didn't say the great beautiful things that are going to be happening on that day and we're going to be rejoicing in. I didn't even say eternal life. The gifts which God gives us is not what is ultimately makes it worthwhile. That which makes it worthwhile is Christ Himself It takes a little bit of getting used to, doesn't it? Because we tend to think in terms of what Christ has done for us. And we rejoice in that. We should. Brothers and sisters, Christ is perfect. The Lord Jesus is beautiful. And He deserves all the glory he gets. And and if bringing Him glory means that we have to go through stuff. Can you say it with me? So be it? Now if we ever believe that and really mean it, then we'll understand the central thrust of this passage. Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, excuse me, the second person of the Trinity, our Lord. He is what makes all things that we endure worth it. If it requires of us to face certain difficulties in this life, To bring about that day when he is standing on this earth in Mount Zion, then brothers and sisters, can't we say that they are small things indeed? That Paul said much the same thing. Somehow or another, the Church of Jesus Christ, following in his footsteps, is uh ordained to repeat and if you will reincarnate his life on earth Now we are to do good things. Even miraculous things are to be done through his church And when we look back on it, as Jesus himself told us in John 14, most assuredly I tell you, I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also. And greater works than these he will do, because I go to my Father. Now, every time I read that passage, I get struck by it. Greater works than Jesus did. Wow. In the face of all this opposition, in the face of those two doggone beasts, with Satan running around doing his best to make us miserable, we're supposed to be doing works. that are even greater than what our Lord did. Now that should reorient us in our way of approaching all of the things that we endure Whatever we're facing in life, there are works in them for us to accomplish. And we should expect the Lord to do things through us. We should expect the Lord Jesus Christ to use us. And in using us, bring glory to himself on that day when he stands on the earth. So we're to do those things. Jesus tells us this again in Matthew 5, 11, and 12. Okay, you do works like I do. Now pay attention. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Now, we're going through this stuff on earth in order to have the opportunity to do good works which will glorify our Lord on that last day. And oh by the way, it's not always going to be pleasant. Do you see what we're saying here? Now, isn't that the life of Christ? I mean, isn't that reincarnating, if you will, the things, what it means to follow in his footsteps is to do good works. And to suffer as he suffered. So the vision of Christ, one day standing on earth, Mount Zion It's to be our sustaining vision as we go through this. It's to be the wellspring of our hope, the fountain of energy in our spiritual lives. I don't guarantee much But I can pretty much guarantee you this. If you find yourself flat in your spiritual life, you're going through the motions Nothing makes sense very much. You know, pray, but so what? You know, nothing seems to change. Why am I praying? You get to that point, and every Christian does at some point. How do you get out of it? Well, you go back to Christ. And you let this picture, this beautiful picture of what Christ is doing in your life And how it all works and fits together. You spend some time meditating on that. I can't guarantee it because the Lord's in charge of it, but pretty much. This is how we get filled up with the Holy Spirit for what we need to do. This vision of Christ standing one day on the earth, Mount Zion, is to be the wellspring of our hope. Brothers and sisters, he's coming back And on that day every wrong will be made right, Jesus said something else. He said that there's not one thing said in secret that shall not be made known. Those who suffer in this life and turn that suffering into a means by which they glorify Christ, it is these whom Jesus in that passage says. will shine like the sun in the kingdom of heaven. That 's a pretty neat idea Okay, and that brings us then. The first thing we see in this passage is Christ. And we see him standing on Mount Zion. I told you I would come back to this. Now notice the deliberate use of Mount Zion in this story. I don't know why all of a sudden I am coughing. It is very pregnant with meating. First notice that Mount Zion is distinguished from the throne of God in verse 3. Mount Zion is on earth. The throne is in heaven. But in this vision, there is no separation between the two, separating heaven from earth. Jesus and the 144,000 with and are with are united and participating in a party that is going on in heaven. Now you can remember back to the very early days when we first started the study of Revelation, and God spoke to John and said, Come up here, and a door was opened in heaven. And I spoke then of how we are cut off from the spiritual reality that is all around us. Well, here in chapter 14, what we see is that one day that That won't be the case anymore. There won't be a door, a door and the whole wall will be torn down. Heaven and earth will be together. And so the spiritual and the physical are united as they were designed to be. All the people of God, the 144,000, will join in a heavenly chorus, and all creation, both that which was created physical and that which was created spiritual, will sing a new song. And then, brothers and sisters, that ought to really ring our spiritual chimes, to understand that that is the end toward which all things are directed. Now a second, I'd like you to note the spiritual significance of Mount Zion itself. Mount Zion is chosen Because it was an actual mountain where Jerusalem was built, as you all know. But it always stood in Scripture in the Old Testament as something greater than that. It was a symbol of where King Messiah would set up his throne and rule over the whole world. Check out Isaiah 2, verses 1 through 5 that you heard read today by Dave. Or go to Isaiah 60, 14, or Joel 2, 32, or Amos 9, 11 through 12. The central promise of the Old Testament, which the Jews cherished, the Israelites cherished, was that one day all the nations of the earth would stream to Zion And there they would be taught of God's love and justice. In Amos, God says that the Gentiles who will be called by my name will gather. On Zion. And Micah says that there is, that is where the Messiah will reign over his combined people for eternity. So the great purpose of history, as we see working out and projected in this passage, is the end towards which we are directed. That one day Christ will stand on the earth in the midst of his people, and from then on he will reign over them all in joyful fellowship. You know, we might think our lives are tough. We might think that these beasts are early getting to us. We might go back to Job and remember what he went through. And what was it that he managed to cling to that God later counted as righteousness? In the midst of all of his suffering. Beautifully, he says, I know my Redeemer liveth, and on in my own flesh I will see God. Makes you want to break out into the Messiah, doesn't it? I know my Redeemer liveth. And with my own eyes, one day, in my own flesh, I will see God. Brothers and sisters, let Satan and those two beasts do their worst. Whatever they do, Christ will have the victory. And we who are among the 144,000. We'll have that victory also. Well, that brings us to the third thing that we must notice here is central to this passage, and that's the 144,000. Yes, I've spoken to this before. We've had a whole passage on it, a whole sermon on it, 144,000. And uh You know, I talked about it being sending 144,000 that it stands for the sum of all of the people who are redeemed from the earth, as it says in this passage. Perhaps there might be some doubt among us whether we're really included in this particular number. So let's talk about that a bit. We see all of those who are in the 144,000 as those who here have the Father's name on their forehead. Now this is the major feature of what it means to be in the 144,000, and they are not just a remnant of national Israel, as some people very mistakenly say. It's all those who are redeemed from the earth. That's what it says. And God has set aside his own And therefore it includes the Gentiles who have streamed in fulfillment of promise into Mount Zion In previous chapters, we talked about how God has put his seal on his elect, and we considered that this is the work of the Holy Spirit imparting faith to us, sealing us by faith to Christ. and uniting us in his righteousness. Now this is critically important. The 144 ,000 are the fullness of God's people who are saved by faith through grace. You've heard that before. You are saved by grace through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Enduring persecutions and this whole beast business is not what saves us We are to be faithful, we're to persevere. He who perseveres to the end will be saved, right? But persevering to the end Undergoing temptations, undergoing all of the stuff that Satan throws at us is not what saves us That which saves us, the only thing which saves us is the Father's name written on our forehead and in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. And we've got to cling to that. Because it can sometimes become a little bit doubtful as we see our faith beginning to waver a bit in the face of things that Satan brings on us. We are sealed through faith. Even faith, the grain of a mustard seed. We may feel like we're letting go of Christ, but brothers and sisters, Christ doesn't let go of us. And that's what we have to cling to when we find our weak our faith is weak. So, in other words, here, that which makes sure that we're part of the 144,000. Is the presence of faith. And I'll speak to this when we come to the to the table more. Okay. But there's this other thing in this passage. That might bring a little bit of doubt to our mind. It's this whole virgin thing down in verse 4. Uh we might look at ourselves and say, I got four sons, you know So, ha, what is this all talking about? There's nothing in Scripture, brothers and sisters, that teaches that celibate Christianity is somehow more holy. Than others who are not. This is one of the more egregious errors in the Roman Catholic Church and others like them Because they think that somehow or another there is a special holiness of people who remain celibate throughout their life But the near universal terms, the universal use of the word virgins in Scripture has more to do with purity and particularly with abstaining from idolatry. In my opinion, Hosea is most clear on this. His wife was a harlot. left him to go party with the wicked men in the world. And Hosea is told to go get her and bring her back. And to love her and to restore her to covenant purity with himself as his wife, in other words, to forgive her sins. And God then, and this is important, God then draws a parallel between what he's doing in Hosea with his wife. And he says how he's going to do with Israel in their playing the harlot with other gods. God tells Israel, How can I give you up? I love you too much I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness. And justice, in loving kindness, and mercy , I will betroth you to me in faithfulness And you shall know the Lord. You hear that? She who was a harlot In the marriage with Hosea is restored to righteousness and justice and loving kindness and mercy In other words, using the words betrothed as it should be used here, positionally, she is a betrothed virgin awaiting the wedding night. Brothers and sisters, let this thrill your soul. Though you have erred and strayed like lost sheep. Though you have defiled yourself in sin and shame far more than you ever want to admit to another living person. Though you have been as far from a spiritual virgin as can possibly be imagined, know this. Through Christ, you have been cleansed of all your sin. Through Christ, you are a spiritual virgin. And no temptation on earth, nor any demon from hell, can possibly change that. You are as pure as a virgin prepared for her husband, the Christ who will come back one day to celebrate the wedding feast amidst great celebration. Notice what it says in verse 4. 144,000 are they redeemed from among men, and in their mouth was found no deceit, for they are without fault before the throne of God. In their mouth was no deceit. That's exactly what Dave read today about our Lord Christ. There was no deceit found in him. They are without fault before the throne of God. Do you understand that's how you are? You understand? When you walk into the party room, you're not gonna walk in with your head down saying, I don't deserve to be here. You will be dressed in the robes of Christ. You will be purified You will be perfected in the sense of being a human being, and you will be totally clean, your sins washed from you. You stand white as snow. If you're here today And you're prepared to take the Lord's Supper because God has worked faith in your heart, and that which I have just gone through is your only hope. In the face of the sins that you know you have committed. Brothers and sisters, you're among that 144,000 And you will not only see Christ standing on Mount Zion, you'll stand there with him also. Nothing that we endure this life can compare to that privilege. Now tell me, doesn't it make it all worthwhile? Let's pray. Our Lord and God, I thank you for the glory of your gospel, for the privilege of it, for the beauty of it. I thank you, Lord God, for what you've done. for putting this thing together to give us hope. To give us this joyful reality That there is an end to all things, and that end is glory. It is a party and and it will be a time in which the celebration of our hearts Will certainly conduce to make us at last convinced that it was worth it. Lord God, there are many who have passed who already know the truth of this. And we who await our own passing or else your return look forward to it. And so, our Lord and God, I ask that you work it deep into the fabric of our heart. Grant that as we prepare to take this supper, that this is the knowledge. That sustains us. And in the supper, we find that grace is imparted to us not only to face the difficulties of life, but to actually rejoice in them Because in them we find reason to glorify your name and the opportunity to do good work. Grant us, Lord God, that certainty. For I ask in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.