If you have your Bibles with you, turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, the first book in the New Testament. As we read from the opening verses of that gospel concerning Christ the Messiah. Let's hear God's word from Matthew chapter one. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. Isaac begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Judah and his brothers. Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez begot Herzon, Herzlan, and Hezron begot Ram. Ram begot Abinadad, and Abinadad begot Nishon, and Hashan begot Salmon. Salmon begot Boaz by Rahab, Boaz begot Obed by Ruth, Obed begot Jesse. And Jesse begot David the king. David the king begot Solomon by her, who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon begot Rehoboam, Rehoboam begot Abiah, Abiah begot Asa. Asah begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah. Uzziah begot Jotham, Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah. Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh begot Amon And Amon begot Josiah. Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers about the time that they were carried away to Babylon. And after that they were brought to Babylon, Jechaniah begot Sheitael, and Sheotael begot Zerubbabel, and Zerubbabel begot Abayud, and Abayud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azar. Azar begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud. Eliud begot Eliezar, Eleazar begot Methan, and Mathan begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. So in all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations. From David until the captivity in Babylon are fourteen generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until Christ. Our 14 generations. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, Lord, we thank you for your word and how your word shows us that Jesus is indeed the promised Messiah. Father God, as we sing and continue in worship, we pray, Lord, that you would impress upon our hearts who this child is and what he's done for us. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. Now, we all understand the importance of knowing your roots, of knowing your family heritage. You may remember if you live back then in the 70s, the TV miniseries roots. Which traced the family of Kunta Quinte from an African slave ship through several generations And you may have remembered how that sparked an interest in geological research, genealogical research, that many people began to research their family heritage. They began to comb through birth records, through dusty court deeds, and diaries to find out more about their roots. Well, this interest continues even today and has sparked an explosion of resources available on the internet. Websites such as myfamily. com, ancestry. com provide an easy access to public records so that subscribers can trace their family roots Well, today we have read the most important, dynamic family tree that there ever was, or that there ever will be For from this family tree came the one who changed the course of history, and who continues to change lives of the people from every nation, tribe, and tongue. And as we examine this family tree of Jesus Christ today, we're going to look, first of all, at the purpose, why Matthew includes it And then we're going to look at some of the people in the family tree. And from those people, we're going to glean a few principles from them and their lives. So, first of all, let's talk about the purpose. Why would Matthew begin a gospel with the genealogy of Jesus? I mean, woo, what a list of difficult names to read. A series of begats, wow, it can be kind of tedious, isn't it? And yet Matthew has a very important purpose in listing Jesus. Matthew wants to prove to his Jewish readers that Jesus is indeed the Messiah, that he is the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy concerned. Concerning the Savior who would bring light to the Gentiles. Now, he knew that the very first question that his Jewish readers would want to know The very first question that they would ask would be concerning Jesus' lineage. They would want to know: is Jesus from the right family? And we even see this concern about Jesus' lineage in John 7. 41 , which records the disagreement over whether Jesus was the Messiah or not based on what What? On his lineage. Some mistakenly thought that Jesus was born in Galilee, and so they said, How can it be that the Christ could come from Galilee? Does not the scripture say that Christ will come from David's family and from Bethlehem? They were well versed in their prophecies, they knew That the prophecies foretelling the coming of Messiah would had certain markers, certain trail markers that were necessary To point to who the Messiah was. And one of those trail markers would be, of course, that Jesus, that the Messiah would be a Jew, that he would be a descendant of Abraham. For in Genesis 22, the Lord had promised Abraham in his covenant with him that all the nations would be blessed through one of his descendants. And of all the descendants of Abraham, the Messiah could only come from one branch, just one branch of that family tree. And that had to be from the tribe of Judah. As Genesis 49 states: the scepter shall not depart from Judah. And from Judah would come the king, the Messiah. And not just any line of Judah. No, he had to come from a particular twig of that branch of the tribe of Judah. The Messiah had to be a direct descendant of the royal line of David, according to 2 Samuel 7, 12, and 13. In which God made a covenant promise to David that he would bless David with an everlasting kingdom, and that through him, through one of his descendants, would come one who would have an everlasting reign. And this promise is further elaborated in Isaiah 9, which states that the Messiah would be of the lineage of David, and that his reign will be forever, and that he will be called the Prince of Peace. And then again in Isaiah 11, there is yet another prophecy concerning the Messiah, again stressing that the Messiah would come from the family of Jesse. Who was David's father? And of course, we could go on and on, citing all sorts of Old Testament prophecies, stating that the Messiah would be a descendant of David. And this is why, then, in verse 1, Matthew emphatically states that Jesus was what? He was the son of David and the son of Abraham. So that there would be absolutely no question, no doubt concerning this fundamental requirement regarding the Messiah. He also hints at Jesus' royal lineage by addressing Jesus as Christ. Jesus Christ, he says in verse 1. Christ there meaning the anointed one. And that harkens back, of course, to David being the anointed king of Israel. And so the Messiah is to be the anointed one as well, that he is to be the anointed king whose kingdom lasts forever. Matthew intentionally details Jesus' family history to show that Jesus was the promised Messiah And he gives rock solid evidence that Jesus was from the right family, that he was from the royal line of David. In other words, Jesus had the right stuff. He had the right credentials to be the Messiah. He would come into the world through the Davidic line, legally through Joseph's family. Joseph being his adoptive father, because notice what he says there in verse 16 that with after all these begots, Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary. Notice what he says Is missing, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. It doesn't say that Joseph begot Jesus, and of course, Matthew there is alluding to Jesus. Jesus' virgin birth, which he then goes on to explain in chapter two. And Mary herself was also as a relative of Joseph, also of the Davidic line. So Jesus was of the line of David from both his adoptive father and his mother through the virgin birth. And yet we can see not only is Matthew stressing that Jesus is the promised Messiah of the line of David. But I believe he's also showing us something else, another purpose as well, through this genealogy. In addition to his royal lineage Matthew here wanted to demonstrate something about Jesus, something about his family line. Notice how Matthew describes some of the people in the family tree. And notice who he includes in that family tree. So let's take a look at some of the people listed in Jesus' lineage. Now, I don't know about you, but it would seem reasonable to me to assume that the Savior, the Holy Son of God, would be born into an impeccable family lineage. We would expect that the king who reigns over all the earth would have a rich heritage of nobility. A stellar family history and the brightest and the best genealogy that there ever could be. He would have a tree like virgin wood, pure, clean, without dry rot, and without knots, and absolutely no nuts. And yet, what a surprise it is when we reflect on some of the names listed in Jesus' Jesus' family tree reads more like a supermarket tabloid than a social registry. More like the national inquire than the blue book of blue bloods. Just look at verse two and three and notice what Matthew says about Judah. He doesn't simply say Judah begot Perez and Zerah, but he adds his mother's name, their mother's name, Tamar. For a woman to be mentioned in a genealogy in Matthew's day was very unusual. So what is Matthew doing? He's highlighting the story of Tamar and Judah. How Judah had neglected to provide for his daughter-in-law Tamar. For Tamar had married his oldest son, and then when he died, she married his second son, according to custom And then he died, and she was supposed to marry his third son, and yet he sends her off to go back home and leaves her standing at the aisle. And so she's destitute. She's desperate. He's not following social custom and convention. And so she takes matters into her own hands Realizing her plight, she tricks Judah into sleeping with her by posing as a prostitute. And her plan worked, and she bore Judah two sons, one of whom was Perez. And the other, of course, was uh yeah, P Te Perez and uh who was the other one? Right, thank you Now Perez became part of the messianic line. So Jesus' family includes the offspring of Tamar, who posed as a prostitute. And then we read on in verse 5. And we read that Solomon was the father of Boaz, but Matthew also includes the mother's name. And who is she? A prostitute. Rahab, the seductress who said shielded the Israelite spies when they were spying out on Jericho. So again, Jesus' family line includes not just a prostitute But she was also a Canaanite as well, a foreigner, an idol worshiper, a people of idol worshippers And so in verse 5, again, we read that Boaz begot Obed by who? Ruth. And Ruth, as we know, was a Moabitus. And although Ruth had a stellar character, her people, the Moabites, were the enemies of God, the enemies of the Israelites. And then we come, of course, to King David in verse 6. Now notice how David is characterized. David was, of course, a great leader. He was an inspired psalmist. He was a valiant conqueror and a tender leader who cares for his people. And the scriptures also tell us that David was a loyal friend and a man after God's own heart. And yet, what are we reminded of in this genealogy? His accomplishments? No. Matthew instead points to not his greatest achievement. But to his greatest moral failure. Matthew could have simply written, to David was born Solomon. But instead, he points to his sin with Bathsheba by adding, Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah 's wife. Nudge, nudge, wink, wink, say no more. Again, it was unusual to have a woman mentioned in a genealogy. So we are reminded of David's greatest failure. That in a moment of lust he took Bathsheba, committed adultery, and then, when she became pregnant, had her husband killed to cover up the scandal. And his glorious reign was tarnished. And his crown was marred by the scandal. So we see what flows from this family line. Does nobility and people of noble character flow from this line? Do lies of self-sacrifice and moral purity flow from this family line? No. Some do. But there were prostitutes, there were adulterers, there were deceivers, there were murderers And we have to wonder why is it that Matthew s wants to expose these people 's foibles and their failures? He could have just simply glossed over them. It would seem natural to assume that he would based on other histories of kings Kings and rulers, which only record their good accomplishments and never their failures. And after all didn't court artists when painting royalty kind of touch up the portraits to make them look better than they were by, oh, fixing a nose here and removing a blemish there. And yet, in this genealogy of the Son of God, Matthew doesn't hide the skeletons in Jesus' family closet. No. No. In fact, he parades them for all the world to see. And the failures of them, of his ancestors, glare at us like a flashing neon sign. As George Bernard Shaw said, if you can't get rid of family skeletons, you might as well make them dance. And that's indeed what Matthew does. He makes these skeletons in the closet dance before us, highlighting them, making us see. The kind of people that were in Jesus' ancestry. Why? Well, in this genealogy, we see the astounding gracious providence of God That of all the families, of all the possible ways to enter into the world, the Lord chose this particular family line He chose to enter this particular family tree, a tree full of twisted branches. Why? Why would Matthew highlight the shameful, dark past of Jesus' ancestors? What would be his purpose in doing that? I believe that it was to highlight somewhat of Jesus' mission as the Messiah, that he would willingly identify himself with the worst of sinners Just like some of the people who were in his family tree. And it certainly is true that in his earthly ministry he associated with the outcasts of society, with the dregs of humanity. He was criticized for it by the self-righteous Pharisees, for the word out on the street was that he was a friend of tax collectors and sinners. As if the Pharisees were saying to him, you know, Jesus, you ought to be more careful with who you associate with. It doesn't do well for your reputation as a rabbi. For isn't that what the Pharisees were thinking when they said to him to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? And what was his response? Jesus was totally undaunted. He told the Pharisees: Those who are well have no need of physician, but rather those who are sick For I did not come to call the righteous, but those who are sick to repentance. And there is no clearer example of Jesus' willingness to identify with the outcasts. Than when he spoke to the Samaritan woman in John 4. Now we know that the Jews considered Samaritans to be half-breeds, and they would have absolutely nothing at all to do with them. They despised them, and they despised them so much that they even avoided traveling through Samaria. They would take the long way around Samaria rather than cut through Samaria. Which would be the shortest route from Judah to Galilee. And yet Jesus traveled through Samaria. And he struck up a conversation with a Samaritan woman with whom he met at the well. And when he asked her for a drink, She was amazed that this Jewish man would even speak to her, let alone ask her for a drink. And yet she was even more amazed when he told her that he knew all about her scandalous life, that she had been married five times, and that she was currently living with a man who was not her husband She was an outcast among outcasts. She was the lowest of the low, shunned by her own community who were shunned by the Jews. And yet Jesus showed compassion to her. And he revealed to her not just her sin, but that he was her Savior, that he was the Messiah. Well, some of you may be thinking, well, yeah, if Jesus, I don't know, if Jesus could see my life, he wouldn't want to associate with me. If he knew what I had done, what I thought, the things that I've done, if he knew the darkness in my life, he wouldn't want to have anything at all to do with me. I know the shame that I carry around with me. I feel such guilt for what I have done. And there is no way, no way that he would want to associate with me. You may have come here this morning, laden down with guilt Like you are walking in darkness. But this is the good news of Christmas. This is the wonderful news of Christmas Christmas, that Jesus came to dispel that darkness and to bring you light and to bring you new life. He came to identify with us. And in identifying himself with us, he saved us from all of that guilt, all of that shame, all of that darkness, and all of that sin. The very people in his family line, prostitutes, adulterers, murderers, liars, deceivers, are the very kind of people that he came to save. How did he save them? By identifying with them. Philippians 2 tells us something of his mission As the Messiah. Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality a thing to be grasped But made himself nothing, taking on the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on the cross. Death on the cross. What Why did Jesus have to die on a cross? What would be the purpose of that? Well, by dying on a cross, Jesus took away our guilt. And he took away our shame. And we all know how guilt and shame separates us from other people. We don't want them to know about our deepest, darkest secrets. We don't want them to know what we've done. And so we avoid them out of fear of being found out. But our guilt not only separates us from one another, it also separates us from God. And rightly so, because we know that God is perfect, that he's pure, that he's holy, and if I were to stand before him in the glory of all of his holiness, arrayed before me, I would I would be utterly obliterated. I would be totally wiped out. Because the darkness of my own heart. could not withstand the pure, unadulterated light of his justice. Wow I would be like Isaiah, who caught a vision, a glimpse of God's holiness. And what did Isaiah do? He curled up into a ball, trembling, and said, Woe is me, for I am undone. And I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. God and His holiness is a terrifying thing because we all know we deserve His justice because of our guilt. And our shame. But the good news is that God is not only just, He's also loving And merciful and gracious to us. He did for us what we could never ever do for ourselves. That he removed that guilt and that shame that separates us from him. How? By sending his very own Son, Jesus Christ, who came like a man, and he identified himself with us He took upon himself our humanity, and though he was attempted as we are, yet he never ever once sinned. And why? Why? So he was able to be a perfect substitute for us, experiencing for us on the cross what we deserved for our sin, the judgment that was due to us. This was the mission of Jesus as the Messiah. A mission revealed centuries before his birth, when Isaiah prophesied what the Messiah would do. In Isaiah 53, Isaiah writes, He was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace And with his stripes we are healed. Oh, we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of our Us all. Jesus came to earth as the promised Messiah, and he associated with the worst of sinners not only to befriend them. But to save them. He identified with us so much that he willingly took upon himself all the judgment that was due to us, dying in our place. On a cross, a transaction that took place, our sin, our guilt was placed on him, and he experienced the full judgment that was due to us. Why? So that we could be free from it, so that we could be free from the guilt and the shame and the sin which darkens our hearts. That was his purpose. That was his mission to identify with us and to take upon himself the judgment that was due to us. So, what are we to do in response to such a great mission? What are we to do but to identify ourselves with Christ? And to say, yes, I know that you are the Messiah. Lord Jesus, I know that you died for my sins. That your death has washed away my guilt and my shame. I know that I have eternal life because of what you have done And I put my whole trust in what you did. It is all your grace. It is your grace that has saved me. And as we've seen in today's passage, it is indeed all His grace. For even Jesus' genealogy reverberates with His grace. A simple list of ancestors reveals his grace to us. For he was willing to be identified with a family of liars, of adulterers, and murderers. And that same grace extends to us today. That he is willing to identify with us. As Paul writes in 2 Corinthians, he who knew no sin. Became sin for us, and through his death we have life. Do you identify With that? Do you identify with Jesus Christ? Are you trusting in him that he is indeed the promiser? Messiah, the son of Abraham, the son of David, who came to save us from our sins. Let's pray together. O Gracious Father, how we give you praise and thanks for your wonderful mercy to us. That through Christ we do not need to experience your wrath and your judgment because of the darkness of our sin. But that you have shed your light upon us through Jesus Christ, who is the light of the world, who came as the promised Messiah. To die for us, the son of David, the son of Abraham, who is the fulfillment of all of those covenant promises Oh God, Father, we thank you and praise you that we can come before you cleansed, forgiven, free. And Lord, we pray that you would help us now to use that freedom To spread your light of the gospel to others. Bless us now, Father God. Strengthen us, and Lord, we pray for any of here who are still walking in darkness that the light of your spirit might fall upon us. And that they might trust in Jesus as their Messiah. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.