Amen. Thank you, choir. And if you uh brought your Bible or smartphone, uh turn to John chapter 10. And uh verse one. John chapter ten, verse one this morning. And uh we'll dismiss the little ones for our wonders of worship program downstairs with Nate and Bill Nicodemus. Gospel of John chapter 10, verse 1. The Lord Jesus said, Most assuredly I say to you He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Yet they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. Jesus used this illustration, but they did not understand the things which he spoke to them. And then Jesus said to them again, Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If any one enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. But a hireling, he who is not the shepherd, one who does not own the sheep. Sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them. The hireling flees because he is a hireling and does not care about the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known by my own. As the Father knows me, even so I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep And other sheep I have which are not of this fold, them also I must bring. And they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. Therefore, my father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This command I have received from my Father. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, once again we are aware of the fact that we are in need of your grace even to understand and apply your word. We certainly needed to proclaim it and we needed to hear it aright. We need it to truly worship you as we hear the word And uh we need you to guide our thoughts and to speak to us through your Holy Spirit. So help us, Father. I pray especially for anyone who may be here this day who has no assurance of eternal life. May this be the day of salvation for that one. Now, Father, open our minds, open our eyes, open our hearts. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Well, at this point in our series, The Things That Matter Most, I'd like us to turn our attention to a question that naturally arises from what we've considered thus far. Among other things, we looked at man's depravity and what naturally follows from it, the necessity of regeneration, the new birth. We looked at repentance, that's the first act of the regenerated sinner. We looked at saving faith. We looked at sanctification But the question we want to address today is, can this process be somehow short-circuited? That is, can one who has been regenerated, born again, turn his back upon Christ and ultimately be lost? Now, as you know, beliefs have consequences. Charles Darwin, early in his theorizing about a purely materialistic explanation for all life on earth was concerned about the broad implications for human behavior. Specifically, he was concerned about the potentially horrendous ramifications for morality should his theories ever become widely accepted. Well, in the 20th century, the Nazi and communist regimes embraced Darwin's theories and followed them to their logical conclusion. And the horrors unleashed on the world surely surpassed Darwin's worst fears. What you believe has consequences. And if a Christian believes that he can lose his salvation, there are serious ramifications for how he will live in the here and now Now, this is not at all a settled question in the Christian church, although it may be in your mind and mine. Many believers can testify that they know someone who gave evidence of being a genuine believer in Christ who subsequently turned away. and denied the faith. I've been reading a book by David Kinneman. He's president of the Barna group. He calls his book You Lost Me, and it's subtitled Why Young Christians Are Leaving Church and Rethinking Faith. The book was prompted by some alarming findings of the Barner Research Group in one study conducted in 2011. 59% of young people with a Christian background, aged 18 to 29 , 59 % of young people, age 18 to 29, with a Christian background, reported that they either had at one point or have presently dropped out of attending church after going regularly. Interestingly, one reason the Barna group is discerned for the high dropout rate is that, quote, most young Christians lack a deep understanding of their faith. Kinneman cites a book called Soul Searching, which contends that for many young adults, their view of God is something like a combination of divine butler and cosmic therapist. He's always on call. He takes care of any problems that arise. He professionally helps his people to feel better about themselves. And he doesn't become too personally involved in the process. Unquote. Well, it's in part to help remedy the problem of a superficial understanding of the faith that I have felt compelled to return frequently to this series, the things that matter most. Some young people who leave the church still consider themselves to be Christians, but others turn their back upon Christ altogether and renounce their earlier professions of faith. Now, different branches of the Christian Church explain this phenomenon in different ways. The traditional teaching of the Methodist Church and certain holiness groups, for example. Is that it is possible for one who was truly regenerated to fall away and be lost. You might hear someone from this tradition say, in reference to a man who has apostasized, Well, he was saved as a child, but he's lost today. Their concept of man's free will leads them to conclude that a man who wills to receive Christ may later will to reject him One of their authors put it this way: The good shepherd loves his sheep, but if the sheep deliberately squirms out of the arms of the shepherd and jumps over the rep the precipice and breaks its neck The shepherd's love is in vain, but he loves the sheep nevertheless. I uh spoke to a college student who had sat under such teaching for years, and Although he was quite certain that he had been saved in his youth, he seemed to be not at all certain that he was still saved. Those from this branch of Christianity point to scripture passages that warn believers to beware of falling. They point to cases of apostasy recorded in the Bible. Demas has forsaken me. having loved this present age, for example. They cite passages such as Hebrews 6, which speaks of those who were once enlightened who fell away. They're convinced that if you tell someone that he can be saved and secure in Christ, you are encouraging him or her to become lax and therefore to sin. Now, some here may be unsure about what the scriptures teach on this. Many others, I'm sure, are firmly grounded, but if you wanted to show a young believer that if in fact He has truly placed his faith in Jesus Christ. He is now secure in him. What line of reasoning would you follow? Well, I believe the security of true believers in Christ is firmly established by such things as this. First of all, those passages which speak of life in Christ as everlasting. Or eternal. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, Jesus said, Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. John 3, 14 and 15. Everlasting life. Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up unto everlasting life. John 4, 13-14 Most assuredly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life and shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death unto life. John 5 24 And then you have those passages that reveal Christ's intercession for his own. John 17, Jesus pleads for his own before he goes to the cross. Holy Father, keep through your own name those whom you have given me. Verse 11 of John 17. Father, glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you, as you've given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Here he's interceding for his disciples and all those who would believe in him through their name or through their word down through the ages. That was John 17, verses 1 and 2. So for us to deny the security of the believer, or what theologians call the perseverance of the saints, we would have to conclude that Christ's intercession for his own was ineffectual, that the Father did not grant that prayer. And then you have those passages which speak of God's electing grace. Romans 8, 28 to 30. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he foreknew. To foreknow, to set his love upon beforehand, to whom he for those whom he foreknew, uh for whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. That he, Christ, might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. I like what Sprohl says about this. He says, from God's perspective, it's as good as done. He's justified, he's also glorified. For the gifts and calling of God are irrevocable. His gifts are not revocable, they're irrevocable. Romans 11, 29. Thomas Watson said, God's decree is the very pillar and basis on which the saints' perseverance depends. God's decree, you see. That decree ties the knot of adoption so fast that neither sin, death, nor hell can break it asunder. Paul writes to the Thessalonians, but we are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord, because God from the beginning chose you to salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To which he called you by our gospel for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 2, 13 to 14. Because he set his love upon you, because he chose you from before the foundation of the world, he's also determined to bring you to himself. He's called you out of darkness into his light. And he's beginning the process of sanctification within you. Luther put it this way: God's decree of predestination is firm and certain, and the necessity resulting from it is in like manner immovable and cannot but take place. For we ourselves are so feeble that if the matter were left in our hands, none would be saved, but Satan would overcome us all. Amen. And then you have those passages that speak about the seal or earnest of the Spirit. The seal or earnest of the Spirit. Having believed you were sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance. Ephesians 1. Now he who established us with you in Christ and has anointed us is God, who has also sealed us. And given us the Spirit in our hearts as a deposit. 2 Corinthians 1 21-22. Now, boys and girls, listen to me for a minute, in case you haven't been thus far. Uh I want to talk to you about uh a seal. A seal. Now uh what we're talking about here is is is is something uh that that God uses to To set us apart. Let me explain it this way. Well when I was a boy, this is long before there were uh computers and and uh smartphones and tweets and texts and twits and all those things, uh I guess there were still some twits, but but uh but when I was a boy, uh what we did, we had something we called a letter. A letter Can you say can you say letter? No, this is totally foreign to them. They're just staring at me like letter. Alright, well a letter was something we we it was a piece of paper, not unlike like this, and then we would write on it And then uh you you'd you'd fold it up, then you'd put it in an envelope, and you'd actually seal, seal the envelope. You could just lick it in those days and it would just stick. And uh and then you put the address on the uh the the person that you wanted it to go to, you put his name on there and his his address where he lives, you put a five cent stamp on it, and And and he'd hand it to the the pony express rider and somehow he would find this person that you're trying to Well, all right. Now in the Bible in Bible times that's not how they did it. In the Bible times they'd they'd roll up a scroll, they'd roll so they'd roll up a piece of paper, and then they take some wax. And they'd they'd drip that wax, just like your mom uses for you know wax candles in the in the house, and she'd drip that wax, they'd drip that wax on there, and then they'd seal it, they'd press something on there to hold it tight So this would all be wound up if this is was was your letter that you were writing and then uh y the the person who who was sending it, if he was someone important, would maybe have a little seal on his ring and he'd press that into the wax Or he takes a stamp and puts it on, and it would have his maybe his name or his title, like this is Caesar Augustus, or the this is this Seal of the emperor, you certainly wouldn't want to break that seal. No one could break that seal unless he was the person to whom it was addressed, you see. That's the whole idea. And if that seal was broken, then you know somebody's opened this. You couldn't really open it without breaking the seal So so what we're s what God is saying here is that He has put His royal seal upon believers. When you put your faith in Jesus, when you say, God, I know I'm a sinner and I'm sorry and I believe that Jesus died on that cross and rose again and I want him as my savior and you you believe in him, he seals you, he sets you apart. You are safe, in other words. Nobody's going to break that seal. All those who put their faith in Christ have been sealed by him, by God, and not even the devil can tamper with that seal. You see, that's what the Lord is saying there. And then you have those passages which speak about the merit of Christ's sacrifice. He became sin for us, he who knew no sin. 2 Corinthians 5:21. He became sin for us. He bore our sins in his own body. He gave his life a ransom for many. Now think about it, if Jesus bore our sins and paid our ransom, Then what sin can we possibly commit after salvation that will nullify that great redemption? Do you suppose that his payment was somehow ineffectual? Do you think that uh that maybe there were insufficient funds in his account? He's paid your debt and he's paid it in full if you're a believer in Christ. And then you have those passages that speak about salvation by grace. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, the most familiar one to us, by grace are you saved through faith. It's not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. By grace. R. L. Dabney , great Presbyterian theologian, put it this way: God knew when he bestowed grace upon the sinner that there was nothing in him worthy of merit. That he was ungodly and depraved. The causes for which God determined to bestow his electing love on the sinner are wholly in God and not in the believer. Hence nothing in the believer's heart or conduct Can finally change that purpose of love. In other words, how big a sin is needed to condemn a true believer in Christ? Would lying do it Well, Abraham lied to Pharaoh, swearing. Apostle Peter in the courtyard swore, the courtyard of the high priest Caiaphas swore that he didn't know Jesus and took God's name in vain, evidently Sinful pride? What about Moses striking the rock? Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Sinful pride that came upon him, even though he was a meek man. Adultery, King David. Murder, King David. He permitted, he coveted both. But his prayer of repentance was not, Lord, save me again, as you saved me before, but restore to me the joy of your salvation Because I've lost it. I've lost the joy. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. What about all those things the Bible says about sonship? John 1 verse 10. As many as received him to them he gave the authority to become sons of God. Romans 8. 14, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. 1 John 3. 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. As Puritan Thomas Watson put it, God may for a time desert his children, but he will never disinherit them. That's good. We're his covenant children. We're members of the family of God. Hodge writes, God's love in this respect is compared to a parental love. A mother doesn't love her child because it's lovely. Her love leads her to do all that she can to render So the love of God, being in like manner mysterious, unaccountable by anything in its objects Secures his adorning his children with the graces of his spirit and arraying them in all the beauty of holiness. And then he writes this, it is only the lamentable mistake that God loves us for our goodness that can lead anyone to suppose that his love is dependent. on our self-sustained attractiveness. Isn't that good? Say it again. It is only the lamentable mistake that God loves us for our goodness That can lead anyone to suppose that his love, God's love, is dependent on our self-sustained attractiveness. And then you have all those things that the Bible says about the new birth. Unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God, Jesus said, John 3. 3. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. You who were dead have been made alive. Ephesians 2. You who were dead are now alive. Theologian Lorraine Bettner put it this way. Regeneration, the new birth, is a radical and supernatural change of the inner nature through which the soul has been made spiritually alive. And the new life which is implanted is immortal. And since it's a change in the inner nature, it is a sphere in which man does not have control. No creature is at liberty to change the fundamental principles of its nature, for that is the prerogative of God, the Creator. That is the prerogative of God as Creator, he wrote. Hence, nothing short of another supernatural act of God could reverse this change and cause the new life to be lost. You've been born from above. You've been given a new nature. Just say it was an apple tree, but God changed the nature. Now it's an orange tree. You're different. You're a new creation. And then you have the scriptures that say we're members of the body of Christ. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? 1 Corinthians 6. 15. Your body is a member of Christ, if you're a believer. Puritan William Gurnal said, Christ and his members make one Christ. Now is it possible that a peace of Christ shall be found at last burning in hell? Can Christ be a a crippled Christ? Can this member drop off and that member drop off? How can Christ part with any of his mystical members? And not with his glory. Then you have all that the Bible says about the covenantal relationship God has with us. God said he would make a new covenant with his people in which he would write his law on their hearts. I will make an everlasting covenant with them that I will not turn away from doing them good, and I will put my fear in their hearts, so that they will not depart from me. Jeremiah 3240. a covenantal God who made that promise with uh to his people. And then you have those verses that very plainly say that Christians are safe in Christ. This is the will of him who sent me, that of all he has given me I should lose nothing, Jesus said, but should raise it up at the last day He won't lose any of those the Father has given to him, John 6. 39. Paul wrote to the church in Philippi, he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Philippians 1:6. The Bible says, our citizenship is in heaven. That's where our real citizenship is, and that's how God views us as citizens of heaven, who are still here for a time. We're described as a tree that will not wither, cedars that flourish on Mount Lebanon, Mount Zion, which cannot be moved. We're called the bride of Christ. Thomas Watson wrote, When God calls a man, he doesn't repent of it. God does not, as many friends do, love one day and hate another, or as princes who make their subjects favorites and then afterwards throw them into prison. This is the blessedness of a saint. His condition admits of no alteration. God's call is founded upon his decree, and his decree is immutable, unchangeable. Acts of grace cannot be reversed God blots out his people's sins, but not their names. The late Bible teacher J. Vernon McGee told it in his plain spoken way. Uh he told about talking to a Texas sheep rancher. Uh he said he had uh two thousand sheep and someone had to be watching them all the time. If two little sheep go over the hill and get a half mile from the flock, they're lost. They can't find their way back by themselves. The only way in the world they can be safe is for the shepherd to be there. If a wolf would come up and eat one of the little sheep, you'd think the other one would be smart enough to say, he ate my little brother, I'm going to go back over the hill and join the rest of the flock No, he doesn't know where to go. All he does is go bah and run around and wait to be dessert for the wolf Uh a sheep is stupid, McGee said. Neither has a sheep any way to defend himself. A sheep can't even outrun his enemy, right? They're not like gazelles If the sheep is safe, it's not because the sheep is clever or smart, it's because he has a good shepherd. Amen? The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. That's where our security lies. Not in our ability to keep ourselves saved. But wait a minute, aren't there passages that suggest the believers can be lost? Well, yeah, there are some that suggest that. Uh they could be understood to teach that, but we're not to develop a doctrine based upon a handful of texts, particularly when they appear to conflict with the clear teaching of Scripture. Hebrews 6, for example, for it's impossible for those who are once enlightened and have tasted the heavenly gift and become partakers of the Holy Spirit. And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, if they fall away, it is impossible, this point is, to renew them again to repentance. since they crucify again for themselves the Son of God and put him to an open shame. Now that that could certainly be understood to say that I guess I guess That could happen to us. But note the author of Hebrews goes on to say, but beloved, he's writing to believers, we are confident of better things concerning you. Yes, things that accompany salvation. Well, think about Judas. He was enlightened. He had tasted the heavenly gift. He became a partaker of the Holy Spirit. He went out casting out demons and healing diseases. He had certain gifts that God had bestowed upon him. But ultimately, he went out from them because he was not of them. 1 John. Nowhere in Scripture is one declared to be definitely saved and then subsequently lost. Although, as I say, there are clear examples like Judas and Demas, and all those seeds sown upon the th thorny ground, Uh there are pictures in Scripture of those who claim to be saved, and even seem to be saved, who will say to Christ in the final day, You know, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out demons, etcetera? And then Jesus will say to them, I never knew you. They were never truly his. That's the point. Satan himself can be transformed into an angel of light And the scripture speaks of apostates, of sows , wash that returned to their wallowing in the mire. But they were evidently never anything but sows. What about those passages that warn Christians not to fall? There are passages that warn us not to fall, to beware, to examine ourselves, to prove ourselves, etc. Well, these are like danger signs in front of faulty bridges that the road department puts up. Or roadblocks. They're the means the road department uses to keep us from going over the bridge and falling into the water or whatever God's warnings are like fences to keep the sheep in the pasture. Here's an example. Remember the account of Paul's stormy journey to Rome, recorded for us in the latter books of Acts? The angel said to Paul, do not be afraid, Paul. Remember there was a great storm and everybody on the ship feared they were going to die, and it certainly looked that way. But the angel said to Paul, do not be afraid, Paul. You must be brought before Caesar. And indeed, God has granted you all those who sail with you. Evidently Paul was interceding, Lord, spare us, spare these men, don't let them perish because of me or whatever. uh because of your plan in my life or whatever, but uh God has granted to you all those who sail with you. And then the angel said, unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved In other words, warning the men to remain in the ship, and that's what Paul did. Remember, he went and spoke to the captain and he spoke to the men. Look, you must stay on board. Don't get off. Don't grab a piece of uh what is it, flotsom and try to uh uh get to the shore. Don't do that. They warned the men to remain on the ship. Well, that was one of the means the Lord was using to preserve their lives, which he had already determined and decreed he was going to do. What I'm saying is warning his children to beware of falling is one of the primary means God uses to do what he's already determined to do, keep us from falling. Just as a parent, uh uh many of you are parents, you you have no intention of allowing your child to get so close to the road that uh that he's hit by a car, and one of the ways you pro pre uh preserve him from that uh unfortunate event is to is to warn him or her don't play by I don't want you to go past this tree. See this tree here? Don't play on that side of the tree. You have no intention of allowing him to be hit, struck by a car, and you're going to do all in your power to prevent it. One of the ways you do is you warn him not to get close to the road. It's objected. Now, this doctrine of eternal security encourages people to sin. Spurgeon put it this way. How does a true Christian respond when someone says, Well, you're going to heaven anyway? You can live as you please. I wish I could live as I please, because I desire to live altogether without sin. I wish to be so perfect even as my Father. I wish to be perfect even as my Father in heaven is perfect. In other words, and get this now, you may be sure that anyone who purposely or thoughtlessly sins, because he thinks he is saved, he is not saved at all. Let me say that again. You may be sure that anyone who purposely or thoughtlessly sins because he thinks he's saved is not saved at all. If you're truly saved, the Holy Spirit is living inside of you, and you don't want to sin. Now you do sin, right? We do mess up. I do get angry. I say things I don't mean. I do get proud or lustful or hateful or but I don't want it And if I could have my way, I wouldn't sin again. Right? That's what Paul said. Evil things I don't want to do, I find myself doing at times. The good things I don't want to do, the good things I want to do, I don't do I I get the struggle going on inside of me. But anybody who walks around saying, Well, I'm saved, I got that card in my wallet, now I can live like the devil and it doesn't matter Well, he doesn't know the first thing about what salvation is. He came to save his people from their sins, not to keep his people in their sins. The true regenerated believer loves his Savior and he hates to grieve him. He's been called to holiness. The fact is, those who have believed down through the ages, those who have believed most firmly in this eternal security, have been those who have lived the most godly lives. Consider, for example, those who became known as the Puritans. I shared before this account from N. S. McFetridge in his book Calvinism and History. Listen to this. Amongst all the people in the American colonies. The Puritan Calvinists of New England stood morally without peers. They believed with all their soul in a just God, a heaven and a hell. They felt in the innermost core of their hearts that life was short and responsibilities were great. Hence their religion was their life. All their thoughts and relationships were imbued with it. Not only men, but beasts also, animals, were made to feel its favorable influences Cruelty to animals was a civil offense. In this respect, they were two centuries in advance to the bulk of mankind. They were industrious, frugal, and enterprising, and consequently affluence followed in their path and descended to their children and their children's children Drunkenness, profanity, and beggary were things little known to them. They lived long and happily. They reared large and devoted families. And then you may remember this. It is further to be remembered as a diadem upon the brow of Calvinistic morality that in all the history of the Puritans, there is said to have been not one case of divorce. What a crying need there is for some such influence today. Lawlessness in general was scarcely, if ever, more unknown than among the Puritans If then, here's his point, if then Calvinism was actually unfavorable to morality as charged, it would indeed be a strange coincidence that where there has been the most of Calvinism, there has been the least of crime. Now, when we deny this truth, that we're kept by the power of God, our attention becomes focused off of God's grace and onto our own personal keeping power. We think, Jesus saved me, but I have to keep myself saved. If I'm not faithful, I may be lost. If we think this way, we're stealing Christ's glory. So then, how do we account for those people who appear to be believers, give evidence of being a believer, and then fall away and deny the Lord? Well, either, number one, they are true believers who have fallen into sin, and they will repent and return, as the Apostle Peter repented of denying the Lord, as David repented. of his lust and adultery and murder. They have or, secondly, they have never truly repented and laid hold upon Christ, and therefore they've never truly been born again. It's one of those two cases. So when you embrace this truth, the truth that believers are safe in the Lord's hands, at least two things happen. First of all, Christ receives his rightful honor in your heart. Not only did he save me, but he keeps me. He kept me yesterday. He's keeping me today. He'll keep me tomorrow. And he gets the glory for that. It's all his grace, you see. It's not any any good thing that I've done. It's God's free grace bestowed upon a sinner who deserves hell. So when you understand this truth, Christ receives his rightful honor in your heart, and you receive God-given peace. The shepherd holds me in his arms. No one can pluck me out of his hands. Not even Satan himself. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, or sword? No, that all these things were more than conquerors through him that loved us. Paul said, I'm persuaded neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing. shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen? That's a comfort. That's a joy. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? Now you may respond, well, yeah, that's fine, but of what benefit to me is the truth that sheep will never perish unless I can know that I'm a sheep? Right? How do I know I'm a sheep? Well, if you have any doubts about that, you may want to read that little uh letter just before Revelation. This is James, John, Jude, Revelation, near near Revelation. Read 1 John 1 John. It won't take you long. 10-15 minutes. In short, 1 John tells us, how do we know our experience? Have I repented and laid hold upon Jesus Christ alone? Our consciousness, do I have an understanding of the gospel? Am I trusting in Jesus alone? Do I have a love for the Lord? Do I have a love for the brethren? Do I have a hatred of sin? Do I have a hunger for the word? Do I have a concern for the lost? And then our actions, they help to determine if we really know Him. Do I demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit? Am I willing to confess Christ openly? Christian, rejoice in this truth. As much as you try, as much as you may strive to live a holy life, you may deny him, as Peter did. You may forsake him as the disciples did. You may dishonor him as King David did. You may fail him miserably and bring reproach upon his name. But he says If you're his child, I have loved you with an everlasting love. I will never leave you nor forsake you. You're in the arms of the Good Shepherd, and his is a love that will not let you go. You have an inheritance that is incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away, that's reserved in heaven for you. You are kept by the power of God. through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed at the last day. Jesus said, because I live, you shall live also. Take comfort in this, Christian If you're Christ, you will persevere. You are eternally secure in the arms of your good shepherd. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, give us comfort as we meditate upon this. And Lord, once again I pray, if there be someone here today who was, as many of us were uh some years ago, still outside of Christ. without any certainty of his eternal state. Lord, please speak to that heart as you spoke to ours. Open those blind eyes as you did ours. Breathe upon those dry bones as you breathe upon our dry bones, and may there be life there, Lord. Regenerate, empower, draw souls to Christ through the power of your eternal word. And Lord, those of us who are yours, may we rejoice in your keeping power. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.