Because it corresponds to the day when Christ, ending his three years of ministry, accepted the adulation of the multitudes of disciples who had gathered there in Jerusalem for the Passover feast. and entered the city, riding upon a donkey, upon a colt, a foal of a donkey. And the people came out and they waved the palm branches before him, and they took their clothing and put it in his path, as we would roll out a red carpet today. And they cried out, Hosanna, save us, save us , son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. But as significant as that event was, it really pales in comparison to the most important thing that happened that week. leading up to the glorious resurrection. And that is, of course, the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. We considered the triumphal entrance a few months ago in some detail as we preach through Mark chapter eleven. But it's been many years since we meditated on the crucifixion as it is presented to us prophetically in Psalm twenty two. So I'd like to ask you to turn there now, please. Psalm Twenty two. Let's read the first twenty one verses My God, my God, why have you forsaken? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groaning? O my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear, and in the night season and am not silent. But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted and you delivered them. They cried to you and were delivered. They trusted in you and were not ashamed. But I am a worm and no man, a reproach of meant and despised by the people. All those who see me ridicule me, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, he trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him, let him deliver him, since he delights in him. But you are he who took me out of the womb. You made me trust while on my mother's breast. I was cast upon you from birth, from my mother's womb, you've been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, where there is none to help Many bulls have surrounded me, strong bulls of Bation have encircled me, they gape at me with their mouths like a raging and roaring lion. I'm poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax, it has melted within me. My strength is dried up like a potchard. My tongue clings to my jaws. You have brought me to the dust of death. For dogs have surrounded me. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far from me. O my strength, hasten to help me. Deliver me from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild oxen. You have answered me let's pray. Father, as we approach this holy ground, we pray for your Holy Spirit. To do what only your Holy Spirit can do. Apply these words to our hearts. Draw souls to Christ. Open blind eyes give flesh to formerly stone hearts. Lord, please, use your word. It's powerful. It's living. We pray that uh it might might accomplish that for which it's been sent this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. All scripture is holy ground for the believer. But as we approach Psalm 22, we are in a sense entering the inner sanctum. The Holy of Holies. For it could be argued that no place in Scripture presents the anguish and grief of our Savior as he suffered for his bride. for his church, for his sheep, more clearly than this psalm, written about a thousand years before the crucifixion. The human author of the Psalm was David, the shepherd king of Israel. And on one level, it describes David's afflictions But as the Holy Spirit superintended the writing, all scriptures God breathes, 2 Timothy 3. 16, this psalm prophetically pictures the sufferings of the Lamb of God. Spurgeon said, as the star is concealed by the light of the sun, he who sees Jesus in this psalm will probably neither see nor care to see David. Look at verse 1 once again. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groaning? Immediately here we're ushered in to the very heart of the Savior's suffering. The cause of his greatest pain, the agony of soul that overshadowed the abandonment by his friends and the cruelty of his enemies. Behold, if there be sorrow like unto his sorrow. Here the psalmist uses in Hebrew the very words which Jesus will cry out from the cross in Aramaic ten centuries later. Eli Ali Lama Samatari, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? We can never fully grasp the great anguish of soul that the Lord Jesus experienced, of course. We could consider the grief of a well-loved son. who had always known his father's pleasure, his father's favor, who had ever experienced his father's delight , To suddenly, for no fault of his own, feel his father's love and support withdrawn from him. We can sort of get our minds around that We can imagine how devastating that would be, but of course, even well-loved sons very early experienced some degree of their father's displeasure. The first time they disobey him, the first time they cross the line that he draws for them, and on all subsequent occasions of insubordination. The great difference here, of course, is that the Lord Jesus always pleased his Father. Morning, noon, and night, day in, day out, Jesus pleased his father in thought, word, and deed. And not for a decade. Or two or three, but from the beginning of time. And even at the cross, he's in the process of pleasing his father by being obedient unto death. And what does he feel? Not his father's pleasure, but rather the loss of his father's presence. He feels alone. He feels forsaken. There's no solace, no mercy, no support, no comfort from the God of all comfort. Why are you so far from helping me? Why are you so far from the words of my groaning? He's in such anguish that his speech has failed him, and he simply groans. Look at verse 2. Oh my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear, and in the night season, and am not silent. Through that long night of Gethsemane, when his soul was exceedingly sorrowful even unto death, Scripture says. Through the trial and mocking, the scourging, the day of the crucifixion itself, he's cried out to God, but he receives no reply What does the father hear from him now that he hears nothing from his father? Verse 3 But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel. When God doesn't seem to answer prayer, it's not because he's unfaithful. It's for a reason we may not as yet understand. Our fathers trusted in Jesus They trusted and you delivered them. They cried to you and were delivered. They trusted in you and were not ashamed. God intervened for Abraham when he was called to sacrifice Isaac. God intervened for Hannah when she despaired having no child. God intervened for Joseph. When it was clear apparently that he was abandoned. God intervened for Moses, Elijah, Daniel, Jeremiah, Ruth, whatever the trial, whatever the crisis, God either delivered them from it or strengthened them and sustained them in it. But not Jesus at Calvary. Verse 6. But I am a worm and no man. A reproach of men and despised by the people. Spurgeon writes, this verse is a miracle in language. How could the Lord of glory be brought to such abasement as to be not only lower than the angels, but even lower than men? What a contrast between I am and And I am a worm. He felt himself to be comparable to a helpless, powerless, downtrodden worm, passive while crushed, unnoticed, and despised by those who trod upon him. Of reproach of men and despised by the people. The most loving Most merciful, most gracious, most compassionate, the most honest, the most holy man who ever lived is despised by the people. Verse 7. All those who see me ridicule me. They shoot out the lip. They shake the head, saying he trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. Priest and people, Jew and Gentile, soldier and civilian, laughing at the very Son of God, shooting out the lips, shaking their heads, gestures of contempt. What hatred is this? What virulence You and I know that however despised a condemned man may be, it's a very rare thing for him to be reviled at his own execution. Few men are so heartless as to mock a dying man's prayers. And yet when Jesus cried out to God, the spectators mocked. Listen to Matthew chapter 27 and verse 39. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, You who destroyed the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross Likewise, the chief priests, also mocking with the scribes and elders, said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. And then listen to this next verse and let's compare it to what we read in Psalm 22. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. Psalm 22, verse 8. He trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. What it was this hatred, this uh animosity, this callous, venomous wrath uh emanating from, if not, from uh from the pit of hell. Even the scribes, who probably had Psalm 22 committed to memory, didn't realize they were playing the part in this divine drama of the persecutors of the Messiah. So effective is Satan, the master of deceit, that he makes wickedness look like righteousness. So that even those involved in the most evil plot ever devised by man somehow feel good about themselves in the process Convinced they're somehow pleasing God, defending his honor, while in the process of slaying and mocking his own dear son Listen well. If you allow your feelings, your thinking, your judgment to govern your actions, rather than the eternal word of God , You are then subject to any thought that the enemy of your soul can implant in your mind. It's the entrance of God's Word that gives us light When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. Note that the persecutors at Calvary were representative of all of us. All those Jesus came to save, both Jews and Gentiles were represented here. His own people, the Jews, plotted his death and mocked him. The Gentiles were the ones who were unlawfully executing him. Look at verse 9. But you are he who took me out of the womb. You made me trust while on my mother's breast. I was cast upon you from birth, from my mother's womb, you've been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, there is none to help. Here Jesus pleads his faithfulness from his earliest days. Will you forsake me now? You who have supported me from my youth? Be not far from me. Trouble is near. There is none to help He yearned for the assurance of his father's presence, the comfort of his father's spirit, which he had long known. He yearned for God to be a present help in time of trouble. We can endure all manner of pain and grief if we know God is with us. But for the Lord Jesus, there was no None to help. Look at verse 12. Many bulls have surrounded me. Strong bulls of Bation have encircled me. They gape at me with their mouths like a raging and a roaring lion. Jesus experienced the horror of a man surrounded by powerful, threatening animals, strong bulls or raging lions. Bashin, we understand, was a fertile country where the cattle grew large and strong. The priests, elders, and scribes, the Pharisees and rulers of the Jews circled and bellowed around the cross like angry bulls or roaring lions. He saved others. Himself he cannot save. The implication was, of course, he didn't really save anybody. How long they had waited for this moment when he healed a man with a withered hand in the synagogue on the Sabbath day, three years before. At the very beginning of his public ministry, we read that, quote, the scribes and Pharisees discussed with one another what they might do with Jesus. Three years before Luke 6. They didn't like the fact that Jesus healed on the Sabbath day. They didn't like him associating with tax collectors and sinners. He didn't fast every time they did. They called him a glutton, a wine bibber. He didn't follow their traditions. His disciples didn't ceremonially wash before every meal. As the Pharisees did. He permitted his disciples to pluck grain as they walked through fields on the Sabbath. Fine according to God's law, but a violation of the rules That the Pharisees had laid down, the scribes. He cast out demons, they said, because he was in league with Satan. He had the audacity to claim to forgive sins Of course, they were aware, none but God can do that. And instead of telling the people to follow their example, instead of giving the scribes and elders the deference to which they thought they were entitled. He had the gall to rebuke them. He called them hypocrites, blind leaders of the blind. How they resented him, this young unschooled upstart. For three years they slandered him. For three years they tried to silence him. For three years they tried to trap him in his own words. And finally, this was their day of revenge, their moment of glory. And they gaped at him like a raging, roaring lion. Look at verse 14. I'm poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It's melted within me. My strength is dried up like a potter. My tongue clings to my jaws. You brought me to the dust. Here our attention is turned from a description of his enemies to his personal condition. He says, I'm poured out like water. I'm utterly spent. All my bones are out of joint. What a depiction of death upon the cross. My heart is like wax. It's melted within me. His agony made him feel like he was melting from the inside out. Like wax in heat. My strength is dried up like a potchard, like a shard of uh pottery, like a a a broken pot. A piece of a broken a pot. As the paschal lamb roasted in the fire, the flames of God's justice consumed all his strength My tongue cleaves to my jaws. Remember how he cried out on the cross, I thirst. You brought me to the dust of death. He wrestled with death, it's been said, until he rolled into the dust with his antagonist. Poured forth like water is my frame, my bones asunder start, as wax that feels the searching flame within me melts my heart My withered sinews shrink unstrung, like potter, dried and dead, cleaves to my jaws my burning tongue, the dust of death, my bed. Verse 16. For dogs have surrounded me. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Dogs have surrounded me as uh uh hunters surrounding their game in an ever-tightening circle. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. feet. The physical pain of crucifixion is too horrible to contemplate. What evil lurks in the hearts of man that we should devise such a barbarous way of executing such Someone. It would normally take two or three days to expire upon a cross. And the fact that it was the means used to kill the very Son of God makes this man Mankind's most vile of crimes. It's a wonder the earth didn't open up and swallow up all these revilers of God's sinless, spotless Son. He's looking at himself upon. I can count all my bones. He looks out upon his torn, exposed body. He can see his own skeletal frame. And they look and stare upon me. This was execution in a most public place, and unholy eyes were now gazing on the Savior 's nakedness. We read in Matthew, sitting down, they watched him there. This was the show. They were enjoying this. And sitting down, they watched him there. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. We read in John 19: then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts to each soldier apart. And also the tunic. Now the tunic was without seam, woven from the top in one piece. They said therefore among themselves, let's not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. It wouldn't be worth much if they tore it all up and each got a fourth of it. So let's just cast lots and see whose it will be. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots So as the sinless son of God dies, his executioners are dividing up his meager personal effects. nineteen But you, O Lord, do not be far from me. Oh my strength, hasten to help me. Deliver me from the sword, my precious from the power of the dog God. save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild oxen and then you have answered Here's another passionate plea for God's intervention. Notice not for the destruction of his enemies, but for strength. Those hours on the cross must have passed like an eternity for the Holy Son, yearning for the trauma to end, for God's face to shine upon him once again. And the cry, Save me from the lion's mouth, reminds us of our adversary, the devil, who goeth about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And then these words, you have answered me. They may parallel Jesus' final cry upon the cross. It is finished You have answered me. It is finished. It's done. The debt's been paid. The agony is energy. And then it's been suggested that the rest of the song, we didn't read it this morning, but insofar as it's prophetic, it may represent the resurrected Christ giving praise to his father. It goes on, I will declare your name to my brethren in the midst of the assembly I will praise you, verse 22. And you could read that. The rest of the the psalm and picture the risen Christ declaring what the Father had done for him. Now let's underscore some truths before we leave this amazing passage. First of all I guess most obviously, those who disregard the Bible, dismissing it as simply the work of men , must explain, the onus is upon them, to explain how David, without divine inspiration Could so accurately describe Christ's agony upon the cross long before crucifixion as a means of execution was ever devised in the sinful heart of man. And while they're at it, they must explain how Isaiah could know that the coming servant of God would be despised and rejected of men. Wounded for our transgressions, cut off from the land of the living, making his grave with the wicked crucified between two thieves, but with the rich in his death buried in a rich man's tomb. Isaiah 53. While they're at it, they'll have to explain how Zechariah could write hundreds of years before what we call Palm Sunday. That verse that Pastor Nick read earlier, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just in having salvation, lowly and riding on a donkey. Zechariah nine. Those who dismiss the Bible as merely the words of men must explain how the prophet Micah could declare that the one who would be king in Israel, the one whose goings forth have been from old, from everlasting Would be born in Bethlehem. Micah 5. I have to explain how Isaiah could, without divine inspiration, declare 700 years before Christ's coming Therefore, the Lord himself shall give you a sign, behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and you shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. Isaiah 7. 4T. And then secondly, Psalm 22 as the crucifixion itself Certainly brings home to us, doesn't it, the depravity of the human heart It 's shocking to see what humans can do to others. But it's horrifying to realize that I'm capable of the same crime as those who crucified Jesus. Some of you may remember when uh journalist uh Terry Anderson was held captive by terrorists in Lebanon. He was ultimately released, and he said after his release that He saw much in his captors, of course, that he despised, and he was, indeed, repulsed by them. And yet he said, In a strange way, there was nothing in them I had not also seen in myself. If you have any illusions about the basic goodness of mankind, take a long, hard look at the cross And then take a look at the envy and the jealousy and the pride and the selfishness in your own heart. Ye who think of sin but lightly, nor behold the evil great. Here at the cross, here may view its nature rightly, here its guilt may estimate Mark the sacrifice appointed. See who bears the awful load. Tis the Christ, the Lord's anointed. Son of man, son of God. The cross peels away sin's attractive mask so we can see it as the monster that it is. And then Psalm 22 grants us some insight into just how much our Savior suffered for us. When we read of his internal sufferings, his weakness, his thirst, his loss of dignity, the pain of the piercing, the exposure, the mocking from those of his own nation. As horrendous as all those sufferings are, it's clear that his greatest grief, the one that far surpassed all others in depth of heartache, was the fact that he was forsaken by his father. Father, I knew it was going to be bad. But this bad? Do I have to be totally alone? Without any comfort, without your peace, without your smile. The sky grew dark, the father hid his face, and Jesus was forsaken. Why? Because that's what sin deserves. How could a loving father do that? Because that's what you and I deserve to receive. receive. He was enduring in those hours on the cross what you and I deserve to endure for all eternity. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid upon him the iniquity of us all. God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The Son of Man has come to give his life a ransom for many. He bore our sins in his own body on the tree. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities, Isaiah 53. God made his soul an offering for sin. God's holiness requires that sin be punished. Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book. Exodus 32 The soul that sins must die. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Whoever keeps the whole law yet offends in one point is guilty of all. Our God is a consuming fire The torment of Christ alone, forsaken, receiving the wrath of a holy God, allows us to glimpse into the anguish of a soul in hell. Jesus described hell as a place of wailing and gnashing of teeth, unquenchable fire. Do you wonder that God, the loving heavenly Father, could deal with his own dear Son as we read in Psalm 22? Friend, that is how he will deal with you if the blood of the Passover lamb is not applied to the door of your house. It's been well said, if the heart of Christ, the lion of the tribe of Judah, melted at it, what heart can endure what hands be strong when God deals with them in his wrath. And then Psalm 22 drives home the fact that the wheels of God's justice grind exceedingly fine The wheels of God's justice grind exceedingly fine. Note well, if there was any possible way for our sin to be overlooked For God's wrath to be assuaged apart from the sacrifice of his own dear son, surely Christ's sufferings would have drawn it out of the heart of his father. If it be possible, he prayed the night before, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. Bunyan put it this way, if he hides the sin, God is faulty. If he leaves it still upon us, we die. He must then take our iniquity to himself and make it his own. John Piper, in his wonderful little book, The Passion of Jesus Christ, writes. If God were not just, there would be no demand for his son to suffer and die. But God is both just and loving. Therefore, his love is willing to meet the demands of his justice. Now, it it may occur to you, well, why couldn't God just forgive our sin? Why did he require payment? Isn't that what forgiveness involves, not taking our pound of flesh? Not requiring full payment? Not getting even? Isn't it commendable to overlook an offense? If we can do it, indeed we're encouraged to do it, why does God not do it? Well, Piper is helpful here. He said, we all know that forgiveness is not enough. We may only see it clearly when the injury is great, like murder or rape. Neither society nor the universe can hold together if judges or God simply say to every murderer and rapist, Are you sorry? Okay, the state forgives you. You may go. In cases like these, we see that while a victim may have a forgiving spirit, the state cannot forsake justice. So it is with God's justice. All sin is serious because it is against God. He is the one whose glory is injured when we ignore or disobey or blaspheme Him. His justice will no more allow him simply to set us free than a human judge can cancel all the debts that criminals owe to society. Piper said this in another place. Sin is not small. Because it is not against a small sovereign. Finally, Psalm 22 drives home to our hearts not only the depth of man's sin, but the depth of depth of God's love. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. He so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. God demonstrates his own love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Behold, what manner of love the Father has given unto us, that we should be called the sons of God. How about you? Have you received this precious gift of God's love? Have you acknowledged yourself to be a sinner? Who's broken the laws of a holy God? Have you come to him and fallen down before him and cried out to him, God, be merciful to me, a sinner? Have you done that? Have you come to him as to him as a little child? He said, that's how you must come. Now with all your accomplishments and all your good deeds and your church membership and your blah blah blah. You come to him as a child, empty-handed. God be merciful to me a sinner. That is the one whose sins are forgiven. Not the proud Pharisee. I thank you, I'm not like this and I don't do that, and I'm much Better than so and so. Have you come to him that way? Have you cried out to him? God forgive me. God save me. Boys and girls, have you done that? I know many of you have parents who've done that. But have you done that? Have you said, God, I know sometimes I disobey and sometimes I hit my brother or sister, sometimes I don't obey mom. Sometimes I don't come when she calls. Sometimes I don't clean my room the way she wants me to, and I know I'm not doing it the way she wants me to, but I do it anyway. God, there's something wrong in my heart. I know it. I can see it Even a child is known by his doings, Scripture says. That same problem that moms and dads have, and sometimes they yell at each other, sometimes they're mean to each other, that's in every one of our hearts. It's inside of us. It's inside of you. But Jesus came to die so we could be forgiven. That means if you come to God and say, God, I'm sorry that I do bad things, I know I'm not perfect. And I I don't like it when I say those things and do those things, but God forgive me. I understand that Jesus kept that law perfect. The law that I break. He always loved you with all his heart. He always loved his neighbor as himself. He was always obedient. God, I believe that. I want Jesus as my Savior You come to God and you pray that prayer and you mean that in your heart. God says in His Word, all your sins will be forgiven. And He'll give you this perfect, precious gift of everlasting He'll forgive all your sins. He'll take you to heaven to be with him because of what Jesus Christ did for you. Lord, uh it always amazes us as we come to this psalm and meditate upon What was said of Jesus upon the cross, what so clearly foreshadows what was going to take place a thousand years later. Lord, uh most of all we pray for those who are here for each one. Those of us who are believers now, we lift up our hearts. Together for any who might be here outside of Christ. Please, Father. Save them this day. May this be the day when there's rejoicing In the presence of the angels of God over a sinner who repents. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.