Hey man, thank you, Clark. If you uh brought your Bible with you this morning, would you turn please to the Gospel of John chapter thirteen? John chapter thirteen And uh we'll begin at verse one. It's uh it's good to have Ken and Bobby Spicer with us this morning. They're here from uh, you know, they forsook us and went to the to live by the ocean. Don't come crying back to us now when the water levels rise and home is Well it's good to have you with us today. John chapter thirteen. Speaking of verse one. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come that he should depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And supper being ended, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand, and that he had come from God and was going to God, rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a towel, and girded himself After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. Then he came to Simon Peter, and Peter said to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing, you do not understand now, but you will know after this. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no part with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, He who is bathed Needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew who would betray him, therefore he said, You are not all clean. So when he had washed their feet, taken his garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who is Who sent him? If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. May God bless this uh portion of his word. I think I forgot to dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. I think some of them have already taken off. But uh let me remind remind you of that. Let's uh ask God's blessing upon his word. Let's pray. Father, this is your holy word, and we are your people, and we are hungry. We are in We are in need of nourishment. We're in need of edification. We're in need of uh conviction of sin And the repentance that only your Holy Spirit can bring. So use your word in our hearts this day. We ask it in Jesus' name for His honor, for His glory. Amen. Because Christ's triumphant entrance into Jerusalem took place on the first day of the Passion Week. The day we now call Sunday. It's common practice, of course, for pastors to preach on that dramatic event on what we call Palm Sunday each year But as significant as that day was when the multitude of the disciples welcomed Jesus into Jerusalem as their long-awaited Messiah. There were several other significant events that took place that week that don't receive as much attention in the pulpit simply because they didn't occur on the first day of the week. One of those is recorded for us only by the Apostle John. And it's been several years since we took a look at it. It's one of the very last lessons that Jesus taught his disciples. As you know, there were only a handful of men who actually lived with Jesus, traveled with him during those three years of his public ministry The twelve apostles were the ones who heard him daily, who observed his sinless nature firsthand, who were consistently eyewitnesses to his miracles. After Christ ascended to his father, it would have been a very, very easy thing, perhaps a very natural thing, for these men To be viewed by others, and perhaps even to begin to view themselves as quite exceptional After all, they alone were chosen out of the entire Jewish nation to be Christ's apostles, those set forth by him. They were personally discipled, personally gifted, personally sent forth as the Lord's ambassadors to a lost world, declaring repentance and remission of sin It wouldn't have been at all surprising if out of honor for Christ, others began exalting them above measure And the apostles themselves began to think that they were a cut above the typical follower of Christ, and thus that they should receive special treatment Shouldn't others show them deference? How many of them lived with Jesus for three years? Wouldn't certain tasks be beneath their dignity as ambassadors of the sovereign of the universe? After all, we are the chosen of God. Do not God's special chosen instruments deserve first-class treatment for God's sake? If Jesus is King of the universe, then we're members of his court. Should God's ambassadors not have the finest food The grandest homes , most comfortable travel arrangements, the largest offices. In view of such uh inclinations, something Jesus did on what would be his last evening with the apostles before His crucifixion must have come as a great shock to them. And the event was so striking that they would no doubt have thought back upon it whenever they were later inclined to think of themselves as something special. Or whenever they were tempted to be petulant or irritable at some real or imagined slight. And of course, meditation on this incident can help us as well The disciples had gathered, as you know, with the Lord Jesus for the Passover meal. They met in a large upper room that was provided by a resident of Jerusalem, a room that had been furnished and prepared for their use. It was at that meal that Jesus taught his followers to remember him through what we call the Lord's Supper. And it was at that meal that Jesus taught them something else, something that was recorded for us, as I said, only in John's Gospel. After they had shared a meal together, but evidently before the ceremonial Passover observance and the subsequent institution of The Lord's Supper, Jesus rose from supper, laid aside his outer garment, took a towel and a basin of water, and began to wash his disciples' feet. Now the washing of feet in their day was a common practice in the ancient Middle East. It was normally done in an entryway of a home. The affluent would have a servant who was given this task. As it was the monk uh among the most least uh as it was among the least desirable, a most humiliating of tasks, it was given to I guess you would call him the lowest servant on the totem pole. The practice, as you know, has survived uh in some places into modern times. You might remember me sharing this uh incident from The book Insights to Bible Times and Customs, written by G. Christian Weiss. He wrote, I was visiting the house of a district chieftain. in Morocco. We'd been preaching in a heavy, I'm sorry, in a nearby marketplace which was a sea of mud because of heavy rains. When we arrived, the servant was dispatched to wash our feet at the entrance. It's always humiliating for a servant to be assigned to wash a guest's feet, but for this Muslim to wash the feet of a despised Christian was doubly humiliating and irritating. And he said, if looks could kill, we would have had clean feet on dead bodies. Stephen Linda Byrd had the opportunity to visit Israel just last fall. And Linda noted that she can understand better now The necessity of foot watching in their culture because the terrain even today is so rocky and so dusty Look at verse 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew his hour had come that he should depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. I like what Matthew Henry said about this verse. He said, this is true of the disciples that were his immediate followers. in particular the twelve. These were his own in the world, his family, his school, his bosom friends, children, he had none to call his own, but he adopted them and took them as his own He had those that were his own in the other world, but he left them for a time to look after his own in this world. These he loves. He called them into fellowship with himself, conversed familiarly with them, was always tender of them and of their comfort and reputation. He allowed them to be very free with him. And bore with their infirmities. He loved them to the end, continued his love to them as long as he lived. And after his resurrection, he never took away his loving kindness. They were weak and defective in knowledge and in grace. They were dull and forgetful, and yet, though he reproved them often, he never ceased to love them and take care of them It's true of all believers, for these twelve patriarchs were the representatives of all the tribes of God's spiritual Israel. Note, our Lord Jesus has a people in the world that are his own. His own, for they were given him by the Father. He has purchased them and paid dearly for them, and he has set them apart to himself. Verse 2, and supper being ended, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Matthew Henry says, for Judas to betray such a master, to betray him so cheaply and upon no provocation was such downright enmity to God as could not be forged but by Satan himself, who thereby thought to ruin the Redeemer's kingdom, but did in fact ruin his own. Verse 3. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God. Alright, stop there for a minute. You might expect the very next verse to say, he sent for royal robes. He told the twelve to remain at a distance, to bow down and give him the honor that He was due. But look at it again. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he had come from God and was going to God God rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a towel, and girded himself. Knowing who he was Knowing that all power, all authority was granted him by his father, knowing that he must soon leave his disciples and return to his father He sought once more to convey to his dear brethren the lesson of humility which he had been trying to teach them now for some time. Verse 5. After that he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and wipe them with the towel with which he was Girded. According to custom, the disciples would have been reclining at the table. Imagine that our uh our communion table was It's only a few feet off the floor. And if we were it were had it would have to be much larger. And if we were to recline around it, then we rest on an elbow. Let's rest on our left elbow And uh and we would then uh take food with the right hand with our feet kinda extended out beyond the table. So you get the picture, that's the the the seating uh around arrangements apparently, so Jesus could easily then move along behind the disciples and wash each one's feet as they were reclining at table. Now you know how awkward it is for you to be reclining while someone comes around and uh and serves you. You know, I guess you can tolerate it if you're sick in bed, but uh it's It must have been very awkward for them and and of course to have the Lord Jesus Christ doing this for them was uh uh striking And so Peter, in verse 6, Peter, he came to Simon Peter, and Peter said to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? You, my king, my lord, my master, are you gonna wash my feet? And uh Jesus said to him If I do not wash you, you have no part with me. Lord, are you going to wash my feet? I have need to be baptized of thee. Comest thou to me? And Jesus says to him What I'm doing, you don't do not understand now, but you will know after this. Peter, look, the time's going to come when you'll understand why I'm doing this. Just allow me to do it. for the time being. Well, how did Peter respond? No, never, he said, verse 8. You shall never wash my feet. What? I will not permit it. I will not allow my Lord to so humble himself in my presence. Now that sounds quite noble, just as when Peter attempted to dissuade Jesus from going to the cross. But on both occasions, Peter was missing the big picture, first of all. He was attempting to interfere with the plan of God, and he was ignoring the very clear declaration. From the Lord Jesus himself that thus it must be. It must be so. You'll understand it later. In this case, Jesus had just told him that he was later understand. Verse 8 again, Jesus said, if I do not wash you, you have no part with me. Now here Jesus seems to move beyond the washing itself to the spiritual significance of the washing. And the fact is, as you know, as a believer, if Jesus doesn't wash you, you can have no part with him, right? No fellowship with him, no communion. He that has the Son has life. He that's washed in the blood of the Lamb. But if he doesn't wash you, you have no part with him. He that has not the Son has not life. You remember 1 Corinthians 6, such were some of you, but you were washed, you were sanctified. You're justified. You're washed. You've been washed if you're a believer in Christ. You're in the process right now of being sanctified. You've been justified. You'll ultimately Be glorified. That's why the Bible says, without holiness no man shall see the Lord. You have to be washed. But here Jesus doesn't seem to be referring so much to the initial cleansing. that takes place at our salvation, but rather to the continual confession and cleansing that goes on in our daily walk. The word John uses as he conveys in Greek what Jesus presumably said in Aramaic is nipto, which means primarily to wash a part of the body, such as the hands or the feet. If I don't wash you, you have no part of me. My parents used to say to their five children, wash up for supper. Go wash for supper or go wash for dinner. Now they didn't mean that we're all supposed to line up and each one take a shower. That would have taken a long time. They meant just wash your hands. Well that's what Jesus is saying here. If I don't wash you, you have no part with me. And he's using a word that refers to washing of the hands or a certain part of the body. The same word is used in Matthew 6. 17 when Jesus said in his Sermon on the Mount, When you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting. Verse 9, Simon Peter said to him, Well, Lord, in that case, Lord, uh do not uh not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Wash me all over them. Peter responds, in effect, if my relationship to you is based on washing, don't just wash my feet, wash my head and my hands This is a characteristic response of Peter. Lord, if it's really you walking on the water, allow me to walk out there too. When Moses and Elijah appeared on the mount talking with Jesus, it was Peter who suggested that they build three tabernacles to make the moment last. When after the resurrection the disciples perceived that it was Jesus on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, Peter's the one who jumped into the sea to swim the shore, although they were about a hundred yards away. Scripture says. Wash me all over, Lord. And then verse ten. Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet. But is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you. Jesus, still speaking of the spiritual reality that's pictured by the physical act of washing, says rather Cryptically, a man that is bathed only needs to wash his feet. Now he uses the word there, uh luo , John. as he writes the gospel, uses the word lual, that's a Greek word for bays. You may wonder why in England the bathroom was referred to as the loo. Well the origin of the term I looked it up this week it's It's uncertain, but I wouldn't be surprised at all if it came from this little Greek word for bath, in which case uh Gus, you'd be happy to hear that even in England people know a little Greek. A man who is bathed when he later walks through a muddy or dusty street, barefoot or with sand. doesn't need to bathe his whole body again. He only needs to wash his feet. Even so, once a man has been bathed by Christ, once a man has been justified, once a man has been forgiven, he doesn't need to be bathed again. However, as he walks through this world, he gets dirty and he frequently needs to wash. And you are clean. That is, you've been bathed You've been justified, you've been saved, you've been redeemed, but not all of you. He had to qualify it. Because, of course, Judas had not been bathed. He wasn't truly bathed regenerated. He wasn't truly born from above. He hadn't really been cleansed. And then he says to them, verse 12, do you know what I've done to you? Do you know what I've done to you? Do you understand? Do you see what I'm trying to teach you? That way that was uh yeah that was Do you know what I have done to you? And then he explains, you call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, or so I am. He's not denying that he's their teacher and their Lord If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I've given you an example that you should do as I have done. to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. Know these things, blessed are you if you do them. He drives home the spiritual message. Now, let me address this. Some Christians believe because of Christ's words, To the disciples in verse 14, If I then your Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet, that he intended that foot washing should be an ongoing practice in the church throughout the ages. Well here's why I don't think that's what he was indicating there. First of all, this was a cultural distinctive of ancient Middle Eastern countries, similar to the use of veils. If Jesus and his disciples had lived in, let's say, Minnesota, or Siberia, or perhaps Perhaps we can now say in Maryland, he might have knelt down to clean snow off of their boots. Secondly, this washing of feet was regularly done in homes already. It differs in that respect from the Lord's Supper, which he instituted as a new ordinance to be done regularly in his remembrance And thirdly, there's no indication that the apostles understood the washing of feet to be a continuing ordinance or sacrament. There's no uh reference to it ever being done in the New Testament church. The only time it's even mentioned after this is in Paul's instruction to Timothy about when it's appropriate to receive a widow among those who, because they have no family to care for them, are supported by the church. And there it's listed among other domestic duties. He says, let not a widow be taken into the number unto If she's brought up children, if she's lodged strangers, if she's washed the saints' feet. relieved the afflicted, diligently followed every good work. 1 Timothy 5. Now, before we consider the primary lesson of this passage, let's consider some secondary ones. And first of all, there's that precious little verse, What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will know after this. There's a good memory verse for you. What I am doing, you do not understand now, but you will know after this. It was true of many things that the apostles experienced, and it's of course true in our lives. You can underscore it, Christian. You can write it on the tablet of your heart. Whatever the trial is, whatever the the heartbreak, a wayward child, a cold hearted spouse , the the sudden loss of a job or of a home or of a marriage, the loss of someone dear. to you. You can mark it down what I am doing, the Lord says, you don't understand now, but you will know after this. Now that was certainly true in this case, but it's true. True in many things in the Christian life, isn't it? There's some answers that may not come for several years. There are some answers that you will not receive until you are in the place where you know as you are known. It's quite likely that some of those passengers on that German airliner that crashed into the Alps last week were believers in Christ. And or they had family members who were believers in Christ. Why did God permit that horrible event to happen? Certainly if he is in fact all powerful, he could have stopped it. Reports came out of Nigeria last week that the radical Islamic group that recently declared its allegiance to the so-called Islamic State Boko Haram has kidnapped several hundred more women and children in northeast Nigeria. The Nigerian government disputes those Reports, but we know that Boko Haram has has certainly kidnapped and or killed many believers over the past several years. Surely an omnipotent God could have intervened to prevent such Such atrocities to his children. There are quite a few things about which the Lord could say to his children what I am doing or what I am permitting to happen. You do not understand now, but you will know after this. Christ wants you to do his will because it is his will. He wants you to accept his providence because it is his providence. Not because you can necessarily see the reason for it. If you always saw the reason and you did his will only because you could see the reason, you wouldn't be walking by faith. You'd be walking by sight. Abraham, take your son Isaac, your only son, whom you love, and offer him as a sacrifice to me. But don't fret. Before you can harm him, an angel will intervene. How then will your faith be tried? How would God be honored by his child's faith in that case? Kings. Job, I'm going to take your family, your property, your health, all in one day. But don't be alarmed. I'm only demonstrating to Satan that you love me and that you trust me, and as soon as that point is made, I'll return all in greater abundance. Where then would be Faith. You say, if only I knew why, then I could I could handle it. Why the physical pain? Why the agony? Why the heartache? If only I knew why I could go on. If you knew why you'd be walking by sight, your trust in God would not be developed. Your faith would remain in its infancy. Your spiritual blessings and your graces would be ultimately diminished. Secondly, you'll notice Peter's misguided humility here. Lord, you'll never wash my feet. is misguided humility. Some permit a misguided humility to keep them from Christ. I can't believe that Jesus would accept me Me. I can't believe that my sins can be forgiven. You don't understand what I've done. I'm not worthy. Well, that in itself is a form of pride because it's making the basis of your acceptance with God your own worthiness. Or lack thereof, removing your salvation from the sphere of what he did and putting it into the sphere of what you've done. It's a subtle pride. It's in the guise of humility. I'm not worthy of heaven. Exactly right, you're not. In fact, you deserve hell. Well then I wouldn't uh I wouldn't go that far. That's precisely why Jesus lived and died because you don't deserve heaven. Because you do deserve hell Christians, well we have our own brand of false or misguided humility. I just can't do anything well for the Lord. I don't know what I can do for him. There's really nothing I can do for Christ. Well, that sounds humble, doesn't it? But it's not humility to deny God's word. It's the worst sort of hubris. And the scripture says the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one. You've got it. 1 Corinthians 12, 7. Now you are the body of Christ and members in particular. Every member has a part in the body. You say, well, I'm just a little finger. Well, a little finger has a part in the body. Well, I'm a liver. Well, a liver has a part in the body, pretty important part. You don't see it working, but you notice it when it's gone. Every member has a part in the body. Every member of the body should be serving in some way. Are you serving? And then this passage drives home the necessity of spiritual cleansing. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. Psalm 51. In Revelation 7. 14 we read that one of the elders in heaven told John the apostle that those who John saw in heaven in white robes carrying palm branches were those who came out of the great tribulation and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Have you been to Jesus for that cleansing flood? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? And then we see illustrated here that The difference between initial cleansing and daily washing. Some of us have a tendency, particularly when we're young in the Lord , to uh to ask God to save us over and over again. Young people do this. Uh I don't know if it took the first time. I I want to make sure. So we ask God to save us over and over again. But just as Christ made one sacrifice for our salvation, Even so, we need but one appropriation of that sacrifice, one experience in which genuinely repentant for our sinful nature and lifestyle, we ask God to save us through the sinless life and sacrificial death of our Of Christ, God's dear son. life. And when we receive him, the Lord Jesus, we're forgiven, we're cleansed, we're adopted into the family of God. We're safe in his fold. He that believes in me has Everlasting life. John 6. 47. But as you know, after we're justified, even after we're declared righteous, because the righteousness of Christ has been imputed to us, placed upon our account. We continue to sin, don't we? The Holy Spirit of God is indwelling us, and He's begun the process of sanctifying us, and He He brings it to our minds when we sin and we start to keep short accounts with God. But we know that we still fail, we still fall short, we still sin daily. Our relationship with our Lord, although never broken, becomes strained because of our sin. When a son disobeys his father or a daughter disobeys her father or mother, grieves him in some way. The son or daughter doesn't cease to be a son or daughter, but the close communion, the fellowship may have to be restored. He who is bathed only needs to wash his feet, Jesus. Sometimes people wonder why we include a confession of sin in our worship service. Haven't believers already confessed their sins? Are they not already washed, already bathed? Well yes, of course. But as we walk through this life, what happens? Our feet get dirty As much as we may try to please our Savior, what do we do? I lose my temper. We say something unkind. We envy someone else's blessing. We covet, we lust, we gossip, we worry, we complain, etc. And sin interferes with our relationship with our Heavenly Father If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us, is the way John put it in his first letter, first epistle. But he continued, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And then you'll note that the process of sanctification is ascribed to the Lord here. He is the one who washes the disciples' feet. He is the one who cleanses us from sin. Yes, we utilize the means. He gives us prayer, scripture, worship, service, but the means of growth are from him. It's his spirit who convicts us, it's his spirit who brings us to repentance. So we cry out as King David did against thee, and thee only have I sinned, done this evil in thy sight. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He didn't lose the salvation. He lost the joy of his salvation. That's what sin does for the believer. It steals the joy of his salvation. And then, as we noted in our introduction, the apostles had the apostles, I meant to say, ever gotten the notion that they were somehow a cut above. If they ever began to think, after Christ's death and resurrection, that they were entitled to some special treatment That any task was beneath them. You want me to help with that? I'm an apostle. Or that ambassadors of the king, if they ever began to think that uh they should be treated as royalty, this act of their master, as well as the humble circumstances in which they labored with him for three years. would no doubt correct them. How anyone who's ever read the New Testament could fall for the lie That God intends for all his servants to be healthy and wealthy is very difficult to comprehend. Fred Walker told me uh that he saw a TV evangelist recently who declared that the Lord had assured him, the evangelist, that whoever sent him a thousand dollars would receive himself one hundred times that. Now, I 'm not a mathematician, but it sounds like a lot of money to me. How's that working out for you, Fred? Actually uh Chuck Klein, Chuck Andy Bird, and uh Mike Davidson all kicked in, I think. Uh 250 bucks for that. And of course, uh, just this month, an evangelist announced that his ministry was in need because his 30-year-old private jet was no longer serviceable. And he did the math. If only 200,000 supporters would each give over $300, they could purchase the new $64 million Gulf Stream jet that they had their eye on Let's get it now. It's a bargain right now, sixty-four million. Now again, I'm not a math guy, but I did some simple arithmetic and it looks to me like for the cost of that jet, approximately sixty-four million, it might be some tax, you could spend five thousand dollars a day on commercial airfare for the next thirty years. Five thousand dollars a day. That should be enough to fly you anywhere, with the possible exception of the International Space Station. And then you have to factor in uh the cost of fuel. That's gotta cost something, maintenance, a crew for your ministry's Gulf Stream. When you factor that in, you could probably on any one of those daily $5,000 commercial flights have enough left over to buy a Subway sample. Challenge, though you don't get hungry. Or maybe a subway franchise. Maybe a subway. Thankfully, when the national media picked up the story, the soup hit the fan or the the geese hit the engine and the fundraising campaign for the time being was suspended. But here's what I'm wondering. How could any believer be deceived into thinking that that is a good use of the Lord's money? It's mind-boggling. Let alone 200,000. How could any believer be deceived into that? If the apostles ever got the idea that their position entitled them to certain comforts or privileges here, their minds would no doubt go back to that remarkable scene in the upper room when Jesus got down on his hands and knees and washed their feet And said to them, This is an example for you. The most important lesson here is the message of humility and servanthood. Do you understand what I have done? Jesus said. If the master can humble himself to serve the servants. Then surely the servants can humble themselves to serve each other. That's the message. A little later on in the evening, he said to them, A new commandment I give to you that you love one another as I have loved you. By this all will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. As we've seen in the Gospel of Mark, it wasn't very long before this incident that they were arguing among themselves about which of them Should be considered the greatest in the kingdom of God. And what did Jesus say? He would be great among you. Let him be your servant Let him be your servant. You want to be great in my eyes, Jesus says, serve others. He reinforced that message here. It's entirely possible, it seems probable to me, that they had come to that pathway. Passover feast with unwashed feet, because no one was willing to lower himself to actually do the washing. Well, I thought the master, I thought the guy that owns the place would have provided a servant to wash our feet. You know, one of the greatest blessings to me as your pastor is to witness or to hear of members of the body serving one another. It's one of the perks of the ministry. You get to hear about these things that not everybody in the church gets to hear about. As to how they're doing, letting them know they're praying for them. To to hear about members who bring meals to those who are sick. To uh to hear about uh brothers and sisters extending hospitality to one another. That does the pastor's heart good. And say, Well, you know, so and so had so and so over and so and so's fellowshipping with so and so and and to see people going up to people that are new in the church family, it's so easy to gravitate towards your friends because this is one of the few times you get to see your friends. What about the people in the church, the people that come to church that don't have friends here, that are new here? Who's reaching out to them? It does the pastor's heart good to see that happen To see those who've raised their own children caring for infants so their parents can worship without distraction. volunteering to teach a Sunday school class or help in youth group or some other ministry to children or adults. To s to to see someone going and ministering at a rescue mission. Or see someone in his eighties volunteering to teach English and to bring the gospel to immigrants in memory of his own father. Who spoke no English when he came to America? The Christian life is a life of humble service. Jesus said, I have given you an example that you should do as I have done. Let me remind you of the conversation between an Oxford tutor and one of his brilliant students that took place many decades ago now. When the professor learned that his student was intent upon going to Africa as a missionary, this Oxford Don, I guess they call him the Oxford Don Said to him, You're going out to die in a year or two. It's madness. The student responded, I think it is with African missions as with the building of a great bridge. You know how many stones have to be buried in the earth all unseen to be a foundation. If Christ wants me to be one of the unseen stones, Lying in an African grave, I am content, certain as I am, that the final result will be a Christian Africa. And in fact, that young man did die after only a year on the field, but today it is reported there are more Christians in Africa than in all of North America. Jesus said, whoever shall find his life shall lose it, but whoever shall lose his life shall find it. This is what so impacted the ancient world. Behold how these Christians love one another. And behold how they love and care for others. The world doesn't need to see Christians living as kings. The world needs to see Christians living as servants. This is, brothers and sisters, this is what Christ has called you to. Inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these, my brethren, ye did it unto me. This is your life's work. How well are you doing it? Let's pray. Lord, we do thank you for your word, and especially today we thank you for your For this precious example of our Lord Jesus. I pray that you'll drive it home to us, that you'll uh write it on the tablet of our hearts, and that we might uh Lord Live as servants, serving others for your glory. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.