Which is twenty-five to thirty-one. If you need the pew bible, you can see in the bulletin that is on page eleven thirty-five and eleven thirty-six. Let's pay careful attention to this this morning. It begins. Now, concerning the betrothed, I have no command from the Lord. But I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy. I think that in view of the present distress, it is good for a person to remain as he is. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But if you do marry, you have not sinned. And if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that. This is what I mean, brothers. The appointed time has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though they had none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning. And those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing. And those who buy as though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing away. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God indeed. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you to ask your blessing, Lord, on the reading of your word. Lord, as we seek to work our way through this passage, help us to understand not just the flow of the argument that Paul's been making in this passage. ha in this chapter as a whole. But Lord help us to understand what this means for us today. Lord, we need to understand it in its original context to the original audience, but also how it applies today. And Lord, how we are to continue to think about things like marriage and singleness in view of the world that you've called us to live in as Christ. Christians. Lord, we pray that you give us eyes to see, ears to hear, minds that understand, and hearts that can receive with joy what your word has for us today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, history and literature is full of questions that have interesting answers or the implications of those answers might be interesting. Some of the questions I could think of from history or literature might be um the f the question et to Brutai when Julius Caesar was being assassinated uh his friend Brut Brutus took part in that assassination, and as the knives are being thrust into his body, he is asking in surprise, and you too, Brutus Or maybe the question from literature y you might know from Shakespeare's Hamlet To be To be or not to be? That is the question. It's kind of open ended, isn't it? You could be or you could not be. You could live or you could die our passage before us asks another question which touches the way that we live. Should Christians marry? Notice the title. Yes and no. That's not a very satisfying answer, is it? It's open-ended. Should Christians marry? Well, most of us today, probably sitting here, would answer that the obvious answer is yes. But if we're honest, Paul did not think the o answer was so obvious. And inspired by the Holy Spirit to write this, as he says in Verse forty of our passage, we have to conclude that God Himself does not think the answer is obvious one way or the other as well. In fact there are good biblical reasons to get married, which I I don't think anyone is prepared to argue about. There are good reasons to get married biblically. But there are also good biblical reasons not to get married as well. And maybe some of you might want to argue about that. But here, Paul builds on two different strands of his argument thus far in chapter 7. In fact, if you go back to look at verse 8, you might remember he said, To the unmarried and to the widows, I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am. He picks up on why he says that here in this passage, and he will pick up on that in the next passage, which will come back to after this week. But he also argued that it was good for people to remain in the state in which they were called. We we saw that he said that in in verses 17 to 24. And and he highlighted whether you were call where whether you were called while married or whether you were called while single, he said, it really doesn't matter. What is important is that you remain as you were called, devoted to the Lord. Now what he does is in this passage, he ties those two strains together. This idea from verse 8 that it is good to remain single, and he builds on some reasons why here But he also inner weaves, I guess that's the right word, the idea that it's good to remain as you are as well. And he puts all of those strains together in this passage. And our main idea is this. Christians must remain steadfast in their calling. Because of the present distress and the passing nature of this world. If you're visiting with us this morning or you're unaware of how we do this, you'll see that idea printed right below the liturgy on page Page four, just under the middle of the page. Let me repeat that. That's the idea we want to unpack today. Christians must remain steadfast in their calling because, and notice the two reasons. Because of the present distress and because of the passing nature of this world. Just as he's trying to tie together two previous ideas, so he brings two points that unpack our main idea. Let's unpack this together. Let's look at verses 25 through 28 to see our first point, which I'm titling Singleness, Marriage, and the Present Distress. We see in verses twenty-five through twenty-six the preference of singleness in the present distress. Now notice again how he begins verse twenty-five with the words now concerning. Now concerning dot dot dot we we saw those same words in chapter seven verse one the beginning of our chapter and it shows that Paul here is answering a question or maybe a series of questions. That the Corinthians wrote to him about. Now, we don't know all the circumstances that led to these questions, so we're going to do our very best with what we have. But what we see in verse 25 is that this preference that Paul is going to lay out that he has cannot be commanded. Notice what he says in verse twenty-five. Now concerning the betrothed, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy. No, I I believe that the the question that they're asking is in in our title. Should Christians marry? And this tells us, in the way verse 25 begins, that the question about whether or not unmarried believers should get married was not a question that Jesus himself answered directly in his ministry by way of giving a command. I mean the closest thing we have is in Matthew 19, uh verses uh 10 through 12. He also deals with this in Mark chapter Chapter 10, which is the parallel passage, um, w 10. when he talks about, you know, some people make themselves eunuchs for the same And the disciples say, you know, if this is the way it is with a man and his wife, it's better to to not marry at all. And Jesus says, you know, not everyone can receive that, those words, but to him who can, let him receive them. That's the closest we come to Jesus talking directly about whether or not Christians should marry or not. But notice he doesn't give a command. And because he doesn't give a command, Paul here doesn't give a command either. There's no command that he has from the Lord, but Paul gives his opinion, so to speak. speak um as one, as he says, who's received the Lord's mercy and one who is trustworthy No, I find it interesting that the ESV translates that word betrolled the way it does. The original Greek word is virgin. And I think the term virgin is probably a better term to get at the sense of the passage because it has a wider application. When you talk about those who are betrothed, you're essentially talking about those who are already in an arranged situation that is going to lead But when you talk about virgin in general in the New Testament milieu, that first century uh use of that word, it's a broader term. It could be someone who's betrothed, but it could be someone who's just single and may not have a prospect in front of them for being married to. It's just talking about an unmarried person of a marriageable age, usually of women, but I think you can broaden the concept out here to men and women who are nonetheless single. And while Jesus again doesn't give a command to marry or stay single, Paul does give his judgment. That word judgment that the ESV renders is judgment. does mean opinion. But the fact that this judgment or opinion doesn't carry the force of a a explicit command that you must do this or that That doesn't really give us the freedom or the right to just dismiss what Paul is saying here and just pass it over as if it's not. We are called to pay attention to what he's saying. Because he's weighing in on a decision. And I want to make this very clear. This is not a moral decision. To marry or to not marry is not a moral decision. It is a circumstantial decision. It doesn't mean that there's no moral implications. It just means you are not more or less moral if you choose one option. Paul is very much arguing circumstantially here. Christians can marry Christians Christians can choose to stay single. And either way, morally speaking, and I would argue spiritually speaking, they're just fine one way or the other. But what we do find here in this passage, Paul does have a preference here that he makes very clear, and I believe he argues for his preference objectively. I think that's important. Let's look at verse 26. Let's unpack how he begins to argue this preference, because we see that his preference is informed by objective circumstances. Look at verse 26. He says, I think that in view of the present distress, it is good for a person to remain as he is. Very interesting. There's a few things that that fuel this preference. This preference is more than just thinking. Which i is ironic because of how he begins. Verse twenty six. When when Paul says I think, that word in Greek carries much more force, much more weight than than what we mean when we typically use the phrase I think. You talk to college students many times in academic settings. Uh at least I did with high school students ten years ago and you ask them a question that's designed to get them to think. And the answer that they often say is, well, I feel like well nobody cares how you feel. But even when people say I think today, they often just are reflecting on what they think is a matter of opinion. And Paul does not mean that here. He doesn't just simply use I think in that light-hearted way we do today. Um to express an opinion that may not always be well thought out. Intentionality to how he's thought this out. He's thought it through. He's given it consideration. And in Paul's case, I want you to draw draw this point very clearly here. out of the text. Because Paul is single, he is speaking to something that he has firsthand experience speaking about. And so his preference for singleness in this passage is born out of his own life experience. He's not just giving an uninformed opinion. He's speaking about something he's had to live with. At least for part of his life. So the preference is more than just thinking. term has greater weight than that. The preference is also good. And I think that's the second thing we need to see. He calls singleness good in this Now the original wording for this um in the original Greek i it's very choppy. It doesn't translate very well um into English word for word, but the best I can do is this. If I were to put this as literally as possible in English, verse 26 would say, Therefore, I consider that it is good to remain because of the present distress that it is good for a man to be thus. That's very choppy. That's very choppy in English. I think you get the idea that I'm making, but notice that the word good is used twice in the way I rendered it there. Now in the ESV it smooths it over and you only see the word good in English. Once, but it is twice in that verse. And I I believe that that's important to to draw out for you because when Paul calls singleness good twice in one verse, perhaps it's something That we need to think through and learn to see the same way in the church today is seeing singleness as a good thing for some. And the third thing we see in verse 26 is this preference is related to the present circumstances. Take a look at that again. His preferences related to what he says here, the present circumstances. Now again, we don't know exactly what those circumstances were. But if we look at the context of the New Testament and the context of Corinthians, we can draw a few things out that help us maybe understand If we for instance, if we go back to Acts eighteen, one to seventeen, when Paul planted the Corinthian church, we find that he did so amidst much opposition and persecution. In fact the opposition and the persecution Persecution was so severe, it took a uh the Lord Jesus Christ himself coming and speaking to the Apostle Paul and encouraging him, probably amidst much fear. and discouragement to say, you know, do not be afraid to continue opening your mouth and keep preaching and speaking to this people. For I have many people in this city. In other words, Paul's outer circumstances as he planted that church did not look like it was going to be very promising. In fact, it probably looked very dismal and discouraging, and and the Lord himself had to appear to Paul and encourage him, Don't stop speaking, Paul. Don't be afraid of them. Don't be afraid of them in this city. He gets at the same idea, I think, in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. The key word in that chapter is the word comfort or consolation as some translations might render it. And it's comfort that comes from the gospel towards those who suffer and are afflicted. And and when you read that chapter, what you find Is the suffering and affliction he's that he's talking about. It has nothing to do with like, you know, suffering health issues that we might think of today, although that's that's a not a bad application. But he's talking about suffering. Suffering affliction and persecution and opposition. And Paul is reminding the Corinthian believers in Second Corinthians Corinthians , 1, that the gospel and the Lord Jesus Christ brings comfort to those who suffer opposition and perseverance. Now when you put all that together, I believe that the context is telling us that when he makes this argument about the present circumstances His point is that singleness makes bearing up under suffering and persecution and affliction and opposition. It makes that much easier. Because one does not have a wife and kids to be concerned about. And so he says, I think in verse 2 twenty six. I think or I consider that in view of the present distress , it is good for a person to remain as he is Hmm. And we see why in verses twenty-seven to twenty-eight. We see this continue to develop his theme here the troubles of marriage within the present distress. Look at verse Now he asks some questions, and then he gives some advice that goes back to verses 17 Where he's bringing that thread together of remaining as one was when one was called. Look what he says in verses twenty-seven and then verse twenty-eight. Uh the two questions actually in verse twenty-seven. Are you bound to a wife? And then the answer. Very simple. Uh okay. Do not seek to be free. Second question. Are you free from a wife? Answer. Or counsel. Do Do not seek a wife. Notice those questions there. Now when he says, are you free from a wife? I think that's interesting. I don't think he's simple means are you single? I actually think the language there indicates that maybe you are loose and you are loosed from a wife, that's the literal phrasing. Maybe through divorce. or through the passing of a spouse. Because that idea of being bound to a spouse, the same language it uses in Romans Chapter 7, verses 2 and 3, when it talks about the wife being bound to her husband as long as he lives. I think he's talking about has a marriage ended either through being And he counsels them, don't seek marriage. That's interesting. Why would he counsel them not to seek a wife? Well, look at verse 28. We find that marriage brings worldly troubles. But if you do marry, you have not sinned. And if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. By the way, I love how he balances this out. And this is why I say that whether to marry or to not marry, it's not a question of a moral decision one way or the other. It's circumstantial. Because he says very clearly here, if someone gets married, it's they're not sinning. It's okay. It's good. But notice what he finishes by saying, Yet those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you of that. By the way, that world that word phrase worldly troubles, that is a very smooth translation in the ESV. Literally it means tribulation in the flesh. Those who marry will have tribulation in the flesh. That's a strong term, tribulation. You're wondering. Wait a minute. Is marriage itself tribulation? Some of you are laughing. Some of you are like, yeah, maybe. Well, I don't think that's what Paul is saying here. Let's be clear. I don't think Paul is saying marriage itself is the tribulation in the flesh, but I'm I think what he's saying here is those who marry will have tribulation in the flesh. And he says that I I do think it's a strong phrase that he he uses here though. Because that word tribulation It's used in other parts of scripture that do talk about suffering and persecution. And so look, being married in and of itself does not bring suffering and persecution from the world. That's why I don't think marriage is suffering. is the tribulation. But within marriage, tribulation that comes from the world becomes harder to deal with. And I think many of you who are married can probably attest to that. I had a friend who married uh later in life. He's he's a pastor. Um and I remember him telling me, you know, Aaron, there is something to staying single And he said, you know, marriage is really wonderful, but I will tell you, it does bring a whole host of things you never had to worry about when you were singing. And I think that's what Paul is getting at here. What is what does he have in mind here that's hard to deal with? Well, maybe things like financial burdens Emotional troubles that come when couples aren't getting along for one reason or another that you know you just because you walk out of the door of your house, those troubles don't just leave your mind, they go with you. The stresses and the decisions that come with raising and and how to discipline children when when that comes up. All of these things Paul seems to be wanting to spare the Corinthians from. Let me illustrate for you what that might look like uh from an experience of mine. During the the COVID season, as many of you remember remember very vividly. Um when everything shut down, uh my brot I was between two pastoral calls at the time, so I was attending the church, my brother and his family and my parents were attending. And my brother was a small group leader in that church. And I I remember after a couple weeks of being, you know, shut down and everybody's quarantining and you know, who knows what the social ramifications were of that. My brother decided it would be a good idea to set up a Zoom meeting with everyone in his small group to just chat. in on them and see how they're doing. And many of you would understand that. That's that's a good thing to do, checking up on one another. I happen to be the only single person in the group. Everybody else was married and had kids. Every one of them. And I felt so bad as I listened one family after another on those little zoom bo uh zoom boxes. on the screen sharing how hard and difficult the COVID shutdown was for them. kids. The strain that was on the marriage partners as, you know, what they were used to one leaving work every day and leaving the house and having a little bit of space for another person all of a sudden feeling cra With that one person all the time. And the tensions rising to the surface. And then there was the question of well, some jobs had shut down because they weren't deemed essential. And so the question was like, well, are we going to be able to pay our bills? How are we going to put food on the table? I mean, all these concerns. They're legitimate concerns. And boy, I I'll tell you I And boy I I'll tell you I felt really bad when it came my turn to share how things were going with me and give an update for me and I just had to sit there with a straight face and say Well, I I I'll be praying for all of you. I'm not gonna lie, this hasn't really been too terrible for me. In fact, nothing in my life has changed except for the fact that I'm not going to church in person. I still had to go to work because my job was deemed essential working in the financial industry. I still went to the grocery store at the same time I always went. The only thing, brothers and sisters, that for me changed was I was not going to church in person. Everybody else's life was turned upside down. Mine was not. And I felt really bad having to tell people that when their lives they these some of these people were really hurt And and for good reason. I still remember some of the some of the look those wives gave me of consternation when I had to say my life But I think it drives home the issue that Paul is getting at here when he talks about tribute And so the question Leads us to ask, how does the present distress impact how we view singleness or marriage as options for the Christian life today? Now there is a balance in this passage. Even though Paul is giving a strong opinion one way , the present distress helps us to understand that marriage or singleness are circumstantial. And we are free. And we are free to do either as a means of glorifying God. Okay? I think that that's what Paul is getting at here. Marriage and singleness themselves are circumstantial. One is not morally superior to the other. Now as I think about this, I think about those words in the flesh that Paul highlights, which I think lead to the circumstantial understanding of this. Yes, he is informed in his opinion. This is not a command one way or the other. I want to just say up up front this is a uh uh an issue that you as believers are free to decide one way or the other And but I want to just say, let's not elevate singleness or marriage as over the other, as one is more spiritual than the other. The church has made this mistake before. In the medieval church, Roman Catholicism came to see singleness as far more spiritual of a calling than marriage. Why? Because they were influenced by a philosophical culture rooted in Greek philosophy that saw um things of the flesh the physical world around us as tainted, somehow less pure, uh evil, and and and things of the spiritual nature as pure. And that's it. And so If you're going to uh pursue spiritual purity in their mind, you have to pursue singleness because that is how you remain pure. They made that mistake. It's not biblical, but that was how people thought. And so much through much of uh Roman Catholicism in the Middle Ages, singleness was seen as more spiritual. than marriage. In our contemporary environment I would argue that we typically see marriage today as far more spiritual as a calling than single And I think that's the case because it's more normative. And for the record I think it should be more normative for more people. But Gordon Fee helps us in his commentary. This is what he said Unfortunately, our reading of the text in this way cuts in two ways. Our culture, especially Christian subculture, tends to think of marriage as the norm in Let me pause the quote there really quick. Maybe you're sitting here this morning and you are single. For whatever reason. And maybe you have been led to feel like a second class citizen. In the kingdom. We talked about divorce a few weeks ago. Maybe as a divorced person, you have felt stigmatized in the body of Christ. Christ in your singleness. That should not be, brothers and sisters. Let me unpause the quote and go back into what Gordon Fee says. For such people single Singleness, singles who feel like second class citizens. For such people, this text is mere is merely Paul's opinion and is seldom listened to at all. too, Mrs. Paul's point. Some are called to singleness still. They need to be able to live in the Christian community, both without suspicion. And with full acceptance and affirmation. Now all of this, I believe, is part of Paul's argument for why. Singleness may be preferable for some of us. And I do say some of us. Not all of us. At least for a second. Our second point verses 29 through 31. Singleness, marriage, and the passing nature of this world. We we saw singleness and marriage and the present circumstances, but He also highlights the passing nature of this world. Let's take a look at verses twenty-nine and thirty-one. Let me let me let me put those two together. Twenty-nine and thirty-one. The theology of the passing nature of this world. He goes beyond objective circumstances in the present that people find themselves in, which by the way, everyone's experienced He moves beyond the circumstantial, because not everyone faces the same distresses and troubles in the flesh, and he moves to a theological argument, not just a an existential one. Let's look at verse 29. It says this. This is what I mean, brothers. The appointed time has grown very short. Okay, let's stop there really quick. Jump to verse 31. Let's put this together. For the present form of this world is passing away. Okay, well we put verses twenty-nine and thirty-one together to make the little sub point here. What is he getting at? He's he's giving us a theology of time. And by the way, that you better believe something like a theology of time should impact the way we see singleness in marriage. He's gonna bring it all together. A theology of time. Notice in verse twenty nine, he mentions the appointed time is the E SVP Translates it. That's a good translation. There are different words in the original Greek for time. How about this? Kronos. Very clever, right? Chronological time. That's not the word he uses here. He uses a different word for for time and the time that he wor the word for time he uses here in verse twenty-nine is a word that has more to do with periods of time, epochs of time, eras of time. Units of time in terms of history. And so when he says the time has grown very short, he's referring to the fact that God has shortened the time of this world. Leading up to the second coming of Christ. We see the same idea, a similar idea communicated by Jesus himself in Matthew 24, 22, in the Olivet Discourse. When he's talking about the destruction of the temple, they're asking the questions in the beginning of that discourse, you know, what will be the sign of this and the sign of your coming and the sign of the end of the age? And Jesus is answering we're all about the destruction of the temple and and what the time period is going to be like um and the experience of God's people is going to be like between his first and his second coming and then this is he talks about in Matthew 24 22 that the tribulation of those days by the way it's the same word the Paul uses for the present distress in this passage. The tribulation of those days is going to be cut short for the sake of the elect. And then he leads into, after that time is cut short, the second coming of Christ comes. So in other words And so in other words, the time period, as Paul is arguing this here, the time period between the first and the second coming of Christ, the age of this world has been cut short. Now it's been two thousand years. To you that may not sound very short. But it is a very good idea. But it is. In the grand scheme of things. And Paul's argument is that because this time period, this world, has been cut short, that fact should influence the Why? Because it gets us to see that Putting singleness and marriage is not just about our individual lives. It's seeing our singleness and our marriage in the grand scheme of how Christians interact in this world. It's framing singleness and marriage in relationship to this Age. And seeing both, either or as related to circumstances that are tied to this world system. In other words, it's going to pass away. And that's what he gives at in verse 30. He says that the form of this world is passing away. Now that's really interesting when he says the form of this this world, the scheme, the Greek word is schema, the scheme, the form, the structure, the patterns, the systems of this world, which include how we understand single Which includes how we understand marriage, these things are passing away, brothers and sisters. And it's interesting And it's interesting to me that the tense of that verb passing away is in the present tense, which means that as history progresses forward, this world and all the things associated with it, including single as we understand it, including marriage as we understand it, these things are passing away. 1 John chapter 2, verse 2 17 says this something very similar and the world is passing away along with all its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. What's the point? The point is that our theology of the end times, which we are currently living in , also impacts the way that we make our decisions Let's just be honest when we take a step back. That is not how we think today, even in the church. We're not used to thinking that way. But Paul is calling us to do so. Because verse 30 gets us to see that our lives are taking place within the passing nature of this world. It's interesting. Whether we are single or whether we are married, verse 30 describes how we should be living our lives with a view to eternity. eternity and with a view to the end of all things in this world as we presently know them. Take a look at the end of verse 29, mostly verse 30, and the beginning of verse 31. He says, from now on, this is in the middle of verse 29, from now on, let those who have wives live as though they had none. And those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings. with it. Now that seems completely nonsensical to most of us. Completely nonsensical. One commentator says of this Marriage, tears, joys, purchases, the whole world of earthly things. We Christians may have all of them. We may use all of them. We may experience all of them. How? For what they are. For what they are. As belonging. As belonging to the form. To the form of this present world. He goes on to write. As soon as we go beyond this limit and permit any of these things to Interfere with our spiritual life and our relation to the life to come, a false authority or power reaches into our lives and begins to ruin them. What is Paul saying in verse 20 when he says these things that sound so nonsensical to us? today. What he's saying is don't let any of these things rule your life as the ultimate purpose for which you are living. By the way, that includes marriage and singleness. If you're gonna choose singleness, you're not choosing singleness uh for your own sake. You're doing so for the glory of God. It's not your singleness that drives the purpose of your life and living for yourself. If you're married, and that's what you choose, your marriage is not the ultimate thing in your life. Again to some of us that sounds so counterintuitive. When we put those things. things as the primary thing in our lives, the main thing for which we're living for, then those things become ruined, don't they? because we put on them a pressure that they were never meant to bear. And so again we ask the question, should Christians Marry or should they not marry in light of our theology of the nature of this life and the coming age or the coming end of this age? My answer to that is this. This is our kind of application principle. Regardless of whether we are single or married, or choose to be single, or choose to get married. Our theology calls us not to be tied to this world in such a way that our deepest priorities are tied to a world that is passing away. That's the idea. And so we need to understand, brothers and sisters, marriage and singleness are part of a world that is passing away. And if you were listening to what the question I just asked, the answer I just gave, uh y you will no doubt realize, did I really answer the question? Not really. I kind of skirted my way around it if I'm on. But I did give a principle that undergirds how we answer it, whether we choose to get married or whether we choose to stay single. The principle is not tying our affections not tying ourselves to this world in a way in which the deepest priorities then are then tied to a world that is passing away. I said in the first point that Christians have the freedom to decide whether or not they want to get married. And I stand by that because Scripture stands by that. And I also argued a few weeks ago that the church needs both marriage and singleness to have a complete gospel witness of what the glory with Christ will be like in eternity. And again, I stand by that. Because the scripture stands by that. Neither singleness nor marriage by themselves can adequately give a full testimony to the glory of Christ that we will share with you. one day. They're both required this side of eternity to give the full picture. But that said, both marriage and single As we know it in this life, each are a part of this world scheme, this form or this order that is passing away. Will we be married in glory? Will we be married in glory? Yes, corporately we will, to Jesus Christ, the bridegroom of the church But understand that the way that we experience marriage today is tied to this world. Will we be single? Will we be single in eternity? Yes, individually. We will be like the angels. We will not marry nor be given in marriage. But the singleness that we experience, this side of eternity, It is not the same experience of singleness we're going to have in glory. Our experiences are tied. And our theology should be large enough to see this. So I want to urge you this morning to The Christian life is not ultimately about marriage or not ultimately about singleness. And I'm just going to say one of the challenges, I may have said this a few weeks ago. I'm gonna repeat it but apply it a little differently today. One of the challenges that I think comes with reformed churches. So I'm speaking to our our congregation, our contact Today. One of the challenges that comes in within Reformed churches, which are grounded in covenant theology, is that we can often, uh too often, I think, overstate the importance of marriage. We need to hear in our day and age where marriage is, and I think Again, should be normative for most people. The Christian life and the kingdom of God is not ultimately about your marriage and about your family. And I realize some of to some of you that may sound very offensive. I get it. But your marriage and your family rather should be about reflecting the kingdom. And by the way, it's not in my notes, but I'm going to say as well. If you're single, your singleness should be about reflecting the kingdom. It 's not all about you. It cuts both ways. Another commentator speaks to the issue of priorities and how we apply this Today, this is what he says. To stress his theology, Paul presents five situations in which we should reflect different priorities from those who are not believers in Jesus Those who have wives should live as though they were not married, he says in verse 29. He said, And then he comments, you know, that's somewhat strange for Paul to say in light of the Corinthian situation. And his views and marriage in general. Unlike those who mourn, he says, perhaps because of the loss of earthly things or people. We need not mourn. Unlike those who find our joy in this world, we find our joy somewhere else. He says finally, Paul's last two statements. Certainly apply directly to us. We should not allow things of this earth to have any ultimate import in our lives. As we consider the application of Paul's argument to our lives today, marriage and singleness need to come under the consideration of ultimate Priorities. Neither, brothers and sisters, are the ultimate priority. Both can be put into the service of ultimate priorities. And that ultimate priority should be glorifying God and enjoying Him forever. Which is our first catechism question and answer, isn't it? And so I just want to put before you re regardless of what your calling is, whether your calling is singleness or whether your calling is marriage, whatever your call Calling is our ultimate priority and purpose in those callings is to use them as vehicles to glorify God. And enjoy him. And it leads us back to our main idea, doesn't it? Christians must remain steadfast in their calling. Whether married or single, because of the present distress and the passing nature of this world.