If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open to First Corinthians chapter seven as we stand together. First Corinthians chapter seven verses six through nine First Corinthians chapter seven verses six through nine. This is the word of the Lord for us this morning. Now as a concession, not a command, I say this. I wish that all were as I myself am. But each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of another. To the unmarried and the widows, I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am. But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion Uh this is the word of the Lord. Let's uh begin our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are thankful, O Lord, for the many gifts that you give. Lord, we pray that as we sit at your feet this morning to hear from your word, Lord, we pray that you would open our minds and our hearts. our eyes and our ears to see, to hear, to understand, and to receive. Lord, the blessing of your word. This morning. Lord, we pray above all that this would be a time of tremendous encouragement, even as we come to understand more of you and your purposes for us in singleness. We ask this in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think Christian bookstores brick and mortar Christian bookstores are becoming a thing of the past with the rise of Amazon books. But if you were to walk into a brick and mortar Christian bookstore today And you were to look at uh the area of books that had to do with marriage or dating or relationships and what have you, I think what you would find is there would be a disproportionately larger amount of books regarding marriage from a Christian point of view, then there are books on singleness. And if we're honest, there are maybe some good reasons about that. But some books on marriage or relationships that do address singleness do so almost exclusively from a perspective of how to get out of the state of singleness. But the Bible has much to say about singleness, as we'll see in our passage before us. This passage that we have, it's a pretty short passage. There's just a few verses. And these few verses function as kind of an introductory, uh, cursory commentary for us to get us used to the fact that singleness is intended by God to exist side by side in the Church of the New Covenant with marriage. Singleness and marriage are intended to exist side by side in the church today. Now I say that this is a cursory introduction or a cursory commentary of singleness and marriage in the local church because Paul is going to elaborate more. throughout chapter seven uh on both, on marriage uh and on singleness. And so while he's going to say a whole lot more later on, we will get into the introductory part of it this morning. And so for now, our main idea is this. Christians should honor singleness as a tremendous gift from the Lord for those who have truly received it. But those who have not received it should get married for the sake of holiness. That is the idea of this passage this morning. And by the way, if you're visiting with us or you're new, um you'll see on in on page four, that sermon idea is typed there. for you to remember. But I'll repeat it and then we'll unpack it. Christians should honor singleness as a tremendous gift from the Lord for those who truly received it. But those who have not received it should get married for the sake of holiness. Now this is going to break down into two I two uh sub-points, two little ideas. And both of these ideas are somewhat similar to one another. And the first point this morning comes in verses six through seven. Firstly, the gifts of singleness and marriage. Now what we find in verse 6 and then the beginning of verse 7, we find the preference of one gift over another. Now Paul had made an argument last week talking about marriage in general and conjugal rights. But he picks up on that argument very tightly in verses six through seven, or at least the beginning of seven, saying this. Now as a concession, parenthetically, not a command, I say this. I wish that all were as I myself am, but each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of another. Think about what he's saying in verse six. He's looking at the gift of singleness and abstinence. I think that's important for us to connect here. If you go back to verse 5, where we left off last week, Paul made a concession allowing married couples To abstain from marital relations for a time. Remember there was a purpose for that, for the sake of prayer, for the sake of them seeking the Lord for some purpose. Said that you can do that provided that you come back together again after the set time that you've agreed upon. Otherwise you're opening yourself up for Satan to have a platform of temptation in both of your lives. Number six makes it clear that the idea of abstinence within marriage is a concession, not a command. Married couples do not need to abstain from marital relations if they don't want to. Verse 5 is the concession. is what he's saying. Now many commentators look at verse six and they say that verse six belongs to the previous clause. Because Paul's saying that he's making the concession relating to verse five. And by the way, that actually does make a lot of sense. However, while that does make sense, and I do think that that's Paul's intention, verse 6 also functions as a transition or a fulcrum. as well as Paul goes from talking about abstinence in verse 5 to the single life in verse 7. And so verse six is that that fluid transition there. Let's let's turn and look at verse seven, at least in the beginning of it. Right now. We see in the beginning of verse seven the preference that Paul gives from experience. He begins by saying, I wish that all were as I myself am. And you're wondering, well, How is it that you are that you wish other people were? Well we'll see in verse eight, he talks about being single. In ver in First Corinthians chapter nine, verse four, the the second part of that verse, Paul asks a question. He's making an argument, but he's asking a question. Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife? as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas. And so we see that all of the other disciples that Jesus had ended up getting married if they weren't already when when they were with Jesus. We know Peter was married uh when he became a disciple of Jesus because Jesus healed his mother-in-law when she had a fever. And Paul is making the argument, look, me and Barnabas, we're still single, but we have the right and the freedom of the gospel to take along a believing wife if we want to. And so all of this leads us to believe that Paul was a single man, at least in this point in his life. Now some commentators, and this is purely speculative because I don't think you can prove it one way or the other, but some commentators will argue that, you know, historically speaking, Paul being a Pharisee and that was how he was trained, it was common for Pharisees to be married. Not only was it common for them to be married, it was also common for them to have a trade, which we know Paul had as a tent maker. And so some commentators reason that because that was the norm. And singleness was incredibly rare among Jewish men. It was likely that Paul was married at some time when he was a Pharisee. His wife perhaps died. making him a widower, and that at this point in his life, as he's fulfilling his calling as an apostle, he was single. Now again, we can't be certain one way or the other if Paul was ever married or if he was single all of his life, but what we can say definitively that is at this present time that he is writing this letter to the Corinthians, he was single. He was not married. And and it's just so interesting that as while he's not going to focus on all of the benefits of singleness now, he will get to that in verses twenty-five to uh to thirty-five. He does know the freedom that comes with singleness, and he wishes that each believer understood and experienced that freedom as well for themselves. And it's a freedom in singleness that he's going to correspond later to the freedom that comes in the gospel. But Because Paul is a wise pastor, he also I think wisely understands from experience that this is not for everyone. Singleness is not for everyone And so at the end of verse 7, we see the real there's a reality of the gifts of both singleness and marriage. Look at how he lays out the end of that verse. But each has his own gift from God. One of one kind and one of another. By the way, the one and the other are he's talking about singleness and marriage. He's laying both of these out as gifts. Now as we look at both of these, and I do want to look at both. I'll start with singleness and then I'll look at marriage next. But as I comment on on singleness, you're going to notice I'm going to say a little more about that than I'm going to say about marriage Because why? I think it's a lot easier for us as Christians to understand why marriage is a gift. That's a little more on the surface. It may not be as much on the surface to understand how singleness is can be a gift. And so we want to unpack what Paul really means by that. Because I do think that there is a lot of misunderstanding surrounding the quote unquote gift of singleness. So let's look again at this. Let's look at the gift of singleness. He calls it a gift. And the fact that it is a gift means that it comes from God, which reveals that the Holy Spirit is actively involved in the working out of that gifting in a believer's life. And I don't know if this is just goes without saying, but I'll say it. If it comes from God, then singleness as a gift from God must reveal something to us about God. The gifts always reveal something about the giver. And one of the things I want to clarify very clearly as we look at the gift of quote unquote singleness The gift actually has more to do with abstinence than it does with singleness more broadly. Abstinence is the focus. Singleness as a state is the implication. Okay? And I think that's an important distinction for us to make. And I do believe it comes from the context of this passage. Go back and look at verse two, which we looked at last week, when Paul writes Um actual I'm sorry, the beginning of verse one actually. It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman. Now we talked about how that was a common maxim, likely in the Corinthian church at that time, and Paul is responding to it. But he's looking at where their mindset is already at, and he's jumping and leaping to his argument from there. That was a statement that they believed. And verse five, he talks about dealing with abstinence for married couples for a limited time. And so what I believe he's saying in context here is it is this abstinence that is a gift to some, and therefore because they have the gift of abstinence, or some commentators might use the word continence. Therefore, singleness is broadly meant and implied. Well, that really helps us understand a little more clearly what we mean by the gift of singleness. It does imply abstinence. Now, Matthew chapter 19, verses 10 to 12 gets at the same idea. And if you remember in context there, Jesus is answering this question from the Pharisees about divorce. You know, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all? And Jesus answers no and he goes back to creation, it wasn't that way. What God has put together, let not man separate You know, and and he kind of lays out the only caveat for divorce for believers there in in Matthew 19 that Jesus gives is adultery. And then he's in this discussion with his disciples in verses 10 to 12. The disciples say to him in response to all that teaching on divorce and marriage. And they say, if such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. In other words, like if you just can't divorce for any reason at all, but you you get married and and you have to stay married unless this one thing happens, the disciples themselves are saying, It's better not to marry Now for some of us who really value marriage, that sounds really derogatory. However, look at Jesus' response. He said to them Not everyone can receive this saying. In other words, not everyone can receive the saying that it is better not to marry. But only those to whom it is given. What is Jesus saying? Jesus is is essentially saying there are people in the church who are redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, who are no less valuable than anyone else, who have been given a gift, and that gift entails that they not marry. He explains. For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth. Maybe somebody with a birth defect or something, physically. There are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men. Think of like people who've been conquered by another king and then they get made eunuchs and they have to serve in his harem or something over the Something like that. And then there are eunuchs who've been made who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Now, I do believe what he's saying there is not necessarily the people go and castrate themselves and make themselves eunuchs physically for the kingdom of heaven. I think what he's saying is people who understand that they have this gift of serving God uh best by not marrying, and so they choose not to marry uh for the sake of the kingdom. That's what I believe he's getting at. And then he ends by saying, let the one who's able to receive this receive it. What do you receive? You receive gifts. Well this certainly I think tempers the way that we see singleness as a gift. And I think what Paul is speaking from personal experience here is the idea that he had the gift of abstinence. Paul did not necessarily need sexual fulfillment in his life in order to define his life around that thing or around a relationship. in order to serve God and find contentment in doing that. That's what I think he's getting at here. The other thing we have to understand is singleness is a gift that benefits the church. Where do I get that from? Well, I deduce it from a few things. But if you look at the verse when he talks about gifts At the end of verse 7, but each has his own gift from God. That word gift is really significant there. It's the Greek word charisma. It's the same word that Paul will use in 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans 12 when he talks about spiritual gifts that come from the Holy Spirit. And if we look at the context of both of those chapters, when we talk about spiritual gifts, we're talking about gifts that are not given to people for themselves. Their gifts to be used in the context of the local body of believers for the blessing of others and for the building up of the local church. And so if we plug that into the the meat that meaning into this context, which I think is entirely appropriate, we find the same is true here. The Holy Spirit does in fact give to some the gift of singleness expressed through consistent abstinence to be a blessing to the Church. And this means that singleness and abstinence are gifts of God to help some Christians fulfill their calling to the Lord in serving him. So what can I summarize from that little point right there? I'm going to summarize two things. First, singleness is not a gift to use for our own selfish purposes. We need to understand that. And secondly, singleness through abstinence is a gift that only, and I'm highlighting that word, only the Holy Spirit can give. Why do I say only the Holy Spirit can give that? Because every single one of us knows in in this room, at least especially those of us who are older, understand that our bodies were made to reproduce. That is how we are biologically made. That is how we were created. And that is good, and there's nothing wrong with that, to have biological sexual urges. I don't know if it's wrong or maybe not just the best wording, but this is the best I can come up with. Abstinence in and of itself is not biologically natural. So if you're going to do something that is not natural to serve the Lord, it is going to take the power of the Holy Spirit to enable you to do that. Otherwise you're not going to be able to do that. And so I think we just need to understand that singleness does entail, when we talk about singleness as a gift, it entails abstinence. And we're going to follow up on that in our second point, uh the full implication of that. But for now I want to look at the gift of marriage and um I I don't need to comment I think as much on this because as I said earlier, it is more obvious to people why and how marriage is a wonderful, beautiful gift to God's people. But I'll say a few things just to round it out and to give some biblical understanding of this. First, marriage is designed to provide men and women with companionship, which also affects their effectiveness in pursuing their various callings before the Lord. Think about when God created man, uh created the woman in Genesis chapter two, verses eighteen through twenty-five, when he said in verse eighteen, it is not good for man to be alone. Well what was the context there? The man was put in the garden to work it and to keep it. God had given him the cultural mandate, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and take dominion over it. Well, how is the man by himself supposed to fulfill the calling that God gave him if he doesn't have the woman? She was necessary. And I would argue both together were necessary to display the full image and glory of God in humanity. And so marriage is designed to provide companionship as he pursues his calling before the Lord. Secondly, Marriage provides the church with a picture of the relationship with Christ to his bride. This is what we call typology, right? In in biblical theology there is a type which is like a shadow or a small microcosm and then the anti-type is like the full reality and the picture of it, right? What it is intended to Marital relations between spouses is a type of the union that all Christians have with Christ through his Holy Spirit as we are one Spirit with Him. We saw that back in chapter six, verse seventeen, right, when he was talking about immorality, and he's, how can you do this? How can you join yourself to a prostitute when you have union already with Christ through his spirit and you're one spirit with him? And so therefore, my point in this second subpoint is that a godly marriage has a powerfully prophetic character to it. They're witnesses to a lost world if you let them in to see it. Don't miss that. Those of you who are sitting here who are married this morning, your marriage Is designed by God, and there is a calling on your life to let your marriage have a very powerfully prophetic witness to a lost and dying world. Your marriage is designed to tell the world something about Christ and his church. Thirdly, Marriage provides a bulwark against temptation to immorality as spouses belong to one another. We saw that last week in verses one through five. And so this side of the fall and this side of glory, your marriage is meant to be a help to your spouse in fighting temptation and sin. It's meant to pursue holiness. And so as we think about applying this at this point, how do these verses And their implications affect the way that we understand both singleness and marriage in the church today. Well, I'm going to say this. Both singleness and marriage are gifts that are needed in the church today. To have a complete evangelical or gospel witness to Jesus Christ. Both marriage and singleness are needed to have a complete gospel witness to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll try to flush this out for you. The witness, I want to start by looking at the witness of singleness and the blessing of the church. Now, let's just be honest. Singleness is not something that most people want. And you can feel free to laugh about that if you want. You're not gonna hurt my feelings. That is true. I remember having a conversation one time with a friend who is a pastor's son. He's not a pastor. But he's a grown man. This pastor's son was telling me one time, he when he was growing up, he knew a guy who was in his seventies who had been single all his life, never had any kids. Um that was just what his life was like. And he was asking him as a young man what that was like. Like what is it like to have the gift of singleness all that like all that time in your life and This man's response kind of, he looked at him as like, well son, if it's a gift, somebody can take it back. That's not a gift that that people typically want, and I think we understand that. Uh most of us tend to desire some kind of companionship or marriage. Uh we most of us d definitely tend to uh value intimacy. And I think that this truth really kind of becomes more stark um in Reformed churches. What do I mean? Why why do we have a tendency to perhaps either denigrate at the worst or at the very least misunderstand singleness in the local church in a reformed context? I'll tell you why. Because in in Reformed context we value something called covenant theology, don't we? And I I I think we're right to value that. Covenant theology is biblical. But when we look at the implications of how covenant theology is expressed, it's expressed through covenant families, which are covenant units, which are made up of a husband and a wife in covenant with one another. And so oftentimes that can leads leave single people wondering, well where do I fit in this in this group of people when I'm not in a covenant marriage myself It is really interesting. This is by the way, I um I think it was humorous The very first interview I had with the search committee, if you were on the search committee, I'm sorry, I'm not throwing you under the bus. It was really funny actually My very first interview in April 2023, which was over Zoom or whatever, whatever we did it online, um the very first question I got out of the gate. Now mind you, I I'm expecting to be at grilled on all kinds of theological questions and pastoral questions of how would you handle this or that. The very first question I got from the committee, and I don't remember who asked this, but someone asked me Pastor Lira , how old were you when you discerned God's calling on your life to be single for the rest of your life? I remember sitting there thinking, wow, didn't expect that. Uh It really presupposes some things, doesn't it? And I had I had to answer the question. And my answer led to the second question, which was, uh, well, what are you looking for in a wife? And I thought, wow, this is not the interview I thought I was getting into this morning. But I will tell you, those two questions on the front end taught me one thing about liberty. I was like, this is a special place. If they feel confident to ask a single pastor that right from the get-go and the first time they meet them, these are very special people. It actually it endeared me to the search committee. Um But let's face it, in reform contexts, singleness is not always well understood, is it Much less any church context. But our passage challenges that, doesn't it? And it encourages us by getting us to see that Paul clearly thought that singleness was preferable. And I'm going to make a bold statement that maybe this morning some of you maybe need to see that singleness might be preferable for you. And I think an argument could be made that Jesus emphasizes the high and the holy calling for some to be single, as we already saw in Matthew chapter 19, verses 10 through 12. Why might singleness be preferable to marriage? I'll give you just a few things from the broad context of Scripture. And you can take these before the Lord and test what I'm saying by his word, but first We can take comfort in Christ and draw our strength from Him because Christ Himself was single and lived a perfect life, both in terms of sexual purity. and his internal desires being completely centered on his perfect love for God, his Father, and His people. If there's one thing we can say about Christ's attitude towards singleness, it has to do with how he chose to live his life to fulfill the calling that God had on him as the Messiah. I think it's not too far to say that he clearly preferred singleness in this world, and he can we can say that without denigrating the importance of marriage for this life. And so by way of application, like if you're single this morning, whatever experiences you have or might have, such as loneliness or temptation or so on and so forth, You and we can be confident that Jesus understands what it's like to be in our shoes and yet without sin. Not only about you, but you, but I fill me with conf that fills me with confidence and comfort. Secondly We will all be single one day in the new heavens and the new earth, at least individually so Jesus makes that very clear. You remember that debate he had with the Sadducees about, you know, the woman who married all seven brothers and Uh, according to Leverett marriage when when one brother dies and doesn't have children, the next brother has to marry and she married all seven and had no kids through them. And then she dies and they're asking, Well, whose wife is she gonna be in the resurrection? And Jesus' answer is really instructive. He essentially tells them, look, you don't even understand the scriptures or the power of God. And he says in Matthew twenty-two, thirty four, explaining why they don't, in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in heaven. So single people this this morning, your singleness is a powerful testimony of the reality of the new creation having broken into this old creation which is passing away. That gives your singleness an incredible value before the Lord. I tend to think that perhaps this is One of the things that makes some people in the church uncomfortable and they don't always know what to do with single people Or how to relate to them. But if you're here this morning and you're single and you're wondering where your place is in the kingdom and the family of God, You need to know this morning that your single status right now is indeed precious to God, and you are as well. Because your very presence here. this morning. Your very status as a single person, your very abstinence as a single person is a powerful prophetic picture. Of the destiny, the future that we all have, whether married or single in this life. What a picture. Thirdly , we have to understand that this gift is not merely the status of being single, as I already mentioned, about the gift of abstinence. That's a high and holy calling that comes with singleness. And by the way, from a biblical perspective, singleness and abstinence always go hand in hand. Right? You don't have one without the other. And let's just face it, abstinence requires self-sacrifice, just as marriage in its own right requires a sacrifice of a different kind. Now, I just made the argument that singleness is a prophetic picture of a reality that we will all enjoy one day in the new heavens and the new earth breaking into this world. This is kind of the already, not yet that theologians Talk about. Let's look at marriage for a second, the witness of marriage and the pointing to Christ. I mentioned how marriage is a powerful testimony of the relationship between Christ and the church. By the way, I think that's the other side of the new creation. Let's face it, marriage as we know it in this world is passing away. Just like everything else in this world is passing away. Jesus again makes it very clear. We will not get married in the same way individually in the new heavens and the new earth that we do today. But your marriage still has a prophetic picture to tell. Why Because while we will not individually get married in the new heavens and the new earth, corporately as a church, we will all be married to Christ, the bridegroom, and we will all be part of the bride. And so the way you live your life, the way you conduct your marriage, again, as I said earlier, is a powerful prophetic testimony to a lost and dying world. that needs so very desperately to have the message of Christ and his church, whom he's redeemed by his own blood at the cross, they need that message And your marriage has a powerful opportunity to give that message to them. Because the church will one day be complete and perfected in glory and corporately married to Jesus. So I just want you to understand, those of you who are married here this morning, uh marriage in this life, as wonderful as it can be, points to a greater reality than itself. And so together when we look at marriage and when we look at singleness in the local church, they are both a powerful testimony of what we will all be in glory. Isn't it amazing? It takes both marriage and singleness, which seem antithetical to one another, to give the full picture of what redemption is going to look like in the new heavens and the new earth. And that should fill us, whether married or single, with tremendous hope this morning. And that leads us to our second point. In verses 8 through 9, the counsel to the single and the widowed. And now I'm going to sound like I'm talking out of both sides of my mouth, but I'm going to blame Paul here, and I'll explain what he's doing. Look at verse 8. We see the counsel to stay single. This second section reflects the first, but it gets into more detail. Verse 8 says to the unmarried, And to the widows, I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am. No, again, I'm not gonna say much on the fact that he's repeating his counsel here. But he goes further in saying that singleness is a good thing. And he's talking to two types of single people. Did you catch that? To the unmarried. In other words, I think what he's talking about here is those who have never married before. And to the widows. And you can include in that widowers, because that's the same concept. He puts them together. Now he doesn't mention those who are divorced. He will get to that in verses 10 through 16, so we'll consider that when we get to 10 and 16. He mentions the unmarried and the widows. And his counsel is very clear. It's good for you to stay single if I'm just gonna add those words there. If you can. Why? Because look at verse 7. This is kind of where it's gonna sound like he's talking out of both sides of his mouth. The counsel to not stay single. He just gave him counsel to stay single. Now he's going to give them counsel to not stay single. Verse 9. He says very clearly, but if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion. I think that's very clear there. By the way, that phrase he says, they should marry. That's how it's translated in the ESV. The King James, the Old King James translates translates it, let them marry. I don't know about you, but in both of those conlations it's It sounds like he's giving permission to get married if you can't hack it and and live up to this high ideal of the single life. In other words, you can read that in such a way if you're if you're not careful, and you can come to the conclusion that singleness is far superior to marriage, and if you can't reach this high ideal, okay, the concession is okay, then get married. That's not what he's saying. Let's let's clear this up here. In the original Greek that Paul wrote in, this is more of a command when he says than it than it is a permissive statement when he says they should get married. And what is his council designed to do? His council is designed to help believers avoid sin. And so he gives the counsel of a better option. It's better to marry than to burn with passion. He lays two things before Christians. Either get married, or if you don't have the gift of abstinence, you risk falling into sin. John Calvin helps us understand this in his commentary. He writes this. We must however define what is meant by burning. For many are stung with fleshly desires, who nevertheless do not require forthwith to have recourse to marriage. In other words, he's saying, look, just because you have sexual temptation doesn't automatically mean that you need to get married. Hence, what Paul here calls burning is not a mere slight feeling, but a boiling with lust. So that you cannot resist. For in some cases the assaults of impure desire have so much power that the will is overcome. That is the worst kind of burning when the heart is inflamed with love. That's how Calvin defines what Paul means by burning here. The Lutheran commentator Lensky, R. C. H. Lensky, agrees, but he digs a little deeper in the way he He describes this. He uses technical language, I'll explain it, but he says, Paul is discussing no sentimental, economical, social, or even providential features connected with marriage or non-marriage. He is counseling consciences on how to avoid sin. The difference in tenses is important. This is the technical part. To marry is a tense in Greek that is used to express a single definite act. To burn is a present tense to indicate a recurring condition. The latter means meaning burning, is middle, meaning to burn in oneself with the strong fire of sexual desire, which deprived of marriage, may result in criminal satisfaction Or may in secret devastate the inner spiritual life. Boy. Boy When you look at it that way, it leads us to ask some questions. Well, why is singleness good? And how can we discern if we should or should not be single? I think by way of application here, singleness is good because of the opportunities it provides for growing in the Lord, but if we burn with lust, we should rethink our singleness. That's the idea. that I'm walking away with by way of application. So I want to look at the goodness of singleness for both singles and widows. And look, I realize that being single in your twenties is different from being being single in your thirties and forties and fifties and sixties and seventies. Every different season of life, every like decade of your life is a different season of life that brings new challenges that are different from from the the previous stage you may have been in and singleness is going to look different depending on where you're at on that age spectrum. And then you throw into the fact that humanity is broken up into two types of people, men and women. Men and women experience singleness very differently, I think. Maybe not entirely different, but different. That said, my point here is that there are different things that the Lord might do in your life and through your singleness that he would not do otherwise. I want to look at first the goodness of God to the unmarried or to those who have never been married. And if you're a little younger, this may be you. I'm not going to go into a whole lot of detail because we'll look at that later in the chapter, but there's two things that I do want to say at this point. I think one of the things that single people tend to lament is that they don't have Like a union, we talk about marriage being a one-flesh union. Single people don't have that one flesh union with another human being, and they long for that union many times Let me encourage you if you're single here and you wrestle with that. Let me just encourage to you that your status, your value, your worth as someone who has been redeemed by the blood of the cross is not dependent on what union or relationship you have with another human being on this horizontal world plane of existence. because you have union with Christ. We saw that back in chapter 6, verse 17. You are one spirit with Christ. You have the greatest union already that you will enjoy to the full. uh one day in the new heavens and the new earth. And so I want to encourage you, you are not missing out. Because any union that you might enjoy on on this horizontal playing field If you ever do get married, that union is only meant to point forward to the union that you already have. And so rejoice in that. And secondly, as you maybe lament the lack of intimacy in your life, I want to just highlight to you what Paul said in verse 5 to married couples, and I want to apply it to you. Remember what he said to married couples. The concession is if there's a spiritual thing going on, you can abstain in marriage for the sake of prayer. And I said last week, what you're doing is you're exchanging one type of intimacy for another. Physical intimacy for a spiritual intimacy. With the Lord. If you're single here this morning, you are not without an avenue of intimacy. I would encourage you to cultivate your prayer life with the Lord. Because that intimacy you're going to need if you ever do get married one day, it is only going to enrich the intimacy that you have with your spouse if you have a profound intimacy with the Lord underlying that. Now, I want to look at the goodness of God in widowhood. This is different. I would imagine one of the most acute griefs or pains that somebody could go through is living their life in covenant relationship with a husband or a wife. And then for whatever reason, losing that spouse and having them pass away, I can imagine that would be one of the greatest griefs an individual could endure. And I want you to think about it. It is true that the Lord uses marriage to sanctify us in this side of the fall and this side of glory. Some marriages, they look easier than others, but let's just face it, everyone who's married knows, and if you're single, you need to know this marriage will always bring challenges. You put two sinners together, the sparks are going to fly somewhere. But think about how the Lord uses marriage to sanctify us. He teaches us a lot about ourselves and a lot about himself as we have to learn to die to self for the sake of what is best for our spouses and for our marriage and families. That kind of self-sacrifice leads you in I believe into a greater intimacy with the Lord Jesus Christ. Because the Lord Jesus Christ is the one who had to lay it all on the line and sacrifice his life for the redemption of his bride. So when we go through marriage and we we learn this experientially, we we have this propensity, if we let him, to draw closer to the Lord. When we have children, when when a husband and a wife become parents, they learn a lot about who God is as a father over his children. My point in all that in those two examples is you know even marriage has different stages that that a couple will go through. You're you're not the same person uh ten years in that you were the day you got married. And in those different stages, God is at work in different ways in your life. To sanctify you, to teach you more of himself, to draw you in and to greater intimacy. And I'm just going to submit to you Widowhood, whether you're a man or a woman, a widow or a widower, widowhood is no less meaningful for people. The intimacy that people once gave their spouse, either emotionally or physically or both, must now be directed to the Lord in prayer and physical abstinence, similar to what we saw in verse 5. The time commitment that you once gave to your spouse to invest in that relationship now must be diverted elsewhere. Where once you focus primarily uh on on cultivating and nurturing one deeply profound relationship, And maybe you had to sacrifice other relationships to invest in that one. Now you are open to new friendships and new depths. With friends that maybe you just made or friends you've known for a long time but have have known maybe this much. You're going to get to know this much. Time at home caring for a spouse has now opened up again for time alone with the Lord and time to invest in relationships with others. What I'm trying to say Is that the Lord can use widowhood as a stage of one's life, as a form of singleness, to do wonderful things. If you're here this morning, we we lost nine people last year. As a church. We've lost one already this year. There are people here who are widows and widowers. And the encouragement from God's word to you you this morning is that your your status as a widower widower is precious in the sight of God. There are things He wants to do in your life that He would not have done if you were still married. I called my mom this morning to ask permission to share this, and she gave it to me. When my father passed away, I I was very worried about my mother. Um she was in her early sixties. She wasn't yet retired. She wasn't yet retired. My dad was. He was eight years older than her. When she got married, she was oh god. I should know this. Twenty or twenty-one? I know I she was twenty two when I came along, but I think she was twenty-one The world was a di she was a young woman when she got married. She raised a family as a young married woman. The world ha has changed so much since she's was a young single woman. And I I worried for her, like how is she gonna get on get along? I was in Pennsylvania, my sister was in Georgia, my brother's in Texas, and my mom was all alone in Illinois. I wondered, oh Lord, how is she gonna do that? Like I I nearly resigned my church position just to go back home and find whatever I can do to work and take care of her. But you know, I committed it to the Lord and you know, it's really interesting Interesting, what I've seen the Lord do in her life. The Lord has brought new friendships into her life. She's like part of this little widow group at her church And I've seen the beauty of those relationships just sprout and flower into all kinds of wonderful fruit for her. I've seen her grow in her understanding of Scripture because she has more time now to to read the word and spend time in prayer. She doesn't have to cook for three kids and a husband now. It's just cooking for her And that opens up a lot of time. And I've seen that little widows group uh grow into this other ministry that 's just starting in their local church where now they're reaching out to all the widows in their church and they're they're ministering together. And I've seen her be able to take care of uh kids in the neighborhood that from families that go to her church or friends that we know. And she's available. Like, I've seen the Lord do incredible things through this time of her being a widow. And I I wondered at the beginning, what was this going to turn out to be? Was she gonna be like destitute or something? No. There's not what this is turning out. And a thought that I had, uh I'm gonna end with this. Particularly for widows. This thought occurred to me very recently. And I hope it comes out right. But when we're in glory , when we're in glory one day, Jesus makes it very clear we're all going to be single individually. Right? Maybe for some of you who are widows, maybe the Lord is using that this season of your life in singleness. To give you a foretaste of the glory that you're going to enjoy with him as a single person. Marriage is wonderful. God does great things in people's lives through marriages. But when a marriage ends because a spouse dies doesn't mean God's work in you ends. He may be using this last stage of your life To prepare you for a greater glory and intimacy with him. This brings us all back to the main point, doesn't it? Christians should honor singleness as a tremendous gift from the Lord for those who have truly received it. But for those who have not received it, you should get married for the sake of holiness. Let's pray. Father, there is so much meaning just jam-packed into just a few verses. It's so hard to take it all in. Lord, I pray this morning for the marriages that are here. Lord, I pray that you would continue to do wonderful things in the lives of husbands and wives and in the lives of children because of those marriages. Lord, for those of us here who are single this morning, I pray, Lord, that you would bring a tremendous amount of encouragement, that you value singleness. And you can work just as profoundly in our hearts as in the hearts of our married counterparts. Lord, for those who are widows, fill them with comfort and hope Hope this morning that they are precious to you, Lord Jesus. And we pray above all, oh Lord Lord, that you would continue to reveal yourself to us in your word and by your spirit, whether married or single. We ask this in Jesus' name. Well, brothers and sisters, I would advise you to take your hymnals now as we see our final response. Hymn number three.