We're going to be reading from Hosea 13. And while you turn there in your Bibles, I'm going to introduce it a little bit to you. Hosea is the story of a prophet of Israel who was called by God to marry a prostitute. God himself had married Israel, had covenanted with Israel to be her God, but Israel had gone after other gods. So in order to communicate to God's people, in order to communicate to Hosea what it's like to be God, God had called Hosea to commit himself to a sinful woman, Gomer. Gomer had children by other men, uh, and she had gotten herself horribly indebted to other men. And Hosea has to cobble together. all his belongings to buy her out of her s uh debt slavery. And that's where Hosea leaves the story of the personal story of Hosea and Gomer and switches to the larger story of God and his covenant people. And Hosea chapter 13 is the nader, is the low point of this story Historically speaking, our text seems to take place ten years after Tiglath Pelezer, the Assyrian king, had struck Israel. Assyria had already taken captive Zebulun, Nathalie, Asher, Dan, and the two half-tribes east of the Jordan. All that's left of the northern kingdom by this point is Ephraim, Issachar, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. The reigning king at this time was Hoshea. Okay, if that sounds confusing, you should see it in the Hebrew. It's exactly the same. Um anyway, and so King Hoshea, who assassinated his predecessor , And it may have been that the Assyrian king set him up to do that. He is a satrap of the Assyrian king. He's like a puppet king. And Hoshea was supposed to be uh allied with Assyria, but he made an alliance with Egypt in 724 BC. And because of this betrayal of alliances, Shalmanesser, king of Assyria, surrounded Samaria and besieged it. And after three years, Sargon II was reigning over Assyria, and he finally took Samaria. Samaria. That's the capital of the Northern Kingdom. And then two years later, Samaria had to be subdued again. And it was just a sad and bloody ending to the Northern Kingdom. They were taken away captive to Assyria and repopulated with people from the east. And such a sad ending to a people whom God had covenanted with deserves an explanation. And Hosea 13 is that explanation. Let me pray for us before we read from God's Word. Oh Lord, your word is sometimes mysterious, and it is certainly ancient, and we need your help. to understand it and to apply it. I pray that you would send your Holy Spirit to come and help us with those things today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hosea 13. When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He was exalted in Israel. But he incurred guilt through Baal and died. And now they sin more and more, and make for themselves metal images, idols, skillfully made of their silver, all of them the work of craftsmen. It is said of them, those who offer sacrifice, kiss, human sacrifice, kiss calves. Therefore they shall be like morning mist. Like the dew that goes early away, like the chaff that swirls from the threshing floor, or like smoke from a window. But I am the Lord your God. From the land of Egypt, you know no God but me. And besides me, there's no Savior. It was I who knew you in the wilderness, in the land of drought. But when they had grazed, they became full. They were filled. Their heart was lifted up. Therefore They forgot me. So I am to them like a lion. Like a leopard, I will lurk beside the way. I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs. I will tear open their breast. And there I will devour them like a lion, as a wild beast would rip them open. He destroys you, O Israel For you are against me, against your helper. Where now is your king to save you in all your cities? Where are all your rulers, those of whom you said, give me a king and princes? I gave you a king in my anger, and I took him away in my wrath. The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up. His sin is kept in store. The pangs of childbirth come for him, but he is an unwise son. For at the right time he does not present himself at the opening of the womb. Shall I ransom them from the power of Sheol? Shall I redeem them from death? O death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your stain? Compassion is hid from my eyes. Though he may flourish among his brothers, the east wind, the wind of the Lord shall come, rising from the wilderness, and his fountain shall dry up, his spring shall be parched. It shall strip his treasury of every precious thing. Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God. They shall fall by the sword. Their little ones shall be dashed in pieces And their pregnant women ripped open. The passage before us doesn't look like good news. It looks like the opposite God had picked out a particular people for himself, but they picked other gods for themselves. God acted as if he were their king and he their champion, but they begged for another king and looked for another champion. So God gave them siege, oppression, assassination as natural consequences of leaving him. And in Israel's desperation, they reached out to anybody. Egypt. And so God says he's going to destroy them in graphic ways. And we know from history that Samaria, the capital city, was destroyed, and the Jews carted off to exile. This doesn't really sound like good news. And this is how many people see the whole Judeo-Christian worldview, the whole Bible, not really good news. Many folks look at the Bible and see God asking Abraham to kill his own son. God founding a nation with a polygamous man. Jacob. God sending a famine in his promised land to send his people off to Egypt. God killing the firstborn son of every Egyptian to bring his people into the wilderness. Then in the wilderness, God sends multiple plagues on his own people, asks his priests to go through the camp, killing people. Doesn't allow his people to enter the promised land once they really once they finally want to. And then once they actually come into the promised land, God tells them to go on a genocidal rampage throughout Canaan. Then, within a few short years, we get to David, a king after God's own heart, and David is committing adultery and murdering his friend in cold blood. And so God makes David's dynasty perpetual. Really? Fast forward to the end of the northern kingdom, and you've got God speaking how he does in verse 8. I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs. I will tear open their breasts. I will devour them like a lion, as a wild beast would rip them open. And so many people in our culture respond by saying, You see , That's why I want nothing to do with Christianity. That's why I want nothing to do with the God of the Bible. So some might say. But what's missing from such a scathing review of God's actions is human sin. We're not innocent in this. God didn't create the world messed up, sinful, and wicked. He created it good. But then man sinned. And when Adam, whom God had made in his image, rebelled against God, it had long-lasting catastrophic consequences. And Hosea 13 details God's response after hundreds of years of his patience with their idol worship. These people who had made an agreement with God had broken their promises over and over again. And so God let them have the consequences of their sins. Sin. Sin has consequences. God is just. God is powerful. He is long-suffering, but he will judge sin. Listen. You would not respect a God who always let the guilty walk free. You would question the capability of a God who said evil was wrong, but never seemed to do anything about it. So we can't be too offended by the bad news in the chapter before us because we must concede that humans are sinful. And we must hear the bad news of judgment if we're ever to comprehend the good news of salvation. God only looks mean and horrible if mankind is innocent and we know we're not. And just as the kids and I were talking about, you wouldn't view chemotherapy as good news unless it was in light of the bad news of cancer. So let this chapter frame your understanding of the gospel, of the good news, making it all the sweeter in light of the horrible judgment that Israel's sin, that our sin, deserves My main point is this. Grace comes to us after sin has been judged. Grace comes to us after sin has been judged Point number one, because of idol worship, God's people were dispersed. Ephraim, Joseph's second son, was given a blessing on par with his uncles and Jacob's other sons. Ephraim's descendants, upon entering the promised land, took up residence just north of Jerusalem in what would be today called the Lower West Bank. But when the northern kingdom split away from the southern kingdom, Jeroboam set up calf idols At Dan and Bethel, and Bethel is in the territory of Ephraim. And Hosea is connecting the idolatrous, state-sanctioned worship of Yahweh. With Baal worship and with the pagan practice of sacrificing humans. You see, God Not only cares about who you say you're worshiping, the Israelites said they were worshiping God when they were worshiping a calf idol sanctuary. He cares about how you're worshiping. Desperate to make God, who is a spirit, become real for people, the Israelites crafted an image of a calf. So the northern kingdom would give all their tithes and offerings in the northern kingdom and not go down to the southern kingdom. But what Hosea is alleging here is that Israel's idolatrous way of worship is idle worship. Those who offer human sacrifice kiss calves. Worshiping God according to cultural norms instead of biblical norms is idolatry. In other words, if we Christians make up our own way of worshiping God and institutionalize it, we may be in danger of the same sin as the Israelites Superficial, self-styled worship aimed at making money. This kind of religion is abhorrent to God and he will judge it in the end. And this is the judgment. Therefore, they shall be like the morning mist or like the dew that goes early away, like chaff, like smoke. A morning mist. Some of you see it uh over the reservoir as you pass it. Uh disappears as soon as the sun warms the air. Dew, being a liquid, is a somewhat more substantial, but dew as well, when warmed uh by the sun or soaked in by the plants, disappears quickly. Chaff is that extra unneeded parts of the grain, husks, stems, leaves, and all this would be thrown into the air with the grain, and the grain, the heavy grains would fall down, and all the rest would blow away. with the wind. Smoke also, as soon as it's out of a room and into the air, quickly dissipates into the atmosphere because of the third law of thermodynamics. The Lord is using these four metaphors to quaintly describe what will horribly happen in reality. The surrounding country Will invade, besiege, and conquer Israel and carry their people away, spreading them to Assyria, Babylon, Persia, Russia, Europe. And if the bad news is that God's people will be dispersed because of their sin, the good news is that God will draw all people from all different people groups together as Christ is lifted up. In John 12, 31 through 33, Jesus says this: Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, Will draw all people to myself. He said this to show what kind of death he would die. Jesus was saying That when he died by being lifted up on a cross, one of the effects would be that all types of people would be drawn to him And we certainly see this played out in reality in Acts as Peter preached at Pentecost and as Paul preached to the Gentiles. All sorts of pagans start coming to Christ. So it is certainly sad that God dispersed his people in the exile, but it makes us appreciate all the more the glorious good news, the opposite, where Jesus is drawing people from every tribe and nation and tongue and language. Together. Jesus draws people together more than any political system, more than a currency, more than geography, more than skin color or language can draw people together. As Jesus is lifted up on the cross, he breaks down the dividing wall of hostility, not only between us and God, but between us and one another. By revealing himself as so glorious, as so lovely, as so wonderful, that we and our neighbors finally have something that we can agree upon. How great and glorious is Jesus! Now, I'm not saying that Jesus will eventually bring everybody into peace with one another. No, there will be still some who rebel and refuse to bow the knee. But that doesn't lessen the good news of People from every tribe and tongue coming together under one banner, Jesus. Point number two: God's people spurned their true Savior, so he scourged them. them. Do any of you ever get robocalls? We get them all the time. Okay? And and they always kind of go like this. Hi. This is Katie from your credit card company. This is your final offer to take advantage of the financial stimulus. And I'm sitting there thinking, I wish it was the financial the final offer. Then you stop calling me. But she just Keeps calling. Um and and so mostly we don't even pick up. Sometimes we answer just to hang up um or so was we have a couple times picked up and tried to talk to a human Okay, we're like, okay, so what where the intels to press? So we like start button mashing, you know, till we get to a human and it doesn't work. Or do any of you live in a neighborhood where traveling salesmen come up to your door? Okay. We have it so bad in our neighborhood that we have a sign posted at the front of the neighborhood saying, please no solicitors for the entire neighborhood. Okay. And um they they so these guys usually come up and uh come knocking out of the door and it's always the same story. Hi, I'm Mike, and our company has been doing uh s um uh siding and roofing in your neighborhood and your neighbor is brick greatly pleased with our work. Would you like to have a free estimate? And usually I let them get that first sentence out before I say no thanks. Sometimes I just see them coming and I say no thanks. Or sometimes I don't even come to the door. But they get spurned because I've been burned. Okay? I have to tell you the story of one time when there were four salesmen in a halfway household at the same time. Okay, so we we had said yes to one contractor to come and give us new windows. And so we were we had an appointment scheduled and he was gonna be coming on a certain evening. And so as he's coming up the driveway, there's several other people coming up the driveway. And so the kids see uh the salesman coming up the driveway. They say Dad, the salesman's here. And I say, okay fine, open up the door. I was doing something else. And so the the salesman comes in, one salesman comes in that's supposed to come in, and three other salesmen come in that weren't supposed to come in. And so they start giving this spiel about vacuum sales. And and there's there's three of them. And um and so I I was getting a little bit angry, but then they said the magic words of we'll vacuum your stairs in a way that they've never been vacuumed before for free. So we said, look, we're busy. I have to deal with this other this other contractor, but sure you can vacuum our stairs for free. So They did, they left one guy, two of the guys left, one guy stayed there to vacuum the stairs. But he back in the stairs in a way that they've never been backing before. He would take five minutes per stair Vacuuming it, and then he would re take out the filter and lay it in our living room and then put another filter in and then vacuum the next there. And so by the end, he was there for hours, and our living room was filled up with these dirty filters. So anyway, we were a little annoyed about that. Um but he did stay there long enough that I felt like I I shared the gospel with him and So felt like maybe we should offer him dinner, you know. But we kept kind of wondering like when he's gonna leave. He's like, My ride, I don't have a ride. So by the end, he was just standing out on the curb in front of our house. It was it was kind of bad. So anyway, I spurn because I've been burned. Okay? But Um it's one thing to treat traveling salesmen that way, but what if it wasn't a salesman coming to your door? What if it wasn't a salesman giving you a call? What if it was your spouse What if whatever your spouse would call, you wouldn't answer? Or if you did, you'd only answer to hang up. Or if you did answer and you did talk to them, you would just say, please don't ever call me again And and what if whenever you saw your spouse coming up the driveway, you popped your head out and said, No, thank you. Or or maybe you'd let them get their sales pitch out first and then you'd say, No, thank you That's not okay. And that's what Israel was doing to their Lord. It wasn't because the Lord had misbehaved in the past. No, it was be because according to verse 6 Israel had become full, they were filled, and their heart was lifted up. Therefore they forgot me. God had been their for First love. God was their only true Savior, verse 4. God was intimate with them at their lowest point, verse 5. But they became comfy and wealthy, and they decided they didn't need God anymore. So, how would a loving spouse respond to that kind of spurning? How would they respond after the hundredth time they've been spurned? After the thousandth time they've been spurned, God is justified in his wrath against his people. And we're hesitant to say that. Because if we allow that God is justified in his wrath against the Jews, he may be justified in his wrath against us Gentiles. Have we become Full of the pleasures of this world? Have we forgotten where we were when God saved us? Do we think we're fine as we are? Have we forgotten God I have to answer yes sometimes. And yet I don't want God to tear me open, to rip me open, to devour me, as he promises to do in verse 8. The bad news is, we deserve that much wrath. Ripping, scourging, tearing, robbing wrath is what we deserve. Because of our treatment of the Lord. And this is what God's people received in reality as Assyria took them away. And it will be what you receive in hell unless you repent and believe in Jesus. You see, Jesus. Took the punishment that we deserved. Jesus lived a sinless, beautiful, humble life. And if that sounds like an overstatement, read the Gospels and you'll be convinced that this guy is not a made-up guy But because Jesus claimed to be the God, because Jesus claimed to be God, the Jews handed him over to the Romans to be tortured and killed. We read about it in Mark 15, verses 15 and following. So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas and having scourged Jesus. That means beaten and whipped him. He delivered him to be crucified. And the soldiers led him away inside the palace, that is the governor's headquarters, and they called together the whole battalion, and they clothed him in a purple cloak. And twisting together a crown of thorns they put it on him and they began to salute him. Hail, King of the Jews. And they were striking his head with a reed and spitting on him, and kneeling down in homage to him. And when they had mocked him, they stripped Him with a purple cloak and put his own clothes on him. And they led him out to crucify him. Jesus received in his flesh the vicious visceral violence promised in Hosea. Isaiah thirteen, so that we wouldn't have to. God says that he will fall upon the Israelites like a bear robbed of her cubs, and the emphasis is on the fury of the bear. But in that metaphor, there's also the tragedy of a pantomime. Bereaved of her children. And God the Father lived out that tragedy for our sakes on the cross. Jesus cried out on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The Godhead endured separation. So that we might be brought near. Hallelujah. What grace. More than we deserve, more than words can serve to tell how great and glorious is God's kindness to us. Look at verse 10. Where now is your king to save you in all your cities? See, it's one thing to submit to authorities, it's another thing to rely on them for your safety and your security. It's especially foolhardy to trust them to save you when they scorn God, when they're deceitful in their foreign policy and murderous in their operations, as Hoshea was. It's insane to trust such a ruler to save. Verse 11 is very interesting. It seems that regardless of why the people wanted a human king, God's reason for giving them one is filled with judgment. I gave you a king in my anger. Our rulers should not be our pride and glory. It tempts us to idol worship and it tempts them to license. Our rulers are an expression of God's judgment. Against us. Perhaps you think we have too much government. But just as the Jews were given government as judgment, so too we're given government as a judgment from God. We don't even have a government as intrusive as we deserve. But just as the Jews were given government as a judgment from God, so too we've been given our government. Government is a judgment from God. And any good government that we may have had at a certain point or another has been justly taken away as a judgment for our sin. Or will be. So God's people look to earthly rulers to save them. God gave earthly rulers in the first place as judgment, and when his people make idols out of them, he takes them away as judgment In verse 14, we're taken into the inner council of the Godhead itself. Two questions are asked positively, and two questions are asked negatively, followed by a very sad statement. God asks Himself, Shall I save this people from death? And here I think that Sheol stands not only for death, but hell. See Psalm 49:14. That Barry read earlier. Their form shall be consumed in Sheol with no place to dwell. In the council of God, it's asked, Shall I destroy them utterly? It's a question that we're entirely uncomfortable with being entertained. And then comes the answer in the form of a question: Oh death, where are your plagues? Oh shiol, where is your stain? But what is what That's being said here. Does God want deaths, plagues to come? Or is he emphasizing that they have no power compared to him? The answer is found in the next line where it says, compassion is hid from my eyes. God is asking death where its plagues are, where its sting is, because God intends to use them against his own people. It's like a person who asks Where are my car keys? Where am I phone? We ask because we want those things and we want to use them. And by Hosea 13, God's compassion has run out and he is intent on destroying his people. But thanks be to God, we stand on the other side of the cross. What was hinted at in Isaiah 25, 8 Listen to how Paul flips Hosea 13, 14 on his head because of the outstanding work of the cross from 1 Corinthians 15, 15. 50. I tell you this, brothers, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet shall sound and the dead will be raised imperishable. We shall all be changed, for this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable and the mortal puts on mortality, then shall come to pass what is written. Death is swallowed up in victory. Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your stain? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. It was in the power of Jesus' resurrection that he overcame death itself Now, the biblical author Paul may boast, where's your saying, death? It's as if to say it can't be found. At the end of tonight, somebody's gonna say, Where was your unstoppable offense? Where was your stalwart defense? Somebody is not going to show up. And in our passage, death is undone. After the judgment comes grace. After God has poured out his judgment on Jesus, we're given eternal life. Unbreakable bodies. Without Jesus, no matter what your upbringing, God calls out for death to save us Sustain you, for plagues to torment you, to destroy you. But with Jesus, the saints can call out to death: what can you do? I have no fear because I am in Christ. Death cannot harm me Point number three, my final point. Because God's people rebelled against the Lord, the wind of the Lord destroyed his people. Because God's people rebelled against the Lord, the wind of the Lord destroyed his Verse fifteen, though he may flourish among his brothers, the east wind, the wind of the Lord shall come. Hosea may be pointing out that destruction for God's people indeed came from the east. His When he says his fountains shall dry up, refers to physical fountains and metaphorical fountains of fruitfulness. The wind shall strip his treasury of every precious thing. That wind is the Assyrian army who did sweep in and carry off God's people and And their treasures. Why did this happen? Because they rebelled against God. This is a reminder to us that nothing we have is safe or sure if we rebel against the Lord. Not water, not children, not savings, not wives. Teenagers and young people, I speak to you especially. We are tempted to assume that whether we remain with the Lord or whether we rebel against him, it makes little difference on our savings, our love interests, our future, our life. Itself. But we see here from our text that rebellion against the Lord did make a huge difference for the Israelites. Never assume that you can hold on to anything dear when you rebel against the Lord. It's not mathematical or immediate. You may not experience loss for decades. You may not lose things commensurate with your rebellion against the Lord, but be assured. Rebel against the Lord and you will bear your guilt. The good news is, though, that the wind of the Lord has come. The Rua Yahweh. The Spirit of the Lord. For those who have been ransomed from their guilt of their sin by the power of the cross, the wind of the Lord does not blow death and destruction, but power and salvation. After Jesus had died and risen from the grave, his disciples were gathered together. But they were scared and weak. Listen to Acts 2, 1 through 4. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared onto them and rested on each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues. As the Lord gave them utterance, as the Spirit gave them utterance. So the mighty rushing wind comes, the Spirit of the Lord, but instead of killing every firstborn, or instead of leveling Jerusalem for rejecting his son. It gives the apostles power to preach to the nations. Hosea was talking about the wind of the Lord that consisted of a pagan army come to destroy Israel. But the good news is that the wind of the Lord consists of power for the apostles to preach to pagans. The good news is that not only are you saved from destruction, but if you are in Christ, you have the power of the Holy Spirit of God in you. What does it do? How do I know that? Well, the initial signs of the Spirit of God were for the apostolic age, speaking in tongues, doing miracles, interpreting tongues. Prophesying. But there are gifts of the Spirit. There are fruits of the Spirit that are for Christ's church today. It's a whole nother sermon, but I like how Paul sums it up nicely in his encouragement to Timothy in 2 Timothy 1. Verse 7. For God gave us a spirit, not of fear, but of power, and love and self-control. So because of the atoning work of Christ on the cross, because of the power of the resurrection, because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit of the Lord, we no longer need to fear. If you're in Christ, you know that God loves you. God protects you. God equips you. If you don't need to worry about how God feels about you, you don't need to worry about anything at all. And you don't need to worry about how God feels about you if you're in Christ. If you have repentance. Repented and trusted in Jesus as your Savior. And this is not a private personal relationship. This is a public covenant. If you are finally ready to accept Christ as your Savior, we want to know We want to rejoice with you. We want to covenant ourselves to you. So come and talk to the elders. The elders are going to be seated up here in the front about your desire to repent and be baptized and be part of a new community. So we are sinners in the hands of an angry God. But in Christ, God has poured out all his anger that we deserved onto his own son. He has only Only love left for you. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, thank you that we stand on this side of the cross, that we can look back and see this Salvation is already accomplished. That all of the destruction, all of your anger against sin that worries us has been poured out on Your own son. Oh, what great love is there? That you only have love left over for us, that we would love you all the more and more in response to your great love for us. Thank you, Jesus. In your name we pray, Amen