Fourteen years old today. Stand up, Jack. They can't see you, but look at that. He's like six foot three or so something. And we'll dismiss by the way the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs Mark chapter 6. We've arrived now in the sixth chapter of Mark's Gospel as we preach through it. And let's read the first 13 verses this morning. Then he went out from there and came to his own country, and his disciples followed him. And when the Sabbath had come, he began to teach in the synagogue. And many hearing him were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to him, that such mighty works are performed by his hands? Is this not the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? So they were offended at him But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country, among his own relatives, and in his own house. Now he could do no mighty work there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And he marveled because of their unbelief. Then he went about the villages in a circuit teaching. And he called the twelve to himself and began to send them out two by two, and gave them power over unclean spirits He commanded them to take nothing for the journey except a staff, no bag, no bread, no copper in their money belts, but to wear sandals and not to put on two tunics Also he said to them, In whatever place you enter a house, stay there till you depart from that place. And whoever will not receive you, nor hear you When you depart from there, shake off the dust under your feet as a testimony against them. Assuredly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. So they went out and preached that people should repent. And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. Let's pray. Father, this is your inspired word. What a blessing we have to have it in our own language, to be able to gather freely and to hear it proclaimed. You know, there are people around the world who would uh who would give anything to be able to to have this liberty and would be so blessed to have your word in their own language Lord, I pray that we might not take it for granted. And I ask that you'll focus our minds and our hearts now upon your truth. I pray that each of us will be seeking to be enlightened by your Spirit this day. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Having manifested his power in such a way that the crowds around the Sea of Galilee continued to grow. And uh this would of course only be increased by the news that he had raised that dead uh twelve-year-old daughter of synagogue ruler Jairus from the grave, that he had raised her up. That word spread. Jesus left the Sea of Galilee and returned to his hometown of Nazareth. The town lies about 25 miles southwest of the Sea of Galilee. At this time it was a small, obscure village of under 500 people, built upon a rocky hillside. Nazareth was so insignificant that it wasn't even mentioned in all of the Old Testament, but it was, of course, where Joseph and Mary lived And it was the town to which they returned after the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem and after their sojourn in Egypt. for fear of Herod. Thus it was the town where Jesus was raised, the town where he learned his trade from Joseph. The town in which he labored until adulthood when he went into the wilderness to be baptized of John, Mark chapter 1 and verse 9. Here we read, Jesus went into the hill country. He went into his own country, that is, and his disciples followed him. Now, look at verse 2. And when the Sabbath had come, he began to teach in the synagogue. And many hearing him were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to him? That such mighty works are performed by his hands. This town was small enough that it's safe to say that almost everyone in it would have known Yeshua bar Joseph, Joshua, the son of Joseph. But as we will see, they knew him not as a rabbi, they knew him not as a prophet, they knew him not as a scribe And certainly not as the long-awaited Messiah. They knew him simply as a man who worked with his hands. Any adult male was free to walk up and take a stroll and expound upon God's word in the synagogue But the reaction of the people of Nazareth to Jesus doing this suggests that few would attempt to do so if they were not well-educated men, men who had long sat under the teaching of respected rabbis. And so those who heard Jesus were astonished. It was the very same reaction that we saw in the synagogue of his adopted city of Capernaum. Look back at chapter 1 and verse 21. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. In Capernaum, it was the way Jesus taught, the authority with which he taught, that was so striking. Evidently, he didn't constantly refer to this rabbi or that rabbi, so and so, this scribe says this and such. But he spoke with authority, as if he understood the word of God and was communicating it. With power and with authority. In Nazareth, it was more than that. That is, the people's reaction to Jesus was was more than that. They were astonished because they knew Jesus not as a man of letters, not as a scribe, but as a builder in their village. Where did he receive this wisdom that was evident in his teaching? And how could he perform these mighty works which they either witnessed or heard that he had performed, heard described by others? Look at verse 3. Is this not the carpenter? The son of Mary? The brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? Are not his sisters here with us? So they were offended at him. Is he not the carpenter? The tecton, it is in the Greek. Is he not the tecton? The term refers to anyone involved in building. Often this was done with wood, but the term was also used of what we would call a stone mason. R. C. Sproull notes, in all probability Jesus worked with both wood and stone, as builders in his day produced all sorts of things. From houses and cabinets to yokes for oxen. Wait a minute. Isn't this the tecton? Isn't this the builder? Where does he get these things? What is this wisdom that is given to him? And how can he do these mighty works? They knew his brothers and sisters. Isn't this the son of Mary? Are not his brothers here, Joseph and Simon and Judas and James? Are not his sisters here, too? They knew his brothers and sisters, they knew those children whom God had granted as a blessing to Mary and Joseph through natural means, after the supernatural birth of Christ to Mary. Before she and Joseph came together. And it may be worthy of note that they referred to Jesus not as the son of Joseph, but as a son of Mary. Isn't this the son of Mary? Now I used to think as I read that that it was just one of several indications in Scripture that Joseph was out of the picture, that Joseph had apparently already died at this point, thirty years now since we last saw him. That Joseph had already died at this point, it seems likely because he does not make an appearance during Jesus earthly ministry. But as Sprohl points out, even if Joseph was dead by this time, it still would have been customary to call Jesus the son of Joseph. In light of that, this may have been an insult. It may have been an allusion to what some in Nazareth may still have recalled about Christ's birth. Given that Mary was with child before she and Joseph had married. It doesn't take a lot of imagination to imagine the talk in the town of Nazareth. Isn't this Mary's son? We don't know who the father was, but isn't this Mary's son? Now think about this There's more than one way to respond to someone , a man that you knew as someone who simply worked with his hands, who is now boldly proclaiming God's truth and performing mighty works. You might respond by concluding, God is at work here. This is the God thing. Perhaps we misjudged him. Perhaps those stories of the miracles surrounding his birth, remember what we heard about the shepherds, what they said, and what they saw. Perhaps those stories surrounding the miracles of his birth were true after all. Perhaps all this time God's anointed one, our Messiah, has been dwelling right here in our own little village. Truly, God's thoughts are not our thoughts, and his ways are not our ways. No, they might have responded that way. But that's not how the people of Nazareth responded. Rather, the scripture says they were offended at him. Scandalizmai. They were scandalized. They rejected him. He's overstepped his bounds. He's ignoring his station in life. Who does he think he is standing up in the synagogue and reading from the scrolls and then attempting to teach us what the Bible Says. Who does he think he is? Jesus reminded them of an old adage. Look at verse 4. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country Among his own relatives and in his own house. We use a similar little adage today: a familiarity breeds contempt, right? Familiarity breeds contempt. In particular, there's a tendency for those who knew someone in his youth to always think of him that way. Right? It's over 20 years ago now that Donna and I returned to our 20-year high school reunion. And uh I went up to our principal with whom I had had some interaction during high school. And I said to him, you know, I I've come to faith in Christ. The Lord's called me to himself. He's called me into the ministry. And I'm a pastor now. And he said And I quote Will wonders never cease. And that response was completely understandable. But one would imagine that the sinless life of Jesus Christ demonstrated for decades before the citizens of Nazareth might have been sufficient to make them inclined to embrace him, if not as the Messiah, then at least as a prophet who could be mightily use But the sad truth is, at this stage of his ministry, not only did the townspeople not believe in him, but his own brothers did not believe in him. John chapter 7, verses 1 through 5. His own brothers didn't believe him to be the Messiah. And if Joseph was, in fact, already in the presence of the Lord at this point, then Mary would be the only believer in that house. Although we don't know about the sisters. We do know that Mark recorded for us in chapter 3 that his mother and brothers, when they heard about the multitudes around him, And how he didn't have time or space even to eat bread. Remember the people, so many people would come that he actually had to get in a boat And speak to them offshore, actually sitting in a boat or standing in a boat on the Sea of Galilee, because of the press of the people. When the the when the the family heard that and how when he was in a house he that the people crowded around the house and he couldn't even eat bread, they went to him, evidently thinking he was Well, the scripture says they thought he was beside himself. They thought he was out of his mind, not in his right mind, Mark 321. And they apparently came to him intending to bring him home back to Nazareth for some Well-needed RR, with so few in Nazareth embracing Jesus in faith as their Messiah. The scripture says there was little good he could do in his own hometown at that point. Well, remember, masses of people were coming to him in the towns on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. The story was quite different here in Nazareth. Verse 5. Now he could do no mighty work there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And look at that. And he marveled because of their unbelief. Then he went about the villages in a circuit teaching. Nazareth wasn't the only little what we would call insignificant town. There were many other little villages around, and he went about in a circuit. Teaching. He marveled because of their unbelief. Now Jesus was aware, of course, of the hard-heartedness and depravity of human nature. But that doesn't mean he didn't wonder at it, marvel at it, when he saw it before his own eyes. Manifested by the very people that he had known all his life. Perhaps you know Isaac, the town cobbler, and David the seller of oil. His old uh childhood friend Zabdi or whatever. Well there were other villages, many other towns that he still needed to reach, and so he went about those villages in a circuit teaching So having considered for a few moments what we might describe as a rather disappointing homecoming of Jesus to Nazareth, let's turn our attention now to those 16. Verse 7. And he called the twelve to himself, and he began to send them out two by two, and he gave them power over unclean spirits. He called the twelve to himself. These were the men already identified for us by Mark in what we call chapter 3. Where we read, then he appointed twelve that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach, and to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out demons. As you know, there was a large number of followers of Jesus, those who learned from him, as we do. They would be called disciples. They would eventually follow him to Jerusalem, many of them, and welcome him into the city in a great wave of excitement, right? We read, as he was drawing near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works they had seen. These were the people who had followed Jesus for years. In Galilee and watched him heal and see him heal the blind, raise the dead, and cast out demons and cleanse lepers And they followed him. They followed him to Jerusalem. They were hoping, many of them no doubt, that he would assume the reign and overthrow their enemies But out of that great number of disciples, Jesus chose twelve. Twelve who would not just be disciples. Learners of him, but who would be apostles, that is, those sent by him So a disciple is someone who is a learner of Jesus. An apostle is someone who is sent by Jesus. Now these twelve were both disciples. That's the common term. Term we use for him, and they were apostles because they were also sent forth. What did he send them forth to do? He sent them forth to preach. He sent them forth to preach. And in order to authenticate their message, he gave them power to heal sickness and to cast out demons. In Mark 6. 7, we read, he called the twelve to himself. So either some were away on errands, they didn't spend every waking moment in Jesus' presence. Or else he's calling them aside out of the larger group of disciples. He's calling them to himself privately. And he's sending them out. He begins to send them out two by two, giving them power to cast out demons and power to heal the sick. That is, power to do such things to, as I said, authenticate their message Look at verse 8. He commanded them to take nothing for the journey except a staff. No bag, no bread. No cell phone, no I'm kidding, no bread, no copper in their money belts, but to wear sandals and not to put on two tunics Take your staff, take your walking stick, because you're going to do some walking. But don't bother with food or with money. Don't take a bag, a bag would be for money, or even a few copper coins in your money belt. Don't even put a few copper coins in your money belt. And you don't need to bring two tunics. The extra tunic would normally be used for a covering. If you're sleeping out at night, right? You need a blanket or something with you. So that's what the two tunics would be for. But you don't even need that. In other words, all that to say your food and your lodging will be provided Uh we've already gone ahead to make preparations for you. My father has done so, in other words. This was a mission trip that would be designed not only to reach more people with the good news, right? But also to strengthen the faith of the apostles. These were the ones who were going to be left, remember, after Jesus returned to heaven, with this huge task, going into all the world to preach the gospel. And so this was a little trial run, you might say. And I think it was designed to strengthen the faith of the apostles, to show them that their heavenly Father would be with them, that he would prepare the way before them. As well, of course, as a means of getting out the good news. Look at verse 10. Also he said to them, In whatever place you enter a house, stay there till you depart from that place. This would of course make it easier for the people in the village to find them, right? Let's say he enters a village, he's got a few hundred people there. Goes to uh stay at Isaac's house. He's the blacksmith. And so anybody who wants to know who where are those two men who came from Jesus of Nazareth? Well, they're at Isaac's house. They're staying with Isaac, the blacksmith. So that seems it's very practical. Perhaps too Jesus was encouraging them to accept whatever accommodations uh were offered them, however humble they might be, right? You you come come stay at our house and then uh uh uh who who here is uh has a nicer house than we have. I could pick somebody but and then he says no come stay with me. And uh well okay look at it they got a better house. Let's go there. Maybe that was the reason. We don't know. But Jesus told them, stay with whoever it is who invites you into their home. But there would be towns, Jesus knew, that would not be receptive to his messengers. Verse 11 And whoever will not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart from there, shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them. Assuredly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for For that city. Why would Jesus say such a thing? Jesus knew that if they would not receive his apostles, they would not receive him And if they were rejecting him, they were rejecting his father, their creator, their sustainer, the one who gives them life and breath and all things that they have. They were in fact shunning God's mercy. You've come to us and told us that if we will repent of our sins and put our faith in Christ, all our sins will be forgiven and we'll be with the Lord in heaven. But we don't want to hear that, and we don't need it. You are not welcome here. Go away. They would, in effect, be shunning God's mercy, scoffing at his grace. If they were so hard hearted as to reject his servants, who were, by the way, authenticated by miracles. They were choosing to stand alone before the judgment seat And because they were rejecting the clear evidence God graciously offered them, it was going to be better for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah, cities proverbial for their depravity. in the day of judgment, then for those towns, Jesus said, who reject you, my apostles, and your message, which is, of course, repent And believe. Verse 12 and 13. So they went out and preached that people should repent. And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. Their message, as the message of the prophets who were before them, As the message of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, as the message of John the Baptist, their message was repent See your sins as real. See your sins as vile. See your sins as an offense against the Holy God. And turn away from them in disgust. Repent. Have a change of mind about them. Now, let me underscore a few things before we leave this portion of March's good news. First of all, from the homecoming. Is not this the carpenter? Is not this the tecton? Now this is self-evident, isn't it? Jesus labored As a builder, as a carpenter , as one who used his hands and tools to create tables and benches and yokes and perhaps even walls or houses. It was manual labor, but it was honest labor, and there was nothing dishonoring in it You know, we seem to have come to think in our day, certainly in our culture anyway, that we're all expected to go off to college and then maybe grad school, and we're all expected to spend our working lives in some air-conditioned office. Punching things into a computer or work working with numbers, working with words, it's become in some minds less honorable, or certainly less desirable, to labor with your hands as a carpenter Or an electrician, or a mechanic, or a painter, or a drywall installer. Let me remind you, the Lord Jesus Christ devoted most of his earthly life The serving his heavenly father and the people of his little village by fixing their broken chairs and building them sturdy ladders In all labor there is profit. Proverbs 14, 23. Whatever you do, do it heartily as unto the Lord and not unto men. Colossians 3 23 He's not just the carpenter. For them it was a term of reproach. At least as they used it there. The son of Mary. There's another term that could be a term Term of reproach. You know, there are all sorts of stories about Mary, the mother of Jesus. And many of them, no doubt, were developed by those who had an understandable desire to honor her. To speak highly of her. But the woman, as described in God's inspired word, was simply a humble, godly recipient of a great blessing. Who knew that she was nothing special, and who acknowledged that God had graciously regarded the low estate of his handmaiden Luke 1. She acknowledged herself to be a sinner, for she said, My spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. And she humbly accepted the reproach that she knew would come when the power of the highest overshadowed her, and when she became with child of the Holy Spirit. Behold, the maid servants of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. And that reproach would, of course, continue after she brought forth her firstborn son, Luke 2, 7. And as we see here, it's quite clear, it's crystal clear, she and Joseph were blessed with at least four other sons, James, Joseph, Judas, Simon. Simon, and at least two daughters are not his daughters here with us, plural, at least two, we don't know how many, whose their names are not recorded for us in Scripture After giving birth to Jesus, Mary was blessed by God to give birth by natural means to several other children. God abundantly blessed this couple. quiver was full. And after she gave birth to Jesus, Mary recedes into the background in Scripture. Do you realize her last recorded words in the Bible? are recorded for us when John in chapter 2 records the very first miracle that Jesus performed. Turning the water into wine at the wedding in Canaan. They were at a wedding, there were great pots of water there. But the guests, the hosts, rather, had run out of wine. They didn't think so many people were going to show up, I guess. And so Mary went to Jesus and said, They've run out of wine. Like, can you do something about this? And Jesus said, Mother, my time has not yet come. Well, you know, why are you asking Me to do this. But then she says to the servants, and here's what I was getting at. The very last word she's recorded as saying in the Bible, she says to the servants, Whatever he says to you. Do it. That's it. Whatever he, Jesus, whatever he says to you, do it. I don't know what he's gonna do. But I told him what the problem is, and whatever he says to you, You do it. According to Scripture, Mary was not sinless. My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. You don't need a savior if you're sinless. She was not a perpetual virgin because she had other children. She did not ascend to heaven. She is not a co-mediatrix, whatever in the world that is supposed to be. And she is not referred to in Scripture as holy or ever described as the mother of God. She cannot and does not hear Any of the thousands or tens of thousands of prayers that are being offered to her this very moment around the world. Let me say that again. She cannot, she does not hear any of the thousands or tens of thousands of prayers that are being offered to her right now, this very moment, around the world. Why not? Because unlike God, she is not omniscient. She does not know all things. She is not omnipresent. She is not everywhere present Believers do not become gods when they die any more than they sprout wings and become angels. And by the way, angels are spirits, and they don't have wings either This whole error about Mary began to raise its ugly head even during Jesus' earthly ministry, and he nipped it in the bud. Remember, as he was teaching, we read in Luke 11, a certain woman from the crowd raised her voice and said, Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breast which nursed you. Jesus, you're great, but I'm thinking about your mother. Now, blessed is the womb that bore you and the breast which nursed you. And what did Jesus say? More than that, blessed are they who hear the word of God and keep it. Blessed are they who hear the word of God and keep it. You want to honor Jesus? Hear the word of God and keep it. You feel some need to honor this woman who was chosen to give birth to Jesus? Well, don't pray to her. That's idolatry. Heed her final words recorded in Scripture. Whatever he says to you, do it. And then think about this. When Jesus sent out those six teams of two to preach, what was the message they were sent to preach? They went out and preached that people should repent. It's the lost message. It's what he sent them out to preach, but you hardly hear it anymore. What does that mean to repent? It means to see your sins for what they are. It means to have a change of mind about them. It means to despise them, to grieve over them. To come to God in humility, empty-handed, without pride, without self-confidence. It means to beat your chest and cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. That's what it means to repent. Lord, I'm not worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. That's what it means to repent Jesus said, unless you come to me as a little child, you'll never see the kingdom of heaven. That's what I mean. repentance. Repentance was the message Jesus sent his disciples to preach. It's what he said to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Luke 24. Repentance and remission of sins. That means forgiveness of sins. You preach that people repent and then their sins are remitted. Their sins are. Forgiven. Repentance was the message Jesus sent his apostles to preach while he was with them. It's the message he sent them to preach before he left them. And repentance was, in fact, the message those very apostles preached. Acts chapter 2. Then Peter said to them, the people who were who had gathered at Pentecost, the Jews who'd come from all over. Then Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized for the remission of sins. 238. Again in chapter 3. Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. You see it? Verse 19 of chapter 3. Chapter 5, addressing the Sanhedrin, the very men who conspired to have Jesus put to death. Peter said, The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered. By hanging on a tree. Him God has exalted to his right hand to be prince and savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. There it is again to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sin. Now he said in in uh Or Paul preached in Acts 17. Now God commands all men everywhere to repent. The apostles glorified God, saying, then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life. This one was on the occasion of the conversion of Cornelius and his household. Then God has granted to the Gentiles repentance to life. You see, the gospel message we are called to proclaim is repent and believe. Repent and believe. Sometimes the gospel message is given and simply repent, as it is right here. They went on and preached that people should repent. Where's the belief? Well, it's understood. There's no mention here of faith in Christ as Messiah, but that was, of course, what they went to proclaim. Repent of your sins, the Messiah 's come. When Paul and Silas told the Philippian jailer, remember the Philippian jailer? He comes to them, he falls to his knees and says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? What do they say? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Thou and thy house. They didn't mention repentance, did they? Why not? It was understood. The guy's on his knees, for goodness sake. He's saying, How can my sins be forgiven? How can I get to heaven? How can I be saved? They didn't need to stress repentance for that guy. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. We see her repentant. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved Repentance was understood. What do you want to be safe from? The wrath of God. Why do you want to be saved in the wrath of God? Because you're a sinner and you know it. Listen to this. If you do not have sins which need forgiving, you do not need a savior. If you do not have sins which need forgiving, you do not need a Savior. That's why repentance is a major part of the gospel message. It's not the only part. It's not the full good news, is it, to just tell people to repent It's part of the good news, you might say, or certainly preparatory to the good news. You might say it's a prerequisite for the good news. And similarly, the message believe is not the good news. It's part of the good news. The scripture is clear. Unless a sinner repents, he will perish. Jesus said this. Luke 13, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. But repentance alone will not save a man or a woman, a boy or a girl. That repentance must be followed by saving faith. And that's how God does it. The same spirit that brings conviction of sin and brings you to your knees also reveals to you the glory of Christ. And you say, oh yeah, he is the Savior I want. God does that. That's the miracle of the new birth. I repent I believe. I'm justified. Now notice one other thing quickly. The people of Nazareth did not repent at the preaching of Jesus. In fact, they were offended at him, literally scandalized. The noun form of that word is scandalon, and it was used, interestingly, in the construction of buildings out of stone. If a stone was sent from the quarry, which didn't seem to fit the builder's plan, it was declared a scandal on. It was sent back. It was deemed unacceptable. Don't fit. It's not what we're looking for. Take it back. Jesus is described in Scripture as the stone which the builders rejected. He wasn't what they were expecting. It wasn't the sort of Messiah they anticipated. Where's the rod of iron? Where's the thunder? Where are the armies? Where's the power to overthrow Rome? But praise be to God, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. Amen? The stone which the builders rejected. Psalm 118. For the people of Nazareth, at least at this point, he was astonished It was a scandal on. They were offended at him. But I pray that if you've not yet fallen before him in repentance and faith, That this might be the day when you come to your Heavenly Father and you say, Father, I have sinned before heaven, and in thy sight I'm no longer worthy to be called thy son. Make me as One of thy hired servants. May this be the day of your homecoming. Boy, that would be wonderful. If this were the day of someone's homecoming. But one more thing. If your heart is hard, I'm obligated to give you this warning. You have been privileged to Hear God's word this morning. Not everybody is so privileged. Millions of people around the world are not so privileged. They can't sit and hear God's word proclaim. Will you scorn God's mercy as those who rejected the message of the apostles of Christ? Will it be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for you? Jesus said in Matthew 21, whoever falls on this stone will be broken. But on whomever it falls, it will grind him to powder. Let's pray. Father, this is your word. It's living, it's powerful, it's sharper than any two-edged sword. We pray that you would use it even now. Convicting of sin, drawing souls to yourself. Runa, I do pray, we do pray, we who are believers Here for those who might still be outside of Christ. Please, Father, you had mercy upon us. You opened our eyes. You gave us faith. We don't understand the mysterious working of your spirit. But we pray you'll breathe upon those dry bones that they might live. Lord, have mercy upon souls. Draw souls to Christ. And those of us who are yours, Lord. Give us the zeal to proclaim this good news, repent and believe the kingdom of heaven is at hand. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.