Well, please take your Bibles if you have them and rise for this morning's sermon passage reading. And please turn to Galatians chapter four, verses one to seven. Now the word of the Lord. Galatians 4, beginning in verse 1. I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba , Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. This is God's holy word. Please be seated. Let me pray. Lord, thank you, Father, for giving us your word here in written form and in the person and the work of Jesus Christ, your Son. Lord, this morning I pray that I may decrease and you alone may increase. In your son's name we pray. Amen. Well, today's passage is obviously Galatians 4, 1 to 7, which is not in 1 Corinthians, as Pastor Aaron 's been preaching through. He'll be resuming that sermon series next week. Paul opens the letter to the Galatian church rather abruptly. In Galatians chapter 1, verse 6, he writes, I am astonished. that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. He just gets right to the point there. And that's probably one of the harshest openings, or if not the harshest. openings in all of the New Testament. Paul did not praise the church or draw attention to any good work that they're doing in the introduction. He just introduced himself Addressed the Galatian church and launched immediately into apostolic correction. So this brings up a question: why or what made Paul act so intensely towards the church in Galatia? So Paul had clearly received some kind of report that the Galatians Christians were believing something incorrect. He says they were turning to a different gospel. What was going on was that the Christians in Galatia were trying to blend the law of Moses with the gospel and set up extra biblical requirements for Christians. They were attempting to make obedience to the law into some sort of requirement for salvation. So hearing this report obviously made Paul more than a little concerned for their church. Paul spends the rest of the letter to the Galatians reminding the church of his apostolic calling and authority in chapters 1 and 2. He speaks of justification by faith and not by works in chapters 3 and 4. And then in chapters 5 and 6, he gives warnings against the return to slavery and encouragements of life in the Holy Spirit. Right before our passage here this morning, Paul spends some ink contrasting the law and the gospel promise. In Galatians chapter 3, verses 23 to 25, he says this. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. But now the faith has come. We are no longer under a guardian. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. So this is where Paul first gives this contrast of being captives under the law and being free in Christ. And this sets the stage for our passage here this morning and brings us to the main point for this morning's sermon. You are no longer slaves in bondage to the law, but you are sons freed by Christ. I'll say that again. You are no longer slaves in bondage to the law, but you are sons freed by Christ. So let's look at the first part of our passage here this morning. Slaves to the law, and we see this in verses 1 to 3 of our passage. In verse 1, Paul begins another contrast, that of the child and the slave. He says, I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. Now, what exactly is Paul talking about here? It can seem a little confusing at first glance. Think about the previous passage that I just read a minute ago. In that passage at the end of chapter 3, he was talking about how you were held under guardians until the coming of Christ. The Greek word he used in that passage for guardians was Petagogos. This word could also be translated as tutor or teacher or perhaps even schoolmaster. However, Paul does not use that word here in chapter 4 in our passage this morning. He uses two different Greek words, which have slightly different connotations of supervision or guidance. Maybe you've read some books or watched some movies that took place in England in like the 18th or 19th century. Maybe you've heard of them speak of a governess. for a nobleman's child. Have you guys ever heard of that in movies or books? So at that time a governess was someone who watched over a nobleman's children. The governess was similar to a nanny in that they would make sure the kids are fed and dressed and things like that. But the governess was also a teacher. She would be responsible for day-to-day supervision of the children, but she would also be responsible for training the children in basic manners and the basic ideas of culture and society when they were still young The governors really gave them the foundations for what they would learn more as an adult. But this whole system was centered on the fact that the child would eventually come of age and move beyond the need for a governess. They would move away from supervision or management by her They would no longer be little children, but they would be full heirs or adults in their own right. In the same way, Paul is speaking here about the people of God in our passage. He makes the point that the child is under the direction of the governess or the guardian or the manager or the tutor until they come of age. In effect, that child is enslaved to that guardian or manager. They're not yet free. They're subject to that teacher. Paul says that this system is in place until the date set by his father, which would be the time where the child finally comes of age. Paul goes on in verse 3 to explain this by saying, in the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. So we're beginning to see a little bit more of this comparison between a slave and a son. A slave is obviously someone subject to another, someone who is entirely controlled by another. But a son, however. is someone who is beloved by a father. Someone who has freedom and blessing bestowed upon him. There's a pretty large difference between the two. Think about that picture of a nobleman's young son with a governess. Imagine an eight-year-old boy. He most likely does not fully understand everything the governess is teaching him. But when he becomes older, those things are going to make much more sense. As he begins to govern his estate, take over for his father, work in trade. or politics or many other things, all these things that he learned about culture and society and business and the way things worked in the world, those things will start making much more sense as he comes of age. In the same way, Israel did not have the full picture while they were still under the law in the Old Testament. They saw a shadow of what to come, but they did not see it fully. But now, Christians, you all, under the gospel, have a full picture. You have come of age, so to speak, and therefore have a more well-rounded view and understanding. Matthew Henry writes on this passage, and he says, the church then lay more under the character of a servant. being obliged to do everything according to the command of God without being fully acquainted with the reason of it, without fully understanding it. But the service under the gospel appears to be more reasonable than that was. The time appointed of the Father having come, when the Church was to arrive at its full age, the darkness and bondage under which it before lay are removed, and we are under a dispensation of greater light and liberty. He's saying there's great freedom and understanding in Christ that the church did not have when they were national Israel under the law. There's great light and clarity now apparent which was not so apparent during those former times. Let us take a few moments and examine this idea of being under bondage or slavery to the law and try to flesh this out a little bit. Our passage this morning says that that nobleman's young son, under the tutor or the governess, is no different than a slave because they are both under subjection. They're under guardians, they're under managers. But then Paul draws an interesting comparison. In verse 3, he says, in the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. So what exactly does this mean being enslaved to the elementary principles of the world? When Paul refers to these elementary principles here, he's referencing or referring to the basic building blocks. The same Greek word that he uses here, he uses in Colossians 2. 8, when he says, See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit. According to human tradition, according to the elementary spirits of the world, and not according to Christ The same Greek word is also used in Hebrews 5. 12, which says, for though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food. Now there are a few interpretations of this, but I believe that given the context that we see here in our passage and in Galatians. I believe it is safe to assume that this Greek term for elementary principles is referring to the law of God or the Mosaic Law as the basic moral building blocks. or elementary principles of society and life. Paul is communicating here that Israel is held captive under or enslaved to the law. Now, what does it mean to be enslaved to the law or held captive under the law? What does he mean by that? Paul makes it very clear in Romans 7 that God's law itself is not sinful. And God's law did not produce sin within your hearts, but rather your sinful hearts produce sin. The law simply exposes that sin within your hearts. It holds you captive or enslaved because through the law there's no possibility of salvation It is impossible for fallen sinful man to follow the law of God J. V. Fesco writes that Israel was under the curse of the law and imprisoned to it because of their sin, as well as their inability to fulfill its demands. So once you are enslaved to this law, because it could only bring death and condemnation and not life. The law exposes your sin and makes plain your need for a savior. So, by way of application here, I have two exhortations for you this morning. If you're a believer, remember the sinful state of your heart before coming to Christ. And if you are not a believer, then turn to Christ. If you're a Christian here this morning, then I urge you to remember where you were before Christ saved you. Remember the state of sin in which you lived. Remember the despair that you felt. When you remember that, turn around and be grateful to God for what He has done for you. Show gratitude for God for his most gracious and merciful act of saving you, and then go tell others about it. Don't keep this to yourself, but share the gospel. Would you want others to remain enslaved to these elementary principles of the world, bound in their sin and destined for destruction? As Christians, when you think back on your sin and Christ's salvation, this ought to fill you with humility and joy and hope and excitement. The Apostle Peter tells us in 1 Peter 3. 15 to always have an answer or defense to give to others for the hope that is within you. People may ask you, especially during Christmas season perhaps, why you seem hopeful or joyful. People may ask you during difficult times in your life. why you seem joyful or why your concerns and affections and desires seem to be pointed to something else. When people ask you this, tell them about Christ. It's as easy as that. Tell them how you once were a sinner, enslaved to the law, bound to death. Tell them that you were lost and now you are found. If you are here today and you're not a believer, if Christ has not convicted you of your sin and your need for a savior, If you have not repented of your sin and placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, then I call you now to repent. What better time is there than now? This time of Christmas is when we celebrate the fact that Christ came to earth to remove the chains of sin and death. Do you wish then to remain chained in the dungeon of death? Or do you wish to live in the light and freedom of Christ? Repent of your sin and believe in the gospel of the Lord Jesus. If you would like to know more about this, I would love to speak with you after the service today. Talk to me or one of the other ruling elders here this morning This takes us to the second point, second last point of today's sermon. Sons of Christ, and we see this in verses four to seven. Beginning in verse 4, Paul says, but when the fullness of time, or verse 4 and 5, rather, Paul says, but when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son. Born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. Remember back to what I spoke of earlier when I talked about the how the law was like the tutor or the governess. Paul references this one more time here when he says, but when the fullness of time had come. So once again he's saying that Israel was no longer a child, but had grown more mature. when the appropriate time had come, when it was time for Israel to grow up and receive their inheritance. That was when God sent his son. God determined the perfect time for Christ's birth and life and death and resurrection, the perfect time for his people to come of age and receive their inheritance. William Perkins described Israel as a little school set up in a corner of the world. The law of Moses was, as it were, an ABC or primer. in which Christ was revealed to the world in a dark and obscure manner, especially to the Jews. Israel was once under this tutor, this teacher, this governess. But now she has come of age and is ready for the fullness of her education, the full understanding of Christ and the salvation which he brings. And this is what we celebrate this time of year, is it not? The coming of Christ. What do verses four and five go on to say? But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under the law. To do what? To redeem those who were under the law. For what purpose? So that we might receive adoption as sons. God sent forth his son born of woman. This is obviously referring to the birth of Christ. I won't go into every detail here as we heard some of this in Pastor Aaron's last two sermons, last Lord's Day and on Christmas Eve. But these verses essentially contain a compressed gospel presentation. Christ came, he lived, he died under the law in order to redeem those under the law so that they would receive adoption as sons. In other words, so that they would receive eternal life Now, why does Paul mention this process here? He mentions it because of the confusion under which the Galatian church had been laboring. Remember that the church in Galatia had been influenced by the Judaizers, those Jews who wished to combine the gospel with the law of Moses and create a sort of pseudo-works-based gospel. This presentation by Paul makes it clear that this is only a gift from God which saves you. Christ is the one who came so that you could be adopted as sons of God. It is nothing that you do to earn it. And it is solely by God's gracious gift. As I said a few moments ago, I won't go into every detail of this gospel presentation here, but what else does it point out? It points out that God's son was born under the law. This means that Christ was still born a man, still subject to the law of God. Christ is fully God, yes, but he is also fully man. He still is He never stopped being fully man. As such, he was bound to obey the entirety of God's law. Christ was born under the law. He lived the perfect life. He obeyed every single commandment in the Old Testament. He died under the law, receiving the penalty for breaking those commandments, as if he had done them, when he obviously didn't. We did. Christ did not only obey the law in your place, but he also suffered the punishment under the law in your place. That's what this means when it says that he was born under the law. Now, why exactly did Christ do that? Did he come as a baby, live a perfect life, die, go to the grave, rise again from the dead just so you could be free and do whatever you want? No. Christ came so you could receive adoption as sons. Now, what exactly does that mean to be adopted as a son of God? Well think for a moment about earthly adoption. What happens when you adopt a child into your family? If I were to adopt a child into my family, that child would receive my family name of Dean That child would become my son or daughter by covenant. That child would be housed and fed like my other children. That child would be loved by me and Kristen like our other children. That child would be raised in the Christian faith, like my other children. That child would receive whatever inheritance and legacy we pass on to them one day, just like our other children. When you adopt a child here on earth, that child becomes a part of your family. He is not some separate class of family member. When you adopt them, you treat them as if they were your own biological child. There is no difference between them and your other children. It is the same with the family of God. When the Lord adopts you as his son or daughter, he looks at you and he cries, mine. He says you belong to him. When the Lord adopts you as his son or daughter, you bear the name of Christ. And you receive a whole host of benefits. Look at the benefits which Paul lists here for the adopted sons and daughters of God. Verses 6 and 7 list them out here. Those verses go on to say, and because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Ah the Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. So we see several benefits listed here. One, having the Holy Spirit dwelling within you. It says he sent the Spirit of His Son into your hearts. Two, having the right to call God your father. And three, being an heir of Christ. So let us look take a look at each of these benefits. When you are adopted by Christ, he sends his Spirit, the Holy Spirit, to dwell within you. This might remind you of something we read this morning from Ezekiel 36. Verses 24 to 28. I will take you from the nations and gather you from the countries and bring you into your own land. I will adopt you. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. We read that this morning. This passage is where God promises to put the Holy Spirit within you as Christians. This may also remind you of Joel 2. 28, where God promises to pour out his Spirit upon all flesh. And this ultimately comes to fulfillment in Acts 2 at Pentecost when the Holy Spirit falls upon the church and indwells the believers. Remember what the Ezekiel 36 passage says will happen when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. It says you will walk in God's statutes and be careful to obey his rules. When the Holy Spirit dwells within you, he enables you, he strengthens you to obey God and his commandments. He gives you a new heart which desires to love God. This is one of the benefits you receive as a son or daughter of the king. Our passage points out that both Christ and the Holy Spirit are sent to God's people. And this actually parallels Isaiah 48:16, where the suffering servant and God's Spirit are both sent to Israel. God is promising here in our passage to send both his son and his spirit for the purpose of restoring Israel and delivering them from the true slavery of sin and death. The remaining two benefits listed in our passage this morning are that you have the right to call God your father and you have become an heir. I'd like to deal with both of these together as they're pretty related. So think of the illustration that Paul has used in this passage, slaves and sons. It's a pretty clear difference between the two. We already talked about that. Matthew Henry says that Paul is pointing out the great excellence of the gospel states above the legal. Your status as a son of God is far greater than your status under the law as a slave to sin If you have the right to call God your Father, what does this look like in real life? This means you can cry out to God day or night, any time of day, with your prayers and your requests. Think of a little child who's scared by a nightmare and calls out for their mom or dad, or who runs into their room in the middle of the night to snuggle with them in bed. This is the ability you have with God to run to Him with your fears, your worries, your hopes, your sins, your repentance. Maybe you're in the midst of crushing depression. Cry out to your father. Maybe you have been desperately worried about your child and their future or their salvation. Cry out to your father. Maybe you recently experienced an awful traumatic thing. Cry out to your father. He will most certainly bring you comfort and peace. You can call out to God as your father. You are also an heir of Christ now that you have been adopted by God. What does this mean? Remember the illustration I gave of the heir, the nobleman's heir, the child from earlier in the sermon? The heir inherits the titles, the estate, the money, the privilege, the prestige, the honor, and the responsibilities of the father. The heir inherits responsibilities and work along with benefits. But usually he has to continue working for that. As a Christian, though, you've inherited something far greater from your Father. You inherit salvation and eternal life. Things which dwarf all the riches and recognition this world can offer. And you have to do nothing to receive it. All the wealth, the houses, the recognition, the job promotions mean nothing in the face of eternal life. Nothing. Do you desire the riches of the world as your inheritance? Because they're temporary and they're passing away, and they won't satisfy you. Or do you desire the riches of heaven? Because they are eternal. They will satisfy you, and they will never pass away. These are the riches which you will inherit as a son or daughter of the king. Think for a moment about the parable of the prodigal son in Luke 15. What happens in that parable? If you remember the father's youngest son takes his inheritance early, he wastes it, squanders it by drinking, partying, and carousing. And in the end, where does he find himself? Working with pigs in the mud. But what happens when that son returns to his father? Does the father cast him out? Does the father publicly shame him for his choices? Does the father refuse him entry to his childhood home? No. His father wraps his beloved son in a coat of the finest linen. He slaughters the choicest calf. He uncorks the finest bottle of wine. He alerts all of his neighbors and friends and families. He throws the most extravagant party. Why does the father do this? It 's simple because his beloved son has returned. Well, brothers and sisters, you were all once squandering in the mud with the pigs, myself included. But you have been redeemed and brought back to your father. Your father wraps you in the finest linen. He slaughters the choicest calf. He uncorks the finest bottle of wine. He throws the most extravagant of parties. Your father cries, Behold, my beloved child has returned. Brothers and sisters, you are sons and daughters of this King who does this, this Father. He has created you, He's chosen you. Jesus Christ came in the flesh to redeem you, and He holds you most firmly in His hand. You are no longer slaves to the sin, to sin and the law, bound in something that can never save. Instead, you are free. You are sons and daughters of the living God, sons and daughters of Christ the King. You have received an inheritance, and even more awaits you upon death. This is why Christ was born to a virgin so many years ago. This is why Christ lived a perfect life in obedience to the law. This is why Christ died a bloody death on a Roman cross for you. This is why Christ rose again from the dead. This is why Christ is coming again one day to glorify himself and to save and redeem a people for himself. My encouragement for you this morning is that you draw comfort and peace from this everlasting promise. If God has promised it, then it will most certainly happen. Go forth this week and add comfort and peace. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, thank you, Father, once again for giving us your word in written form and in a person in the work of Christ, and in the form of your covenants, your promises, which will never fail. Lord, help us to remember the certainty of these promises. Help us to remember that we are not slaves to the law anymore, slaves to sin and death, but rather we have been freed from those chains. As sons and daughters of you. In your son's name I pray. Amen.