Psalm eighty-nine, let's begin to verse one, and we'll read uh just through verse eighteen. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever. With my mouth will I make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I have said, mercy shall be built up forever. Your faithfulness you shall establish in the very heavens. I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn to my servant David. Your seed I will establish forever, and build up your throne to all generations. And the heavens will praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness also in the assembly of the saints. For who in the heavens can be compared to the Lord? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the Lord, to the Lord? God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be held in reverence by all those around him. O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty like you, O Lord? Your faithfulness also surrounds you You rule the raging of the sea. When its waves rise, you still them. You have broken Rahab in pieces as one who is slain. You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. The heavens are yours, the earth also is yours, the world and all its fullness, you have founded them. The north and the south, you have created them. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name. You have a mighty arm. Strong is your hand, and high is your right hand. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Mercy and truth go before your face. Blessed are the people who know the joyful sound. They walk, O Lord, in the light of your countenance. In your name they rejoice all day long, and in your righteousness they are exalted. For you were the glory of their strength And in your favor our horn is exalted. For our shield belongs to the Lord, and our King to the Holy One of Israel. May God's blessing rest upon his word. And uh as I lead us in a word of prayer before the message Let's uh remember uh I'll lead us in prayer for uh for Laurie Chilkin's father. I think he has surgery tomorrow. Is that right, Lori? Uh that's uh Don Bailey, many of you remember. Uh is it back surgery he's he's facing? Neck neck surgery tomorrow. All right, let's pray. Father, now as we think of it, we do lift up uh Lori 's dad. We thank you for him. And for his wife and for the blessing that they have been to our church through the years. And we do pray for them, especially for tomorrow, for this surgery on Don 's neck. We pray that it would go well. And that you would help him through the procedure and through the recovery. Now, Father, as we open up your word, we pray for your Holy Spirit to teach us. As we meditate once again upon your glorious nature, Lord, give us clear uh truthful thoughts of you. Help us to understand to the best of our ability what you are truly like. Teach us, Lord, we ask in Christ's name. Amen. In this series of messages on the nature of God, we've seen that all that we know of Him comes to us either from general revelation. Also called natural revelation. That is what we can discern of him from the world that he has made Or it comes to us from special revelation, that which he reveals of himself by communicating to man through some special means. Natural revelation can can bring us some understanding of God, but it can't take us very far in our understanding of what God is like. It reveals him to be a God of great wisdom, one who can design such a world as this. It reveals him to be a God of great creativity to design it with such variety. It reveals him to be a God of great power to bring it all to pass. But to know much more about him, we are dependent upon special revelation. The scriptures declare themselves to be God's special revelation. And of course, they give credence to that declaration by their uniqueness , by their fullness and richness, by the sublimity and majesty. of the text, by the amazing accuracy of the factual statements, by the extraordinary effect that the scriptures have had upon nations and upon individuals throughout history. By their unity, although written over a period of about sixteen hundred years, by their preservation through time and the attacks of critics And by the fulfillment of prophecies, prophecies which cannot be explained other than through divine revelation. These scriptures, which provide us with an infallible source of the knowledge of God, Reveal this God whom we worship to be first of all self-existent and eternal. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting. Thou art God, Psalm 90, verse 2. The scriptures reveal God to be not bound by a physical body. The Lord Jesus said, God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit. And in truth, John 4. 24. No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. Jesus said. The scriptures reveal our God to be omniscient, all-knowing. He knows all creatures. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight. But all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Hebrews 4. 13 He knows all facts. His understanding is infinite. Psalm 147. 5. He knows all future events. He declares the end from the beginning. Isaiah 46. 10. The scriptures reveal God to be all powerful, omnipotent. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. Psalm 33, 6. The scriptures reveal God to be everywhere present, omnipresent. Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him? said the Lord. Do not I fill heaven and earth, saith the Lord. Jeremiah 23, 24. C. S. Lewis said We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade the presence of God. The world is crowded with him. He walks everywhere incognito. W. A. Pratney responded to this question. Some would argue, if God is in fact everywhere , then he must be impure because he's in contact with impurity, right? He's in contact with murderers and liars and blasphemers W. A. Prattney responds, as a holy God, he enters the hearts of sinners to inspect them and convict them of sin. But his essence is never mingled with any impurity. He's like the sun 's rays. A sunbeam may fall on a pile of refuse, but that pile cannot defile the sunbeam. Similarly, nothing can defile God. Our Lord Jesus Christ came into the world, lived among sinners, and yet the Apostle John said of him, In him there is no sin. 1 John 3, 5. He interacted with sinful men such as ourselves, sinful men and women throughout his life on earth, but he remained totally undefiled by them. Perhaps you've wondered, if God is truly everywhere, then why does the scripture say he withdraws himself or he is far away at times? The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. Proverbs 15, 29. And doesn't the psalmist pray on occasion things like, Lord, why are you so far from me? Why have you withdrawn yourself from me? Come to me, O Lord. It's not uncommon for us to begin a worship service or any gathering of Christians by imploring God to be with us. Why do so if in fact God is everywhere present? John MacArthur writes, the important thing to keep in mind is the distinction between God's essence and his relation to people. He is everywhere in his essence, but only in certain places relationally. In a relational sense, both the Holy Spirit and the Lord Jesus reside in every true believer. Romans 8. 9. If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. Paul wrote, Christ is in you, the hope of glory, or Christ in you is the hope of glory. Colossians 1. 27 But before he ever indwells us relationally as believers, his essence was present to convict us of our sin and to save us. Unquote from MacArthur. In other words, as we strive to understand the scripture, we must conclude that although God is everywhere present, there's also a sense in which he can withdraw his presence from us. And that must refer to his relationship to us as individuals. Thus theologian Hermann Bavink put it this way: it is not with respect to place But with respect to being unlike him, that a man is far from God. It's not with respect to place, but with respect to being unlike him. That we could be called far from God. Note, there's a great difference between the biblical doctrine that God is an omnipresent personal loving creative being who not only made the world and mankind but revealed himself to us by communicating his scripture There's a great difference between that and the doctrine of pantheism, which sees God as an impersonal life force. The universe is God, says the pantheist. We do not need to postulate a personal intelligent creator. As you know, in George Lucas 's epic Star Wars saga, which described events you'll remember that took place a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. The great power behind the universe was depicted as an impersonal force, a force to which someone could, in a sense, connect. Now, as refreshing as it may have been to see some sort of omnipresent spiritual being acknowledged in popular culture, the scriptures present us with a God who is more than an impersonal life force. He's a personal being who thinks and feels and creates and acts, who knows his children intimately, so that Jesus could declare, the very hairs of your head are numbered. Luke 12, 7. Not even a sparrow falls without your father, and you are of more value than many sparrows. Now, think about this. When you contemplate the vastness of the universe, When astronomers tell us that there are more stars in the heavens than there are grains of sand on all the beaches on planet Earth. When you contemplate that, when you realize that Earth's sun is just one of those grains of sand, and it's just a medium-sized grain of sand. And when you contemplate that our planet is therefore comparable to one little fleck of dust circling that grain of sand Which is one of trillions, a fleck of dust that is, by the way, a million times smaller than the grain of sand. It becomes difficult for us at times to believe that the God who created all of this actually knows and cares about us. Right? It's a whort and hears of the who kind of thing. He cares about us. Uh you know, you know, we're on a fleck of dust circling a grain of sand, and and there's as many grains of sand as there are grains of sand on the on the beaches of of earth. It's mind-boggling. Author Samuel Shoemaker made address this point. He said, there are many who think God is so great and so impersonal that he cannot possibly mean anything personal to us. And we cannot even say that he's a personal God. He says, let me try to answer that not from my own wisdom, but from that of a man who graduated from Princeton with the highest honors in all history. Signa cum laud. The late Dr. Henry Norris Russell of the Department of Astronomy. So think of this man as a smart Russell. One evening he had been giving us some head-splitting figures on the size of the universe. Talking with him afterwards, I said, Dr. Russell, how is it possible for an infinite God, in other words, a God who made all this with such magnitude, how is it possible for an infinite God to have time for us? He replied, and I recall his exact words, the trouble is that your infinite God is not infinite enough. If he's really infinite, he can dispatch with the affairs of this universe in the twinkling of an eye and then have all the time in the world for you. You get it? He can dispatch with the affairs of this universe in the twinkling of an eye and then have all the time in the world for you. That is the God with whom we have to do. He says to us, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He invites his children to cast all their cares upon him, because he cares for us, he says. First Peter five seven, casting all your cares upon him, for he cares for you. This God who created all, this majestic God of great power and authority and might and dominion, he cares for us Absolutely. He cares for us. The God revealed in Scripture is not an impersonal life force, but a personal being who has revealed himself to the men and women that he's created in his own image. Who came to us in the person of his son, the son who was called the express image of his person. And so the Bible urges us to approach him, to come to him, to call upon him, to trust in him. To ask him to come to our aid, to see what he will do. We saw last week that this personal God is immutable, unchangeable The counsel of the Lord stands forever, Psalm 33. 11. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever, Hebrews 13, 8. A. W. Pink writes, he cannot change for the better, for he is already perfect. And being perfect, he cannot change for the worse. He is altogether uninfluenced by the flight of time. You and I are bound by time. Our lives are scheduled by time. We're bound by this time continuum. God is not bound by time at all. He is beyond it. He is uninfluenced by the flight of time. Time is merely a measurement based upon the rotation and the orbit of Earth through our solar system. God is not bound by our solar system, he transcends it. Which is why C. S. Lewis could say God has all eternity to listen to the split second of prayer put up by a pilot as his plane crashes in flames. So when the scripture speaks of God, for example, being sorry that he had made man on the earth, it must therefore be describing a change in his dealings with men in time, and not a change in his eternal counsel. Which the scripture says changes not. Closely linked to God's immutability is his faithfulness. We read of it this morning in Psalm 89 Know therefore that the Lord thy God, He is God, He is the faithful God, Deuteronomy 7:9. Psalm 40, verse 10. I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great congregation. With my mouth will I make known your faithfulness. To all generations. Psalm 89. 1. You are the Lord God who chose Abram and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans. You have performed your words. Nehemiah 9. For the Lord will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. Psalm 94, 14 But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him and his righteousness to children's children. Psalm 103, 17. Forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven, your faithfulness endures to all generations. Psalm 19 In Psalm 121, he will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. He is faithful. He's faithful in disciplining his children. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. Psalm 119, verse 75. God is faithful in providing for his children. He who calls you is faithful who will also do it. That is, preserve you blameless, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Thessalonians 5, 24. Now There will be times when you will doubt his faithfulness, no doubt. When that happens, cling to his word. Wait upon him for more light. But remember what Jesus said to his disciples, what I am doing, you do not understand now, but you will know after this. Beautiful verse to put in your heart. What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will know after this. John 13 7. He was speaking to them of course of his departure, of his crucifixion, of his ultimate resurrection and glorification. Christian, what was true for the apostles is true for you, but in your own circumstances, there are things he does in your life that you will not understand. Uh you won't understand them when they happen, but you will understand them after this. Author Grace Groben wrote, Some time ago, when it became necessary to break her of the habit of sleeping with me, I laid my little child in her crib. I kissed her good night. I turned out the light. She cried long and bitterly, thinking that I did not hear her cry, and that I did not love her, not knowing that I was in reality not far away, only hidden in the darkness and that my mother heart was aching for her. I indeed heard her cries and longed to do what she wanted, but for her own good I must hide myself She continued, and so in times of affliction our God indeed hears our cry, and he is near, Psalm 23, verse 4. He's with us through that valley of the shadow of death. He feels for us, though for our own good he may hide his face and may seem not to hear. To say that God is faithful is to say that He's trustworthy. We can safely trust Him to do not only what He has said, but to always do what is right. Who is among you that fears the Lord, that walks in darkness and has no light? Let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his God. Blessed are they that wait for him, Isaiah 30, 18. Perhaps you know the story of uh William Cooper. We pronounce it Cooper, although it's spelled Cowper, C-O-W. He struggled with deep depression much of his life. He was ministered to by John Newton. Newton, of course, the former slave trader and author of Amazing Grace. Newton ministered to Cooper for decades. Cooper found himself in such deep depression that for years he couldn't even or wouldn't even worship God. He loved Newton, though. He loved to talk to Newton, but there were years when he withdrew himself from the body of Christ and struggled with what we would call a severe mental illness. It was Cooper who wrote, Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds you so much dread are rich with mercy, and shall break in blessings for your head. A. W. Pink wrote, human nature cannot be relied upon, but God can. However unstable I may be, however fickle my friends may be, God changes not. If he varied as we do, if he willed one thing today and another tomorrow, if he were controlled by caprice, who could confide in him? But all praise to his glorious name, he is ever the same. His purpose is fixed. His will is stable. His word is sure. Here, then, is a rock on which we may fix our feet while the mighty torrent is sweeping away everything around us. The permanence of God's character guarantees the fulfillment of his promises. And therefore we will not fear though the earth be removed, though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Well, closely linked to God's faithfulness is his goodness. Listen to some verses that exalt his goodness. He did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. Good and upright is the Lord, Psalm 25, 8. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord, Psalm 33, 5. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Psalm 34, 8. The goodness of God endures continually, Psalm 52, 1. Blessed be the Lord who daily loads us with benefits. And what a picture, who daily loads us with benefits. Even the God of our salvation, Psalm 68, 19. For you, Lord, are good and ready to forgive and abundant in mercy to all those who call upon you. Psalm 86. 5. The Lord is good, his mercy everlasting. Psalm 100. The goodness of God is evident all around us, but seldom do we pause to meditate on it. For example, meditate on this. Think about the food that God gives us. Not only does he provide food for men, but he provides us with an infinite variety of food. He could have just said, okay, you birds, I want you to eat worms and uh seeds. And you people, I want you to eat grass. He could have done that. He could have given us little uh uh uh pellet bushes. All right, uh uh Mary Beth going out and gather uh the pellets for breakfast. He gathers a pellet, as she gathers a pellets off the bush, we eat pellets. Breakfast, lunch, dinner, pellets, little rabbit pellets. He could have done that. But his goodness led him to give us this infinite variety. The goodness of God is demonstrated in the good things he gives us. We have to breathe. He had to provide us with a system whereby a plant or something would produce oxygen and his plant it's plant. But all the plants could look alike. Every single plant could look the same. Why the colour is What else have you been keeping from me? I guess my batteries, my batteries might have worn out. But uh what they mean by that is that the the neurons that are firing in there uh uh electrons, etc. So they they answer the question or they continue to ask the question, does all this make our brain a computer? Well in a limited sense yes. But the brain is much more than a computer No computer can decide that it's wasting its talents and should embark on a new way of life. The computer cannot drastically alter its own program. Before it sets out in a new direction, a person with a brain, a brain, a brain, must program it or reprogram it. More importantly still, a computer cannot relax Computer cannot daydream. Computer cannot laugh. It cannot become inspired or creative. It cannot experience consciousness or perceive meaning. It cannot fall in love. Once more, then, is the brain a computer? In a word, no. Truly, we're fearfully and wonderfully made. And God's goodness to us is evident in creation. But how few of us give him glory for his goodness in creation. The psalmist cries out, oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Psalm 107, verse 8. Too many of us despise the riches of his goodness, Romans 2 says. We despise the riches of his goodness. And then it goes on to say, and we despise the riches of his forbearance and his long-suffering. Which brings us to another aspect of the nature of God: His forbearance, his long-suffering, his patience with us. Consider that for a moment. The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, abundant in goodness and truth. Long-suffering. The Lord is long-suffering and of great mercy, for giving iniquity and transgression. Numbers 14, 18. He's patient with his people. He's long-suffering with us. And it could be argued that that patience or that long suffering is an aspect of his power. Maybe that's what Romans 9 means. What if God willing to show his wrath and make his power known Endured with much long-suffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction. Here God's patience may be viewed as an aspect of his power and his might. In other words, By withholding his hand of judgment, he's demonstrating his power, his self-control. If God had immediately destroyed the wicked, then his patience, his long suffering would not have been so clearly manifested. But the power of his patience is displayed in his bearing long with sinners. Even after he saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thought of his heart was evil continually, he delayed Judgment for 120 years, as Noah preached righteousness. God's people were in bondage for 400 years before God brought justice upon Egypt. God's patience and long-suffering with sinners delayed his wrath. But no doubt from the perspective of g of God's people, God was delaying justice, right? Even as the martyrs cry out around this throne, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Revelation 6:10. How long until you avenge our blood? To them, it looks like God is delaying, needlessly delaying his judgment. In other words, Perhaps when God delays an answer to you, particularly when you pray for justice in a certain matter, it may be because he's manifesting his patience to the one who deserves his wrath. What seems to you like God failing to do what he promised may be in fact God patiently, graciously withholding his wrath for a season. When God deals with us, of course, we appreciate his patience. We want him to be long-suffering. When he deals with others, we want his justice to be swift and sure. How long will you delay? When will you avenge? What sort of God would allow such wicked men to prosper?