Alright, if you have your Bible, turn please to uh to Psalm ninety. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth Wherever you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You turn man to destruction and say, Return, O children of men. For a thousand years in your sight are like yesterday when it is passed, and like a watch in the night. You carry them away like a flood. They are like asleep. In the morning, they are like grass which grows up. In the morning it flourishes and grows up. In the evening it is cut down and withers. For we have been consumed by your anger, and by your wrath we are terrified. You set our iniquities before you, our secret sins, in the light of your countenance. For all our days have passed away in your wrath. We finish our years like a sigh. The days of our lives are seventy years. And if by reason of strength they are eighty years, yet their boast is only labor and sorrow. For it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Who knows the power of your anger? For as the fear of you, so is your wrath. So teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? And have compassion on your servants. O satisfy us early with your mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad according to the days in which you have afflicted us. The years in which we have seen evil, let your work appear to your servants and your glory to their children. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands for us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. Let's pray. Oh Almighty God, great, eternal one, self-existent God, we do ask you now to pour out your Spirit upon us. Lord, have mercy upon those here. We know, Father, that there may be some here still dead in sins, without hope, without Christ, some for whom you are but a distant force in their imaginations. Lord, I pray that this might be the glorious day of salvation for those. And Father, I pray for those of us who Know you, those of us of us who are trusting in you, those of us who've repented of our sins and laid hold upon Jesus Christ, Lord, teach us deepen our knowledge of you today. Lord, we need your presence. We need your help. We ask it in Christ's glorious name. Amen. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, let not the mighty man glory in his might, nor let the rich man glory in his riches. But let him who glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord. Jeremiah 9. If someone were to ask you, what is God like, how would you answer him? What do you know of God? What can be known of him? What has he revealed about himself? One of Job's friends, Eliphaz, said to him, Now acquaint yourself with him and be at peace. Thereby good will come to you. Acquaint yourself with him and be at peace. You see, the study of God is no mere mental exercise. The study of God is no mere mental exercise. As some of you know, my father was an engineer , a mathematician. We lived in very different worlds. His was a world of uh pies are squared. Mine was a world of pies are dessert. And it became painfully obvious to us when I got to uh junior high school what we used to call junior high school that although although my dad's intellect was dominant, his genes, unfortunately, were not I used to ask him why I had to study algebra and trigonometry and when it was quite evident that that mathematics side of my brain uh uh you know wasn't working. uh the all the uh the neurons uh th were uh not firing. As someone has colorfully expressed it, you know, the uh the gates were down, the lights were flashing, but no train was coming And uh and dad said my dad's response to that was uh often something like this well uh uh uh mathematics the study of mathematics is good mental exercise You know, almost as if he thought that uh a four-cylinder Volkswagen would eventually evolve into an eight-cylinder Lincoln if you just exercised it enough. But I showed him. Well, all that to say the study of God is no mere mental exercise. George Watson said, it is a beautiful task to study about God. The human mind can never be employed on any subject so full of rich reward as when trying to find out the knowledge of God. Knowing God, of course, brings us life. John 17, 3, Jesus said, and this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Eternal life is not merely the endless compounding of years, or more accurately, the cessation of our concept of time. Eternal life is coming to know a person. This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. The Apostle Paul said, I count all things but lost, that I might know Him. The people who know their God shall be strong and carry out great exploits. Daniel 11, 32. Even after we believe in the Lord Jesus for salvation, there are great benefits to us in this life. By our deepening our knowledge of God in our relationships with one another, we can trust the person only to the degree that we know that person. You don't place your children in the hands of a complete stranger and say, watch these children for me. You don't even do that with your possessions. We trust the person insofar as we know The better we know God, the more we will be able to trust Him. The more we will be able to attempt great things in His name and have peace and joy and comfort even in the midst of trials. And it's in part, I think, because we've neglected the word ourselves, and in part because I'm afraid much of Our current preaching and teaching in America, at least, is intended to convert rather than to edify. That many who name the name of Christ today are ignorant of his true nature and attributes. Dr. A. W. Tozer wrote this several decades ago. It is my opinion that the Christian conception of God current in these middle years of the 20th century is so decadent. has to be utterly beneath the dignity of the Most High God, and actually to constitute for professed believers something amounting to a moral calamity. I believe there is scarcely an error in doctrine or a failure in applying Christian ethics that cannot be traced finally to imperfect and ignobile thoughts about God. In Psalm 15, verse 21, God rebukes the wicked. You thought that I was altogether such a one as thyself, but I will reprove you. As you know, God's word says, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. Psalm 14, Psalm 53, both verse 1. And if it's foolish to say there is no God, then surely it must be foolish to acknowledge him, but to be ignorant of him. To be content to remain relatively ignorant of him. C. S. Lewis in the classic Mere Christianity said, Everyone has warned me not to tell you what I'm going to tell you. They all say the ordinary reader does not want theology, given plain practical religion. I have rejected their advice. I do not think the ordinary reader is such a fool. Theology means the science of God. And I think any man who wants to think about God at all would like to have the clearest and most accurate ideas about Him which are available. You are not children, he said. Why should you be treated like children? Although we can learn about God and come to a truer understanding of him, as you know. It's also true that we will never be able to comprehend him. Can you by searching find out God? Can you find out the Almighty to perfection? It is as high as heaven. What can you do? Deeper than hell, what can you know? The measure thereof is longer than the earth and broader than the sea. Job 11 Kurison Richard Sibbs said, How should finite comprehend infinite? We shall apprehend him, but not comprehend him. Thomas Hodges said, no bodily eye hath ever or can possibly see him. Neither can the eye of the understanding perfectly reach him. No one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end, is the way Ecclesiastes 3:11 puts it. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out, Romans 11. Robert Drummond, in a book called Faith's Perplexities, writes, I, for one, should be very much surprised if when the truth about God is reached We should not find something which is very perplexing to human minds and something which betrays the poverty of human speech I expect the truth about the infinite God will always tax the fullest resources of finite minds and tongues and still leave men wondering, pondering, and adoring. Well, granting then that there are things about God which we will no doubt find incomprehensible, what do we know of him? What can we know of him? Well, there are, as you know, strictly speaking, only two uh ways of discovering God or understanding God, two sources of information concerning God, you might say. The first is what we call general revelation, right? Or the natural world. Natural revelation. General revelation What does this world tell us about God? In other words, well the heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament shows his handiwork Day under day utter speech, and night under night shows forth knowledge. There's no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Psalm nineteen. In other words, we do not need a Bible. We don't need access to the Bible to know certain things about God. Even if I was never blessed to own a Bible, I would still know some things about God. We just look at creation and we can realize that God is a God of great power Great power. We would say infinite power to create all of this. To set the stars in the heavens, to set the earth in rotation, to set the sun in its position. He must be a God of great wisdom. We don't need a Bible to prove that to us. He must be a God of great wisdom. How in the world could he plan such a thing? gravity and nuclear fission and the inner workings of the living cell and DNA and photosynthesis and the way children are formed and born and the way we grow and our bodies change and And new uh new cells are being created all the time. He must be a God of infinite wisdom to plan all this. And we know that he has incredible power. When we think about it, we know he must be self-existent or eternal. When we think about it, we know that he must be not only a God of great power and a God of great wisdom, but he must be self-existent or eternal. Because the evidence indicates the universe had a beginning. And a creator must have preceded it. Dr. Stephen Meyer, in his article, The Return of God, the Hypothesis, cites Oxford physicist Roger Penrose who was describing the fine-tuning of the universe which allows for life here. You know, the physicists are just mind-boggled as they consider the fine-tuning of the universe to permit life to be here. He looked at just one single parameter in the universe's design, what they call the phase space volume. Phase space volume. He says it required such fine-tuning that the creator's aim must have been to an accuracy of one part in ten to the tenth With an exponent of 123. Now that would have meant something to my dad. It means something to some engineers here, I trust. But for the English majors, let me clarify. Penrose remarks that, quote, one could not possibly even write the number down in full Since it would be more zeros than the number of elementary particles in the entire universe Such, he concludes, is the precision needed to set the universe on its course. And that's just one of the parameters. That must be exact for us to be here and be able to walk around and talk, for there to be anything. Now One would think that the fact that the existence of a creation demands the existence of a creator uh would be evident to both the wise and the simple. Right? Uh w we use the same logic with everything else. Uh there's a uh lectern of some sort there. What is that? A the a flower holder I don't know, but obviously somebody made it. Somebody created it. Was that Fred Walker? Did you make that thing, Fred? There you go. Well, it might prove my point. Uh everything we see here, we we know somebody made it. Well, what about the universe? One would think that this would be self-evident. The problem, however, that many scientists face is that they have accepted the view that if That it is somehow unscientific to follow the facts where they lead, if those facts lead to an intelligent, powerful, purposeful, pre-existent creator. They say, well, you can't allow that into the into the into the scheme. Forced into a corner by the great weight of evidence that the universe, our solar system, and particularly our planet seem to have been minutely designed and finely tuned to sustain life, as one scientist put it, it's as if the universe knew we were coming. The scientists have postulated the idea that perhaps there are multiple universes, and ours just happens to be the one that, against all odds, can sustain life, even though they have no evidence of any other universe. But even if you accept that hypothesis, that doesn't ultimately evade the great question, who created it all? Alright, so maybe there are other universes out there that we have no idea of. Who created them? If our universe had a beginning, as their evidence affirms, there must have been a pre-existent being. You know, I've done this several times with you. I did it with the kids at camp this week, you know, I I uh uh last week. a couple weeks ago. Tripress camp. I asked them all to close their eyes and uh and I said, now okay, imagine I've done this with you, imagine that uh there's no stars, no sun, no moon, no planets, no God, no nothing. There's absolutely nothing. There's no universe, there's no nothing. I said, if there was ever such a time as that, I said to the kids, what would be here now? Keep your eyes closed. What would be here now? And they said it almost with one voice. Nothing! Fourth, fifth, and sixth graders. It's self-evident. A child understands it. It could be argued on the basis of the same evidence that God is no mere impersonal force. What do we know about God? He's all powerful. He's got great power. He's got great wisdom. He must be self-existent and eternal because he preceded all that is. And we also could argue, on the basis of the same evidence, that he's no mere impersonal force, but he's a personal being who has a will. Uh how do we know that? Well, because he chose to create the universe at a certain point and not before. Well, we'll speak more about that next week, Lord willing. So you and I know some things about God from general revelation. We would know these things if we never had a Bible. We would be able to reason at least that far. But there's not much more about God we would be able to discern just from looking at the world. Uh we wouldn't even know uh is is God a good God or an evil God? Is he benevolent? Well yeah of course he's benevolent. We have rain and sunshine and yeah, but we also have tornadoes and and hurricanes and and famine. We wouldn't know much about his nature, his attributes. We need special revelation. And God has specially revealed himself through his word. He knew what we needed and he gave it to us in what we call his word. Where he's revealed himself You can't tell just looking at this world if he's a God of justice or a God of holiness or truth, if he's benevolent or malevolent. But we have his word that reveals himself to us. Thomas Manton wrote, We know God, but as men born blind know the fire. In other words, they know that there is such a thing as fire, for they feel it warmed them, but what it is they know not. So that there is a God we know, but what he is, we know little, and indeed we never can search him out unto perfection. So the only other way we can know God is by special revelation. And so God has revealed Himself through His Word. I'm not going to take the time this morning, don't have the time this morning, to establish the scripture as God's unique revelation, but there's a very real sense in which the scriptures establish themselves. John Owen said, Let the sun arise in the firmaments, and there is no need of witnesses to prove and confirm to a seeing man that it is day. Come how it will, the scripture has authority in itself and has its power of manifesting itself from its own innate light. But this morning I do want us to take a few minutes to think about what the scripture tells us about some of these attributes of God or something about the nature of God. And first of all We mentioned that general revelation suggests that God is self-existent. Well, if there's any doubt about that in your mind, the scripture certainly removes it. The Bible declares God to be the great eternal one, which is simply another way of saying he is pre-existent. He is before all things. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself. John 5, 26 Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first, and I am the last. Besides me there is no God. Isaiah 44, 6 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba and called there on the name of the Lord the everlasting God. Genesis 21, 33 Psalm 90, which we read earlier, begins, or at least verse 2 begins, before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. He had no beginning. The scripture makes it clear he will have no end. But the Lord shall endure forever. Psalm 9:7. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Thy dominion endures throughout all generations. Psalm 145, 13. And even as he is the self-existent one, he is prior to and independent of all things. He's the creator of all that there is. The things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Hebrews 11. 3. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Genesis 1. 1 Thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts, the earth and all things that are therein, the seas and all that is therein, and thou preservest them all. Nehemiah 9:6 So the psalmist said, When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and stars, what thou hast ordained, what is man that thou art mindful of him? Or the Son of Man that you visit him, that you are attentive to him? He hath made the earth by his power. He hath established the world by his wisdom. He hath stretched out the heaven by his understanding. Jeremiah 51, 15. He is the eternal, pre-existent one, the creator of all. And as the eternal, self-existent, independent creator, God is not bound by time. The scripture says, as you know, with the Lord one day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as one day. 2 Peter 3. 8. You may remember these words of C. S. Lewis. Almost certainly God is not in time. His life does not consist in moments following one another. If a million people are praying to him tonight at 1030 He need not listen to them all in that one little snippet which we call 1030. 1030 in every other moment from the beginning of the world is always present to him God is not hurried along in the time stream of this universe any more than an author is hurried along in the imaginary time of his own novel. He has infinite attention to spare for each one of us. He does not have to deal with us in the mass. You are as much alone with him as if you were the only being he ever created. When Christ died, he died for you as an individual just as much as if you had been the only man in the world, C. S. Lewis writes. If you picture time as a straight line along which we have to travel, if you picture time as a straight line along which we have to travel, you then must picture God as the whole page on which the line is drawn. Wait a minute, he got that from my children's sermon this morning. He must not have been bound by time either. We have to leave A behind before we reach B. We cannot reach C until we leave B behind. God from above, God is from above or outside or all around us. And he contains the whole line. and sees it all. It's interesting that Einstein held that man's sense of time, like his sense of color, is merely a form of perception It's therefore subjective and intuitive. We try to objectify time by measuring it with clocks and calendars, right? But we should remember that all clocks relate to the motion of our solar system. What we call an hour is actually a measurement in space, an arc of 15 degrees in the apparent daily rotation of the celestial sphere. Time is always dependent on the system of reference. So certainly God is not bound by time as we know it, because God is not bound by our solar system. I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning. How can God declare the end from the beginning? Because the end is just as clear to God as the beginning. He's not locked in this box that we call time. He has made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on the face of the earth and has determined the times appointed. Acts 17 John Wesley put it like this, all time, or rather all eternity, for time is only that small fragment of eternity which is allotted to the children of men. Being present to him at once, he does not know one thing before another or one thing after another, but he sees all things in one point of view from everlasting to everlasting. As all time, with everything that exists therein, is present with him at once, so he sees at once whatever was, is, or will be through the end of time. The sum of all this is the Almighty, Alwise God sees and knows from everlasting to everlasting all that is, all that was, and all that is to come. Through one eternal now. With him nothing is past or future, but all things equally present. You remember when Moses approached the bush that was burning and not consumed? And the Lord spoke to him from the bush, remove thy shoes, thy sandals from thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. And Moses said, Lord, when I come to the children of Israel and I say to them, the God of your fathers hath sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? And you know what God said? I am that I am. Thus shalt thou say to the children of Israel, I am hast sent me unto you. I am the great eternal one, the self-existent one. What else do we know of God from Scripture? He's a spirit. God is a spirit. He doesn't have a body as we have. He's not bound by a physical body any more than he's bound by time. We've had fathers of our flesh who corrected us and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the father of spirits? And live, Hebrews 12, 9. Remember what Jesus said to the woman of Samaria? God is a spirit, and they who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. God is a spirit. They who worship him must worship him in spirit. It's because God is the spirit that he's made it clear that he is not to be worshipped by means of physical representations. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, nor any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or the earth beneath, and the waters under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. Why is that such a big deal? That we don't we can't make any image of God. What image could you make of him? To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness will you compare unto him, Isaiah 40:18? When Moses was on the mount and the people just went to Aaron and they said, make us something to see, something we can worship. This invisible God. How are we supposed to worship him? Give us something to look at. They didn't think this calf was really God. It was coming from their own earrings. But they just wanted something they could look at, bow down to, pray to, focus their attention upon. This invisible God is a spirit. And we're not to worship him with any sort of image or statue because they all fall far short. Now the problem is we live in a world of material things, right? We live in a world of materialism. These things have a stranglehold on us. We live for what we can see and touch and taste and smell. When we talk about having our needs supplied by the Lord, it seems invariably we're referring to our physical or material needs, because that's the way we think. For the ultimate reality for us is stuff. Or it seems to be Kozier said, we're born of material parents into a material world. We're wrapped in material clothes, we're fed on material milk, we lie on a material bed, sleep and walk and live and talk and grow in a material, in a world of matter. Matter presses upon us so obtrusively and takes over our thinking so completely that we can't speak of spirit without using materialistic terms. God made man out of the dust of the ground, and man has been dust ever since and can't quite shake it off. But uh we now know that the things that we see and touch here are in fact not as substantial as we may think. William Prattney wrote William Prattney wrote, as our studies in physics have shown us, we know that matter itself is not really solid. Remove the empty space from a man and what is left as matter would be fly speck in size. What we think of as solidness is only energy bundles held together by subatomic forces, entire universes of swarming electromagnetic and nuclear fields. All we see is unsubstantial at heart. A coalesced force bound by yet deeper invisible cords. The nature of reality remains a subject of scientific and even mystic speculation. People who attempt to describe it find even illustration difficult, and they're forced instead either to mathematical representations, poetic analogies, or notational models in their thought processes The fact is, everything that we see and feel here will one day be dissolved Think about it. Everything that you see and feel and touch here. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with a fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. So these physical things, uh something they move that uh lectern there, the sp music thing. I can't see Glenn. I'm looking over there and I just see a big thing there. There you go. Thank you. So those physical things that seem to be so permanent are in fact temporary. And the spiritual things, the ephemeral things, the things we cannot touch. They are in fact the most real, the most permanent, right? Because all this is going to be dissolved. So what's most permanent? It's the spiritual thing. These physical themes that things that seem so permanent are in fact temporary. And the things that we think of as not having any real substance, they're the most permanent. If everything we see here is one day going to be dissolved, destroyed, then all that will remain is the spiritual world. But although God is spiritual, that is, he's not physical, he is nonetheless quite real. Stephen Charnock said, God is a spirit, that is, he has nothing corporeal, no mixture or matter. He's not a visible substance, not a bodily form. He's a spirit, not a bare spiritual substance, but an understanding, willing spirit, holy, wise, good, just. And the spiritual world is every bit as real and it's more lasting than the physical world. I don't doubt that there are spirits present here right now, uh evil spirits who are intent upon Distracting you know by an errant hair on my forehead, what's left of the hair, or uh or a uh a fly or or something I I say They're here ready to distract you. And there are good angels here on missions of mercy. Sent forth to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation. The evil angel wants to distract you with the temperature of the time. Some years ago when I was preaching in Tennessee, when I was pastoring there, I mentioned uh I was Referring to the Old Testament, I mentioned the prophets and seers of the Old Testament. The prophets and seers, S-E-E-R-S. Had one of my one of the men in the church spoke to me the next week. He said, You know, last week you had me in the mall. And I said, Why? He said you you're talking about the prop prophets and seers. You had me in the mall. I I don't know how long he was in the mall, I don't know when he came back. But that's what happens. Uh remember what Jesus the parable Jesus told about the sower who sows the seed, and the fowls of the air are there, ready to pick up the seed and carry it away, so it doesn't bear fruit. So it doesn't form roots. There are spirits that work here, evil spirits, good angels. I was reading a sermon of Spurgeon this past week. Listen to what he said. This is how he started his sermon. There are more eyes fixed on man than he knows of. He sees not as he is seen. He thinks himself obscure and unobserved, but let him remember that a cloud of witnesses hold him in full survey. Wherever he is at every instant there are beings whose attention is riveted by his doings, whose gaze is constantly fixed by his actions Within this hall, I doubt not, there are myriads of spirits unseen to us. Spirits good and spirits evil are upon us tonight. The eyes of angels rest attentively. Those perfect spirits regard our order, they hear our songs, they observe our prayers. It may be they fly to heaven to convey to their companions news of any sinners who are born of God. For there's joy in the presence of the angels over of God over one sinner that repents. Millions of spiritual creatures walk this earth both when we wake and when we sleep. Midnight is peopled with unseen shadows, and daylight has its spirits too. The prince of the power of the air, attended by his squadron of evil spirits, often flits through the ether. Evil spirits watch our halting every instant while good spirits battling for the salvation of God's electric Keep us in all our ways, watch over our feet, lest at any time we dash them against a stone. Hosts of invisible beings attend on every one of us at different periods of our lives To say that God is a spiritual being conjures up images as some sort of impersonal force, some sort of featureless generality But as C. S. Lewis put it, he is the most concrete thing there is, the most individual, organized, and minutely articulated. The words incorporeal and impersonal are misleading because they suggest he lacks some reality that we possess. It would be safer to call him transcorporeal, transpersonal. Now, of course, because God is a spiritual being, he's invisible in his essence. No man has seen God at any time. So it was an accommodation to our human weakness that God sent his own son, who became flesh and dwelt among us, and who said, If you have seen me, you have seen the Father. Now, in subsequent weeks, Lord willing, we'll consider more of what the scriptures reveal, but it's late now. I'm going to close. But I want you to think about this. Your future is firmly in the hands of a self-existent, eternal, independent, spiritual creator who exists beyond the confines of time No wonder he tells you not to worry. You're worrying on the timeline. He's beyond the timeline. The timeline is within his purview. So what are you worried about? He says to you, I already see tomorrow. I already see tomorrow. So take no thought. What shall we eat or what sh what shall we put on? Are you not much of much more value than the sparrows? And and and not even a sparrow falls without your father. I take care of the birds of the air. I take care of the flowers of the field. I will take care of you. So he says, be anxious for nothing but in everything with prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. But I know it's entirely possible that there's someone here today who doesn't know God personally. And for you, God is just some sort of distant force. Who toys with your life from time to time. Well, there's only one way to know him. And Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. There's one means to come to know God the Father, that's the Son. So let me make it clear. If you've worshiped with us before, you've heard me explain. God is a holy God. He created us and we sinned against him. His holiness demands that sin be punished. So God, in his mercy, provided a way. He sent his own dear son to come to this world, takes upon himself human flesh, the God man, Christ Jesus, lives a perfect life as only he could do. Goes to the cross and lays down his life as a substitute for sinners. God says to you, if you'll repent of your sins, see them as vile, as heinous, turn from them in disgust, lay hold upon Jesus Christ by faith, rest in him alone. Stop trusting in yourself. Transfer your trust to him. His sinless life, his sacrificial death. All your sins will be forgiven. You'll have everlasting life. You'll be with God in heaven. God will take this judgment that was upon you and remove it. Because Jesus Christ paid the debt, you'll be forgiven. You'll be adopted into the family of God You'll have all the joys of knowing him. And he'll begin the process of sanctifying you, making you more like his son. It's a glorious thing he's done. It's a glorious plan. And he offers it to all of us. Come and let's reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be scarlet. They shall be as white as snow. Don't they be red like crimson? They shall be as wool. Won't you come? Come to him today. God forgive me. me. God, save me. God, give me this eternal life that you so wondrously planned for me. Let's pray. O Father, Lord, please have mercy upon sinners this day. Lord, as you graciously opened our hearts and eyes and gave us faith to believe, you breathed upon these dry bones, and they now live. Won't you do that for someone here this day? A man, a woman, a boy, a girl, a young person, draw a soul to Jesus today, Lord. Father, how we thank you for your wonderful plan. Lord, give us a hunger to know you better, that I might know him, the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his sufferings, and conformable unto his death. Give us that hunger and thirst for you. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.