For those who are able, please stand for the reading of God's Word, Psalm two in its entirety. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together. against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laugh The Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath, and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill, I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Now, therefore, O kings, be wise, be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. And let us pray, ask God to bless the preaching of his word. Father God, I do pray that you would encourage our hearts with your word this evening, that you would fill us with your presence, your Holy Spirit. would guide us and lead us, transform us more and more into your image. Father, your word is a light for our path, a lamp for our feet. We pray that you would illuminate in us, in our hearts. to see more of you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So as I mentioned earlier, we are taking some time to look at passages that are uh more COVID nineteen specific. And uh we are going to have most of those passages come from the Psalms. Last week we looked at Psalm 1 And we saw how to be blessed. And what is the blessed person? Who is he? It's The one who is devoted to God's word, even in calamity, even in difficulty, even in struggles and trials, the one that can that stands upon the rock of God's word. Tonight we're going to look at Psalm 2. And this is not necessarily about Blessed being blessed, even though we see this at the very end, blessed are all who take refuge in him. But this is about the most blessed one. And as we look at these Psalms and as you join us for worship, I just want to remind you during this time of isolation not to be isolated from God. And not to be isolated from his word. That's the theme of these Psalms. Psalm 1 and as we'll see. Psalm 2. It's it's bad enough that we're isolated from one another, which is uh a r a true detriment to our spiritual health, but much, much worse would it be if we were to uh be isolated from God. If we would take this time that we're all in and and to remove ourselves from his presence by not spending deep time In God 's word. So please continue to do that. As we look at God's word this evening, the psalmist starts out by asking a very poignant question. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? And we see this even today, this the nations raging. The context here is is different as we will see, but the the nations are raging. They're foaming, they're fuming, they're struggling with what is taking place here. And many people are raising their fist at God asking, why? Why is he doing these things? The nations in David's time, the psalmist 's time, believe, though, that they can be victorious against God. For fighting against God's people And God's anointed is akin to fighting against God Himself. Look what he says. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord. Against the Lord and against his anointed. Let us burst their bonds apart and cast their cords away from us. The nations long to be rid of God 's sovereign rule. They don't want God 's restrictions. They don't want God's authority. And we see this all over the place. Certainly we see it in our nation, but but even more clearly we see it in other places around the world where worship is restricted. Where people are thrown in prison, where Bibles are burned, people are even persecuted to the point of death. That still happens in abundance Around the world. So as we think of that, pray for your missionaries, for our missionaries, the ones that liberty supports, or maybe that you personally support those that are in difficult situations, or perhaps God's calling you to go. But these nations, since the beginning of time, have resisted God 's authority. And they want to throw off that yoke. What does Jesus say? My yoke is easy, my burden's light. But many people feel like it's a overwhelming yoke. It's a burdensome yoke. They want to resist it. Worship of God not only restricted in many places. And if it's not restricted, it's stigmatized. It's become foolish to worship God in many parts of the world, and in fact, even in our own country. And this is part of this verse 2 of what these kings and these authorities are doing. They're plotting. They're plotting against God. How can we stamp out religion? How can we resist and push back God's authority? And the manifestation of God's presence here in the church. What can we do? We should not be unaware of the plots of peoples and nations to eliminate or at least greatly reduce the church. This has been happening since the beginning. And now, in this current crisis, with churches closed for the most part, at the behest of godless government. Perhaps it will be easier for the church now to just fade away. Or close. We've been closed for many weeks and perhaps many more weeks. Satan does have schemes. We must not be unaware of that. Just as God is using this calamity, this crisis. To bring true faith and repentance to people, so too Satan is plotting. How can this crisis be something that Satan uses against the church. Or perhaps it's become so commonplace now not to come to church. That will be a sentiment that continues even when the lockdown is over. It's imperative for the church to not allow the schemes of Satan to prevail. And one way we're doing that is soaking in God's word continually on your own, worshiping God Another way is by joining virtually in this worship, both morning and evening. But this is something that is True that God is certainly going to bring out good from evil, from this catastrophe, but Satan is also looking to bring evil out from good. But it's our responsibility as a church to resist not only Satan, but to resist godless government. I'm not calling here for uh tyranny or for anarchy or anything like that, but I I do I I think this is good food for thought for us as we're entering now what, our fourth week or so at least of of uh quarantine of being locked down. And and the question I wrestled with is I was looking at these nations that are plotting against the Lord, against the church, against the anointed. The question was, what if this was to continue indefinitely for many, many months, perhaps many even years? Which I do not believe it will, I think. Um Do we have a responsibility as the church to resist an injunction to stay away from corporate worship? I believe we do. I believe that our current compliance to government in terms of this quarantine is a temporary one. That we have decided for the sake of a common good. We're acquiescing for the sake of the health of others. And that's good. But the flip side, elimination of corporate worship would be the death of the church. Now I'm not saying death universally, but even in places where there's restricted access to the gospel, even when there's places where there's persecution, the church was still able to meet They would just meet in secret. And God would use that, the faithful witness of God's people, even in secret, to begin spreading the seeds of the gospel all across the land. But to not meet at all, to not worship at all, we just cannot allow that to happen. And perhaps we would have to get creative. Think about meeting outside so that we could avoid close contact and close quarters, giving each other ample space. But the church, this is kind of my point as I meander through it here, it's uh the church is an essential business. There's been a lot of discussion about what's essential and what's non-essential. The church is essential. For the sake of our souls, we need church. And no matter what our government says, well in fact the government does indeed say that church is essential in the First Amendment, that no law should prohibit the exercise of religion, but I'm I'm not even looking to government. to validate the church. I'm looking to a greater government. God's, Christ's government, that declares that the church is indeed essential. And that the gates of hell will not prevail. It will stand. It is a rock upon this earth. It's Christ that mandates it. But I am sure that this will all be over soon. I am sure that we are going to gather together together again soon. It's my prayer that In fact, that there will be a renewed desire to come together because we've been so isolated from one another. We've been so quarantined and we realize that how good it we had And we don't realize how good we have it until it's gone. And meaning we don't realize how good it is to gather together as a people. We don't we often take that for granted and now that it's been stripped away from us. Perhaps when we're able, we will come together with a renewed vigor to meet together every single Sunday to worship together. In David's day, however, the people of God were in fact threatened by other governments, by other nations, the nations that were always seeking to eliminate God's people. And ultimately, the king in heaven laughs at these. Verse 4, the king in heaven laughs at these feeble attempts to stamp out his witness here on earth. Verse 4, he who sits in the heavens laughs. God will always have a witness here upon the earth. He will always have image bearers that are here. Now, his witness and his people may not be an American people But that's something certainly we should pray for, that God will continue his presence here even in our own country. God's image will remain here. But we must continue to be his witnesses. Even in isolation. How? How can you continue to be God's witness? In quarantine by loving your neighbor. First and foremost, your neighbor is that person who lives in your own home. And during this time it is very challenging for many of us as we're uh uh unable to get out as we normally do, as we are spending extended time with one another in our homes. But we are a witness still, first and foremost, in our homes to show the love of Christ to our spouse and to our children, to our parents. To love them, to pray for them, to encourage them, to be a source of hope, of grace in their life. We're also to be a witness to those around us, and we can't see them maybe physically, but we can talk to them. We can call them And we should be doing that. We should continue being a witness. God's witness is not being stamped out, and that's the point of what I'm trying to say about this. I this idea of of God's witness, you know, the nations plotting to stamp out the witness of God. And even though the nations aren't plotting against us right now with this quarantine, I don't think that necessarily. I think there's a lot of good things about us. quarantining and w I think we should, but the witness still remains. It has to remain. And we must continue to be witnesses of God's grace. Well who is this anointed that the psalmist writes about? He says, against the Lord, verse 2, and against his anointed. Well, it's David. He's the king of Israel. He is the one who was placed upon Zion, verse 6. As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. This holy hill is Jerusalem. It's David, the king, the greatest king of Israel, upon the holy hill of Jerusalem. But David was a type. David was truly the Messiah. but with a lowercase M. David was merely a foreshadow of the greater Messiah, the greater David. the Messiah with the uppercase M. And we see this explicitly in verse 7. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Now, we see this in typologies that there is a uh imminent interpret there's an uh application of that type, that person being David, one the closest to the prophecy or to the typology, but then there's a distant or a future type, and this person is Christ. And in fact the New Testament writers apply this verse directly to Christ and numerous times. Look at Hebrews 1. 5. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? And that begins the writer of Hebrews' long defense of Jesus being greater than all the people and even all the angels of God's creation. He is God himself. He's not just an angel. He's not Moses. He's not Abraham. He's Greater than them all, greater than them all combined. And then earlier in Acts thirteen, Paul spoke to the crowds in Antioch. Saying, and we bring you good news, bring you the gospel, that what God has promised to the fathers, the forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, this he fulfilled to us, their children, by raising Jesus. As also it is written in the second Psalm, you are my son, today I have begotten you. Now that today aspect is certainly applying to David when David was anointed as God's king, God's Messiah. Now what about Jesus? What does it mean for Jesus to be begotten? Well, it does not mean that he was created. He is eternally God, just as much as the Father. Yet Jesus' person, the second person of the Trinity, is eternally begotten. He has always been and always will be Son. That is his relationship. That is his personhood within the Trinity. It's sonship. And that didn't just happen at a day, on a day. That happened before all eternity. Actually, there was never a point where it did not happen. He has always been son. So that today is also applicable, though, to Jesus Christ when Jesus begins his ministry. And is baptized in the waters of the Jordan by John. And hears the voice of God and the Holy Spirit descending upon him. The the picture of the Trinity right there. Today I've begotten you. Isn't in that case um the the a sense of now you're my son. He's always been my son. But now he's commissioned. He's commissioned to bring about the salvation that God forordained long ago. And this son, whom God anoints, is given the world by the Father. Look at this, verse 8. Ask of me and I'll make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. Now some people misinterpret this verse, and they think that this passage has to do with believers. That we are to ask the Lord, and He will give us the nations and the earth to possess. This is not for believers, even though there's aspects of that, that's true for us. It's not primarily for believers, this is for the Messiah. This is a continuance of the promise that's given to the Messiah. Children receive an inheritance from their fathers, and Jesus is no different. And as the firstborn son, the first fruit of all creation, as Colossians says, he receives double inheritance. And what does he receive? Not money. But land. Actually, he receives land. Not just a little parcel, a little plot of land. He receives the entire earth The nations belong to Christ. Every nation, even godless ones, even God-abiding ones, they all belong to Christ. The nations here are resisting Christ, but one day the nations will bring tribute to Christ. They will bring worship to Christ. That is the sense in which they belong to him. Revelation 21 says the nations will walk by the light of the Lamb. They will bring into heaven glory and honor. Nations will still exist in heaven. Though there will be no pledges of allegiance to them, all nations' allegiance will be directed towards Christ, the ruler, the king. the head of all government. But what does Christ do with these nations? Does he break them? As verse 9 seems to indicate, that's that that would be a bit odd, that Christ would break his inheritance. I mean, that's as if you were given an inheritance, say, say valuable heirloom China. And upon receiving it as an inheritance, you just start smashing it on the ground. No one would do that. Well, that's not what the psalmist is saying here either. The them in verse 9 are not the nations, but those kings. Who seek to break their bonds back in verse 3? Break the bonds of God's rule, the bonds from the true King. So Christ will break the rulers who resist his rule. And he will eventually Cause every knee to bow and every tongue confess that He is indeed Lord So what is the psalmist 's advice for these human, rebellious kings? Verses 10 and 11. He says this, therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth, serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling, kiss the sun, lest he be angry, and he perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. This is a great motivation for us to pray for our government and our nation during this time. to pray that the rulers of this world would be men and women who are wise, that they would be warned from the pages of Scripture that they must serve the king, not their own um pursuits, not their own agendas, not even their constituents but serving the king with fear. Notice that this this is this such a paradox Serving the Lord, but how? With fear. Rejoicing, but how? With trembling. Kissing the Son, lest he be angry And this is because the true king is not like any other king. He is the king of kings. He is the lord of lords. He is the creator of all kings and kingdoms. And the psalmist ends with a beautiful verse of hope and encouragement for us. Blessed are all who take refuge in Him. Blessed are all kings, queens, rulers, presidents, and us, normal everyday citizens. Blessed are you when you take refuge in Christ Not in government, which is what so many want to take refuge in. What is our government going to do? How are they going to provide? How are they going to deal with this crisis? What kind of stimulus check am I going to receive? Taking refuge in what government can provide. Or taking refuge in medicine. Oh, I hope there's a cure. When's this vaccine going to come? What's going on with this? Nor hope and when the lockdown is finally over and we're able to actually escape this quarantine For when we escape this quarantine, we're actually still quarantined by our own sin. You see, the hope Is in a refuge that's greater than this government and in this medicine and in this lockdown. The hope is in a king. who rules the world and who heals the nations and who can deliver you from sin and death. In this time, as everyone is trying to get us to focus on this or that refuge, this or that source of comfort, joy, peace, security. Don't give in to the schemes. Don't fall for the traps. Christ still reigns And he calls you, and he calls myself, calls all of us to look to him as our King, as our Lord. And we are blessed not by being sheltered at home. but by being sheltered in Christ. He is our refuge, our strong tower, our protection. None other than God Himself. He is our hope and to him we trust Let us pray. Father, you are our strong tower, our refuge. And we run to you, Father. We don't run to these things that the world offers to us for security, no matter what they are, no matter how good they can be. Ultimately, oh God, our hope is in you. Even if we were to die, or even if we were to escape uh the coronavirus, we were to die of something else, Father There is an eternal need of security, not just a temporary one. And only you can provide that, Jesus. I pray that we would come to you, come to your word, and that you would give us solace. By being our refuge. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen