Beloved, as we come to the Word this evening, turn in your Bibles to Psalm 62, which is also printed in your bulletin. And as is our custom, let's all stand together, corporately, even though we're separate, to honor the Lord and his word as we hear from his word. Psalm sixty-two. For God alone, my soul waits in silence From him comes my salvation. He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. How long will all of you attack a man to batter him? Like a leaning wall, a tottering fence? They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be shaken. On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock, my refuge is God. Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Those of lowest state are but a breath. Those of high estate are delusion in the balances, they go up They are altogether lighter than a breath. Put no trust in extortion. Set no vain hopes on robbery If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. Once God has spoken, twice I have heard this. That power belongs to God, and that to you, O Lord, brings steadfast love, for you will render to a man according to his work. Let's pray together. Father God, Lord, we thank you for your powerful, mighty word. And we thank you for your spirit who indwells within us. And we pray, Lord, that. your spirit would be at work in our hearts now to show us the beauty and wonder of your word. Lord, we ask that you would be at work in a powerful way now as we hear from your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated Wow, what a roller coaster ride we have been on for over a month. In these days of high anxiety. Was there ever such a time like this in our nation's history when the vast majority of the country has been Shut down and locked away. And this unprecedented situation raises so many questions about an uncertain future. When will this end? And when it does, what will be left? How will people's lives be affected by this? How many businesses will remain shuttered after the country is opened? What will be the long-term effect of the coronavirus to our economy? to our sense of security. How has it affected you and your family? Have you had sleepless nights of worry? Wondering whether you'll have a job or not if you have a job? Are you concerned that your loved ones will be infected? Do you feel like there's this cloud over your head and you're waiting for the next shoe to drop? Or are you at your wit's end? Just being confined and struggling with a loss of freedom and trying to figure out how you work remotely? Or are you stressed out? Trying to keep peace in your home with your kids there? 24 -7. And they're bored and they're bickering. And you have to teach them algebra two, and you can't remember algebra one. Are you struggling with loneliness? Because you have no one in your home. And you're starved for human connection and a world of social distancing. Beloved, these are surreal days, are they not? Full of doubt, stress, and loneliness, and uncertainty. And so this evening we come with all of those things weighing upon our hearts to the song. Psalm 62. A Psalm of David who was a man after God's own heart. And even though he was a man after God's own heart, he knew all sorts of heartache. All the heartache that we experience, loss and loneliness, stress and doubt. David had his days of high anxiety too, and this psalm of his was written in a time of uncertainty and adversity. And this psalm is so interesting because it seems to have been composed in real time. As if the actual events were unfolding right before David's eyes. And one thing we notice that as David sings about him His focus changes as the song progresses. At first he looks up, and then he looks around, and then he looks within And then he looks far off into the future, a long way off. And as his vision changes, so does the strength of his faith in God As his focus moves, his faith ebb and flows depending on what he's looking at. And this is illustrative for us, beloved, in this COVID area. Where you fix your focus is where your heart follows. Now, in the first two verses, David's vision draws us upward to God. And as he does, he sings in verse 1, For God alone my soul waits in silence. From him comes my salvation. So to paraphrase David here, he's saying that even though life is crashing around me like a turbulent wave, I am as serene and still as still waters. To paraphrase, paraphrase, Simon and Garfunkel, he is a bridge over troubled water Now, how is that possible? How is that possible that David can be so serene in this adversity? Well, what he's not describing is some sort of passive existential resignation, like a man being carried away by a riptide of fate, going wherever the current takes him. No, no, he's not passive here. Rather, he's actively trusting in God alone. And he's not trusting in his own wits or resources. to deliver him from the calamity that he's facing. No, for he knows, he knows that only God can save him. So he has this quiet confidence in God. And because of that assurance, he can be at peace. He can be still without any fear, without any anxiety, knowing that the Lord has everything all under his control, and that the Lord will save him. So his soul is still expectant. He's waiting for the Lord to act. Oh, he could sing the hymn when peace like a river attends my way, when sorrows and sea billows roll, whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, it is well. It is well with my soul. And how does he know that God can save him? Is he just being presumptuous? No, he bases his trust in God's salvation on God's character. We see this in verse 2. He describes God as his rock, his defense or his fortress. and therefore he will not be greatly shaken. Now God is described as a rock about 20 times in the Psalms, and it was a favorite expression of David. But it seems a bit strange to compare the all-powerful God of the universe, the glorious God, to something so common and low as a rock. Why describe God as a rock? Well, what is a huge rock? It's solid. It's immovable. When you stand on it, you know that you have a firm foundation, that you will not sink into the abyss if you stand upon a rock. Why you can lean on it. And it will uphold you. But also for David, rocks and caves were his shelter when he was fleeing from King Saul. We see this in 1 Samuel 22 and 23, where the hills and the crags were David's hiding places and strongholds when hounded by Saul. So David is saying here, God, you are like those rocks that protected me from my enemies. You are my hiding place, my shelter in the storm. And because of the character of God, which is like a rock solid and secure, David can say with full confidence in verse 2 that he will not be greatly shaken. And yet, in his situation, he should be shaken. He should be shaking in his boots. In verses 3 and 4, notice that David's focus changes. In verse 1 and 2, it is drawn upward, looking at the character of God And when he does that, he is calm and cool and collected and confident. But then in verses 3 and 4, his focus changes and he looks down. And what does he see all around him? Not calm, but conflict and collusion In verses 3 and 4, he looks at his enemies and his tune suddenly changes. He says in verse 3 and 4, how long will all of you attack a man to batter him? like a leaning wall, a tottering fence. They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse Well, according to verse 3, this attack had been prolonged. Because he says, how long will you continue to attack me, to batter me? And this prolonged attack has weakened David. David describes himself as a leaning wall about to crumble, a fence about to fall down. And if David wrote this psalm later in his life, it may be that his attackers perceive him as vulnerable in his old age. They may have been thinking, well, David's on his way out. He's had his day. Now he's like a pushover, and he's easy to knock down. And how did they attack him? Not with fists or swords, but with words, cunning words, and slanderous speech Day May has said, if we spread just enough bad press about David, if we repeat the lies often enough, if if we can poison the well just enough. Then people will turn against him and turn towards his son Absalom. And this is exactly what happens in 2 Samuel 15 as Absalom slyly, slyly maligns his father's reputation. And he elevates himself in the eyes of the people, insinuating that he would be a more just and compassionate, effective ruler than his father, a king who can feel your pain. What duplicity. His conspirators were two-faced. They were double-tongued, seemingly loyal on the outside, but plotting against the king on the inside. And we see in the following verses how these characters affected David adversely. Why they disturbed his soul. Because in verse 1 and 2, David's soul is still. He is serene in the midst of strife. He's just waiting for the Lord to send in the Calvary. But notice his demeanor in verses 5 and 6. His soul is no longer at peace. Why? He loses his serenity after he changes his vision, which moves away from the Lord, and he focuses on his enemies that are around him. In fact, what does he say? He says in verse 5, soul, be silent. Soul, hush up. Soul, get a grip on yourself. His former tranquility has been replaced by anxiety. So what does he do? He changes his focus once again. He changes his focus from looking around him to looking inward. And he talks to himself. He talks to himself, but he doesn't talk about himself. He doesn't say, soul, be still, because I am a mighty king. So thou hush. Because I know that I'm a great warrior. I've got some really great armor and a big sword. I am so bad that I am good. He doesn't bolster himself by talking himself up about his own power and authority. No, he talks to himself about God. And he reminds himself not of who he is, but of who God is. And he repeats again. some of the same phrases from verse 1 and 2 about God's character, that God is a rock, that he is his defense, his strength, and his salvation. And as he talks to himself about God, not only he's not only focusing on God's character, but he's focusing on God's commitment to him. Take a look at verse 7. He says in verse 7, On God rests my salvation and my glory, or in other words, my honor. On God rests my salvation and my glory are honor. And what David is saying here is that his honor as king has been established by God and will be sustained by God because David knows that God has made a commitment to him. And these verses hearken back to 2 Samuel 7, where the Lord has made a covenant with David, in which he promised David that David's kingdom would be an eternal kingdom and his offspring would rule forever So David not only knew the character of God, but he knew that the Lord had committed himself to David for all eternity, that through David God would establish an everlasting kingdom. And though fiery trials may come, though others may oppose him and try to defeat him, he will stand and he will stand strong. Because of the Lord's commitment to him, his kingdom will never end Now as David focuses inward, and he talks to himself of the character and commitment of God in verses 6 and 7. We see this wonderful effect that it has on him. It bolsters his faith. Notice the difference between verse 2 and verse 6. Verse 2, David says, I will not be greatly moved. But in verse 6, he says, I shall not be moved. Period. He will not tremble or totter in the face of his enemies because of God's salvation. Not one bit. And notice what he says in verse 7. That God is not just a rock, but a mighty rock. The rock of his strength. And we see in this progression of this psalm, his confidence in God has grown. The adversity he goes through doesn't kill his faith. But the adversity that he goes through only strengthens it. And one of the things that's so interesting about this Psalm is that we see how real and organic Davis' faith is. We see in the Psalm how his faith swells and then shrinks and then grows even greater. We see in the Psalm an important truth That faith in the Lord is not static. There doesn't come a time in our earthly existence when we have simply arrived and we have an unflinching faith. 100% of the time , there's an ebb and flow to faith. After all, here is David. David approaching old age, and he had seen God deliver him time and time and time again in the past, and yet still After all that time, he needs to remind himself when facing a new trial and a different adversity that the Lord is indeed his rock and his refuge. He has to say, soul, hush up and be still and wait on the Lord. He still needs to reflect on God's character and on his commitment to him in order to be at peace. And when he reflects on God's past deliverance, well, it brings him confidence in the present trial. And so his faith grows. Oh beloved, are we not like David? Faith is not static, but there's an ebb and flow to it. And it increases and decreases in strength depending on our focus as we see in this Psalm of David. When David is looking up in verses 1 and 2 and reflecting on the character of God as his rock and his fortress, his soul is still And his faith in the Lord is strong. But when we take our focus off the Lord, And we look at ground zero and only focus on the conflict or adversity like David did in verses 3 and 4, then our faith can shrink. As our problems appear larger than the Lord, so when that happens, what do we do? But we do what David did. We remind ourselves of the character of God and of his commitment to us. That He is our rock. That nothing, nothing can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. That the Lord is our refuge who has promised us that he will never leave us nor forsake us. Well, David talked to himself about God, and it bolstered his faith. He once again is still before the Lord, waiting for him to save him. But then notice what he does next. Having talked to himself about God, he talks to others and tells them to pour out their hearts to God in prayer. And there's a certain irony here, isn't there? How do we wait silently for the Lord? The way we wait, the way to be silent in your soul, is by not being silent at all, but by pouring out your cares before Him in prayer When we unburden our burdens through prayer and place them in God's loving, strong hands, then we find rest for our souls. Now, where do we see this truth in Scripture? Well, we see it in Philippians 4, 5 through 7, which is almost like a commentary on these verses in Psalm 62. Paul writes, The Lord is at hand. Be anxious for nothing. Be anxious for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your requests known to God. And what happens? And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Well, having told the people to pour out their hearts to God, who is their refuge, he then changes focus to a long-distance view. in these final verses. And even though what he sees is far off in the distance, his vision is crystal clear. He can see to the end of time. This vision only reinforces his faith For when he looks out to the vast reaches of time, he sees an immense difference between the Lord and mankind. He sees humanity and our end. Notice how he describes most of us in verse 9. That the average common Joe is like a vapor, that we're here today and that we're gone tomorrow, poof, like a puff of smoke. Now think about it. How many billions of people have lived and died and no one knows that they were ever here? Most of us will probably probably be forgotten within 30 or 40 years after our passing. And Psalm 103 paints this so graphically, as for man, his days are like grass He flourishes like the flower of the field, for the wind passes over it, and it is gone, and its place remembers it no more. And notice what David says in verse 9. Even the wealthy, the 1%, the movers and the shakers and the history makers, what are they? But they for two. Poof. But take a look at how he describes the highborn. He says that they are a lie. They're a delusion. For a time they might seem powerful. They might look like they have it all and that they have it made. They oppress others and they take advantage of the disadvantaged. They rig the system in their favor and they always always seem to come out on top. And the tyrants and the dictators of this world can have their jackboots on the throats of the downtrodden to crush them. But David says, what is their end? They're but a vapor. They're nothing. So the psalmist warns us in verse 10 not to put our trust in ill-gotten game, because it will be gone in a flash, just like we will be. He warns against putting our security and what can be seen, what is tangible, our wealth and our possessions, whether we w w earn them rightfully or immorally, whether they're achieved immorally. They offer no real security. The dictator, the tyrant, trusts in his power, his armies are his weapons or his ability to subjugate people through intimidation and fear. But who has the real power? Not the rulers of this world who can be seen, but the one who cannot be seen. He is the powerful one. For what can be seen is all transitory, whether people are possessions, so why? Why put your security in them? What David is saying here in these final verses is, you evildoers who are corrupt and crooked Whatever you gain in this life is of no value in the final analysis because you can't take it with you. And all that you leave this earth with, all that you hold in your hands in the next life, is a rap sheet of your crimes against humanity. So now who should be shaking in their boots? And you think you're so powerful? But you will be standing before one who holds the universe in his hands. And what will happen to those? To those evil people. David says in verse 12, Well, they will give an account before a just and holy God who will render render to each according to his work. Those who cheat and lie and oppress others will stand naked and ashamed before a just God who will sentence them for all eternity for their crimes against humanity. So David here is taking the long view of his situation. And he must be thinking. Why? Why should I fear these evildoers who seek to harm me? Who lie and slander me? For the Lord will save me. And what will become of those who attack God's anointed? Well, God will repay them in kind with his just judgment. As the Lord said himself, do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Well we might say, yes, yes, there is justice. The bad guys will get it in the end, and yes, they will. But not so fast with our cheers and hoopla and our yeah, go get them. Because these verses were not just meant for tyrants. and the oppressors of this world, but they apply to all of us. We all will stand before a holy, just, and powerful God and will render to us what is due. For all that we have done on this earth. And the bad news is, the bad news is that we will all have a rap seat of our own crimes against humanity and against God. As we have broken all of his commandments in thought, word, and deed. And because of that, we would all be sentenced to eternal life in a hellhole. And justly so, paying for our crimes against an infinite God for the rest of infinity. For God is just And he is powerful to execute his justice. We would all, each and every one of us, we would all be doomed. The 99 % along with the 1%, we would all be doomed. Except for this. These words in verse 12. These words which offer us hope for forgiveness. And these words in our scripture today are God's loving kindness, or his mercy. Verse 12 says to you, oh God, belongs loving kindness And we find that the Lord is not only just, not only powerful, but he is merciful, showing his steadfast love and kindness to us. For God showed his great mercy through his only begotten Son, who was born into David's royal lineage. And like his forefather King David, this king knew what it meant to be maligned and slandered and persecuted and afflicted. And this king also knew what it was to have false friends betray him with a kiss of kindness. And this king also knew powerful people who were jealous and who wanted to topple him over. But unlike King David, this king was not rescued from his adversities. From his adversaries. No, in fact, he willingly allowed them to take his life. And in dying, when Jesus seemed most weak and beyond any hope, he was really the most strong. For he was doing battle. On the cross, he was strong for us On the cross he took upon himself the just judgment that was ours for our crimes against humanity and divinity. God's sinless, perfect Son substituted his life for us, willingly taking upon himself the full wrath of his Father's justice, so that we should be free from it. so that our rapsheet could be torn up with the words, it is finished. The debt has been paid. You are free from all judgment and penalty. So that's your life. might be reckoned as his son, sinless, spotless, free from all condemnation Oh, can we be so thankful for those words in verse 12 of God's loving kindness to know his mercy and that his mercy is available to you? And that all you need to do is to receive it by faith, to do what David did, to look up and say, oh Lord Jesus. You alone are my rock. You are my refuge from my worst enemy, from my sin and from death itself. Only in you is there salvation from God's just judgment. For you are the only way. You are the way, the truth, and the life. There is no other name under heaven or earth by which we can be saved. And just as King David put his trust in you to save him So I put my trust in you to save me for all eternity. On Christ, the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. All other ground is sinking sand. And when we do, we cannot be shaken by this fleeting world, for the Lord will uphold us as our rock and our refuge. In this Psalm of David, we see that the Lord, that when David's vision is clear, when his vision is clear, he is calm. And when his vision was clear, it was expansive. He can look back to the past. When the Lord committed himself to David. And that past commitment gave David a present confidence. And David could also look to the future, to the future victory that would happen through his descendants. to a kingdom that would have no end. And that vision gave him hope when things were hopeless. And beloved, are we that much different? Doesn't David's example speak volumes to us when we are afraid or doubtful? Where have you seen God's faithfulness to you in the past? Can you bring those past deliverances into focus when the present seems so very shaky? Can you say to yourself, if the unchanging Lord has been faithful to me in the past , Will he not provide for me for tomorrow? And when your doubt And you're filled with anxiety, would it help you to focus on the eternal glory of God that awaits you? For if he, if the Lord Jesus can save us for eternity, can he not handle our present? So in these days of uncertainty, how do we find peace? By fixing our focus on the Prince of Peace The Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Gracious Father, we do thank you. for the wonder of your grace, for the beauty of your mercy to us, that you did not leave us in our sins. Lord, that you instead have provided for us a way through Christ to have eternal life with you. So we thank you for the new life that you have given us in Christ, that we know that we stand free from any condemnation, free from any guilt or shame, knowing that we have eternal life with you. And trusting for the future, we can now look to the present, knowing that the unchanging God has not changed And if you can take care of our eternity, you can take care of the present now too. So we put our total trust in you. We look to you. Father, help us. To look to you when we find times of doubt and worry and anxiety. Help us to lift up our prayers to you. And Lord, to know that you hear us. Know and know that you have promised to never leave us nor forsake us, for we have your commitment through Christ. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.