First Corinthians twelve, beginning at verse twelve. Hear now the word of God. For just as the body is one and has many members And all the members of the body, though many are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. For the body does not consist of one member, but of many If the foot should say, because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing, or where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them as he chose. If all were a single member, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, yet one body. The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. And on those parts of the body that we think less honorable, we bestow the greater honor. And our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it. That there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together. If one member is honored, all rejoice together. Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it. And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets. Third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret? but earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way. This is the word of the Lord. Amen. Please be seated. Let's pray together. Lord, Father, we thank you for your holy word, that you have given it to us in written form and in the person and the work of Jesus Christ, your Son. Lord, this morning I pray that I may decrease and you and your name may increase through the preaching of your word. In your son's name we pray. Amen. Well, good morning once again. It really is a joy to be up here before you on the Lord's Day. As most of you know, this is the fourth week of a sermon series on the five membership vows. Which a communing member takes when they become a member of a church in the Presbyterian Church in America. Before we get into the passage today, I would like to read the fourth membership vow. And that's actually printed, uh let's see, on page six of your bulletin if you'd like to follow along. The fourth membership vow says, Do you promise to support the church in its worship and work? to the best of your ability. Now like I said, this is the fourth vow that everyone who's seated here in the sanctuary, who are members, of this church or another PCA church, you swore this vow when you became a member. Every single one of you did that. But before we go any further, I would like to go through a brief explanation of the nature of vows, and I hope this helps explain the point here. What is a vow? The Westminster Confession of Faith has an entire chapter devoted to this, chapter 22, called O Lawful Oaths and Vows. The confession in chapter 22, paragraph 5, says that a vow is similar to an oath. It is different. But then paragraph 6 says that vows should be made to God alone. So an oath is made before God, whereas a vow is made directly to God. You are promising something to God And the confession also says that a vow is a method by which we more strictly bind ourselves to necessary duties. So what this is saying is that you vow to do something. You're binding yourself to a promise to do a certain work before God. When you get married, you swear a vow before God or to God. When you are ordained as an officer in the church, you swear a vow to God. When you become a member of a PCA church, you swear a vow to God. These are promises made to God Himself. And these vows are binding. So don't take them lightly. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 4 to 6 says that you should keep your vows when you make them because God will hold you to them. So as we move through the passage this morning, please keep this understanding of the nature of vows at the forefront of your mind. And I hope this will help explain what I'm trying to communicate this morning. All that being said, let's take a look at the context of our passage, 1 Corinthians 12, verses 12 to 31. The Apostle Paul wrote 1 Corinthians as a letter to the church in Corinth. Obviously, you can tell that by the name. There was actually another letter written before this between Paul and Corinth, but we don't have a copy of it. Paul actually mentions this other letter multiple times throughout 1 Corinthians. When you read this book, 1 Corinthians, you can roughly break it up into two segments. You have Paul's response to verbal reports in chapters 1 to 6, so he's responding to what he's heard from other believers. And then in chapter 7 to 16, you have Paul's response to written questions that the church in Corinth had sent to him. Throughout this letter, Paul deals with a whole multitude of issues, including how the wisdom of God is superior to man's wisdom, whether or not to eat food sacrificed to idols. the resurrection of the dead, sex and marriage, and finally issues with corporate worship. This last section, issues with corporate worship, is where we find ourselves in the text this morning. In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, the chapter right before this one, Paul deals with the Lord's Supper. And if you go back and read that later, you'll probably recognize most of the wording there from when Pastor Aaron administers the Lord's Supper, the sacrament. every month. At the beginning of 1 Corinthians 12, right before our passage, Paul deals with the whole manner of spiritual gifts which the Holy Spirit gives to the church. This is a really helpful passage, and we obviously don't have time to go through it this morning, but I do encourage you to go back and read it on your own time maybe later today. In these first 11 verses of chapter 12, Paul lists spiritual gifts given to the church, but then in our passage here, he expounds them and explains the usefulness of them. This brings us to the main point for today's sermon and what I would like you to take away from this passage. Through the church's unity in Christ, we see the importance of individual parts of the church. and that spiritual gifts are appointed by God. I'll say that again. Through the church's unity in Christ, we see the importance of individual parts of the church, and that spiritual gifts are appointed by God. So let's get into the first point here. Unity in Christ. And we see that in verses 12 to 14 of our passage. The beginning of this opens with Paul writing about the unity of the body of Christ. He writes, For just as the body is one and has many members, and all members of the body, though man are one body, so it is. with Christ. Paul is drawing a comparison here between the body of Christ and the body of a person, a physical body. Just like your body is composed of all sorts of parts, right? You have your head, your arms, your legs, everything that makes the body function. Just like your body is composed of those parts, so is the body of Christ composed of various parts When the body of Christ is mentioned in the New Testament, generally it is referring to the church, not the physical body of Jesus. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 22 and 23 say directly that the church is the body of Christ. And there are several other passages that talk about this. Ephesians 4 is another one, which lists different roles in the church body. And this list is similar to the one towards the end of our passage here this morning. So I'm not going to spend too much time expounding this section because it will be fleshed out later in the passage. Verse 13 gives us the foundation for this unity as the body of Christ. The fact that you were all baptized into one body. You are all baptized under one name in Christ. This baptism unites all Christians in salvation as the one people of God. In fact, the Apostle Paul also says in Galatians 3, verses 26 to 29, he writes, For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise. If the Holy Spirit has regenerated your heart and you have been saved by Christ and you have been baptized in a local church, you have been baptized into the body of Christ. Your ethnicity does not matter. Your economic status does not matter. Your gender does not matter because you are all one in Christ. Just as all the parts of a body are one body, so all of you are one body in Jesus Christ And this brings us to the next, the second and largest section of the passage, here in verses 15 to 27. And the point here is the importance of individual parts of the body of Christ. Paul begins this next section by pointing out how different parts of the body are important in different ways. Verses 15 to 16 say, If the foot should say, because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body. That would not make it any less a part of the body. And if the ear should say, because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body. I'm sure you've all heard someone say this, or maybe you've even said it yourself. Well, I'm I'm not a pastor, I don't preach or teach. All I do is XYZ. That's all I do at church. Maybe I only fill the communion cups once a month. That's all I do. I only print the worship bulletin, that's all I do. I only help with repairs to the church building, that's all I do. I only drop off meals to church members who are sick. That's all I do. Have you ever heard someone say something like that? And kind of denigrate their own service to the church? Maybe you yourself have said something like that. Well, God has something to say about that in the next few verses. Verses 16 to 20 say, if the ear should say, because I am not an I, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less. a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose. If all were a single member, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, yet one body. In these verses, Paul is making the point that different parts of the body have different purposes, and each of them are important in different ways. Paul talks about eyes and ears here, both body parts which you obviously know are vitally important. Obviously, I don't have to tell you that you need your eyes to navigate around your house during the day or to gaze upon your spouse. Or to watch your children being born, or to see a beautiful sunrise in the morning. I don't need to tell any of you that you need your ears to hear a congregation singing a hymn. To hear people playing the piano and the organ on the Lord's Day morning. To hear thunder rolling in during a summer's eve thunderstorm, or to hear the laughter of your wife, or birds singing their praises to God. These body parts are important for the function and enjoyment of your life and the function of your whole person. In verse 21, Paul says, the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. So what is the application here from this section? The application here is for you to value the service of others in the church, because Christ certainly does value it Do you preach or teach or evangelize? Paul says in Romans 10, how then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. Do you fill the cups of wine for the Lord's Supper every month? Or print the worship bulletin? Or help with church repairs? Or drop off meals to the sick and elderly? Christ says in Matthew 25, that the king will answer you by saying, Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these, my brothers, you did it to me. Do you teach Sunday school to the children of the church? Or do you shepherd and disciple them? Christ says in Matthew 19, Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them. For to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. Brothers and sisters, you may be tempted to believe that your service to the church is not important, but I tell you that it is vitally. important. The Lord sees what you do in the service of his kingdom, and he delights in it. I know it may be tiring right now. You may feel exhausted from teaching or to helping with the children's Sunday school every week. Or from tired from doing physical labor on the church grounds and in the building every week. It may seem as if you've been doing this forever and there's no rest in sight. But I encourage you to press on. Your king calls you to turn your eyes heavenward, to lift your voices in praise, and to dirty your hands in service to him What you do in service to the church and to Christ is vitally important. In fact, in the next few verses, Paul goes on to address those who look down on their fellow Christians and their gifts. Paul writes in verses 21 to 24, the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. Now on those parts of the body that we think less honorable, we bestow the greater honor. And our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, which our more presentable parts do not require Paul's making the point here that just because you have certain spiritual gifts which you see as more desirable to the church does not mean you can look down upon others who possess what you believe to be lesser gifts to the church. Just because you're a church officer or you're particularly gifted at something gives you no right to look down on others in the church and what they offer. The point of this is to avoid comparison and pride. Just like Paul writes that the eye cannot go without the hand and the head cannot go without the feet. So the church cannot function without every role, however small. Here I would like to commend you, as this congregation here at Liberty on this front. Myself and my family have been at Liberty for almost two years now this coming summer, and I have been consistently impressed with how you guys do this. I'm consistently impressed with how appreciative you are towards the church officers, the staff, the volunteers, people who take part in worship on Sunday morning, who hand out bulletins, who are the greeters. It's incredible. And I would like to encourage you to continue that. All of these roles are used by God for the furtherance of his kingdom. Paul then writes of modesty for unpresentable body parts. I'm not going to mention what parts he's referring to here. You can probably do the math on that one. But the point is that even though these body parts are perceived as weaker or perhaps more sensitive, does not mean that we show them less honor. In fact, the opposite of true is true. We take more care to cover them up and preserve their modesty. Just because a church member is not bold in speaking in public. Or not physically strong to help around the church grounds does not mean that they are useless. Rather, it means we take even greater care of them. We help them contribute to the kingdom in other ways. There will come a time when everyone in the sanctuary As they age will lose your strength and your energy and you won't be able to do what you once did. It's gonna happen to everyone in this room. But be encouraged, saints, because there is no dishonor in this. The commentator Simon Kistemacher writes A person who is quiet by nature may be disregarded by those who are more aggressive and in the public eye. Yet this subdued person often proves to be mighty in prayer and a hero of the faith. Like Paul writes in our passage, even the parts of Christ's body which seem to be weaker are indispensable. Paul makes his final point of this section by saying in verses 24 to 27, God has so composed the body giving greater honor to the part that lacked it, that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together If one member is honored, all rejoice together. Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it. So after spending the middle section of this passage unpacking Christian unity, Paul is now circling back to the overarching topic from the beginning. All of this, the way that God has designed the church and the body, all of this is for the purpose of promoting unity amongst the saints so that they care for one another. In fact, this has been a hallmark of Christians throughout the millennia. Christ says in John 13, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, just as I have loved you You also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. When people on the outside look at the church and they see how you take care of your own, how you show love and compassion and care for your brothers and sisters, how you pray for one another. They see that you are different. The rest of the world does not do these things in the same manner. But the church does these things and it points people to Christ. Remember that this sermon series is about the membership vows in the Presbyterian Church in America. And today is that fourth membership vow. Do you promise to support the church in its worship and work to the best of your ability? Here I want to speak to your conscience a bit and hopefully provoke it. Simon Kistemacher says, even though people receive spiritual food from the preaching and worship, They are weak from lack of exercise. Because of their inactivity, they are spiritually atrophied. Their atrophy results in spiritual heart failure Here's where I want to speak to your conscience. Are you supporting the work and worship of the church to the best of your ability? Or are you being idle and lazy in the exercise of your spiritual gifts? Christ talks about stewarding your talents in the parable of talents in Matthew 25. Christian, steward your talents and your time and your abilities well. And do not neglect your service to the church. I don't say these things to make you feel bad or feel guilty, but I say them rather to kind of poke at your conscience a bit and hopefully encourage you. I want you to take inventory of your life. It's always a good thing to slow down and take a look at your life and how you're doing. Take stock of where you are, what you're doing, and whether you are in line with Scripture or not. Are you more concerned with your downtime and recreation than you are with spending with your yourself in service to the church? Are you more concerned with your career and sports than you are with corporate worship with the saints on the Lord's Day? I encourage you to take a step back. Take stock of your life and take stock of how you are stewarding your time and gifts in the service to the kingdom. So what are some other practical ways by which you can do this? Galatians 6. 2 says to bear one another's burdens. Maybe you can check on your brothers and sisters here at church. Ask them how they're doing. How they're really doing. And if someone asks you that, please tell them how you're actually doing. Don't just say I'm doing fine. Maybe offer to pray with them, pray for them. Offer to bring a meal to someone when they're sick or struggling. And once again, if you're offered a meal, take it. You know, no one ever does that when someone says, oh, I can bring you a meal. Everyone says, no, we're fine. Just take the meal. Let someone serve you. It'll be a delight to both you and to them. When the session announces on the Lord's Day during worship that they're seeking volunteers for a committee or for BBS or for some other job or thing around the church, volunteer to do it. Contact the deacons. Ask if there's anything you can help with around the grounds of the church. Pray for the church officers and their families. Send them a word of encouragement throughout the week that you're praying for them. At Christmas time, everyone here took ornaments from a tree out front that had the names of our kids on it. Pray for those children. Pray that they their parents raise them up knowing the Lord and that they would come to faith. Start checking on those children every week. Ask them how they're doing. Talk with them and their parents. Invite their family over for dinner. There's all sorts of things you can do here. And this brings us into the last point of the sermon today. We see this in verses 28 to 31. Spiritual gifts are appointed by God. The first thing to notice here is verse 28 where it says, God has appointed in the church. And this is kind of the main thrust of the section, this last section of the passage here. God has appointed people to all of these positions, and he has dispensed these spiritual gifts. These are not man-made gifts. They're not grown and nurtured by man. Rather, they are given by God. That's a vital thing to remember here. The next thing to notice is that Paul makes a distinction in these gifts between offices within the church and spiritual giftings, which are common to Christians in the church. He writes that God appoints apostles, prophets, and teachers. Those are the offices of the church. So they're not common to all. Some people, some men are appointed to those positions. Next, Paul writes that God provides gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and both speaking and interpreting tongues. Now the first three, like I said, are offices or positions within the church. The offices of apostle and prophet no longer continue. They are not in existence. anymore. These offices were instituted by God for the spread and the building up of the church in the New Testament era, and they ceased with the death of the apostles. However, we do still have teachers and pastors in the church today The way in which Paul words this paragraph lends itself to assuming that there's a rhetorical answer of no to his line of questioning here. He asks, are all apostles, are all prophets, are all teachers? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret? And the assumption is no. They do not all do that. The implication is that not everyone is gifted with all of these things. So what does Paul mean then when he says to earnestly desire the higher gifts? Is he saying that some of these gifts or offices are of higher importance and some are of lower importance? We just spent a significant amount of time unpacking the bulk of this passage and hopefully it is clear to you that all the spiritual gifts are equally necessary for the building up of church, and some are not more important. than others. So what does Paul mean with this phrase? What Paul is saying here is that instead of quarreling about who is more important than the other, instead of the I saying to the ear, I don't have use for you , Christians should be desiring the gifts which build up, support, and promote the body of Christ, which is the church You as Christians should be cultivating and desiring your gifts and abilities which benefit and build up the body. I'd like to give this charge this morning also to the ruling elders and deacons here at church. It is incumbent upon you. To take notice of those men in the congregation, actually everyone in the congregation, who displays spiritual gifts and talents and to encourage them in the use of them and cultivate that use. It is important that you guys do that. For me, faithful teaching and ruling elders played a hugely critical part in me going to seminary. and developing abilities in preaching and teaching and discipleship. That was crucial for me. The closing line of this passage says, and I will show you a still more excellent way. We don't have time this morning to deal with this Last line completely, but Paul wrote this line as a segue into chapter 13, 1 Corinthians 13, which is a chapter that deals in part with love as the foundation of acts of Christian service. So think for a moment how this ties into our passage here this morning. Love is the basis of service to the church. Love for Christ and what he's done for you. Love for the church as the body of believers established by Christ. Love for the people of Christ. Brothers and sisters, I urge you to remember you have all sworn a vow, a sacred vow, to God Himself to support the church in its worship and work to the best of your ability. I want to encourage you to not be neglectful in this. Do not be neglectful in your duty. Rather, seek to fulfill your vow. Seek the spread of the gospel. Seek the building up of your fellow Christian. Seek the encouragement of your pastor, your ruling elders, and your deacons. Seek to steward the gifts given to you by God and seek the service of your king. Amen.