You're using your gifts in that way. We're uh studying through the gospel of Mark and we're in chapter 13. If you'll turn there please. Mark chapter 13. Mark chapter 13. Now let's read the entire chapter. And uh as we read, I am uh to dismiss the children, little ones, for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. Do we go now? When do we go Mark chapter 13, verse 1. Then as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Teacher. See what manner of stones and what buildings are here. And Jesus answered and said to him, Do you see these great buildings? Not one stone shall be left upon another that shall not be thrown down. Now, as he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately, Tell us When will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled? And Jesus, answering them, began to say, Take heed that no one deceives you. For many will come in my name, saying, I am he, and will deceive many. But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be troubled, for such things must happen. But the end is not yet For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and troubles. These are the beginnings of sorrows. But watch out for yourselves, for they will deliver you up to counsels. You will be beaten in the synagogues. You will be brought before rulers and kings, for my sake, for a testimony to them. And the gospel must first be preached to all the nations. But when they arrest you and deliver you up, do not worry beforehand or premeditate what you will speak. But whatever is given you in that hour, speak that, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. Now brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end shall be saved. So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing where it ought not, let the reader understand Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let him who is on the housetop not go down into the house, not enter, nor enter to take anything out of his house. And let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, and pray that your flight may not be in winter For in those days there will be tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning of the creation, which God created until this time, nor ever shall be. And unless the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect's sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days. And then if anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ, or look, he's there, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will rise and show Signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. But take heed. See, I have told you all things beforehand. But in those days after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light. The stars of heaven will fall, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. Then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. And when and then he will send his angels and gather together his elect from the four winds, from the farthest part of earth to the farthest part of the earth. of heaven. Now learn this parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near. So you also, when you see these things happening, know that it is near at the doors Assuredly, I say to you, this generation will by no means pass away till all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Take heed, watch, and pray, for you do not know when the time is. It is like a man going to a far country who left his house and gave authority to his servants and to each his work, and commanded the doorkeeper to watch. Watch, therefore, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming, in the evening, at midnight, at the crowing of the rooster, or in the morning. Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say to you, I say to all. Watch. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray. Oh Father, whenever we approach prophetic passages, we are especially in need of your wisdom, your discernment, the guidance of your Holy Spirit. Lord, give it to us. Help us to understand. And we pray that you might speak to hearts this day. I pray for the lost Father who may be here that this would be the day of salvation for them. Take away those blind eyes, give them sight. Breathe upon those dry bones, as you've done for so many of us. And I pray for your children that we might be strengthened, edified, built up, ready to go forth, watching, serving, waiting for Christ's return. We ask it in his glorious name. Amen. As we noted in our first message on Mark thirteen As we come to the Olived , discourse where Jesus spoke prophetically about destruction coming upon Jerusalem We are in special need of wisdom, special need of discernment and the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit. It's not always easy to determine when Jesus was referring to the impending siege and devastation that would come from Roman general Titus and his legions, a destruction which was just a few decades away as Jesus spoke these words. It's difficult to know when he was speaking of that and when he was looking beyond that destruction to events that were awaiting all mankind and that continue to await all mankind at his second coming. So in preparation for these messages from Mark 13, for several weeks now I've been studying Jesus' words here and in parallel passages, Luke 21, Matthew 24, consulting commentators. Praying for wisdom and using a daily clarifying shampoo, which uh I think has helped somewhat to clarify things. And my uh conclusion is That while Jesus began to answer the stated question, and what was that stated question, when will this utter destruction of the temple of which Jesus spoke in Mark 13, too. When will this utter destruction take place? And what will be the signs that it's about to take place? He shifted his attention from what would happen in a few decades to what would happen at the end of the age. I think that's what he does here. Now, such prophetic visions are not unprecedented. Take Old Testament prophecies of the coming of the Messiah, for example. Isaiah speaks in what we call chapter 52. of the Lord's servant who would come, who would be exalted and extolled and be very high. But he goes on in this passage into what we call chapter 53 To speak of this one whose visage visage would be marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. There is no beauty that uh would that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected uh by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. The coming servant of the Lord, as we know, would indeed be marred and despised and rejected. But he will also, one day, before the eyes of all created beings, be exalted and extolled and be very high. The Father will one day set his king upon his holy hill of Zion, Psalm 2. Isaiah spoke of both of those things in the same passage. Yet, as we now know, there is a period of at least 2,000 years between Christ being despised and rejected of men. And his being exalted and extolled and very high when kings shall shut their mouths at him. And God shall set up his This prophetic phenomenon has been illustrated by one who is approaching a high mountain range. Some of you have actually been to see the Swiss Alps. As you approach these high mountains, uh a person might uh as he approaches them see two large mountains and and from a great distance they appear to be very close together. But as he gets closer and closer to the first mountain, he might then realize, wait a minute, that other mountain, that's fifty, sixty, hundred miles away. But uh from a uh a a different perspective, they appear to be uh quite near each other. So it helps to keep in mind the words of the Apostle Peter. With the Lord, one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. When you keep that in mind, it's a bit easier to understand how Jesus might begin to speak about a catastrophic event that's only decades away. And then begin to speak in the very next breath of a far greater catastrophic event that is thousands of years away. The result for us, however, is a passage that is somewhat difficult to interpret. As we noted in our first message of this chapter, everything Jesus said in verses 5 through 23 could apply to the horrendous destruction of Jerusalem that took place in 70 A. D. We spoke about it a bit last Lord's Day. There were false messiahs. There were wars and rumors of wars. The uh emperors were constantly battling with uh uh others who wanted to be emperor, and uh and they would bring their armies and attack I read that at one point there were six or seven emperors altogether in one place. Six or seven men who would eventually become emperors. In one in one room at one point. So that and there were false messiahs, wars, rumors of wars, believers were betrayed, persecuted, hated, put to death. The apostles had opportunity to testify before rulers and kings just as Jesus said they would. But Jesus went on to say at a certain point the temple will be violated. Jerusalem will be surrounded by armies And then believers will know that it's time to flee, time to head for the hills, to run to the mountains. Now, if there's any doubt in your mind as to whether these warnings refer, at least in part, to first century events, Luke's account of Christ's words may help. We read there, Jesus said, Luke 21, but woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, for there will be great distress in the land. and wrath upon this people. And they will fall by the edge of the sword and be led away captive to all nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled by Gentiles until the time of the Gentiles. The times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. No wonder Jesus wept over Jerusalem and cried out. If you had known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. For days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you, and close you in on every side, and level you and you and your children with you to the ground. And they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the time of your visitation. Luke 19, 42 to 44. So it seems clear that much of what Jesus said by way of warning to the apostles, and again their question was, when will this temple be destroyed? It was very hard to believe that it would be destroyed. When is it going to happen? And he told them what signs to look for. So it seems clear that much of what Jesus said by way of warning the apostles was intended to prepare them and those they were going to subsequently teach of what we now know as the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD The destruction by Roman general Titus, the son of Emperor Vespatian. Now, in case you were wondering, early church historian Eusebius points out that Christians did in fact flee Jerusalem during the war with Rome. Eusebius said that Christians left Jerusalem in response to prophecy. Interesting. They left Jerusalem in response to prophecy. This would have been the prophecy. He said they founded, they went north and founded the church in Pella, about 40 to 50 miles north of Jerusalem. But in verses 24 and following, Jesus seems to look beyond that first century catastrophe To the last century catastrophe, the events leading up to his second coming. Look at verse 24. But in those days, after that tribulation The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. The stars of heaven will fall, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. Now, it could be argued that Jesus is simply using uh graphic, we would call it uh hyperbolic, uh apocalyptic. language. We see it in Isaiah 13. We see it in Isaiah 34. We see it again in Zephaniah chapter 1. In other words, just another way of saying, listen, things are going to be really bad. Right? But then, look at verse twenty-six. Then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory, and then he will send his angels and gather together his elect from the four winds, from the farthest part of earth. to the farthest farthest part of heaven. And so it seems that the most natural way to understand Jesus' words is that there are parallels between the 70 AD catastrophe, that when he spoke uh uh shortly awaited uh Jerusalem. And the final catastrophe that yet awaits rebellious mankind, that which is described in some detail in the revelation of Jesus Christ, the final book of Scripture And Jesus shifted his attention from the one to the other, even though the two events are separated by thousands of years. Because this prophecy here They will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with power and great glory, the sun darken the moon not give its light, the stars of heaven fall. That sounds very much like that in 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 -18. Listen as I read from 1 Thessalonians 4. Familiar passage to many of you. Paul says, But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice of an archangel, with a trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord. Therefore, comfort one another with these words. And then in the very next letter, 2nd Thessalonians, look at chapter 2 and verse 1. Paul says, Now, brethren, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him, We ask you not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled either by spirit or by word or by letter, as if from us, as though the day of Christ had come. Let no one deceive you by any means, for that day will not come unless the falling away comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worship. So that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God I want you to notice that Paul spoke of the coming of our Lord and our being gathered together to him. In these passages, it certainly seems that what we call the rapture of the church The gathering of Christ's elect from the four winds will take place when Christ returns in power and majesty. Not seven years before Christ returns, as some believe. Look at back at Mark chapter thirteen. Look at it once again, verse twenty-four. But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give us light, the stars of heaven will fall, the powers in the heavens will be shaken. Then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. And then he will send his angels and gather together his elect from the four winds, from the farthest part of earth to the farthest part of heaven. Now, look at verse 28 and following. Now learn this parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. So you also, when you see these things happening, know that it is near at the doors. Assuredly, I say to you, this generation will by no means pass away till all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. When you see these things taking place, you know it's near at the very gates. What things? Is he referring back to the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD? Well, in that case, the things that they would see taking place would be those things described earlier in the chapter, culminating in that abomination of desolation, standing where it ought not. And in the parallel passage in Luke 21, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is near. He made it very clear. When you see, when you Christians see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, don't go back into the city. That's what you would normally want to do. If you were under attack, get back into the walled city. I don't want you to do that. I want you to flee. Don't even go back and get your clothes. And the apostles heard this, the apostles would have told others this, and in fact, as Eusebius tells us, that's what Christians did. Many of them fled when the Roman armies came and they survived that cataclysm. So, if he's referring back to what he said at the very beginning of the chapter, there will be wars and rumors of wars, a false Christ, false messiahs. earthquakes, uh diverse places, famines, pestilence. He said he said, uh, when you see these things, he said, know that it's the beginning. It's about to happen. But if he was referring to his second coming and the gathering together of his elect from the four winds , Then his words, this generation, it seems to me, cannot refer to the apostles, obviously. So what is he saying? This generation shall not pass away. uh 70 A. D. the generation of which he spoke was the generation alive then, the apostles. This was only a few decades away. But if he was referring to those events at the end of time, then what does he mean by this generation will not pass away? That's a stumbling block for some people. Did Jesus get it wrong? Could we know he couldn't get it wrong? So what did he mean? Well, I think he he m the most logical understanding for for me anyway is that what he's saying is the generation that begins to witness these cataclysmic events, that generation will not pass away. This generation will not pass away Until all these things be fulfilled. In other words, when you see these things begin to happen, it's not going to be another hundred years or a thousand years. The generation that sees these things about to happen, that generation is not going to pass away until all these things are going to be fulfilled. It's going to happen Quickly when it begins to happen. You see? Anyway, that's the way I understand it. R. C. Sproul differs with me here. as he sometimes does without consulting me. So uh In that case, Jesus is saying, if you live to see these wondrous signs in the heavens, which seem to parallel those in Revelation 6 I looked when he, the Lamb, opened the sixth seal, and behold a great earthquake. The sun became black as sackcloth of hair. The moon became like blood. The stars of heaven fell to the earth, and a fig as a fig tree drops its late figs when it's shaken by a mighty wind. If you see these things start to happen, then my return is imminent. That's what Jesus is saying. It's not going to be a hundred years, not going to be a thousand years. The generation that sees these signs, this generation, will not pass away till all these things take place. And Jesus was saying, in effect, you can take my words to the bank. In fact, the bank will pass away, but my words will not pass away, he says. Look at verse 32. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Now, here is evidence that he did not intend to be understood to be saying that the apostles would live to see the end of the age and his return. In power and glory, because he says right here that the Father has reserved to himself the knowledge of precisely when Christ will return. So Jesus could not have been conveying to his apostles that their generation would be on earth at the time of his return. Now, as to why and how the time of Christ's return could have been and would have been withheld from the sun, I suspect your guess is as good as mine. But the father and son had agreed the father would keep that time to himself, and he had not yet revealed it to the son. Look at verse 33. Take heed, watch and pray, for you do not know when the time is. It's like a man going to a far country who left his house and gave authority to his servants. And and to each his work, and commanded the doorkeeper to watch. Watch therefore, for ye do not know when the master of the house is coming. In the evening, at midnight, at the crowing of the rooster, in the morning, lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say to you, I say to all, watch. That doesn't mean just sit around and watch. It means be active, be serving, be working when the master returns. You wouldn't want the master to come back and find the servants all laying around. Doing nothing. Jesus closes this teaching with an admonition for his disciples to watch and pray because they don't know exactly when their master would return. A faithful servant would want his master to find him working. In particular, the doorkeeper charged with staying alert at the door would not want to be found sleeping. Now, let's make some observations from this passage before we leave it. First of all, unless you have trained yourself to ignore the word Whenever you see it in scripture, perhaps you notice that three times in this passage, Jesus referred to the elect. The elect. That's a dirty word in some portions of Christianity. Look at verse 20. And unless the Lord has shortened those days, no flesh will be saved, but for the elect 's sake. whom he chose, he shortened the days. Look at verse 22. But take heed, I'm sorry, 22, for false Christs and false prophets will rise and show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. Verse 27. And then he will send his angels and gather together his elect from the four winds and from the farthest part of earth to the farthest part of heaven. Now we noted in a sermon on election that if you wanted to read only those books of the New Testament where there's no reference at all to election, predestination, Christ's chosen ones, his sheep. his bride, his called out ones, etc. You would have to limit yourself to the letter Philimon, 25 verses, and the letter 3rd John, 14 verses. No mention of the elect there. So if you want to just focus on non-elect passages But even without the numerous other New Testament references, if this were the only passage we had to go by, it would be clear from what Jesus says right here That out of the great mass of humanity, God chose some who were referred to as His elect, which simply means His chosen ones. That's what the word means. For their sake, Jesus said, the Lord shortened the days of tribulation which are coming. Now, I don't know how many of you follow current events, but if you do, you may have heard somewhere along the line that here in America this is an election year. We'll be uh electing on uh a national level all of our congressmen, one-third of our senators, and our president. We do that uh every four years When we elect a president, here's how we do it. Or here's how we don't do it. We don't look into our crystal balls and foresee Who it is who's going to be inaugurated in January 2017 and then elect him or her The person to be inaugurated in January is determined by our election. Not vice versa, right Those who are called by Jesus the elect, whom the Lord chose , were not chosen because God foresaw that they were going to be believers. That's just babble. That's meaningless talk. In the same way that we don't elect the president because we foresee he's going to be inaugurated. Spiritually dead sinners become alive because of God's sovereign election. God doesn't elect or choose as a sheep those who somehow miraculously become alive on their own. I'm redeemed today because God graciously removed my heart of stone and replaced it with a heart of flesh. He breathed upon my dry bones that they live. He removed my blind eyes. He gave me sight. I was dead in my trespasses and sins. And he made me alive. You hath He quickened. That's what it means. You hath He made alive. You who were dead in your trespasses and sins. You see, His Spirit made me willing in the day of His power. I got to the point where I wanted Christ. I didn't want my sin. I wanted my Savior. I wanted my sins forgiven. Why? Because the Spirit made me willing in the day of his power. He's the author and the finisher of my faith. He began it and he'll complete it. You see. Whether you can understand it or not, the Bible says that if you're a believer in Christ, you were chosen in him before the foundation of the world. Having been predestined to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ Himself, according to what? According to the good pleasure of his will. Why? To the praise of the glory of his grace. Ephesians 1. It's not to your praise, not to mine. To the praise of the glory of his grace. Lord, I was just a sinner. I deserved your wrath. I've broken your laws. But you had compassion upon me. You opened my heart. You opened my eyes. I was born again. You gave me new life. I'm just like Lazarus. He said, Lazarus, come forth, and I came forth. You see? Unless the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect 's sake Many of you, whom he chose, he shortened the days. Now I'm not obligated to understand everything God says, but I am obligated to believe it. Amen? And then secondly, uh every few years there are Christian books and Christian films that purport to show in great detail What is going to take place in the end times? And in what order? If you want to build interest in a preaching series or a seminar, just make it on the end times or write a book called 2020, Man's Final Year. Or uh if that was a bestseller you wanna write the sequel, twenty thirty, this time it's for real. And uh one of the main tenets of uh much end-time teaching is that before the great final tribulation on earth Believers are going to be caught up to heaven. So you don't have anything to worry about. Believers are going to be caught up to heaven so as to spare them from the traumatic events to come. And that's based in great part on Revelation 4. 1, where uh the Lord says to John, Come up here, and I will show you things which must be hereafter. And and uh also based on the fact that there's no mention of the church after Revelation 4. 1. So people say, well there you go, that's where the church goes up to heaven. But that's a very tenuous uh argument. But Jesus seems to say here that it's only after that tribulation when there are cataclysms in the heavens, when the Son of Man comes in the clouds with great glory, then he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds. From the farthest part of earth to the farthest part of heaven. In the parallel passage in Matthew 24, Jesus goes on to say, Two men will be uh grinding, uh two men will be in the field, one will be taken, the other left. Two women will be grinding at the middle, one will be taken, the other left. And yet and yet Jesus says we are to watch and be ready because the Son of Man's coming in an hour we don't expect. Matthew 24 44. And to illustrate that point, he gave us the parable of the wise and foolish virgins or bridesmaids, Matthew 25, who weren't ready for the bridegroom. So it's hard to understand, isn't it, how Christ's coming can take us by surprise if it is preceded, as he said, with the sun and moon being darkened, the powers of the heavens shaken. You know, that'd sort of tip us off, wouldn't it? Well maybe it's the suddenness of the coming cataclysms to which Jesus referred when he told us to watch and be ready, cataclysms which will begin the process of his return. My point is, yes, there's a point, if any Bible teacher professes to speak with authority about the order of events of the last times If anyone confidently declares that he can tell you what's going to happen and when, and in particular if he affirms with certainty that there will be no Christians on earth to endure the Great tribulation that is to come, because they will all have been taken to heaven beforehand. My advice would be when you hear someone teach dogmatically about such things, flee to the mountains. Don't go back to get your clothes. Leave your overcoat on the coat rack. Thirdly, this passage, like many others, urges us to watch, pray, be ready, because we don't know when the master of the house is returning. It's not wrong to long for Christ's return. It's not wrong to desire it, to pray for it. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. Lord, this world's a mess. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. But I would counsel you to avoid saying things like, things are so bad in America or things are so bad on earth that Jesus must be coming soon. If by soon you mean five or ten or twenty years, let me remind you that things were bad in the first through third centuries. when vast numbers of people were enslaved and Christians suffered severe persecution. Things were bad in the fourth through sixth centuries as barbarian hordes invaded the Roman Empire. Things were bad when Islam began to spread in the seventh and eighth centuries. Spreading by the point of the sword. Things were bad when the Mongols invaded much of Asia and Eastern Europe in the thirteenth century. Things were bad when the Black killed it plague killed an estimated seventy-five million To 200 million people in the 14th century. 30 to 60 percent of Europe's population Perhaps as many as one-fifth of the world's population, historians say. We lost 16 million combatants and civilians in World War I. Perhaps five times that number in the flu pandemic of 1918. 50 to 85 million in World War II, the deadliest war in history. Things were bad for the Russians under Stalin. Things were pretty bad for the Chinese under Mao. For the Cambodians under Paul Pot And things are bad in many countries today. But if you think you know when Jesus is returning, remember that you may be off by a thousand years or more. Fourth, one thing is crystal clear. When he returns, he will not come as he did the first time. He will not be born as an infant. Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus who was taken up into heaven will so come in like manner as you have seen him go into heaven. The Bible says he will descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel, with a trumpet of God. Not going to be able to miss it His coming will be as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west. Matthew 24, 27. And here in Mark 13 we read, They will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. The Apostle John said, Now I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat on him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. He was clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. So I would beseech you, I implore you. Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. When his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. Let's pray. Oh Lord