That's where, of course, he was confronted by the demoniac, the man we call the demoniac of Gadara, and he had this divine appointment with him and with one other man who was possessed. Remember, there were great crowds in Capernaum or Bethsaida, the towns where he was ministering, before he got in the boat and went over to minister to those men who so sorely needed his help. Well now he's returned to either Capernaum or Betheda, one of those prominent towns on the Sea of Galilee. And it's not surprising that when he returned. Once again the masses gathered around him. Multitudes gathered to him. And one man, who, as we said, was quite prominent in that town, came to see him And fell down before him. Perhaps the crowd gave him some deference because, as I said, he was a prominent man in the town. Maybe they made way for him. And he fell to his knees before Jesus. and pleaded with him to come to heal his daughter, who was even at that moment at the very point of death. This man Jairus was a ruler of the synagogue. That is, he was one in charge of all that took place in the synagogue. including the care of the building, the planning of services, etc. He was not a rabbi, but he was nonetheless an honored leader in the community. He kneeled before Jesus. He pleaded with him to come. My little daughter lies at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her that she may be healed and she will live. R. C. Sprohl notes, I'm sure that the translators struggled with the Greek word that is rendered at the point of death. There is a branch of theology, as you know, that deals with the last things. It is called eschatology. Which term is derived from the Greek word eschatos, which means last, utmost, extreme. In the Greek text of Mark 5, that is the word that's used. When Gyrus said, My little girl is at the point of death, he was saying she was at the utmost She was at the very end. She was at death's door. She was breathing her last. It was not just that she was very sick and in intensive care. She was at the end of hospice. care. Jairus was saying that if Jesus did not act immediately, the girl would surely die. In fact, in the New King James Version translation , uh from which I preach, the translators convey the Greek of Matthew's account of this incident this way. A ruler came and worshipped him, saying, My daughter has just died, clearly. Clearly, whatever the words he actually used, presumably in the Aramaic, the common Aramaic that were spoken in Jesus' day, whatever words Jairus used, it's clear that his daughter was at the very point of death. And the translators had a difficult time conveying this, I think. But this man had the faith to believe that if Jesus would just come and lay his hands on her, she would live. So Jesus went with him, and of course, those who overheard this would want to go along as well, with the hope of perhaps seeing a miracle. And so there was a great multitude around him, thronging him and Jairus as they moved on toward Jairus' home. Now look at verse 25. Now, a certain woman had a flow of blood for twelve years and had suffered many things from many physicians. She had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse. Now the woman we mentioned in our introduction enters the picture. In those twelve years that have passed since she began losing blood, she had gone to many physicians, physicians who were ill-equipped to help her. Now, when compared to doctors that we have today, with all our advances in chemistry and our knowledge of biology and internal medicine , With the wonderful diagnostic tools that we have today, even the very best first-century physician would be laboring in darkness. It's not surprising that the scripture says she had suffered many things from many physicians and had not gotten better, but rather worse. You can imagine the toll that this must have taken upon her When I I imagine, I'm not a doctor of course, but I imagine all uh virtually all her energy would be sapped by her own body's constant loss of blood and constant demand to replace the blood cells that she was losing She was weak, in other words, she was weak, she was desperate. She was destitute. She had spent all her money on physicians, and she hadn't gotten any better. In fact, she had gotten worse Well, there's another way uh first century healthcare differs from ours. First century healthcare was apparently very expensive I was hoping you were listening. But as if that were not enough Leviticus 15 declares that a woman with such a condition would be ceremonially unclean. She was effectually banished from Jewish society, not unlike someone with leprosy. And anyone who touched her would be deemed unclean. Somewhere along the line, this woman had heard about Jesus, and she had come to believe that Jesus had a power emanating from him. That could heal her. Perhaps you heard of what took place when Jesus preached what we call the Sermon on the Mount. Luke tells us the whole multitude sought to touch him, for power went out from him and healed them all. Luke 6. 19. How much he knew about who Jesus was, what Jesus had come to do, we of course cannot know. But she came to believe that somehow if she could get close enough to him just to touch his garment, just to touch the hem of his garment. She would be made well. Now that of course would be easier said than done when there was a great throng surrounding Jesus. When Jesus was in the midst of Heading off with Jairus to his household to heal his daughter, who was even then at the point of death. Whether this woman had heard all of that or not, we don't know. And of course, as a woman who was deemed unclean, if this was the town where she lived, everyone would know her as the woman who was unclean, and everyone would try to avoid her. And certainly they would uh intentionally uh attempt to avoid her and not touch her, but somehow she managed to get to get close enough to Jesus to do something that the Old Testament ceremonial law did not permit her to do. to reach out and touch him. Now, what happened with the verse 29? Immediately, the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction. Now, it's difficult for me, and I suppose it's difficult for you if you have not suffered a prolonged debilitating illness. To imagine the relief, you know, the joy , the thankfulness that must have been felt by her at that moment. But her joy was quickly eclipsed by fear when, as she reaches through that crowd and touches Jesus' garment, she immediately feels herself healed. But then suddenly Jesus stops and he turns around and he says, Who touched me? So suddenly her joy is eclipsed by fear, as this rabbi, this prophet, this teacher, this Messiah, whatever she knew of him, stopped and turned around and addressed her, in effect. Now, those of you who know Christ will recognize that the Lord Jesus was not seeking information here. Verse 30 Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my clothes? Not seeking information here any more than the Lord was seeking information when he said to Adam, Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? He was simply asking Adam to confess what he had done. Or any more than Elisha was seeking information from his servant Gehazi when he said, Where did you go, Gehazi? Elisha knew that Gehazi had gone to Naaman, who had been healed of leprosy, and had fabricated a story for Gehazi's own personal gain. Jesus wasn't fishing for information here. He wanted this woman to come forward. Jesus, I believe, did not want her to slip away in the crowd and perhaps be troubled in conscience, maybe for the rest of her life. for what she might later view as taking from Jesus without acknowledging what she had done and thanking him. Evidently he wanted to make it clear to her that there was no magical virtue that emanated from him or from his garments. without his consent, and that it was her faith that was instrumental in her healing. Look at verse 31. But his disciples said to him, You see the multitude thronging you, and you say, Who touched me? And he looked around to see her who had done this thing. But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. Remember, she was ceremonially unclean. She was not allowed to touch anyone, let alone a prophet, a rabbi, a teacher. She no doubt thought that she might be in big trouble. She certainly would have received a strong rebuke from the scribes and Pharisees if we know anything about them. How dare you? You reach out and touch me. So in fear and trembling, she falls down before Jesus and she tells him the whole story. And all who were in hearing within hearing distance would hear this, the whole truth. No doubt she told how she had been afflicted with this uh affliction for some twelve years now, how she had spent all her money on physicians How none could help her, how she'd actually grown worse, and she was desperate, and she thought if she could just touch the hem of Christ's garlic, she would be made whole. And Jesus did not rebuke her, of course, as she evidently feared that he might. He spoke kindly to her. He addressed her as daughter, verse 34. And he said to her, daughter, your face has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your affliction. He told her to go in peace, not as some sort of a thief of Christ's healing power, but as a gracious recipient of that power. The power of Christ, of course, was the cause, the efficient cause, we would say. Of her healing. She would not have been healed had Christ's power not been manifested to bring her healing. But the instrumental cause was her faith. And so he says to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Your faith has made you well. When uh Chris Davis or Nelson Cruz hits a baseball 400 feet or so , The ultimate cause is, of course, the Lord who created all of us and created us, sustains us, created natural laws that would allow this sort of thing to happen. The efficient cause is the ball player himself, his strength, his reflexes, his eye-hand coordination, etc. But what is the instrumental cause? Think about that. What is the instrument that intervenes and dramatically redirects the tri trajectory of the ball? that just a few moments before, a few seconds before it was hurtling at over 90 miles an hour towards the catcher's nick. What's the instrument that causes the ball to fly over the fence? Let me give you a hint. It's not a cricket mallet It's a bat. The very millisecond that ball crosses the plate, uh Cruz or or or uh uh uh who we talk about Cruz or Davis could swing with all his might And nothing would happen. Without the instrument, the bat, this dear woman was healed by the Lord Jesus Christ. His divine power was the efficient cause that brought about her healing. As we said, she would never have been healed without that power. But Jesus reminded her that the instrument of her healing was her faith. Faith was the instrumental cause of her healing. Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace. Be healed of your affliction. Now we're not told how long this whole interaction with this woman took. We know she she told him the whole truth and how long was that story. But we can be sure that every moment was torture for Jairus, whose daughter was already succumbing to death's cold grasp. He knew that when he left the house in desperation to try to find Jesus instead of staying at his daughter's bedside as she breathed her last. And while Jesus was speaking to the woman, bad news came from the home of Jairus. It's definite. Your daughter's dead. There's no doubt about it. Why trouble the teacher any further? Your worst fears are realized. Look at verse 35. While he was still speaking, some came from the ruler of the synagogue's house and said, Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the teacher any further? As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken. He said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not be afraid, only believe. Remember at the tomb of Lazarus when Jesus ordered the stone moved away? Martha said, no, no, Lord, don't do that because by this point he st he stinks. There's a stench because he's been dead for four days. And Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you would believe, you would see the glory of God? He was attempting to strengthen her faith. At that point. Well, he does the same thing here. As soon as Jairus gets the bad news, Jesus seeks to strengthen his faith. I like what 19th century Anglican Archbishop of Dublin, R. C. Sprench, uh R. C. Trench, I'm sorry. I like what he says. What did I say? R. C. Sprench. R. C. trench. Here's what he says about it. There's something very gracious in that as soon. The Lord spake upon the instant, not leaving any time for a thought of unbelief to insinuate itself into this father's mind, into Jairus' mind. But preoccupying him at once with words of encouragement and hope. As soon as Jesus heard that word that was told to Jairus, he turned to him and said, Don't be afraid, only before Look at verse 37. And he permitted no one to follow him except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James. And then he came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue and saw a tumult, and those who wept and wailed loudly. When he came in, he said to them, Why make this commotion and weep? The child is not dead, but sleeping. And they ridiculed him. But when he had put them all outside, He took the father and the mother of the child and those who were with him, Peter, James, and John, and entered where the child was lying. Just as later on the Mount of Transfiguration, Jesus had with him Peter, James, and John Just as the night before his crucifixion he had with him close by Peter, James, and John. So he brings Peter, James, and John with him. He leaves the multitude behind. Uh no doubt, certainly in in part out of consideration for this poor family that has just lost their daughter. He's not going to come tracing in with a thousand people. So he leaves the multitude behind. He takes with him Peter, James, and John, and he enters the house with Jairus, and of course his wife is there and the child. But uh what did he find when he arrived there? The mourners. The the wailers They were already there. It was customary when there was a death for paid mourners to gather to weep and to wail and to rend their garments as an indication of the grave misfortune that had befallen the family. The more well-to-do the family was, the larger the mourning crew was expected. Sprohl notes that, quote, The rabbi said that at minimum a family must hire two flute players and one female whaler. So there'd be some regular part-time work for you, Nancy. So Jairus, as a prominent man, would probably have a pretty large wailing chorus there. And not surprisingly, when Jesus arrived, there was this gray commotion going on, great weeping and wailing, some legitimate no doubt, and some of it uh just uh a show. And Jesus enters the house and asks what all the commotion is about, and he says, the child is not dead. But sleeping. The very same term he used to describe Lazarus after his death. Our friend Lazarus sleeps, he said to his disciples. disciples, when he knew he was dead. So these hired mourners, the Capernaum Criers, the Weeping Willows The group from Rent a Whale or Rent a Robe, they knew that the girl was dead. So when Jesus said she's sleeping, what did they do? They ridiculed him You can see how deep their their real uh sympathy and compassion was here. They ridiculed Jesus. They stopped wailing for the girl. They began to ridicule this so-called prophet. But he put them out of the house. This was not a time for artificial mourning, and he had no intention of casting his pearl of the resurrection in front of these swine. So, out of the house, they went. They would only trample it underfoot. They took her parents and those three disciples, and he entered the very room where the child was lying dead. Look at verse 41. Then he took the child by the hand and he said to her, Kalitha Kumi, which is translated, Little girl, I say to you, arise. Immediately the girl arose and walked, for she was twelve years of age, and they were overcome with great amazement. He tenderly takes the child by the hand, momentarily violating again, for good reason, his own ceremonial law against touching a dead body, and he says to her in Aramaic, Kaletha Kumi. Little girl, I say to thee, arise. Immediately she did so. And not only did she arise, she walked, the scripture says. In other words, she was not an infant, she was twelve years of age, able to walk, she arose and she walked. And they were overcome with great amazement. There's an interesting phrase of the Greek. They were overcome with great amazement. New Testament Greek scholar W. E. Vine points out the word here is ecstasis. That is the word from which this phrase is derived. Extasis. And it's a standing out by which a person is thrown into a state of surprise or fear or both. It was used at the healing of the layman at the temple in Acts 3. The people were shocked as they saw this man. They knew him to be lame. And he's walking and leaping and praising God. And the people were Standing out of themselves. This was incredible. They were beside themselves with wonder, you might say. Our word ecstasy is derived from this word. Extasis. So the disciples had just witnessed, think about this, they just witnessed Jesus still a storm with his word. He says to the wind and the waves, peace be still. They had just witnessed him cast a legion of demons out of that man of Ghidara who was so tortured for so long. And then on the way here, they had heard this testimony from a woman who said that she had just been healed of a condition she had for twelve years, and she was healed just by touching the hem of his garment. They might have thought, that is, the disciples might have thought they'd seen it all, but they had not seen him raise someone from the dead. They were, as we would expect, overcome with great amazement. As were the girls' parents, although the amazement of the parents, I'm sure, would itself have been overcome by their joy. to see their child alive and walking and healthy again. That would be the emotion that would uh that would dominate. Look at verse 43 But he commanded them strictly that no one should know it, and said that something should be given her to eat Now we've already seen several times in Mark's Gospel that Jesus sometimes asked those he healed, or those out of whom he cast demons, not to go and broadcast what he had done. Now, it might always surprise you when you read that. Why would he say that? Wouldn't he want everybody to know? Well, he didn't want all these masses of people coming to him so that he couldn't do what he had come to do Which is visit many, many towns preaching the gospel, preaching the good news. He didn't want to only heal people He didn't want his healing ministry to eclipse the more important gospel message that he had come to proclaim. Now perhaps Cyrus and his wife thought that Jesus was just being humbled by those instructions. He warned them not to tell anyone. Or perhaps they just couldn't help themselves, but Matthew tells us that when Jesus and his disciples had departed the house, the girl's parents spread the news about him in all that country. Look, I know he didn't want us to tell everybody, but this is just too good not to tell. He raised our daughter from the dead. She's alive again. You know how long she was sick? You know how how we prayed, we saw physicians, etc. Jesus came, he took her by the hand, he raised her from the grave, he raised her from the dead. They made it known throughout that country, Matthew 9. 31. Now there's one other thing here. I've mentioned it before in other messages, but before Jesus left their home, he said something to those parents that, as I've said before, always touches me when I think about it. He said to them, Get her something to eat. See that you give her something to eat. In other words, It gives us insight into Christ's compassion for this child. In the midst of all the celebration, and they're probably going to go, get go get Aunt, what's her name, and Uncle So-and-so, and tell them she's alive. She's alive, she's healthy, the sickness is gone. Let everybody know in the midst of all that joy, they might not have thought about, you know. She hasn't had anything to eat for several days. Perhaps this was a lingering illness. And she needs strength. So Jesus says, get her something to eat. Think about his love. Think about his mercy. Now, before we leave this passage, let's emphasize some things. First of all, some things about the woman with the issue of blood Not unlike those who were struck with blindness or leprosy or countless other afflictions, this sickness was evidently not a direct result of any sin this woman had committed. There's no suggestion here that she was somehow personally responsible for her severe, persistent physical agony. Like all affliction, it's part of our common condition in a fallen world. Just as uh twelve years a slave uh took a terrible toll on the life of Solomon Northup, twelve years as a social pariah Twelve years with a debilitating illness would take its toll on this poor woman who approached Jesus this day. And fully cognizant, remember, for twelve years she was separated from the flock, fully cognizant of her impurity. Reaching out in the crowd and just touching the hem of Christ's garment. And then when Jesus stopped, she was trembling, she was fearful, aware of her own uncleanness, as it was called. She uh she's afraid Jesus is going to strongly rebuke her. And and it and you know that sort of reminds us, it reminds me anyway of The Gentile woman who approaches Jesus, you know, interceding for her daughter in chapter 7. And she she's hoping that Jesus might heal her daughter. But Jesus says, Well, it's not good to take the children's bread and cast it to the dogs. That is, I've come to for my own people, the Israelites. And she says, Yes, Lord, but even the dogs will eat of the crumbs that that fall from the master's table. In that respect, this poor woman is not unlike perhaps some present, who have a deep sense of their own unworthiness You may have a very deep sense of your own unworthiness because of your sin, because of your impurity, because you know what you have done And if you are drawn to Jesus, but you have that deep sense of your own impurity, your own defilement, you may not feel worthy to approach him. You may think somehow your sins are too great, your stains are too deep for him to receive you. You can nevertheless come in that crowd and reach out and touch the hem of his garment. You can come to him. Are you weary and heavy laden? Jesus said, come unto me and I will give you Are your sins like scarlet, red like crimson? They shall be as wool, they shall be as white as snow, the scripture said. Are you a prodigal child and you know you're unworthy to be called a son? You'll be welcomed home with tears of joy, with feasting, and with dance. And then, as we've seen, this woman's faith was the instrumental cause of her healing Daughter, your faith has made you well. That must mean something. Your faith has made you well, Jesus said. As in Christ's healing ministry, even so in his salvation, the salvation from sin that the healing ministry merely pictures, faith is the key I've talked to numerous people who seem to acknowledge that Jesus is the ultimate, even the efficient cause of their salvation, though they wouldn't necessarily use that term. But they seem to think that the way they actually attain salvation themselves is by being baptized or being confirmed or joining a church or endeavoring day to day to try to live like Jesus. But the scripture is very clear. The just shall live by faith. The just shall live by faith. How do the just live? Not by works. They live by faith. Romans 1. 17 By grace are you saved through faith? It's not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. You see, if it were of yourselves, that is something you earned by your own efforts. I joined the church, I kept the Ten Commandments, I'm not perfect, but I try to keep the golden rule. I'm not uh I know I'm not uh as holy as Jesus, but I I I'm I'm trying to be like Jesus. I'm trying to do my part, I'm trying to walk in a way that will honor him If you could be saved by your own efforts, then you would think that you were somehow responsible for your redemption. But the passage in Ephesians goes on to say your salvation is not of works, lest any man should boast. Ephesians 2, 9. Can you imagine this woman having been finally healed after twelve years? Finally healed? How just by reaching out and touching Christ's garment, can you imagine her going back to her family and her friends and saying, Guess what I did? I had such fortitude, such persistence, you know, a lot of people would have quit after the 13th physician, but not me. You think she said, of course not. She was desperate. This was her last hope. And all she did was touch his garment. It was the power of Christ that healed her. But the instrument was that simple faith. If you're forgiven and cleansed of your sin today, it's not because of your baptism. It's not because of your church membership. It's not because you keep the golden rule. It's because Jesus lived a perfect life in your place. He died as your substitute. He bore the punishment of the Father that your sins deserve. He said, in effect, Father, punish me and let them go free. And God laid upon his son all of his wrath and anger for sin. And Jesus suffered there upon that cross and he cried out, Eli, Eli, Lama Samba Kani, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why would he say that? Because the wrath of his father was upon him. And he felt it. And he wanted us to know that he felt it. You're going to heaven today because Jesus died in your place, rose again from the dead, and God opened your heart at one point in time and gave you faith to believe that. So who gets the glory for that? God gets all the glory for it. He could have left me in my sin, but he graciously opened my heart and gave me faith to believe. He brought this gospel message to be And he took away those blind eyes, he gave me sight. He took away the heart of stone, he gave me a heart of flesh. He breathed upon the dry bones so they could live. I was born again. I didn't have anything to do with my first birth. I I was just carried along. I didn't have anything to do with my second birth. God did it. And God gets the glory for it. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God, Jesus said. John 3 Now, a few words about the resurrection of Jairus' daughter. There may have been others in that town who were deathly ill. No doubt there were many children. There's no doubt about this. There were many children in Palestine during Jesus' ministry. Who probably were certainly many children who were ill, and no doubt many who died during Jesus' ministry, who were not raised from the dead I think that's safe to say. He healed multitudes, but he did not heal everyone. And even those he healed eventually got sick. And within a generation or two, all those he healed, all those he raised were dead, including this 12-year-old girl The healing ministry of Jesus and the miracles he performed, certainly they evidenced his love. They evidenced his compassion. He cares about us. We don't have a high priest who cannot be touched with a feeling of our infirmities. Sure, they tell us that he loves us. Sure, they evidence his love. But more than that, they evidence that he was the long-awaited Messiah. That's why the miracles, that's why the signs, that's why the healing. He gave sight to the blind to evidence that he was the light of the world. He multiplied the loaves of bread to show that he's the bread of life. He raised Lazarus from the dead to show I and the resurrection and the life. That's why he did those things. And he said, He who believes in me will never die. Yeah, I know the body of the believer is gonna die. Certainly it's gonna appear to die by every marker that we use to determine if death has occurred. Movement, heartbeat, breathing, brainwaves, blood pressure. The body of the believer will be declared to be dead, and we will commit it to the earth. But in another sense, and from another perspective. That body's not really dead. I don't know if this has ever happened to you, but it happens to me a lot. kind of regularly. In fact it happened just last night. I went into what you might call a state of suspended animation It lasted for several hours. Not long enough, but it lasted for several hours. I remember I was in my bedroom. I was in my bedroom when the the goofy grandfather clock we got bonged twelve times. I remember that. I was in my bedroom late on Saturday night. And then the next thing I knew, it was Sunday morning. And several hours had passed, and I had no recollection of what took place. For an extended period of time I blacked out. I just blacked out oblivious to my surroundings. As I said, I don't know if it's ever happened to you. But so far, whenever this has happened to me The state has only been temporary. Light comes into the room, an alarm goes off, and I emerge out of that unproductive period into one I like to think of as more productive. Now think about this. If you are going to be awakened from it, is it better called death or sleep? If you're going to be awakened from it, is it better called death or sleep? The body of Jairus ' daughter was dead. The family knew it, the mourners knew it. But Jesus knew something they didn't know. He was going to raise her back to life. He was going to wake her up. And so he said, She's not dead. She's just sleeping. You may have stood by the body of your father or mother or husband or child as that body was placed in the earth We call what he or she experienced death. But if your loved one was a believer in Jesus Christ, his soul was already At the point at which you were committing that body to the earth, his soul was already in the very presence of the Lord, rejoicing. And here's the truth that should overcome us with great amazement, even as Jesus commanded Jairus' daughter to rise. One day, the scripture says a trumpet's going to sound, and the body of the loved one that you committed to the earth, that body will rise from the grave. And the Lord will immediately transform that very body into a body that is incorruptible, glorious, and powerful. The trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised incorruptible. 1 Corinthians 15. And on that day. Death will be swallowed up in victory. And you and I will shout, Oh death, where's your victory? Where's your sting? Grave, where's your victory? God will reestablish the bond between the body and the soul that was severed by sin and by death. Satan will not even have victory over our bodies. The souls of believers will be reunited with their bodies, bodies made new, incorruptible, glorious, powerful as they were originally designed to be. What about believers who are still alive in that glorious day? Maybe your children, maybe some here, maybe many of us here. What about those still alive in that day? What about those who've not yet experienced death? Paul says, we shall not all sleep. We shall not all have to endure what we call death. But we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. You will not be inhabiting God's new creation in your old sin plagued uh creaky arthritic body. The mortal must put on immortality, Scripture says. So as I close this message, let me urge you to remember when you close that coffin Jesus says to each of us as we grieve the loss of our believing loved one, why make this commotion and weep? He's not dead. She is not dead. She's only sleeping. Let's pray