We're going to be reading from Judges 2, 1 through 15. So please turn there with me in your Bibles. A long time ago, in a land far, far away, there was a homeless group of refugees, tent dwellers Usually refugees are denied access to countries, shuffled into ghettos , enslaved or killed At best they have to start at the bottom of a society and work their way up to land and prosperity. But not this group of refugees. Because they had a rich beneficiary. They had a wonderful ruler who dwelled in a tent in their midst. And he was going to start them off with a whole nation. All the resources they needed, fields already planted, vineyards already blossoming, barns already full, a just system of government already in place, a holy priesthood They would have everything that they needed to thrive from the very beginning. But they lacked one thing: obedience. Let's pray before we open God's word. Thank you, Father, for this story in your word. Thank you for sovereignly working in the lives of those who gave us this story to enable them to tell us the whole story. Help me to tell the whole story of this narrative. Help your people to hear, to hear and obey the whole story as it is told this morning. Amen. We're having a little technical difficulty. You're hearing that that noise, so let's just use the pulpit microphone if you can send that off, Nick. Sorry for the distraction. No problem. Can you take this room? I can. Let's listen to God's word. Judges 2, verses 1 through 15. Now the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochim, and he said, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you into the land that I swore. I said, I will never break my covenant with you. And you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this. land. You shall break down their altars. But you have not obeyed my voice. What is this you have done? See now, I say, I will not drive them out before you, but they shall become thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to you. As soon as the angel of the Lord spoke these words to all the people of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and wept. And they called the name of that place Bochim. And they sacrificed there to the Lord. When Joshua dismissed the people, the people of Israel went each to his inheritance to take possession of the land. And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua. And all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work that the Lord had done for Israel. And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the age of a hundred and ten years. And they buried him within the boundaries of his inheritance in Timnath Huresh, in the hill country of Ephraim, north of the mountain of Gaash. And all that generation were gathered to their fathers. And there arose another generation after them who did not know the Lord or the work that he'd done for Israel And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and served the Baals, and they abandoned the Lord. The God of their fathers, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt. They went after other gods from among the gods of the peoples that were around them and and bowed down to them, and they provoked the Lord to anger. They abandoned the Lord. And served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he gave them over to plunderers who plundered them, and he sold them into the hand of the surrounding enemies, so that they could no longer withstand their enemies. Whenever they marched out, the hand of the Lord was against them for harm, as the Lord had warned, and as the Lord had sworn to them, and they were in terrible distress. My brothers and sisters and I decided not to go to my grandfather's funeral. Grandpa Hathaway had lived all of his years in Rhode Island on an apple orchard. And um He would love to sit in his lazy boy and yell out answers to a blaring wheel of fortune. And he would like to give us give us crackers, but we were loath to take them because as he brought them out of his pocket, they were usually kind of crumbled and dilapidated. But um he was a politically active, philanthropic cook, and we loved him. But we didn't go to his funeral because our father was intent on bringing his living girlfriend to the funeral And so none of us uh wanted to go. The wounds were too raw. Our our parents had only been separated for less than a year, and um we told our father that we'd like to go, but that we weren't gonna go if she came. And our father said his girlfriend was coming and she was singing at the funeral and um so we decided not to go. And and I've apologized to my father for not attending his father's funeral. And if I had to do it over again I would go. When our fathers and our forefathers disobey God, it affects us. How has your parents or your grandparents' obedience to God blessed your life? How has your parents or grandparents' disobedience affected your life? Life. Now for some that is a question that is out of bounds, that is never asked, uh never allowed, because uh They think that no one should ever speak ill of ancestors or ill of the dead. But the Lord God forbids ancestor worship. He commands respect of elders, but he forbids worship of them. What does that look like? It looks like listening to and knowing the story of God's people and your people. Knowing the story of God's mighty works in spite of people's sin. It looks like telling the whole story to your children. It means not just reading to them from the children's Bible. Or your favorite passages, the whole biblical story. It means telling the whole story of your spiritual journey and your people's spiritual journey Their victories and their foibles where God worked in spite of them. But that's hard to do because if we tell the whole story, we could be judged. It's hard to listen to the story and not judge. But what frees us to confess, what enables us to listen graciously, is God's everlasting covenant of grace with his people. So listen to the whole story of Judges 2. Judges 2, 1. Now the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you into the land that I swore to give to your fathers. I said, I will never break my covenant with you. The angel of the Lord is the very mouthpiece of God. Um he doesn't say thus saith the Lord, he says, I say to you. He has authority. It's a foreshadowing of the Lord incarnate, who when he stands on the mount, doesn't say, The Lord says to you, he says, Verily, verily, I say to you. And he says He speaks with authority. It's the same way with the angel of the Lord. He says, I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, the land that I swore to give to your fathers. He speaks with authority on behalf of God to the people of Israel who've inhabited the land of Canaan. And he reminds them that he has already saved them and covenanted himself with them. He tells them he's about to tell them a hard thing. He's about to challenge them on their sin and withdraw his hand. But first the Lord takes care to remind his people what he has done for them and what he will do for them. Now, the Lord doesn't follow the rules of the criticism sandwich. Compliment, criticism, compliment. And he didn't even follow the new rules of criticism, criticism, long laundry list of compliments. Okay, that's the new way to do it. Okay, no, but the Lord doesn't do it that way. The only positives the Lord even mentions here are his positive regard for Israel. He saved her from slavery and oppression in Egypt. He brought her out not by the strength of her own hand, but by his own hand. He burned a bush without singing it. He caused a staff to turn into a stake. He turned a hand leprous and then healthy again. He turned the greatest river of ancient civilization into blood. He sent frogs, lice. f flies, disease, boils, flaming hail, locusts, darkness, and death to bring his people out to worship him And if that's not amazing enough for you, he sent a speech-impaired murdering immigrant to be his ambassador. And even after that, he split the Red Sea in two so his people could walk to Egypt on dry land. He destroyed the elitest armies on earth, their elite troops. He flooded them in the sea. The Lord fed his people out of his own hand with manna. He gave them water from the rock. He gave them quail. He he destroyed armies He changed the hearts of kings. He split the Jordan in half. And then proceeded to destroy any walled cities, allied armies, giants or fortresses that stood in his people's way. But that still isn't the whole story of God's faithfulness. He did all of this in spite of terrible sin on behalf of his people. First, they didn't want to go. Then they blamed God for making their work harder. Then they complained about Moses. Then they complained about Pharaoh's army. Then they complained about provision. And once the Lord had taken care of all these things, they complained some more. They complained about the food, the lack of meat, the need for water, the lack of leadership. And no sooner had God saved them and brought them out to worship him in the wilderness. Then they make a bull sculpture to worship. What? A bull sculpture? Even so, even so, God chooses Aaron to be his priest. But Aaron's sons don't listen and they offer a strange fire. God shows them the God shows his people the way into Canaan. He said, here's how you go. And they say, No, that looks too Too dangerous. What? He just took care of the most elite civilization, their elite army, and you're s you're scared of a group of Canaanite tribes? What What is this they have done? God's gracious provision becomes so much greater in light of his people's sin. But his people's sin, his people's blatant repeated sin , that did not cause the Lord to break his covenant with his people. Because it's a covenant of grace. And it's an everlasting nature was rooted in God Himself, in His chesed, His steadfast loving kindness. Listen to what he says. I will never break my covenant with you. And you shall not make any covenant with the inhabitants of this land. You shall break down their altars. You see, God moves directly from assuring sinful Israel that he never breaks his covenant with them to give them a command not to make covenants with the pagans surrounding them. The Lord seems to be connecting the two things. Intimate covenant with the Lord means no covenants with other gods or even other pagans. That seems kind of exclusive. That seems selfish of the Lord. But love by nature is exclusive. And the Lord is being selfless instead of selfish here. But God's strategy seems kind of counterintuitive to those of us who are authorities. As authorities, we don't usually tell people, hey, no matter what you do, I will love you and be committed to you. Uh now go take out the trash. Um some teenagers would call that bluff. They would be tempted to say, if you love me no matter what, I'm not taking out the trash And their parents would love them even when they didn't take out the trash by disciplining them. And that's similar to what's going on here in the passage today. God affirms his commitment to Israel, but he reminds her that she has failed to do what God commanded to do. He says, but you have not obeyed my voice. What is this you have done? So now I say, I will not drive them out before you, but they shall become thorns in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you. Now our culture that we live in sometimes uses discipline as anathetical to love. But here the Lord shows that discipline is the means by which he loves. Teenagers, do you hear me saying that? Youth, discipline is the way that God shows his love. And many times, the worst discipline that God can give us is to let us have what we want. His people, they didn't want to push out the Canaanites from the land. So God made it almost impossible to push out the Canaanites from the land. His people wanted to say the Canaanite gods are no big deal. So the Lord let them stay around to show that them that the idols were a big deal. The Israelites wanted to intermarry and enslave the Canaanites, and so he let them intermarry and they got enslaved. It's punishment fit the crime. God remains in covenant, but lets his people have some of the consequences of their actions so that they see that God's word is true. But discipline does not mean that God doesn't love his people or that he's abandoning his people. He reaffirmed his loving actions toward his people, and he assured them of the everlasting nature of his covenant. And even their sin can't thwart his life. He made his expectations known, and he makes the punishment known. Now, some of you may be with us today and you're thinking. The story of a God who favors one nation over another, who tells one nation to commit genocide against another, even killing women and children. Who tells one, destroy another culture's artifacts and even their livestock? That's what's wrong with this world This seems like the epitome of partisan jingoistic prejudicial hatred. You might think that 's one thing for a country to invade another and destroy it. But it's a devilish lie to say that God told you to do so. Let me first say you have a valid concern. If that's your concern, that is a valid concern because People all the time make gods after their own image and then use them to justify whatever they wanted to do. People use man-made religion to excuse the most reprehensible deeds. People people use God's authorization of a war between one country and another at a particular time to authorize all manner of war for any number of reasons, and that is wrong, and that is not what scripture teaches, and that's not what's going on here. It's a legitimate concern. First, let me allege that the ancient Israelites didn't make up a God in order to have a religious reason to do whatever they wanted. Because God didn't let them do whatever they wanted. Over and over again, they would complain about his commands and not follow them. This is not a man-made religion. Secondly, the Israelites didn't make up the command to fight against the Canaan. To legitimize a war they wanted to have. They didn't want to have that war. They were really steered. They would have rather stayed in Egypt or in the wilderness. This is not a man-made command. Thirdly, just because God gave a particular command to a particular People at a particular time does not mean that those actions are normative. They're not. In the first place, Israel wasn't called to go out to war all the time with pagans. Israel wasn't even told to clear out or subjugate all non-Jews on the Arabian Peninsula. But that's what Islam calls for, and not just on the Arabian Peninsula. Israel is told to execute God's judgment on the Canaanites. And if you think that that sounds unjust or unmerciful, you need to go back to Genesis 18 and 19. and see that hundreds of years before, the Canaanites were totally morally bankrupt with rampant, inhospitable homosexuality. The Canaanites were prostitution-loving babykillers that God had been patient with for hundreds of years. And if you have any concern for justice, you can understand God's desire, just desire to punish this people. What you really have a problem with. It's not God's justice. It's his mercy. Because God used sinful Israel to execute justice on sinful Canaan. And it didn't take Israel long to be doing exactly the same kind of sins that Canaan was doing. See Judges 17 through 21 for all the sordid details. So if you have a philosophical difficulty, it's with God's mercy. And I encourage you to take that up with the Lord Himself. So coming back to our text, how do God's people respond when God calls them out for their sin? And remember that the people that God's talking to here have been involved in his great war. These are soldiers. That God is taking a task for their poor nation building. He's telling warriors who fought for his glory that they didn't fully obey their commanding officer That they didn't kill enough. They didn't destroy enough. These are God that are the guys that have followed God into battle against walled fortifications with little more than sticks. And they're gathered here to hear the Lord rebuke them on the very hill on which all the male adult males circumcise themselves for the Lord. So you're wondering how are these guys gonna react? They might have a little self-righteous anger. Who do you think you're talking about? But they don't. The men's response is to cry over their sin. And not so much shed tears as cry aloud. The Semites don't mourn silently but loudly. Imagine what the sound of a thousand Israelites groaning at the God's just rebuke of their sin would sound like. This was their corporate confession. You guys can do it with me. Let's co confess our sins together. Times a thousand. Do you start to get a picture of what it's like to serve a covenant Lord? He is he loves with an everlasting love, but he is holy. He can and does call his people on their sin. And it's right for us to groan in response. Groan and sacrifice. They they probably offered sin offerings. This was a way for them to put their money where their mouth was. Oh, you really feel? Oh Then show me with your wallet, with your resources. When God's people are convicted of their sin, they bring the resources and give them to God. It's part physical mia culpa, my bad, for all to see, part demonstration that they know the seriousness of their sin, and part foreshadowing of the perfect sacrifice. Offered by the perfect priest to satisfy divine justice perfectly. Jesus. But when God's people were convicted of their sin, they cried out, they sacrificed, and they changed the name of the place. They marked this occasion in their history books and on their map so that whenever they looked at a map or whenever they passed by that place, it would remind them of what God said and did to them there. It was a it was a physical mnemonic device to remind them to tell the story. And that's what the author of Judges is doing in this narrative. He's telling the story. Inspired by the Holy Spirit, he's telling the whole story. And listen, the Bible is very unique. And as a historical book, it tells so much of the sins of the founding fathers. Most other nations tell a whitewashed history of the glorious rise to greatness. Israel alone. Tells a story of a refugee people who, in spite of continued sin, are chosen and preserved by the Lord of all nations. The others of the Bible over and over again confess their sin, confess their parents' sin. and confess their heroes' sin. Why? Because they have become convinced that righteousness Is not based on who we are or how we're perceived to be, but on how secure we are in God's love in spite of our perception and performance. They're telling on themselves in the scripture before us today. Sure, God inspired the writing of this book, absolutely. But what the Holy did was the Holy Spirit did was inspire them in the freedom that one has, and the Grace of the eternal covenant to lay it all out there, the good and the ugly. You see, God's grace is more beautiful, his faithfulness all the more glorious when the story of our sin is told. It's right and beautiful for them to tell the whole story. On the other hand, when we don't factor in our forefathers' sin, the story becomes arrogant. Without the story of Israel's weakness and sin, one can begin to believe that God was right to choose Israel because Israel is so good and wonderful. It's the opposite. God gives gracious favor despite all their sin. But we wouldn't know that unless we had the whole story. If the biblical writers only included the wise things that the patriarchs did, They're just the victories and the good things they participated in. We would hate the Bible. We would hate it. It would prov provide almost no hope for us as sinners. It would be a pharisaic document facilitating hypocritical works of righteousness. So, what will you do this day to give voice to the way that God is bringing conviction of sin? On your heart? Does it look like crying out? Does it look like an apology? A confession? A meditative study? Does it look like you doing some history? Old Testament, New Testament, church history, or even family history? Does it look like making an offering to the Lord? For me, I'm convicted that I need to tell my children and my youth group my testimony of God's grace in my life. I need to write down a record of God's grace to me in spite of all my sin. Hurry to do whatever it is that the Holy Spirit is laying on your heart to do because this message is time-sensitive. Look at verses 6 through 10. When Joshua dismissed the people, the people of Israel went each to his inheritance to take possession of the land. And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work that the Lord had done for Israel. And Joshua, son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the age of a hundred Ten years, and they buried him, and all that generation also were gathered to their fathers. You see, this message is time-sensitive because each of us is going to die. God sometimes raises up godly leaders who deliver the people and lead with courage and serve the Lord, but they die. And they almost always stay dead. Almost always. Sometimes the Lord raises up a whole generation of faithful servants. The Holy Spirit is not poured out in equal measure to each generation in each culture. The generation of Joshua was a faithful generation. They did not walk in the ways of their fathers, who died in the wilderness for lack of faith. They served the Lord. They even executed justice on their own brothers and sisters. They participated in a covenant renewal ceremony where they publicly declared their allegiance to the Lord. They personally witnessed great acts of the Lord in bringing them into the promised land. But they didn't fully obey the Lord. They mostly obeyed the Lord. They served the Lord all the days of Joshua. That's great. But Joshua died. And this is how it is with God's people over and over again. This is how it is with us. The Lord raises up leaders and men who know the mighty works of the Lord, but they pass on to be with the Lord. Joshua is one of the greatest men in the pages of the Bible. But when he died, he stayed dead. And that left God's people with a bit of a power vacuum. But what God's people needed was a deliverer, a leader, a general who lived not merely for 110 years, but for a millennia. God's people needed a leader who would not be buried in his inheritance in Timnath Huresh, but whose inheritance would be the entire earth, and whose burial would not last forever, but merely for three days. Well, because people needed was not an initial generation that knew the great works of the Lord, but generation after generation after generation who knew the Lord, who would not even need to say to one another, Know the Lord, because all of them would know the Lord from the least of them to the greatest That's what God's people needed. But by the grace of God, that's what they received in the second Joshua. I speak of Jesus, whose Hebrew name was Yeshua. Yah saves And it's it's not only the gates of Jericho that can't prevail against him, it's the gates of hell. And and the last Joshua doesn't need his people to take possession of Canaan. He leads his meek people to take possession of the whole earth, the new heavens and the new earth. This Joshua doesn't have to take his sandals to off to come before the commander of the Lord's army. He is the commander of the Lord's army. And he makes war. He is the only faithful and true leader. His eyes are a flame of fire. His crown is encircled with jewels. His robe is steeped in blood from treading out the wine press of the fury of the God Almighty. And from his mouth comes a sword to strike down that ancient serpent, Satan, whose head he's already crushed by his finished work on the cross. And on his robe is the graphic, and on his legs tattooed, King of kings and Lord of Lords. Hallelujah. So that's the good news. We serve a Joshua who isn't dead, who is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, who is coming again to judge the living and the dead. But the sad news is, verse 10b. And there arose another generation after them who did not know the Lord or the work they had done for Israel. What? So soon? Just so quickly? Just as they'd entered the promised land? Just as the former generation was resting after all the hard work that they'd done. A whole generation doesn't know the Lord? How is this possible? Is there any hope for a next generation? Is there anything that we can do to guarantee that this won't happen again to us? No. Because salvation is by grace. Not by works, so that no man may boast. There's no work that you can do, there's no twelve-step parenting process that will guarantee that the next generation will not abound in the Lord. It's all grace. There are some horrible parents who raise up children and they love the Lord. And there are some wonderful, grace-filled parents whose children rise up and they abandon the Lord. There is no guarantee. But I do have a suggestion that comes from God's Word. Tell the next generation of the mighty deeds of the Lord. Next generation, listen to your elders as they tell you the mighty deeds of the Lord. Let me speak to the older generation for a second. There's a temptation to assume that the mighty deeds of the Lord, uh to assume the mighty deeds of the Lord, because there's so obvious temptations. To you. They've had such a formative impact on you. Older generation, we can sometimes forget to tell others what seems so self-evident to us. We can become so focused on what's before us that we don't take time to do our history. To tell of the mighty deeds of the Lord. And if you say, well, I have done that, now what? Tell them again. Tell them in a new way. Tell them to a new people. Apply them to a new situation. Read through the whole Bible. Again, looking for God's mighty works that you can communicate to the next generation. And after you've done that, read some church history. And then make some church history of your own and write down or tell your own story how God has been with you. And younger generation, let me speak to you. Many of you do know the mighty deeds of the Lord. But you can grow accustomed to them and assume them too. If you feel like you already know the mighty deeds of the Lord, Here's what I have to say to you. Then start trying to communicate them to your friends, to those younger than you, to anyone who will listen. When I started trying to tell people the wonderful truths of the Lord, It caused me to listen afresh to the whole story again. I said, so I was listening not only to what the Lord has done, but how that person is communicating what the Lord has done. I want you to be younger people, I want you to become master storytellers. Whenever there's a lull in the conversation, whenever there's a wait in line, a stop in traffic, try to tell one of the stories. And if you run out of stories, ask your parents for more. Ask your youth pastor, ask your grandparents, ask your elder, your Sunday school teacher. The Apostle John said that there are so many works of our Lord Jesus Christ that if we were to write them all down, the books would fill the earth. Do you believe that? Or do you believe that you've already heard it all? Because you haven't. And even if you have, do you know it so well that you could tell it? But one thing may have put the brakes on Joshua generation, telling the next generation the story was the backstory of all their sin, of all their parents' sin. And and some maybe may not have minded telling their parents sin, but then they didn't want to tell their sin. Or some might have been had a fine time telling their own sin, but they didn't want to tell their parents sin. Do you see what I'm saying? If they didn't um, but the story makes little sense otherwise, with God's story or with your story. Imagine a child back then a asking these things, why did Moses break the tablets of the law? Why did we stay in the wilderness so long? Why did God send poisonous snakes to us in our midst. Why did we not defeat Ai the first time? Why did we linger so long at Baal Peor? Why are there still so many Canaanites in the land? Why did you marry a Canaanite? Do you see how it gets hard to tell the story? But if you only tell half the story, I guarantee it will be boring and full of hypocrisy, and the next generation sees right through it. But next generation, let me talk to you for a minute. There's a reason they don't want to tell y'all the whole story. Because they're afraid that if they tell you the whole story, you won't respect them. They're afraid that uh if we tell the whole story, you'll hate us. And you'll rebel and abandon the Lord because of our sin. We're afraid that if we let you in, you'll judge us, find us wanting, you'll stop heeding us, you'll use our sin as a bargaining chip. You'll blackmail us and try to claim the moral high ground. We're the incumbents, you're the insurgents, and if we transfer power, are you gonna slay us? Are you going to destroy all we fought for? Or will you still respect us and love us? This is what we're afraid of. This is what we're afraid of. Verse 11 is what we're afraid of. And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals. And they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers. who brought them up out of the land of Egypt. They went after other gods from among the people, gods of the peoples who were around them, and they bowed down to them, and they provoked the Lord to anger. Do you see the connection between the sin of the Joshua generation and the sin of the next generation? Do you see that? The Joshua generation didn't eradicate the Canaanites, they made covenants, they didn't break down their own altars, and they intermarried with them. And what happens to the next generation? Total abandonment of the Lord. Of the Lord for the gods of the Canaanites. Whoa. Lord have mercy. Older generation, have you seen anything like this in your life? Maybe it's just a minor sin for you. It's just a small discrepancy for you. It's just a little indiscretion or oversight. But the next generation sees that and they take it and And they run with it, and they throw out and they forget all the good things that you taught them, and they just lay hold of that sin. Your only inconsistency, your Achilles heel, and they run with it and take it to its logical conclusion. Oh dear. Who can stand? Who can be saved? How can the covenant get from one generation to the next if only a small sin can utterly unhinge it? For we all have small sins, don't we? No, because there's no such thing as a small sin. There's no such thing as a pet sin. There's no such thing as a minor indiscretion. There's no such thing as only inc Inconsistency, small oversight when it transgresses the law of God Sin knows no bounds. It's not private. It's not respectful. It abandons the Lord and leads to abandonment of the Lord. How then can we be saved? By a covenant Covenant of grace. The only antidote for sin is the cleansing blood of the sacrificial lamb of the Lord Yeshua, because Yah indeed saves. Where sin abounded, grace abounds much more. Where sin could cross a generation, salvation is from everlasting to everlasting. Where the nations were once a thorn in the side of God's covenant people, now they have been made God's covenant people. Filling even the whole earth, where once it was a pagan who influenced and tainted God's people, Jesus promised that his people would be salt and light, leavened, leavening as a whole loaf, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it In the old covenant, the Canaanites were a cancer to God's people, but in the new covenant, it's God's people that have gone viral, filling the whole earth like that mustard seed weed that fills the whole garden. So God's grace is greater far than all our sin. But next generation, hear the warning as well as the hope. Do not think of the covenant as your fallback option. as your fire insurance, as if God were your dog wagging its tail waiting for you to come back. Next generation. Using your parents' sin as an excuse to engage in a life of debauchery and license is dangerous. Do you know what terrible distress is? You don't want to find out. But it looks something like what the ancient Israelites had to go through. Going after the stupidest things that those around you go for, trinkets. Going after counterfeit gods that you know are not gods, or making your own and that can't satisfy. It looks like you shamefully groveling to get your God. And that makes God the Lord angry. So angry because he has a right to make you grovel and he doesn't. He has a right to make you crawl on the ground and he doesn't, and then you go and do it for gods that aren't gods? Do you see how that might provoke God to needless anger? And as you compromise, if you compromise and throw off restraint, you will leave yourself open to theft and deadness and labor that you don't want to do. In your lust, you will gain business partners who turn into enemies who overwhelm you and undermine you. And right when you're about to call out to God, You won't, because you'll remember that you just told God the other day that you didn't need him or his input. You will end up in terrible distress. So don't abandon the Lord. But does that scare you? Do you want to avoid that? Next generation? Then lay hold of the gracious covenant that God has for you. Get magnetized to God that even when you stray, you will inexorably be pulled back to Him by His great love. If you have not yet been baptized, repent and be baptized. It is a sign of the new covenant. If you've already been baptized and have not yet become a member, come before the elders and tell them about your resolve that the Lord has placed upon your heart to stay true to your baptism. Take up that wonderful means of grace that is the Lord's Supper, and let it minister to your soul as often as you take it. Casting off sin and clean to the one who provides you every sustenance for body and soul, the Lord Yeshua. These are the signs of the covenant of grace. The temptation to abandon the Lord becomes very acute, very powerful after the death of a godly leader, after the loss of a godly leader. So these truths always apply, but they especially apply in the context of the death or loss of a great father or grandfather in the faith. The devil will try to seize that opportunity for sin, but we must rather see it as one more chance to tell the leader's whole story, even his need for God's saving grace. So in conclusion, the older generation can repent of disobedience to the covenant by telling God's whole story of God's faithfulness. And the younger generation can lay hold of the covenant by listening to the whole story of God's faithfulness. But the only way That we have the power to tell the whole story and to listen to the whole story is if our salvation is by grace alone. Only if our standing is with God is secure in Christ's finished work on the cross can we let go of pride and confess. Our sin as we tell the story. Only if children, if the next generation know that their forefathers, that their fathers are saved by grace, will they be motivated to cling to the covenant. If they think that their fathers and forefathers save themselves by their great works, they will despair and they will abandon the Lord. Because God is holy and gracious, let us not be so concerned about the appearance of piety that we neglect authenticity. Neither let us neglect piety in the name of authenticity. We can tell the whole story of God's faithfulness in spite of all our sin because we have been saved through a covenant of grace. Let's pray. Jesus, thank you for saving me in spite of all my sin. Thank you for all the things that you've done to bring my people to you. Thank you. Thank you for your story, the much broader story, the Christian history that has brought us to this place. I thank you, Lord, for your story of Covenant of Grace itself and how uh when liberty planted Covenant of Grace It wasn't a month before you had filled Liberty Church again with your people because you are building your church. And I thank you for building this church and all the ways that you have built it from that day since. And Lord, please give us grace to tell the whole story, to tell the hard parts of the story. And give the children grace, the next generation grace, to hear it and not judge. Know that they're safe by grace too. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen