Please in your Bibles to the Gospel of John chapter 19 as we uh dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Gospel of John, chapter nineteen. Let's begin at verse seventeen. And he bearing his cross went out to a place called the place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew Golgotha, where they crucified him, and two others with him, one on either side, and Jesus in the center. Now Pilate wrote a title and put it over the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Therefore, the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but he said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, what I have written, I have written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also the tunic. Now the tunic was without seam, woven from the top in one piece They said therefore among themselves, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be, that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They divided my garments among them. And for my clothing they cast lots. Therefore the soldiers did these things. Now, there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman Behold thy son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her to his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on hyssop, and put it to his mouth. So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. Therefore, because it was the preparation day that the body should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath day, for that Sabbath was a high day, the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken. And that they might be taken away. Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, They did not break his legs, but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. And he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe. For these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled, not one of his bones shall be broken. And again, another scripture says, They shall look on him whom they pierced. After this, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took the body of Jesus. And Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds Then they took the body of Jesus and bound it in strips of linen with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. So there they laid Jesus because of the Jews' preparation day for the tomb was nearby. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we ask for your presence and for your power to be at work as your word is proclaimed this day. Lord, I ask most of all that if there be anyone here today outside of Christ, that this would be the day of salvation for that one. Lord, open hearts, anoint your word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As you know, the first day of Holy Week was the day that Jesus made his triumphal entry into the city of Jerusalem. And the pent-up emotion of the crowds, many of whom had witnessed his miracles, had heard his powerful teaching. That emotion burst forth in adoration and praise. Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Save us, save us now, they cried. Pastor Nick described this scene for us last Sunday. As glorious as that day was, it was not the most important event of that week in the life of Jesus or in the lives of his followers. The most important event of that week was, of course, the great sacrifice that accomplished our redemption. So this morning, rather than focus on Christ's triumphal entry, as we often do on this Sunday before Easter, I'd like us to turn our thoughts to Calvary, and we'll be framing our thoughts on Christ's atonement with his poignant word from the cross recorded for us in Greek by the Apostle John. Tetelestai Tatalasi! Translated into the English. It is finished. What's significant about these words? What was finished? What did Jesus mean when he cried out, it is finished? Well, of course, we can't know what was uppermost in Jesus' thoughts when he spoke. But there are a number of ways that this cry can be understood in the light of the rest of Scripture. First of all, he may have been referring simply to that long road of humiliation. Which began in Bethlehem some thirty-three years before, when the shepherds were told one night that unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Lo, within a manger lies he who built the starry skies. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That you, through his poverty, might become rich. 2 Corinthians 8. 9. It is finished Those years of submission to Mary and Joseph in Nazareth as he increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. It is finished the subordination of himself to Joseph in the carpenter shop. He who formed the oceans and the mountains and the forests by his powerful word alone was now making yokes and chairs and broom handles with saws and knives and chisels. Those three wearying years of public ministry, when he labored traveling from village to village, healing, teaching, performing miracles, depended upon the charity of others. Without a place of his own to lay his head. That was finished. The conflict with the religious hierarchy of Israel was now finished. The very ones whom you might have expected to recognize and embrace him. But instead they said, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be ours. Mark 12. That final process of betrayal and punishment and death, which began in the upper room. The deceit of Judas, the arrest in the garden, the illegal trial. The slapping, the beating, the mocking, the scourging, the indignities before the people, the shouting of the masses for Barabbas, the slow procession to Golgotha. The excruciating pain of the spikes being driven into his hands and feet, the mocking and taunting of the Pharisees and scribes. He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross and we will believe him. He trusted in God that he would have him. Let him deliver him now if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. And then of course the painful forsaking by his disciples was now finished. The scripture says they all forsook him and fled. Mark 14. All of this was now mercifully finished. The long, painful road of the man of sorrows was at an end. But secondly, in another deeper sense, the great pain of the ages, the great plan of the ages, I meant to say, for the redemption of mankind. Or at least the most integral part of the plan, the offering of the sinless sacrifice, was now complete It is finished. The plan that was foreshadowed in the Garden of Eden, when God said to the serpent, that the seed of the woman shall bruise thy head, and you shall bruise his heel. Genesis 3:15. The plan of the ages that was pictured in the sacrificial system was now finished. The burnt offerings, the grain offerings, the peace offerings, the sin offerings, the trespass offerings, all these things were being fulfilled this day. The book of Hebrews puts it this way: For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very image of the things. can never with these same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make those who approach perfect. For then would they not have ceased to be offered For the worshippers, once purified, would have had no more consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins. Therefore, when he came into the world, he said, And here the scripture quotes Psalm 40, sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you had no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the volume of the book it is written of me to do your will, O God. It is finished That long road foreshadowed in the sacrificial system is now finally at an end. Also, all the words of the prophets that had to be fulfilled in my life are now fulfilled The promise that I would come out of the tribe of Judah, out of the stem of Jesse, the wondrous birth in Bethlehem, the sojourn in Egypt, the preparation of the messenger, the anointing of the Holy Spirit. The miracles I would perform, my triumphal entrance, the rejection of the people, and all that my father foretold through his servants, such as David and Isaiah, concerning the circumstances of my death. All those things have now been fulfilled or are now set in motion. Consider just some of them. I gave my back to those who struck me, and my cheeks to those who plucked out the beard. I did not hide my face from shame and spitting. Isaiah 50, verse 6. He was oppressed. He was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth. Isaiah 53, 7. Isaiah said the coming servant would die with the wicked men. They made his grave with the wicked. Isaiah 53 9. But he would be with the wealthy in his death. But with the rich at his death. Joseph of Arimathea, a wealthy man, requested Jesus' body and placed it in the tomb that he had prepared for himself. Consider Psalm 22, which so clearly reveals the cross. Listen to just a portion of the Psalm. My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me? All those who see me ridicule me. They shoot out the lip. They shake the head, saying, He trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. Many bulls have surrounded me, strong bulls of Bacian have encircled me, they gape at me with their mouths Oh, my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax, it's melted within me. My strength is dried up like broken pottery. My tongue cleaves to my jaws. You brought me to the dust of death For dogs have surrounded me. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them. And for my clothing they cast lots. But of course, if you're cynical, as was, for example, Pontius Pilate, you might say, well, it's it's possible that these prophecies written hundreds of years before might have been fulfilled. At random in Jesus. In other words, I could write a prophecy that someone is going to be born in Baltimore someday who will be a great world leader. And it's entirely possible that some years from now someone born in Baltimore might become a president or a pope or some other world leader. And not because God revealed the future to me. But simply because lots of people are born in Baltimore, and it's not unlikely that one of them might become a world leader. But If I prophesied that the world leader would be born not exactly in Baltimore, but in Catonsville, a much smaller suburb of Baltimore, the odds of my prediction being correct would fall dramatically. Because many fewer people are born in Caitonsville than are born in Baltimore. If I went on to say that this world leader would also be assassinated, Well, the odds of my predictions being correct would drop significantly because relatively few world leaders are assassinated, and it would be unlikely to happen to the rare world leader born in Catonsville. If I prophesied how this world leader born in Catansville would be assassinated by an explosion, for example, the likelihood of my being correct, apart from some sort of supernatural revelation or I guess me plotting the explosion myself, would be even smaller. The late Professor Peter Stoner, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Astronomy at Pasadena City College In the book called Science Speaks , took prophecies that were fulfilled in Christ, and he examined them on the basis of laws of probability His figures, by the way, were reviewed by a committee of the American Scientific Association and found to be, quote, dependable and accurate in regard to the scientific m material presented. Now you've heard me illustrate this before, but I think it's a wonderful illustration. Here's what Peter Stoner determined. He took just, I believe it was at first, just eleven prophecies that were fulfilled in the life of Jesus Christ. And he analyzed them by uh, as we said, these laws of probability. And uh and he determined uh that that the likelihood that that these eleven prophecies could have been fulfilled in one man, i it's a huge number, the number won't mean anything to you. And I have frankly forgotten it. But but he illustrates it this way. Okay, imagine for a moment that that our sanctuary were filled with silver dollars two feet deep. Silver dollars two feet deep. All throughout the whole sanctuary. And let's say we got them downstairs too, in all the Sunday school classrooms in the in the fellowship hall. Silver dollars two feet deep. Right? Now, suppose they uh blindfolded you and asked you to come into the church, and you've got to pick just one silver dollar. It could be here, it could be over here, it could be up there. Somewhere in this church, there's a silver dollar that's marked. Now Let's face it, it'd be unlikely, right, that you might be able to find it. But the number we're talking about here is a number that would require many, many more silver dollars. Imagine Uh the whole the whole uh uh county, what county are we in now? Baltimore County. Imagine the whole county covered in silver dollars two feet deep The whole county. That's too small. Imagine the whole state of Maryland covered in silver dollars two feet deep. That's still too small. You've got to imagine the whole state of Texas. Covered in silver dollars two feet deep. They're all throughout Dallas. They're all in Houston. They're in San Antonio. They're in the great plains of Texas. Everywhere you go, there's silver dollars two feet deep. Texas would secede from the Union, I guess, and declare themselves second. But that's not the point. You would have to imagine blindfolding someone and saying, go into the state of Texas, dip your hand down, pick a silver dollar. If you pick the right one, you know, that's the odds that that all of these things could have been uh fulfilled in one man by random. And that's just eleven prophecies. So here's what Peter Stoner did. There are many, many more prophecies that were fulfilled in Christ's life. He took 48 of them Just 48. Scholars say there's something like 150, I believe, but he took 48 that were pretty clear. Uh and uh, you know, indisputable, I guess you might say. And he looked at the odds that all of those might have happened at random. Now here's what he said. He said that the figure comes out to 1 in 10 to the 157th power. Now that's a number, he said, so large that to attempt to grasp it you must think in terms of electrons. Now uh uh electrons are so tiny, you get this, that if you were to count Electrons, as fast as you can count, 24 hours a day , it would take you 19 million years to count an inch of them You got that? 19 million years to count an inch of them. If you could see them, of course. 19 million years, if you took a day off of rest, it would take you 22 million years to count. Those electrons. That's just in an inch. Now, how many electrons do you think you'd have in a bucket? Or how many electrons do you think you'd have in a in a bathtub or in an ocean? Well, uh, Peter Stoner says uh to picture the number that I gave you a moment ago, 10 to the 157th power. You would need more than an ocean, more than a planet of electrons, more than a solar system of electrons, more than a galaxy-sized volume of electrons. He said that number ten to the hundred and fifty-seventh power would be represented by an inconceivably large volume of electrons, comparable perhaps to the size of the entire known universe. Mark one of those, put it in this pot, stir it up, hop on a spaceship, go somewhere, dip your hand into this bucket of electrons, this this mass of electrons. You see what I'm saying? Uh i you see, it's not for lack of evidence that we reject rice. It's because of the hardness of our hearts. We will not have this man to rule over us. It is finished. All that the prophets have spoken concerning my life and my death have been fulfilled. Dr. Ray Vanderlaan points out that at 3 p. m. when the Jews what the Jews call the ninth hour, a shofar, a ram's horn, used as a trumpet, was sounded in the temple to indicate that a lamb had been offered. for the sins of the people. At the very time, the scripture says, at the very time that the people of Jerusalem would have normally heard that so far , Indicating that the Lamb had been offered, they heard instead the Lamb of God crying out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And then I thirst. And then it is finished. It was certainly true that all the prophecies related to his public ministry were now fulfilled. Fourthly, it is finished. Jesus' words might have applied to the fact that the the death blow to Satan has been delivered It is finished. The enemy of all righteousness who thinks that my death signals his victory will discover, in fact, that my death signals his defeat. He who exalts over me as the famished wolf over the dying lamb will find that the lamb has become a lion. He who has held mankind in his clutches for all these years will be shocked to discover that the battle he was sure he had won has in fact lost him the war. I suspect that Satan thought that once he had seduced Eve, through her Adam, to disobey God, there would be no hope for mankind. For God had said, the day you eat of this fruit, you shall die. Surely he must have wondered when he saw God slay animals and clothe Adam and Eve with their skins: why did the man and woman not die the moment they ate of the forbidden tree? How could God be holy and not execute the sentence that he pronounced? What was he up to? And later, what was all this business of sacrificing sheep and goats and all this business of a coming Messiah? Why would the Lord of Glory leave the majesty on high and confine himself to human flesh? What did he come to do? Cast out a few demons? Heal a few blind men? Raise a few dead people? What a royal waste of time! Doesn't he know that my demons will simply find another host? Doesn't he know that the man he raised from the grave will die again? How ineffectual are such efforts in the whole scheme of things, I suspect Satan thought. Did Jesus think he could just waltz into Jerusalem and the people would embrace him as their king? Did he think he could sit on David's throne as the prophet said he would? Obviously, he greatly underestimates my power in the minds of men. He must not know that I have the high priest in my back pocket. I know what makes the Pharisees tick, and I have Pontius Pilate's number. Just a few of my servants, well placed in a crowd, should do the trick. This prince Jesus will die like a dog with the thieves and the scoundrels that he claims to love so much. And I will have the last laugh. What a supreme pleasure to see him slapped and mocked and dressed up like a buffoon, revealed to be the fraud that he is, while his pitiful followers scatter him hide under the nearest rock. What good is all this talk about love and peace and forgiveness now? What good are all his exalted principles of righteousness now? He should have accepted my offer in the wilderness when he had the chance. I would have given him all the kingdoms of the world if he would have just worshipped me. Or at least that's what I told him. But he was so pompous as if all he had to do was trust in Jehovah, and everything would work out. Well, what has Jehovah done for him lately? I have no doubt that Satan gloated at the cross. It was he who put it in the mind of Judas to betray the Lord. But in three short days, he would realize that his supposed victory Was short-lived. It is finished, Jesus said. Satan has been dealt his death blow. The white witch will discover to her horror that Aslan will rise again more powerful than ever Fifthly, it is finished. I have completed all that had to be done in order to redeem men. I have fulfilled all righteousness. Walking blameless before my father and before men. I've done always those things that pleased him. I've loved my father with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. I've loved my neighbor as myself every single day. All my father's righteous laws, all those laws that men failed to keep, I have now kept. All the righteous deeds men have failed to do, I have done in their place. I've lived 33 sinless years so that as I die, it is not for myself. I can now give my life a ransom for others. It is finished. I've completed all that had to be done. To purchase man's redemption. It is finished. The great weight of sin that has been placed upon me, this burden that has so troubled my soul these last few days, this fearful judgment of my Holy Father. Has now exacted the full penalty. My soul, which has been exceedingly sorrowful even unto death, can now rejoice that it is finished. I've been sore amazed and very heavy. My loving Father has forsaken me. He's abandoned me to die alone. The God of all comfort has withdrawn his comfort. The God of all compassion has turned his face away. It has pleased the Lord to bruise me. He has put me to grief. He's made my soul an offering for sin. My visage was marred more than any man. All they that seek me laugh me to scorn. I'm a worm and no man. a reproach of men despised by the people. God has made me to be sin for others. Thousands of years of wrath. Holy anger and indignation have been poured into this cup which my father has given me to drink, and now it is finished. John Piper puts it this way, Sin is not small, because it is not against the small sovereign. The seriousness of an insult rises with the dignity of the one insulted. The creator of the universe is infinitely worthy of respect and admiration and loyalty. Therefore, failure to love him is not trivial. It is treason. It defames God and destroys human happiness. Since God is just, he does not sweep those crimes under the rug of the universe. He deals a holy wrath against them. They deserve to be punished, and he has made this clear. The wages of sin is death. Romans 6. 23, the soul that sins must die. Ezekiel 18. 4 There's a holy curse hanging over all sin, Piper says. Not to punish sin would be unjust. The demeaning of God would be endorsed A lie would reign at the core of reality, and therefore God says, Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Galatians 3:10 But the love of God does not rest with a curse that hangs over all sinful humanity. He's not content to show wrath, no matter how holy it is. Therefore, God sends his own son to absorb wrath. To absorb his wrath and bear the curse for all who trust him. This is the meaning of the word propitiation in the text God put Christ forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. Romans 3. 25. Piper writes it refers to the removal of God's wrath by providing a substitute. The substitute is provided by God Himself. The substitute, Jesus Christ, does not just cancel the wrath, he absorbs it and diverts it from us to Himself. God's wrath is just and it was spent. Not withdrawn. The cup of God's wrath for sin has therefore been poured out upon his son God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin. And now Jesus has endured the the wrath of his father for his bride, for his sheep, for his church. He has given his life a ransom for many. It is finished. There is at least one more thing that was finished at the cross. If you're one of Christ's sheep, If you're one of God's elect, if you are of his bride, your personal debt was paid at the cross The term tatelesi, when used on a bill of sale, meant you you may recall, it is paid. It is paid in full. Jesus didn't die as a vague sacrifice for ambiguous sins. He didn't die in the hope that maybe, just maybe, somebody somewhere would believe in a sacrifice and be forgiven. He came as the good shepherd to give his life for his sheep. He knew which sheep were his. He said, Other sheep I have who are not of this fold, them also I must bring. He died for his bride. He died for his church. Husbands are called to love their wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. Ephesians 5. Paul speaks of the church of God which he's purchased with his own blood. Acts 20, 28. The church of God which he's purchased with his own blood. If you're a Christian, He actually paid for your sins on that cross. They were included. He foresaw them all. And there's nothing you need to do. Nothing you ever could do to atone for your sins. They've been atoned for once and for all by the sacrifice of the Lamb of God. Amen? Christ suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust, 1 Peter 3. 18. You see, nothing remains for you to do. You are simply to believe that it is done. Believe that Christ has done it. Rest in his finished work. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved, the scripture says. You say, well, how do I know if I'm of the elect? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will know. So wait a minute, if I'm understanding what you're saying, Pastor. All a person needs to do is say he repents of his sins and believes in Jesus as his Lord and Savior, which you could probably say that in uh what, ten seconds. And then it doesn't matter what he does, it doesn't matter how he lives, he can be among the world's worst scoundrels, he can be a lying, thieving, adulterous miscreant. But if he says he repents and believes in Jesus, then he has eternal life. He's going to be with God in heaven. Is that what you're trying to say? No, no. That's not what I'm saying. And that's not what the scriptures say. I'm not saying that all a person needs to do to receive everlasting life is say, I repent of my sins and believe in Jesus as my Savior. I'm saying that all a person needs to do to receive eternal life is to repent of his sins and believe in Jesus as his Savior. There's a difference, a great difference, all the difference in the world between saying I repent of my sins and I believe in Jesus as my Savior. And actually repenting of your sins and believing in Jesus as your Savior. You see, nothing supernatural is required for someone to say, I've repented of my sins and believed in Jesus. But to actually repent and believe in Jesus requires the new birth, regeneration , an act of God. Removing spiritual blindness, granting sight, removing a heart of stone, implanting a heart of flesh, breathing upon dry bones that they might live. Resurrecting one who was dead. When that happens, the person has a new hatred of sin, a new love for Christ. He knows that sin is so vile that it demanded God's wrath and sent his Savior to the cross. He realizes Christ's love for lost sinners was so deep that he was willing to endure his father's wrath in the sinner's place. You see, a true believer has a new nature implanted within him. Christ is indwelling in through his Holy Spirit. So a true believer will not be, cannot be, accurately characterized. As a lying, thieving, adulterous miscreant. He may stumble, he may even succumb to temptation, but sin will not have dominion over him. The Holy Spirit of God indwelling him will not permit him to wallow in the pig sty. That's why the scripture can say, He who says I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. 1 John 2. 4. But if you have truly from your heart repented of your sins and trusted in Christ, then your debt has been paid It's finished. It's complete. There is nothing you need to do. There is nothing you can do. To merit it. It doesn't require your penance to complete it. It doesn't require your obedience to complete it. It doesn't require your good works to complete it. You are a secure in Jesus Christ. As the thief on the cross who repented and laid hold upon Christ by faith, who was promised by Jesus, this day you shall be with me in paradise. This thief had done nothing to earn this gift of eternal life, unless we're to understand that eternal life is to be earned by pouncing upon unsuspecting people and taking what belongs to them. He offered no good works, no obedience, no honorable pedigree, as far as we know. He simply acknowledged his own sin and believed that Jesus was the promised Messiah. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He said to the other thief, look, you and I deserve to be here, but this man has done nothing worthy of death. His redemption was secure because there at the cross the sacrifice was finished, the debt was paid. God laid the thief's sins upon the Passover lamb. Jesus is not a co-savior, a co-redeemer. He does all he can do, and you do all you can do. He shall save his people from their sins. He is the Savior. Matthew 1. 21. It is finished, Jesus cried. That long road of humiliation and condescension begun. That the incarnation is at an end. The great plan of redemption that God designed from before the foundations of the world has reached its climax. All that the prophet said about my life and death has now been fulfilled. Satan has received his death blow, and will ultimately, that will ultimately bring about his destruction. I have lived the first and only holy life. I have fulfilled all righteousness. All that was needed to be done to obey my Father's perfect law has been accomplished And to Telesti, it is complete. It is paid in full. The sinner's debt has been discharged. There remains nothing more to be paid. By the works of the law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight. The sinner's debt has been paid. His sin was placed on Christ's account Christ's righteousness has been placed upon his account. It is finished. So I ask you, is it finished for you? Is it finished for you? Have you been led by God's Spirit to repent of your sins and lay hold upon Jesus Christ? Are you resting in his finished work for you? And are you resting in that finished work alone? Or do you still attempt to somehow merit eternal life by your behavior? You see, that would be like a man drowning in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. Who refuses the uh the the rescue boat that's been sent for him or the rescue helicopter and the man who's descending on it to lift him up? Might be like him refusing to accept deliverance because he somehow guarded his head in the midst of his delirium that he can swim all the way from San Francisco to Hong Kong. You can't do it. Are you trying to do it yourself? Jesus said nobody can. Nobody possibly could. You would have to perfectly keep God's holy law every single day of your life. In thought, word, and deed. Is that what you're trying to do? By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. What are you to do then? You're to fall down on your knees, you're to say, God have mercy on me. I'm a sinner. God, forgive me and save me. Come into my heart. Give me this eternal life. That's what you do. That's what you say. You're relying upon what He did and who He is. Not what you've done, but who you are. You see, as he rode into Jerusalem on what we call Palm Sunday, the whole multitude of the disciples cried out to him, Hosanna, save us! Save us now! Friend, if you're here outside of Christ, may that be your prayer today. Save me, Lord. Save me now. Let's pray. Father, what a marvelous plan. Lord, you could have left us in our sin. You could have destroyed this whole race. We certainly deserve it. Our murders and rapes and hatred and lack of forgiveness and complaining and bitterness and anger and all that stuff inside of our hearts. Oh God. Thank you for loving us so much that you sent your own son to live a perfect life and then die as our substitute. Lord, there's anybody here this day outside of Christ. Draw that soul, Lord. Have mercy upon him or her. Be it boy or girl, young person, adult, draw that soul to Jesus Christ we pray. In his glorious name.