First Corinthians chapter one, we're going to be picking up in verses four through nine this morning. And I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. 1 Corinthians 1. 4 through 9. I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. That in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge, even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you, so that you are not lacking in any gift As you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you are called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you and we pray, O Lord, that you would open this passage before us, O Lord, and give us a vision. of the glory and the majesty of Jesus Christ and all the benefits and blessings that come in him. And Lord, we pray that this would increase our worship and our thanksgiving in your presence. Lord, we ask as well that you would use this time in your word to put up the spiritual mirror in front of us, Lord, that we may see things that we may need to deal with in our own hearts as we prepare to come to the table of the Lord's Supper. We do ask, O Lord, that your spirit would be at work in us this morning. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, prior to the Copernican Revolution, mankind seemed to assume that the sun revolved around the earth. In fact, it seems that our ancestors believed that the earth was the center of the universe, not just our sun, although that is true. They believed that the sun, the stars, and everything revolved around us. And you may not know the dates, but many of you know the events. In 1543, Nicholas Copernicus published his heliocentric model which placed the sun at the center of the solar system, not the earth, so that the sun didn't revolve around us, we revolved around the sun. Now that was a major paradigm shift there at kind of at the end of the Middle Ages and the beginning of the modern era And it was a paradigm shift that had further reaching implications than simply astronomy. It caused people to take a step back and think about the fact that if the earth Is not at the center of the solar system and the earth being the home of mankind. And if if it's not at the center of the solar system, much less the universe, that challenged in people's minds the primacy of our existence in the universe. In other words to put that in layman's terms, the universe does not revolve around us. And for a lot of people, that was quite a shocking and astounding realization. Interestingly enough, the Corinthians , who were believers, to whom Paul is writing to seem to have lived as if everything revolved around them. And Paul is highlighting ever so subtly in our passage before us that that is not the case In fact, the main idea of our passage is very simple. God's grace that brings his glory among us and his faithfulness in calling us into fellowship. with Christ should lead us to thanksgiving as a church. God 's grace, which brings his glory among us and his faithfulness, In calling us into fellowship with Christ should lead us to thanksgiving as a church. Notice That this is intended to affect, so to speak, a Copernican revolution in our hearts as to where the center really is. And that's what Thanksgiving does, doesn't it? Thanksgiving reorients us To not focus as much on ourselves, but to focus on someone else to whom thanks is given. It grounds us and it centers us on where our focus needs to be. And so our passage begins this morning with our first point in verses four through eight, with the thanksgiving for God's grace. Thanksgiving for God's grace. That is our first point in verses. We see first here the giving of God's grace in verse 4. Now our passage begins in this morning with a thanksgiving section. I mentioned how last week um a lot of these New Testament uh letters that are found in the Greco-Roman context of the first century tend to have a greeting and that greeting you know lays out who's writing, who they're writing to, and some kind of greeting like grace to you or something like that. Well, many of these letters also have a Thanksgiving section. And most of Paul's letters, although not all of them, most of them you will find a Thanksgiving section. And again, just like the greeting, The Thanksgiving section lays out certain details that the apostle is going to uh unfold and unpack later in the letter point by point. But we see the kind of big picture here. And the first one is the giving of God's grace in verse 4. Take a look at verse 4 with me once again. Paul writes this: I give thanks to my God always. for you because of the grace of God that was given to you in Christ Jesus. And then you'll notice if you're using an ESV. that there's a comma there after Christ Jesus. This is actually one of those things I'm lumping verses four through eight together into one kind of subpoint and then verse nine will be our second point this morning. Because Paul does what you really shouldn't do in English grammar is he gives all these runoff sentences. It's not good English grammar. It's good to, you know, have short concise sentences in English. But in biblical Greek it's it's good grammar to have these long runoff sentences because you can then differentiate and nuance different points. And our first point here under thanksgiving for God's grace is the fact that grace has been given. And this is where the Apostle Paul sets the tone for the rest of the letter as a whole. He begins with grace because logically this is where God's redemptive dealing with sinners begins. It begins with his grace. Everything that God does in saving and redeeming his people. Everything that he does in relating to his people after they've been saved is grounded fundamentally in his grace. And so that is where he begins. Think about what Paul writes in Ephesians 2. 8. Many of you are very familiar with this. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not of your own doing. It is the gift of God. God's grace is a gift. Faith is a gift. Everything boils down to God's gift. And speaking of a gift, notice what he writes here about grace. Grace that was given to you in Christ Jesus. So Paul is highlighting that Christ Jesus himself is the very fountain and foundation of grace. And what's more is the the verb tense in Greek that Paul uses here means that he's focusing on the fact that God's grace has already been given past tense to the Corinthian believers. As I said last week, he's not speaking to them as these horrible sinners. Defining them and identifying them by their sins and their failures and their problems. He doesn't throw that in their face right up front as he begins to deal with issues in their lives. Rather, he's speaking to them as those who've received the grace of God. That's so important. And it is out of that grace that everything else that he's going to address in this letter must be worked out. It is from that starting point, that standing position of we're going to begin with grace and move from there. But this thanksgiving to God is first and foremost for the grace that has been given. But he doesn't stop there. Because he goes on in verses 5 through 8 to highlight the riches of God's grace. It's not just a gift, but it's the riches of God's grace. And again, this is where the runoff sentence continues. Notice, for our purposes this morning, I'm going to group together verses 5 and 7. And then I'm going to group together verses six and eight to get at the point that Paul's making here. Looking at verses five through seven together this morning, we see the riches of spiritual gifts. This is how grace begins to work itself out among the Corinthian church. Look at verse 5. It begins this little section. He says that in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge. Now it's my opinion that that the word that's translated that at the beginning of verse 5 should actually be rendered because, and I I think that because what Paul is laying out is the reasons why he is giving Thanks to God. He's giving thanks to God first, as we already said, because he's given them his grace. But also because he has enriched them Notice what he says here, in all speech and all knowledge. Now there's several important things I want to highlight about speech and knowledge. Notice he focuses on those two gifts. Among all the spiritual gifts. Now, if you were to fast forward to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, you'll see this long list of spiritual gifts. They all don't boil down to those two things, and yet that's what he focuses on with the Corinthians. Why? Why does he focus on speech and knowledge? Well, if you have your Bible open in front of you, just take a look forward, fast forward in chapter 1 to verse 22. Look what he says there. For Jews demand signs, those are miracles, you know, sign gifts, and Greeks seek wisdom. Just continue verses 23 and 24. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly or foolishness, to Gentiles. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. It's really interesting here, he's addressing the very things that the Corinthians, as primarily Gentile believers As Greeks who value wisdom, he's highlighting the things that they would take pride in, the things that would puff them up, the things that would make them prideful. He mentions gifts of speech, pointing forward, as he will, later in the letter in chapters 12 through 14, to the gifts of tongues and the gift of prophecy. The Corinthians were very prideful about their abilities with these speech gifts In fact, later on, Paul will say, look, I am thankful that I speak more tongues than you who think that you're so spiritual speaking tongues. He's highlighting the things that make them prideful. But it's more than that. If you look in chapter 2, he argues that his preaching is not with plausible words, but in a demonstration of power in the Spirit. They were so prideful about the power of their rhetoric, which was a common thing in the Greco-Roman world, Uh, parents would send their kids off to get tutored and how to speak properly in public. Oftentimes so that they can get into politics and and gain power in society that way. The Corinthians were no different than the world around them in their pride. And yet the Apostle Paul tells them that look Their gifts of speech are not meant to glorify themselves. They're not meant to highlight how wonderful they are, but they are meant to glorify the Lord who gives the gifts. The mention of gifts of wisdom points forward to the gifts of knowledge and wisdom that he will mention in chapter 12. particularly. In fact, the rest of chapter 1 and chapter 2, Paul demolishes the wisdom of the world and demonstrates it as foolish. And he essentially says that the wisdom that comes from above comes from the Lord himself. Think about it. Think about the milieu in which Paul is writing. Corinth, being a major Greek city, not too far from Athens in Greece, had a tremendous heritage and history of Greek philosophy. Wisdom, what does philosophy mean? Lovers of wisdom. They prided themselves in their intellectual achievements and ability in their education. And again, Paul destroys the intellectual pride of the Corinthians in order to highlight the glory of God as the one who gives them gifts of wisdom. Now I said I was going to put verses 5 and 7 together. Look at verse 7. You see kind of the wraparound point here. In verse 7, he says, kind of. After the parenthetical thought of verse 6, so that you are not lacking in any gift as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Notice what he's saying there. The gifts serve the church leading up to the second coming of Christ. I love how he says that they're not lacking in anything. What a way to follow up what he says in verse 5 and say it differently. You know, in verse 5, they 're enriched in all these things. In verse 7, they're not lacking anything. There's no poverty. spiritually in terms of the gifts of the spirit among them. And yet what he's saying here in verse 7 is that these gifts are meant for a specific time. Why? When? While you wait for the revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. What he's saying is these spiritual gifts, whatever they are, of knowledge and wisdom and speech and all these things that they're taking pride in, why are they taking pride? These things are only given by the Spirit to function in the church between the first and and the second coming of Christ. More than that, they're given to reveal the character and the work of Jesus Christ while pointing us to the coming of Christ Boy, that should really challenge the way that we think of spiritual gifts today, whatever those gifts may be. Are they demonstrating the character of Christ as we exercise them? See, the focus is not to highlight the one using the gift who's received the gift in the church The purpose is to highlight the glory of the Jesus Christ who's coming into the world in his second coming. But what else are they supposed to do? What else are these gifts supposed to do? Well. Let's put together verses 6 and 8 now. We see the riches of a confirmed testimony in Christ. Why am I putting verses six and eight together? Well, I'll tell you why, very simply. If you actually look in verse six, you'll see the word confirmed, and then you see in the beginning of verse eight the word sustain Now the ESV uses two different words there to nuance something I'm going to explain in just a second, but in the original Greek New Testament, that You know, Paul wrote in, uh, it's actually the same word in Greek. He's repeating the same word and nuancing its effect there. So I'm putting it together. Notice what he does in verse 6. In verse 6 he says, even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you. Now notice that's a parenthetical statement. Again, if you're using the ESV like I'm using this morning in front of me, you'll notice like right after verse 5, there's this dash, and then at the end of verse 6, there's this dash before it goes on to verse 7 that shows that there's a parenthetical thought in verse 6. It's a secondary point he's making. And it's one of those outworkings of these this is why, parenthetically, God has given spiritual gifts. Why? Because There's a testimony to Jesus Christ that you have already received, that you have already had confirmed among you. In other words, what Paul is saying is, look, the gospel was already preached to you past tense over the course of a year and a half, as we see in Acts chapter 18. The Corinthians already came to believe in Jesus Christ through faith. And by the way, what makes it so confirming? You can translate that established. This was already established among you. What makes that so Um marvelous and worth highlighting, even in a parenthetical statement. Because against all odds and against all human estimation of what would happen in that city, they came to faith. Again, that's not what you would expect. The Apostle Paul in in Acts chapter 18 is so fearful of preaching the gospel in the city of Corinth, that it took a direct revelation of Jesus Christ to appear to him and strengthen him and say, do not be afraid. Don't stop speaking. Open your mouth and speak and preach the gospel to these people. Why? Because I have many people in this city. You would not look at that with your eyes and think that that was going to happen And yet it was a confirmed, established fact among them as a testimony, as he says in verse 6. But it's not just something that happened in the past, it's a testimony in verse 8. that God will confirm, that God will establish, that he will sustain, which is why he says in verse 8, Christ who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. Again, this is what the spiritual gifts are driving us forward towards. We will be sustained in the present as we use those gifts. as we look to the future return of Jesus Christ, where we will be presented before Him. And you know what is glorious about this statement in verse 8? If you really stop and think about it and you put this into the context of the whole book, the letter of the Corinthian church is known as being the problem church. in the New Testament, although the churches of Galatia probably give them a good run for the money. But you would think that the apostle Paul, with all the problems that he's dealing with, how could he possibly say that they are going to be presented before the Lord guiltless? That is an interesting way to put that. Again, this highlights the power of grace to which we ought to be thankful. Now before we get to our application, I just want to zoom out really quick and highlight something for you. Notice that we've already talked about grace that is given in Jesus Christ. Verse 4 Notice that in verse 5, we have been enriched in Christ with all these spiritual gifts. And notice that these gifts are given richly to point to the revealing or the return of Jesus Christ. What I'm highlighting here is Paul is incredibly Christo -centric or Christ -centered in the way he's viewing these things. And that is, believe it or not, a subtle rebuke, as I've already said, to the pride that the Corinthians take in their abilities. So as we unpack the application here, we need to ask ourselves, how does grace call us to respond this morning to the work of God in Christ here at liberty in this body in the 21st century? Well, God's grace lays out a template for what and how we are to be thankful, as well as calling us to repentance over pride that we might be harboring in our hearts and lives. Let's unpack that. A template for Thanksgiving. Now I can't I have to say this because I can't miss the fact that This particular passage we're looking at this morning in verses 4 through 9 really is the thanksgiving section for the letter. Despite all their problems, Paul is still thankful for them. Why? Because he has received grace. He knows that he's a sinner. He's able to be thankful for the work of God in people who are not yet perfect. But what he does here is he lays out a good template for what regular thanksgiving in the life of the Christian should look like. Which is why I love what he says in verse 4. I give thanks to my God when? Sometimes. Always for you. Now most of us tend to thank God for what is immediately in front of us, like material possessions. Like when I eat lunch after church today, I'm gonna pray over my food. Thank you, Lord, for this food. Right? You might thank God if you're looking for a home like I was for 10 months and then I finally found a home and bought a home. God provided. I was very thankful for that. Or for other things that God gives in my daily life. Those are the things we tend to think about first when we talk about Thanksgiving. But notice, and we should give thanks for those things. I'm not saying that's wrong. But notice that the template Paul lays out here doesn't stop there. It goes much deeper to the things that Christ has given us that have eternal value. He gives thanks always for the things related to the Christian life. He lays out a template for us to give thanks for things like grace. That we were given not once, whoa, yes, once when we came to faith in Christ, but grace every day. It continues. And by the way, that grace points us to Jesus Christ. He's thankful for that. He shows us here how to be thankful for being enriched with spiritual gifts that build up the body. And I know we'll talk much more about spiritual gifts when we finally get to chapter 12 when we get there, but for the time being. How many of you are thankful for the way that God has uniquely wired you? How many of you are thankful for the gifts that God has given you? There are things that many of you here can do that I can't do. And I'd make a train wreck if I tried. You should be thankful for those things. But the question is, how often do you take the time, brothers and sisters, to thank the Lord for the overall grace that has been given to you in the gospel? That he went to the cross for you. That he rose again from the dead for you. That he gave everything for you. More pointedly, again, and I'd say bigger than just considering your own spiritual gifts, how many of you look around? And you can do that now if you want, but how many of you look around to the people around you and are thankful for the ways that God has gifted people around you to bless this body? I didn't tell them I was going to do this, but I'll just tell you like I'm very gift grateful for the gifts. of the men that serve as officers of this church, both elders and deacons. I cannot do what I do alone. I am so thankful. for the gifting that God has given in raising up men to help me shepherd you guys and men who are men of integrity and men who do a tremendously great job. Loving on you, caring for you, praying for you. Amen. Thank you. That's worth an amen. But we see a template here for thanksgiving. That's my my my first point of application here, simply to call you to give thanks to the Lord, who gives us all things richly and abundantly in Christ. And you know, when we start to actually thank the Lord and make thanksgiving a regular part of our Christian lives. It has a way of undermining and rooting out the pride, and let's face it, every one of us in this room has a measure of pride that we have to deal with and work through in our own hearts and lives. The other part of this application is repenting of the things that we take pride in today. And this is really where a gut punch comes in this passage. Paul's giving glory to God and Christ for the gifts of the Corinthians. that they've received is something that we need to pay attention to because it's a subtle challenge to the pride that pe uh in things that people take in churches today. Now, it is really interesting to me. In Reformed churches, we do tend to value the Word of God. We tend to value preaching. We tend to value good sound theology. It is no shock and surprise to me that Paul calls them subtly to repent of the pride that they take in things like speech and things like knowledge. Especially those of our churches like in the Reformed branch of the Christian church, these are things we tend to get prideful about, don't we? It is very easy as reformed believers in a confessionally reformed church to become prideful uh about how we have a better, superior theology than believers who don't see it eye to eye with us in some of the secondary and tertiary matters. There's a uh a podcaster who's actually a Baptist pastor in Florida who um has uh he does these videos of what it what would it look like if the denominations got together and did this, that, or the other? And it could be the denominations celebrate Christmas together, the denominations celebrate Easter together, the denominations have a church picnic together or something, whatever the case may be. And it's the same guy and he he kind of plays Each of of the different pastors in these denominations and characterizes what they're like. And it's funny 'cause the Presbyterian guy is always wearing a bow tie and a sweater, smoking a cigar, and he always highlights the fact that, you know we have superior theology. And there's one of them like, what if the denominations each had a airline that they ran, you know, and the Presbyterian guy at the end is like, you know, with superior theology comes superior air travel. You know. But he's characterizing something about us that I think can be true if we're honest about ourselves. You know, it's easy for us um to have the theology that we do and then let that develop a pride in us to think that we're somehow fundamentally better than other Christians because we see things or we we argue that we at interpret the scriptures more consistently than others. We might, and I actually do think we do are have a clearer theology than many other groups of Krishna's around us, but mark my words, that doesn't make us fundamentally better so that we can look down our noses pridefully at them. or gifts of speech. We tend to value expository preaching. But brothers and sisters, let me tell you. . that unless the Holy Spirit is working in a preacher's life, I don't care how good of a an orator . he is, he could have rhetorical skills. that rival Seneca in ancient Rome, who could move people to tears, by the way he said Mesopotamia, it doesn't matter how gifted a preacher is If the Spirit is not working in him and through him in the lives of his people, then guess what? He can preach and he can sound, give a perfect speech, and accomplish absolutely nothing. It's not our education It's not the quote-unquote perfection of our theology as Presbyterians who are confessional and seek to be as biblically precise as possible. It is not rhetorical skill in the pulpit or the knowledge that a teacher has in Sunday school that is meant to be the focus. What is the focus? Christ. Paul will later say, and we'll get there in a few weeks. I decided to know nothing among you except one thing. Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Why do we lack so much power sometimes as a church? Because we stink with pride. Paul's highlighting the glory of Christ In verses 4 through 8 is a subtle rebuke to the pride of the Corinthians. And it should be a rebuke to our pride this morning as well. We have some wonderfully gifted people in this church, gifted in knowledge, gifted with music, gifted in all kinds of ways, gifted in serving. But the moment we make it about us is the moment we need to repent and give the glory to the Lord Jesus. That leads us to our second point this morning in verse 9. We're not just thankful for God's grace, we are also thankful for God's faithfulness. Look at verse 9. God is faithful, by whom you are called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Notice in the beginning of that verse there where God's faithfulness is expressed in calling us. That's how he chooses to conclude this section of Thanksgiving this morning. Now when Paul says that God is faithful, he's simply highlighting one of the attributes of God. It's not the only attribute But here's the interesting thing about the way God's attributes work. When you speak about one attribute, you cannot exclude the others. They're not talked about in isolation from one another. When we talk about God's faithfulness, we talk about his love, his justice, his mercy, and so on and so forth. But he highlights faithfulness here. God is faithful. Now you can imagine why this would have been important to the Corinthian believers to hear. You read the book, you know that they're a church with any number of problems, not just pride, but many other problems. And when you confront and work through sinful attitudes and problems that people have in a local church context, if you are not careful The temptation may be for them to fall into despair when they start seeing just how sinful and unfaithful they have been towards the Lord and towards others in the body of Christ. So why does he highlight faithfulness here to encourage them before he deals with their problems? Right. I remember when I was in seminary, my my mentor told me that when he works with people, he tries to do this like a sandwich. He tries to say something positive. Then he gets to the meat of what he really has to deal with, and then he tries to end on something positive. Because he doesn't want to crush the heart and the spirit of the person he's working towards working with. And I believe Paul is trying to offset the possibility of the Corinthians coming under despair by pointing them away from themselves once again and by highlighting God's faithfulness. And he does it because he knows the frailty of human nature, because he's he's human like everybody else. But he will years later write to Timothy in 1 Timothy 2, 11-13, and he says this to Timothy, a young pastor who's going to be ministering to real people dealing with real problems in the real church. This is what he writes. If we have died with him, it's kind of a sanctification thing going on there, we will also live with him. If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us. Talking about apostasy there. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. For he cannot deny himself. I love that last phrase because how many times do we fall into the trap of being faithless in the worst moments of our lives when we're weakest? We fail, and yet our failure doesn't define us. Our failure doesn't determine God's faithfulness to us. We may be faithless at times. He is faithful. And so how has God demonstrated his faithfulness to the Corinthians? Well, as if God is faithful by whom you were called. Now notice in this case we have to understand that it is God the Father specifically who is the one who is doing the calling. Yes, God is faithful. Yes, God is the one who called us in verse 9, but we have to nuance that the Father is the one who calls us, and what does he call us to? Well we'll see in a moment fellowship with his son Jesus that kind of differentiates and nuances, who's doing the calling here. And by the way, I would say coming from the Father, a calling that comes from the Father, There is an inherent authority and effectiveness that comes with that calling. I remember as a kid, the words of my from my you know limited childly perspective, the words of my father carried far more weight. than the words of just other men at church. Now I'll admit to you from the pulpit I was that kid who couldn't sit still in church and during the the fellowship time was running all around the fellowship hall and they couldn't get me to stop. In fact, I remember one time my mom telling me when I was an adult that when she would go to these prayer times with these ladies in the middle of the day during the week, they'd be praying for that kid that wouldn't sit still and my mom would sit there and cry because she knew it was me. But I remember at times my dad would say, Hey, come here. And I knew though those words had weight, oh, I'm in trouble. And I would ever so slowly go over there. The words of my father had authority because I was his child. Now I know that's a stern example. This is more of a warm-hearted example, but it's just meant to illustrate the fact that when the father calls There's authority behind it. And theologians talk about two types of calling, and I'll be quick about this. They talk about general calling. And the general calling is like what I would do from the pulpit, calling you to faith in repentance. That goes out to everybody. But there is an effective calling or a special calling the theologians talk about. In fact We have a good definition of that in the Westminster Shorter Catechism that says this, effectual calling is the work of God's Spirit. whereby convincing us uh convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds and the knowledge of Christ, there's knowledge again. And renewing our wills, he does persuade and enable us to embrace Jesus Christ freely offered in the gospel. Effectual calling means that When God calls, we come. That's the idea here. How has God proven himself faithful? By fulfilling his promise to save us, by calling us into what? What does it look like to embrace Jesus? Look at the end of verse 9. Into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. That's how he ends all of this. That's how he ends the Thanksgiving. The Thanksgiving issues forth into the fact that we have fellowship into his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Now the key word there is fellowship. Some of you know what the Greek word is. You've heard it before. Koinonia. Now most of you, and me, if I'm honest, when I hear the word fellowship, I'm usually thinking about hanging out with other believers. Having a good time with them. Let me tell you, that is not exactly what biblical fellowship is. It might include that, but that's not exactly it. When we talk about fellowship, it could be translated as partnership that highlights a unity of affection. And purpose. And don't miss the fact that it says into fellowship. That tells you this is the result of God 's calling us The result is that we come into relationship with Jesus that transcends the mere social dimension, although it does impact that. We come into partnership with Christ. We have unity with Christ. And by the way, when we come to the table of the Lord's Supper, the Spirit works in and through those elements. that have been set apart by God's word to strengthen and manifest the unity and the union we have with Christ, fellowship. Why is that important? Because as Paul works through the sin issues and problems that divided the Christi the Corinthian church in this letter, they have to understand that working through those things requires, first and foremost, Their partnership and union with Jesus as Lord. They're not Lord. Christ was Lord. And his expectation for those who are in partnership and unity with him is fellowship in unity in partnership with all of God's people who are in union with him. This is why division in the church, brothers and sisters, is so toxic and poisonous, not just to the body, but to the individual members to whom it affects. This is not an option. This is an expectation of our Savior And it is in working through those things that the Corinthians needed to rest on the promise of God's faithfulness as they face those difficulties, as scary as they could be So, what encouragement can we take this morning from the promise of God's faithfulness? Well, we can be encouraged that God is the one who's called us And we can be encouraged that he desires to be in fellowship with us and that he desires to be in fellowship with people who are not perfect. How about that? There's encouragement from despair in light of God's faithfulness. I don't know about you, but when I try to measure my the the health of my Christian life or even my standing before the Lord in light of how I'm doing or how I'm feeling. I don't know about you, but I tend to run the risk and the danger of despair. We were talking this morning, a few of us after Sunday school about the video curriculum we were working through was talking about you know personal worship and the need to be in God's word and you know what happens when you miss a day. It's so easy if you especially if you do like some read to the Bible schedule. And you miss a day, it's so easy to feel guilty. That's not how God wants us to feel. Right? There's encouragement from despair and things like that. Just like the Corinthians, we wrestle with the same kinds of sins and temptations. And if we're focused on our own faithfulness as the gauge for how we're doing, then we're going to come up short. We need to remember, brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you this morning. that God is faithful. When you slip up, when you fail to live a perfect life, when you lose your temper, when you say something you shouldn't say, when you do something you shouldn't have done, maybe that happened this week. Look. We have to remember when we look at one another as we look around us this morning as a church, we remember that each person that calls upon the name of the Lord is a person that God is faithful to. A person that God loves, a person that God is working in, and a person that God is working through. Even if it's someone you don't like. God loves them and he's working in them and through them. Let's be encouraged by that, by God's faithfulness. But we can also take encouragement from God's calling us into fellowship with Jesus Christ. I'm just going to nuance this in two ways as we come to a close. The believer's response. to God's faith in Jesus. Just as Paul said, that God the Father effectively called the Corinthians to faith as a matter of fact. There are many of you sitting here this morning. Your calling into the faith is a past tense event. It's a matter of fact. But what's more is he gives thanksgiving for that. How about you? You know, I don't know about you, but I think one of the greatest temptations that I can sometimes face as a Christian, having walked with the Lord now for many, many years, it's easy for me to lose the awe and the wonder that God can look at a sinner like me. And still call me and save me and love me as his own And let me just say, it's so easy for us, isn't it, in the reformed camp of the church to just intellectualize the faith? You can know all kinds of things about God , still have your heart unmoved, or your affections stirred this morning for the grace of God and the faithfulness that he continues to demonstrate in your life For the unbeliever, what's your response, or what should be your response to God's calling here? It should be faith in Christ Maybe you're here this morning and you have never responded to the call of the Father to come to faith in Jesus Christ. And for you, if that's the case, this is not a past tense thing. This is in the moment now. The calling is now. And what is he calling you to? He's calling you to repentance from your sin. Which means turning away from that and turning towards Christ and trusting Him and clinging to His grace and His faithfulness as the only means by which you will be saved. And I want to encourage you this morning. He's not calling you to some bare ritualism. He's calling you to a living relationship and fellowship with Jesus Christ. Who will not cast you out, though you are not perfect. That's good news. You don't have to live in guilt or shame. Christ calls you. And that leads us to the, right back to our main idea, doesn't it? Thanksgiving. God's grace, which brings his glory among us. And his faithfulness in calling us into fellowship with Christ should lead us to thanksgiving as a church Let's prepare our hearts for the table with a word of prayer before we sing our Hymn of preparation. Father, we come before you and we are just so thankful for the centrality of Jesus Christ, for his beautiful grace in our lives. Lord, we are so such sinful people. We sin in the things we think about. We sin in our attitudes and the way we feel about things and other people. We Sin with our words and gossiping and slandering and tearing others down. We sin in our actions, oh Lord. Any number of things in the middle of that, Lord. And yet You are gracious and you are faithful. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Father, as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper this morning, make us thankful people for the grace and the faithfulness that you have given to us. And may that then turn around and reflect the way that we relate to one another this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen