Hey, man. Thank you, Clark. You have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the next to the last chapter of the Bible, Revelation chapter 21 And as you turn there, uh let me say I uh we noted in the bulletin how uh grateful my wife and I are uh for all your uh expressions of sympathy on the passing of my mom. We uh attended the service in uh Tallahassee uh uh last weekend and it was uh a wonderful time to get together with family and to honor my mom 's uh memory. And since we were last with you we were also out in uh Washington State visiting uh my son, our son, and his four uh boys and and his wife and it was a wonderful time to be together with them. I should mention I guess that it 's all right for you to meet when I'm gone. Uh I didn't uh I guess I didn't clarify that. Uh but uh wait and and speaking of that, uh we we do need continued help uh with uh shoveling and salting. Uh uh you know, even if the snow ends on Saturday night, that doesn't mean that church is ready for people to to uh attend on Sunday morning. So we need minute men who are available on short notice to come and shovel and salt and I think uh Sometimes it takes long into the afternoon with just a handful of people to get it all done. So many hands make light work. Revelation chapter 21. Let's just read the first seven verses. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts. He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. pray. Lord, speak to us once again from your holy word. Work in every heart and life here. Those who may be here outside of Christ, may this be the day of salvation for them. Those of us who are your children, strengthen us, encourage us, edify us. We ask it in Jesus' glorious name. Amen. It was C. S. Lewis who said, our lifelong nostalgia Our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off, to be on the inside of some door which we have always seen from the outside. Is no mere neurotic fancy, but the truest index of the real situation. At last to be summoned inside would be both glory and honor. And also the healing of that old ache. Well, a few weeks ago we devoted a message to the consideration of our eternal home. We pointed out a number of truths about heaven, including the fact that heaven is an actual place. It's not simply a term that's used metaphorically for some sort of blissful state. Jesus said, In my father's house are many dwelling places If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to repair a place for you. As you know, believers in Scripture are described as the bride of Christ. Revelation 21, 9, Ephesians 5. 32. In ancient Israel, after a man and woman were betrothed, the man would prepare a place for his bride, often in his father's house, perhaps a room built on to the father's house for their new family unit. The bride would then await the completion of the preparations, and when all was ready, The bridegroom would come with his friends processing through the streets with great fanfare. There would be a shout, the bridegroom comes! And the bride, who with her attendants knew the approximate time, but not the exact hour, would go out to meet her groom. And return with him to the Father's house for a celebration that might last several days. Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. Jesus spoke of coming down from heaven and ascending there again. Clearly, heaven is an actual place Although it's described as quite real in Scripture, it's evidently not in this sphere in which we now dwell. It's a real place, but evidently not in the sphere of time and space in which we now dwell. In other words, there's no danger that a satellite or some future intergalactic probe might crash into heaven's gate. The spirit world is invisible to us, just as radio waves, broadcast signals are invisible to us. We have no doubt they're here, but we can't see them. There are suggestions in Scripture that angels described as ministering to those who shall be heirs of salvation Ministering spirits sent forth to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation, there are suggestions in Scripture that they're always near, always present with us. But not in a form that we can under normal circumstances see. We mentioned last time, it seemed that the shepherds out in the fields, uh the the the Whatever it was that was preventing them from seeing the angels was taken away, and suddenly there was with the angel who was speaking to them a multitude of the heavenly hosts. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. Evidently they were there. The shepherds simply couldn't see them until God took away the veil and allowed them to see uh what they normally cannot. Who is in heaven? Heaven's described in Scripture as, in some sense, the dwelling place of God, although it's also clear that the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. as God the Father is an omnipresent spirit. That was 2 Chronicles 6. The Lord Jesus and the Holy Spirit, of course, are there as well. And it will be the greatest joy of every redeemed sinner to lay eyes upon the Savior who gave his life for him. The Bible also speaks of heavenly creatures, cherubim and seraphim, evidently representative of God's created order, as well as an innumerable company of angels. And of course, heaven will be inhabited by the Church of Jesus Christ, the entire number of the elect who have been redeemed throughout all eternity. We have every reason to believe that we will recognize others in heaven, both in the eternal state after the resurrection, as we just read in Revelation 21. uh when uh when we have our uh resurrection bodies, and also before that resurrection when God clothes us in some sort of heavenly form. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. I have no doubt that my my mom is is in heaven now with some sort of heavenly form that God has granted her, and if uh I die before Jesus returns, I will see her there and recognize her there. In the story Jesus told of the rich man and Lazarus, Lazarus in heaven was recognized by the rich man. When the Apostle John was caught up to heaven before the resurrection, He saw a great multitude which no one could number, he said, of all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues. standing before the throne and before the lamb, clothed with w white robes with palm branches in their hands. Clearly they had forms They had hands. They had distinct faces. He recognized those of all nations, tribes, people, tongues, etc. We also have the example of Moses and Elijah, who were clothed in some sort of bodily form when they spoke to the Lord Jesus on what we call the Mount of Transfiguration. But whatever bodily form God gives us in that intermediate state, what we commonly call heaven, above us , That will be temporary. Our resurrection will not take place individually, one at a time At Christ's return, there will be a resurrection of the bodies of all believers who have died. Their spirits already in that intermediate heaven Will be rejoined with their bodies, bodies that will then be made new. We noted last time that heaven will be a place of astounding beauty. Uh y the you get the impression as you read Revelation, John's grasping around for words to try to use for what he sees. It's a place of astounding beauty. The beauty that we can see on earth today, forests and mountains and glacier lakes, and spacious prairies, clear-flowing mountain streams, majestic canyons, etc. These things present only a foretaste of the beauty of heaven. Heaven will be a place of no sin, no anger, no hatred, no abuse, no neglect. No coveting, no theft, no jealousy, no envy, no contentions, no sorcery, no drunkenness, no adultery, no lewdness, or any other sexual sin. No slander, no swearing, no idolatry, no murder. And with no sin, there will be none of the consequences of sin Pain, grief, anguish, broken hearts, wasted bodies, hunger, famine, warfare, sorrow, and of course death I said last time that there would be no crutches, canes, wheelchairs, or walkers in heaven. Fred and Peggy Walker took issue with that They're certain there will be at least two walkers there, and they trust there will be many more. Uh former members Lawrence and Candace Walker would no doubt agree, but I have yet to hear from Bob Crutch, Bill Kane, or John and Mary wheelchair. So heaven will be a place of no sin and none of the consequences of sin. And heaven will be a place, of course, of fullness of joy. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. Psalm 16, 11. As you know, all our joys here are tempered by harsh realities. The joy of a bride is tempered by the reality of marriage with all the conflicts and compromises that are required. The joy of motherhood is tempered by the trials of child rearing and the pain of rejection or separation that comes when you raise a child. And then over every relationship looms the unwelcome visitor who could arrive at any time. The last enemy who is to be destroyed, death. Perhaps Robert Frost was feeling the weight of that truth when he wrote, Nature's first green is gold. Her hardest hue to hold. Her early leafs a flower, but only so an hour. Then leaf subsides to leaf. So Eden sank to grief, so dawn goes down to day. Nothing gold can stay. But the joy we experience in glory, that joy will be unalloyed with sorrow. Those golden days will not lose their luster. Christian, think about it. You have joy inexpressible awaiting you. And it's just a heartbeat away. Joy inexpressible. So persevere in your race. Don't allow Satan to dissuade you. When we contemplate heaven, we have to remember something that many believers tend to forget, if in fact they ever learned it. And that is that God is going to create a new heaven, a new earth. The paradise to which you go immediately when you leave this earth is a temporary one. You'll be present with the Lord there. You'll be reunited with loved ones who've gone before. But that is not your eternal state. The scripture says, the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ. Will rise first. Oh, wait a minute. Their souls are already in heaven. The dead in Christ, we're talking about the bodies, will rise first. And then we who are alive and remain. at the coming of Christ, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. First Thessalonians 4 If we'll meet the Lord in the air, we will ever be with the Lord, but not ever in the air. John describes a new heaven, a new earth, our eternal state, where we will abide in our resurrected bodies. Revelation 21, 22. Try to imagine what this earth would be like right now if Adam and Eve had not sinned. If sin had not entered in to defile it. Picture this earth without any sin at all, without any pollution, without any warfare, without volcanoes and famines and Picture this earth without any sin and all without any of the consequences of sin. Well, you can think of this new heaven and new earth as having all the best things of earth without sin, and without sin's horrendous consequences And then having all sorts of other things that we cannot even imagine now. In our previous message I quoted several times from the substantial substantial volume by former pastor and seminary teacher Randy Alcorn. He simply calls his book Heaven. The book was a gift of a Liberty member. a couple of Christmases ago, I think. Might have been from Mary Wheelchair, I'm trying to remember. One of Alcorn's uh most helpful segments, I think, is the following passage. To say this world is not your home to a person who's fully alive and alert to the wonders of the world is like throwing a bucket of water on kindling blaze. We should fan the flames of that blaze to help it spread, not seek to put it out. Otherwise, we malign our God-given instinct to love the earthly home that God made for us. And we reduce spirituality into a denial of art, culture, science, sports, education, and all else human. When we do this, we set ourselves up for hypocrisy, for we may pretend to disdain the world while sitting in church. But when we get in the car, we turn on our favorite music and head home to barbecue with friends, watch a ball game, play golf, ride bikes, work in the garden, or curl up savoring a cup of coffee at a good book. We do these things not because we're sinners, but because we are people. We will still be people when we die and go to heaven. This isn't a disappointing reality. It's God's plan. He made us as we are, except the sin part, which has nothing to do with friends, eating, sports, gardening, or reading. We get tired of ourselves, we get tired of others, we get tired of sin, suffering, crime, death, yet we love the earth, don't we? I love the spaciousness of the night sky over the desert, he wrote. I love the coziness of sitting next to my wife Nancy on the couch in front of the fireplace, blanket over us and dogs snuggled next to us. These experiences are not heaven, but they are foretasts of heaven. What we love about this life are the things that resonate with the life we were made for. The things we love are not merely the best that life has to offer. They are previews of the greater life to come. One of the questions we may have about heaven is, do those who are there know what's happening on the earth? Well, there are certainly passages that suggest they are aware of some things that take place here. The martyrs in heaven described in Revelation 6 were aware that the Lord had not yet avenged them For they cried out, How long, O Lord, holy and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth They were clearly aware that their blood had not yet been avenged. Furthermore, we're encouraged to run with perseverance the race that is marked out for us. Hebrews 12, 1. Run with perseverance, the race that's marked out for us. We're told we're surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses. The image suggests uh runners uh surrounded by crowds who are urging them on. But there's no suggestion in scripture that those who have died can communicate with us And we are explicitly forbidden in Scripture from all attempts to communicate with them. Mary Todd Lincoln was reportedly so distraught at the death of her son Willie. He was only eleven. This was 1862. It was in the midst of the war. She was so distraught. In fact, uh interestingly, uh Willie apparently died as a consequence of the war. They think it was uh uh typhoid, I believe, that was that's brought on by uh infected water, and it was the the Union Army was uh stable. alongside the Potomac and it was from the Potomac that the water for the White House was drawn. So all the horses, all the camps, all that So uh i i it may well have been as a consequence of the war that that Willie died, but uh Mary Todd Lincoln was reportedly so distraught that she consulted with mediums and attended seances to attempt to communicate with his spirit. Uh historians say charlatans took advantage of this. One of them was revealed to uh to have electrical wires uh wired to his biceps. And so with those he he made noises around the room. He said some way of doing that. So the noises were supposedly coming from beyond the grave. Christian, listen, your departed mother is not going to linger in the yard in the form of a butterfly or bluebird, even if she loved the butterflies and bluebirds And although there may be a vague resemblance, the uh the stink bug that's flitting around your den is not pop -pop. What will your resurrection body be like? First Corinthians 15 says, it is planted in corruption, but it will be raised in incorruption. It will not be subject to the corruptions of this life. Corruptions of our present bodies, arthritis, Alzheimer's, cancers, seizures, diabetes, heart disease, etc. It's planted in dishonor, the scripture says, but it will be raised in glory Our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body. Philippians 3:20 When we consider those few passages that talk about Christ's resurrected body, the passages that describe interactions with Jesus after the resurrection. It seems clear that he was able to, for want of a better word, dematerialize and then re-materialize in a different place. Luke 24, John 20 and 21. Perhaps uh that's part of what the scripture means when it says that it's it's sown in corruption, but it's raised, it's it's raised a glorious uh body, planted in dishonor, but raised in glory. Planted in dishonor, raised in glory. The body, the scripture says, is planted in weakness, but it will be raised in power. In power. Theologian Charles Hodge said the future body may be endowed with faculties of which we have now no conception. Paul said the believer's body is planted a natural body, but it will be raised a spiritual body. Now That is not, I believe, a reference to some sort of ephemeral body, but spiritual in the sense of being under the control of the Holy Spirit without either evil inclinations or carnal appetites, as this present body has. The scripture calls Jesus the first fruits of the resurrection. Our first body was patterned after the first Adam. The man of the earth, the man of dust. Our resurrection body will be patterned after the second Adam, the Lord from heaven. In Romans 8, Paul writes, We who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. We're groaning. We're eagerly waiting. Lord, I'm so tired of this earthly flesh and all of its uh its problems and its lusts and its and its and the trouble that it brings me. Well, we who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. Romans 8. twenty-three. In this life, we are, as Christians, spiritual beings united to natural bodies, bodies that are corruptible, weak, defiled. In this body, the flesh struggles against the spirit. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. But when our spirits are clothed with our resurrection bodies, Then both the body and spirit will be, as it were, on the same team, not struggling against each other. Your body will not be a hindrance to your spiritual walk. It will be an ally. It will be planted a natural body, but it will be raised a spiritual body. Now, this question may arise, why does God bother to raise up our bodies at all? Why not just allow us to continue as some sort of spiritual being unencumbered with a physical body? As the angels are unencumbered with physical bodies unless God grants them physical bodies for a particular purpose interacting with us. And along the same lines, we could ask, well, why does Revelation 21 speak of God bringing heaven to earth? What's wrong with leaving heaven where it is? Well, I think it's so that Satan is not, in the end, successful at disrupting God's original design. God is not going to permit Satan in the end to be successful at disrupting his original design, whether for you and for me or for this world that he created. God created us to live as holy creatures, undefiled, in a paradise on earth. And that is what we will do. Theologian R. L. Dabney wrote, This planet was fashioned to be man's heritage, and a part of it, at least, adorned with the beauties of a paradise. Satan sought to mar the divine plan by the seducing of our first parents. For long ages he has seemed to triumph, and has filled his usurped dominion with crime and with misery But his insolent invasion is not to be destined to obstruct the Almighty's beneficent design. The intrusion will be in vain. God's purpose shall be executed. How does it benefit us to think about heaven? Well, quite obviously it encourages us to be faithful. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life. Revelation 210. And it gives us strength in times of suffering. And we all undergo times of suffering, do we not? What a blessing it was for the Apostle Paul to be given a glimpse of the glory that was awaiting him. To be caught up to paradise, to hear inexpressible words, as he put it in 2 Corinthians 12. How it must have encouraged him as he endured shipwreck and beatings and numerous perils, heavy personal burdens. He was able to say, I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Romans 8. 18. He speaks of our light affliction, which is but for a moment. It's long gone. Paul's affliction is long gone. Over what, 2,000 years? Our light affliction, which is but for a moment. Or almost 2,000 years, I guess. Light affliction, but for a moment. 2 Corinthians 4, 17. And then it brings us great comfort when we lose a loved loved one if we know that he or she was redeemed. Of course I experienced that comfort at the recent passing of my mother. Many of you here have experienced the same, the very same comfort, the passing of your mother or father, or brother, or child. Theologian Lorraine Betner illustrates this truth this way. Suppose your dear relative or friend were to be given an all-expense paid trip around the world. It would mean temporary separation, but you'd be thrilled for your friend's good fortune, and you'd be looking forward to hearing all about it after the trip was over. The experience of death is somewhat like that. the breaking of personal ties, temporary separation, and then permanent reunion in that better land. And then contemplating heaven gives us courage when facing death ourselves. The non-Christians in the early days of the church were Flabbergants. We're amazed at the way Christians face death. And we bring dishonor to our Savior if we harbor too great a fear of it. John Calvin said, It is monstrous that multitudes who boast themselves to be Christians are filled with such a dread of death that they tremble whenever it's mentioned. As if it were the greatest calamity that could befall them. One remedy for such inordinate fear is meditation on the glories of heaven. Isaac Watts put it well in one of his many hymns that are seldom sung today. He wrote, There is a land of pure delight. Where saints immortal reign, Infinite day excludes the night, And pleasures banish pain. There everlasting spring abides, And never withering flowers Death, like a narrow sea, divides this heavenly land from ours. Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood stand dressed in living green. So to the Jews old Canaan stood, while Jordan rolled between. But timorous mortals start and shrink to cross this narrow sea. And linger shivering on the brink, and fear to launch away. Oh, could we make our doubts remove Those gloomy doubts that rise? And see the Canaan that we love with unbeclouded eyes? Could we but climb where Moses stood and view the landscape, or not Jordan's stream, nor death's cold flood? Should fright us from the shore. Christian, when you have a clear view of heaven, you don't need to fear death. The greatest calamity that can befall you is not death. It's sin. The greatest calamity that can befall you is not death, it's sin. Which brings us to underscore those two best things about heaven. First of all, we'll be completely, utterly, without temptation, and of course, without sin. We'll no longer be tempted to lie, to escape punishment, to blow up when we get angry, to worry about the future, to speak harshly to a family member, to hold a grudge against another? To take God's holy name in vain? To be proud of our attainments? Etc. Imagine doing something kind without being tempted to self-congratulation. Imagine seeing others exalted without being tempted to envy. Imagine being more concerned for the glory of God and the good of others than you are for your own comfort, for your own pleasure. For your own reputation. Imagine being absolutely, finally, completely, fully, free from every sin that so easily besets you here. Surely this will be one of the very best things about heaven. But better still, and best of all, the Lord Jesus will be there. And we will be with him. Amen. The bride-eyes not her garment, but her dear bridegroom's face. I will not gaze at glory, but on my king of grace. Not at the crown he giveth, but on his pierced hand. The Lamb is all the glory of Emmanuel's land Jonathan Edwards said it well, God is the highest good of the reasonable creature, and the enjoyment of him is the only happiness with which our souls can be satisfied. To go to heaven fully to enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here. Fathers and mothers, husbands, wives, children, or the company of earthly friends, are but shadows. But the enjoyment of God is the substance. These are but scattered beams, but God is the sun. These are but streams, but God is the fountain. These are but drops, but God is the ocean. Now a word to believers. Soon, very soon, you will be ushered into Christ's presence. Imagine for a few moments now. Close your eyes if you want, but imagine for a few moments now that you awoke this morning To find that you didn't need to drive to church because you were already in that great assembly above. Everything you once thought so urgent, all those important business affairs, all those financial decisions all the pressures of this life, that will all be behind you. Let me suggest some things you might be wishing if you had awakened in glory this morning. You might be wishing that you could get back even a tenth of the time that you wasted doing things that didn't really matter. You might be wishing that you had spent more time praying with and for your family. You might be wishing that you had invested more time building into the lives of your children or your grandchildren, your nieces or your nephews. You might be wishing that you had viewed your job not as something to pay your bills and get you to the weekend, but as a calling. As a ministry in which God has placed you as a vocation. You might be wishing that you had invested more of the money that God gave you into advancing his kingdom. You might be wishing that you had realized that what you called your house and your car and your land, they were actually gods. You were just a caretaker. You might be wishing that you would complain less and praise God more. That you would serve Christ more faithfully, more zealously with the gifts that he gave you That you had made the gospel clear to the people that you rub shoulders with every week on this earth. You might wish, in short, that you had laid up treasure in heaven instead of on the earth. Well, God has given you more time. He hasn't called you home yet. But the sands of time are sinking in that hourglass. And we will stand before our Lord. Finally, a word to you who have not yet repented of your sins and trusted in Christ alone for salvation. Think about it. Think about this. Is not your refusal to reach out your hand and receive the gracious offer of forgiveness? and pardon and ultimate glory, is that not the surest indication of the utter depravity of your heart? What would you call a homeowner who looked out his front window to see the publisher's clearinghouse van parked in his driveway? A film crew there getting out of the van. A uh uh a lady holding a uh a giant cardboard check. With a homeowner's name on it and some guy holding a bunch of helium balloons, and they're all coming to this homeowner's door. What would you call that guy? Fortunate? Uh blessed? Out of debt? Uh wealthy beyond his wildest dreams, in a position to do good to others? Well, don't don't tell me yet because I'm not done. What would you call that man if he refused to answer the door? It was a cold day. He didn't want to let all that cold air inside. Perhaps he hadn't showered yet. He wasn't ready for company. Perhaps he was watching a crime drama and the detective was just about to reveal who murdered the guy. In any event, the man refused to answer the door. He called out, go away! I'm preoccupied. Or he was just quiet inside, just didn't answer the door Now what would you call that man now? Foolish? Mad? Not thinking clearly? Maybe you don't need the money, but you could give it to somebody that does. The Lord who created you is offering you not a million dollars or several thousand dollars a week for Or as long as you live here, the next few decades, maybe, or a few years, he's offering you forgiveness of all your sins, adoption into his family. And everlasting life in a place of beauty, a place of peace, a place of fullness of joy, untainted by sin, and any of sin's consequences. He offers all of this freely to you. Because the Lord Jesus Christ has fully paid the price, enduring the Father's wrath upon the cross He demands of you no preliminary labor, no good work, no good deed. He says you're to come to him as a little child, not haughty, not credentialed, but repentant and humble. God be merciful to me, a sinner. I see my sins and they're vile. I know I deserve your wrath. God forgive me and save me. That's what that's what he asks. God, I freely accept this gift that you freely offer. Thank you for what Christ has done for me. I believe it. I believe that He is my Lord and my master. I believe He lived a sinless life, that He died upon the cross, that He rose again from the dead, that He's coming again one day. I believe it, Lord. Grant me this gift you freely offer. What would you call a man, woman, or child who offered such a gift, unearned, undeserved, said Go away. I'm preoccupied. How shall we escape if we neglect so great of salvation. Let's pray. Lord, I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither has entered into the heart of man the things which you prepared for those that love you. But you've revealed unto us by your spirit. You've given us these little tastes, these little glimpses in your word. And we know it's going to be so much more glorious than we can imagine. But Lord, may we meditate upon it, may we look forward to it, may we long for it. May we lay up treasure in heaven, not on the earth. Remind us that our life is hid with Christ in God. So remind us to set our affection on things above, not on things in the earth. And Lord, we do ask for anyone who may still be outside of Christ. Lord, give them no rest. Give them no peace. Draw them to Christ. Let them see the urgency of it. For no man knows what a day may bring forth. May they come to you today, Lord. Draw them by your Spirit. We pray in Christ's name, Amen.