Exodus twenty, let's begin at verse one And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. But showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery You shall not steal. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor 's. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, speak to us now from your word this day. Forgive us our sins. Help us to focus. And Lord, bring conviction in hearts and accomplish your purposes. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. The Carroll County Times has a segment that they call regional news. Last Wednesday it included these stories. An Eastern Pennsylvania woman is on trial on a criminal homicide charge in the stabbing death of her husband to be just hours before their wedding A one-year-old boy was killed and two women injured in a drive-by shooting in Pittsburgh. Police found dozens of shell casings along the road. A man was arrested in the shooting death of his longtime girlfriend at their Philadelphia area home Federal authorities said a suspect wanted in the shooting death of a man has been taken into custody. The victim was shot multiple times after he was pulled from a party bus that had stopped outside of a bar at an intersection in Pittsburgh. No, these were just these were regional homicides. As you may know, Baltimore has its own high homicide rate. Earlier in the week it was at 82. I'm sure it's closer to 90 or over 90 by now for the year. There were 217 homicides reported in Baltimore City last year and another 24 in Baltimore County. Surrounding counties, of course, have their own share of homicides. We come in our study of the Ten Commandments to what is arguably the most familiar and yet most misunderstood of all the commandments. Most people know it as thou shalt not kill. That's the way I learned it as a child attending a Lutheran church in the Overlee Fullerton section of Northeast Baltimore. And I didn't have a clear understanding of what it meant. I might have mentioned before that uh when the sixth commandment had been driven home to my conscience I distinctly remember as I walked on the sidewalks trying to avoid uh ants that happened to be crossing my path because I had learned God commanded me not to kill. Well, I still believe we should not needlessly and heedlessly destroy God's creatures, but it was years later when I learned that the Hebrew word translated kill in the King James Version of the Ten Commandments. was not the common word, shock hat, which is most c which most uh closely corresponds with the English word kill. But it was the word rotsack, a word that is never used in Scripture for the killing of plants or animals, never used for killing in warfare. never used for executing criminals. It is a word that refers to only certain types of killing. Literally unjust killing, or specifically I should say, unjust killing. It's a word better translated, murder. Thus, the sixth commandment does not forbid the killing of animals. God said to Noah, Every moving thing that lives shall be meat for you, even as the green herb have I given you all things Genesis 9. Of course, we know that Jesus ate meat at the Passover and presumably at other times as well. He ate fish and assisted his disciples in the netting of fish. Secondly, the sixth commandment does not forbid the killing of others in personal or national defense. David was a man of war. He slew many in battle, but in the incident with Bathsheba and Uriah, he actually committed murder. There is a great difference. Soldiers came to John the Baptist and asked, what shall we do? What shall we do? What does God want us to do? He didn't tell them you must leave the Roman army if you are to serve Christ. He didn't say you cannot be a soldier and a follower of the Prince of Peace. What did he tell them? Don't intimidate anyone. Don't take property or money from anyone by force, presumably he meant. Don't accuse anyone falsely. And be content with your wages. Jesus spoke with centurions, soldiers who had authority over a hundred others. He never told them their service was immoral He never said they must leave the army. The apostles spoke with centurions as well and never said such a thing. So we must conclude that the sixth commandment does not forbid military service Thirdly, the Sixth Commandment does not forbid the execution of those who commit evil by legitimate government authorities. This commandment doesn't prevent legitimate government authorities from executing those who commit evil. He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death. Exodus 21, twelve. Right after the giving of the Ten Commandments, the Lord makes it crystal clear. He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death. The Apostle Paul declared to the civil authorities of his own day, if I am an offender or have committed anything deserving of death, I do not object to dying. Acts 25, 11. He recognized the authority of the governing authorities to institute capital punishment. He was fully aware that the civil magistrate is God's minister, God's servant, who, quote, does not bear the sword in vain. He is an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Paul himself wrote that in Romans 13. Those who appeal to the sixth commandments, who argue against capital punishment, as I did, by the way, before I came to know Christ. are misunderstanding and misapplying the scripture. The fact is, capital punishment is ordained and commanded by God. It is a solemn duty of the civil magistrate. Late theologian John Gershner wrote, If you pass judgment on capital punishment, you are declaring yourself holier than God. You are passing judgment upon God. The civil magistrate does not bear the sword in vain. That is, it is not merely for show. But unfortunately, in our country, it seems the civil magistrate's sword is primarily for show. There were reportedly in 2010, that's the last year I could get some statistics on, the latest year. Uh there were reportedly in 2010 just under 13,000 homicides in the United States. What was the number of executions in 2010? 13,000 homicides. 46 executions. That breaks down to one execution for each 282 homicides. Governors and justices who refuse to be parties to the execution of convicted murderers Tend to believe that they're taking the moral high ground, but they are in fact cheapening life, disobeying God, who declared, Whosoever sheds man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. Well, wait a minute. Well, didn't Jesus say we are to turn the other cheek and love our enemies? Yes, he did. And so if someone murders a family member of mine , I am not to hate him. I am in fact to pray for him. I am to seek his repentance and conversion. I pray he'll repent and come to know Christ before he leaves this earth. I'm to treat him as I would want to be treated if I were in his shoes, if the shoe were on the other foot. But as he has violated the sixth commandment and murdered someone created in the image of God I am also to seek his arrest and conviction and execution because God commands it. For the punishment of his crime, for the good of society, for the honor of God. Now, obviously, not all homicide cases are solved, and often there's insufficient evidence to convict a suspect, and it's possible that an innocent man might be found guilty by a jury of his peers. So all due diligence must be exercised. But when it's clear that a man or woman has murdered another, if execution was swift and sure, I suspect our murder rate would fall dramatically. So what does this commandment forbid? It forbids, first of all, most obviously, murder, the intentional taking of innocent human life. This would include killing others for personal gain. As in robbery, out of jealousy or anger to cover a crime, etc. Note it is viewed by God as murder, whether it is committed by ourselves As in Cain's killing of Abel, or it's committed by others at our command or suggestion, as in David's slaying of Bathsheba's husband Uriah. And Jezebel's order to slay Naboth, so her husband Ahab could have the vineyard that he coveted. Thirdly, this commandment forbids the tacit approval of murder by not attempting to prevent it when we are aware of it. It forbids the tacit approval of murder by not attempting to prevent it when we are aware of it. Pilate was guilty for permitting a man he knew to be innocent to be put to death. simply to preserve his own position and to placate the Jewish leaders. Herod was guilty for allowing John the Baptist to be slain simply to save face. Because he had publicly made a foolish promise that he would give Herodias's daughter whatever she requested, even unto half of her kingdom. Whatever you ask of me, I will give it to you. Consulting her mother, she came back and asked for the head of John the Baptist. Herod should have said, I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't kill an innocent man. It was a foolish thing for me to say, I I uh repent of saying it, but instead to save his own face, apparently. He went ahead. Saul of Tarsus did not stone Stephen, but he did not lift a finger to prevent it. Rather, he was consenting unto his death, the scripture says. This commandment forbids all those things which tend toward murder. Fourthly, all those things which tend toward murder. The Pharisees, a sect of religious leaders who had much prominence in Israel in Jesus' day, were legalists. They were very careful about not violating God's law, or at least they professed to be, and they taught others the same But they were more concerned with the letter of the law than with the spirit of the law. The result was you could be well along the road toward murder or sexual sin or theft, but if you had not actually committed the act In the eyes of the scrupulous legalists, you were without sin. Jesus told the people in his Sermon on the Mount that unless their righteousness exceeded the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees , They would by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Now that must have been a shocker to the people who viewed the scribes and Pharisees as much holier than they were. And then Jesus gave a case in point. It's made clear in the English Standard Version. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder. And whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment. Whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel. And whoever says, you fool, will be liable to the hell of fire. Matthew 5, 21. You fool, you jerk, you idiot, you moron, all those and all the more filthy language that people use to vent their anger on others. At that moment, when you use such language to another person, you are violating the sixth commandment. Yes, it would be worse if in your anger you struck the person with whom you were angry, and it would be far worse if in your anger you killed that person. But hatred, envy, and anger are things that put you on the road to murder. And the Lord Jesus is warning us to stay off that road. There's a progression in sinful behavior. We conceive it in our minds, we perhaps express it in our words, and then we actually commit the sinful act. Each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin when it is full-grown. Brings forth death. James 1, 14 and 15. Far better to nip sin in its earliest stage, nip it in the bud But remember, even early stages of sin are still described as sin. The Apostle John put it this way: whoever hates his brother Is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. First John 3. 15. And so we are exhorted in Scripture to let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Be tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ's sake has forgiven us. Fifthly, this commandment forbids needlessly endangering the lives of others. The sixth commandment forbids us to needlessly endanger someone else's life Under Old Testament civil law, you'll remember if an ox gored a man or a woman to death, the ox was to be killed. But if the owner of the ox was aware that the ox tended to thrust with its horns, The owner knew the ox was dangerous and aggressive, and he didn't do anything to keep the ox confined and keep people away from the ox. And then that ox killed a man or woman. The owner was responsible for the loss of innocent life. Exodus 21. So this commandment forbids needlessly endangering the lives of other people. In our culture, that hope happens most frequently, I suppose, when we drive. Under the influence of alcohol or drugs, for example. When we drive distracted, when we drive recklessly, when we drive for the thrill of it, when we drive to impress our friends, when we uh break speeding laws to impress our friends. This is a sin to which we're particularly prone in our youth. My brother Ken knows a man whose daughter was was driving. This was the story. This man's daughter was driving a car, and according to her friends who were in the car, she was driving at 85 miles an hour. Her friends were afraid. They urged her to slow down. She turned to them and said, Don't worry, I haven't killed you yet. Those were her last words. The car lost control. She was killed. Thankfully her friends survived. Don't worry, I haven't killed you yet. Imagine her guilt if her friends had died and she had lived. Young people, let me speak directly to you. I know the feeling of invulnerability you can have in your teens It feels like you're gonna live forever uh i you know on this earth, that is I'm saying. Feels like uh the y you can't be harmed. Uh You combine that, that feeling, with distractions, a desire to impress your friends, your own inexperience in driving in various conditions, and you've got a dangerous combination. One of my first jobs outside of high school was uh driving, was actually uh not driving, but laying underground phone lines for the Winter Park uh telephone company in Central Florida. Most of it involved just gluing together big long pieces of P V C pipe uh in ditches alongside of streets and uh in the area north of uh of uh Orlando. It was a messy job. It was hot in the Florida sun, but once and only once, I think it was, I was given the opportunity to drive a loaded dump truck. go on the job. And it was a welcome change. You know, you got to open the windows, air's circulating. You're not in the ditch. Uh I think I had driven it unloaded before, but this was the f the the first time I had driven this truck full I remember approaching a red light. I st I still remember the intersection, Altamont Springs, Florida. I was approaching the red light. There was a car stopped ahead of me, and I began to apply the brakes. And the car, uh the truck continued to move. And uh I was getting closer and closer to that car ahead of me, and I'm scanning on the brakes, and I'm pounding on the brakes, and I couldn't get that dump truck to stop. And uh sure enough I hit that car ahead of me. And thankfully I didn't hit it hard enough to knock it into the intersection. I could have killed somebody that day. It was my own inexperience with driving a loaded dump truck. I didn't realize how much more space you need to stop it. Uh I was ticketed for careless driving as I recall, but the biggest problem was my inexperience. And uh and that's why uh the bottom line of all of all this is that young women should not drive until they're twenty-one or so. And young men should not drive. So this commandment forbids recklessly endangering the lives of others. Children, this This matters to you. Kids listen now. Recklessly endangering somebody's life would would include taking a rock and throwing it at at somebody. You know, you're mad at a neighbor and you throw a rock and you hit him with a rock or you you push somebody over And I I've I've known children who who have done things like that and the person has died that they hit with a rock or pushed over. You need to be very, very careful. This commandment warns us against doing things to endanger other people's lives. This commandment forbids endangering our own lives, harming ourselves. with too much alcohol, with drugs, with smoking, overeating, or unnecessary risk-taking. And of course this commandment forbids suicide. The reason we are not to take another's life is he or she was created in the image of God. Our lives are in his hands. You were created in the image of God, and your life is in God 's hands. Now, there's something else that needs to be said. One can't faithfully preach on the sixth commandment in this era in America without addressing our most grievous violation of it. We noted that there were just under 13,000 homicide cases reported in 2010. That's a huge number. 13,000. But it is dwarfed by the number of infanticide cases. Currently, according to the Gutmacher Institute, over 3,000 a day 21,000 a week, over 80,000 a month, over 1. 2 million a year. Since the Roe vade, the Supreme Court decision of 1973 , Reportedly, over 56 million infants have been legally, intentionally killed in America. Now, of course, the Gutmacher Institute, which was founded by Planned Parenthood, does not call this infanticide, and neither do most Americans. We call it legalized abortion. But as the result of it is, whatever one calls it, a dead infant, infanticide seems to be the best word for it. As most of you know, by the time most abortions are performed after the eighth week from conception, virtually everything is present in the fetus. That is from the Latin, the young one, the offspring. that will be found in the fully grown adult. The stomach and kidneys are functioning, the fingerprints have formed, the heart has been beating for about 30 days, the little one responds to touch and can evidently feel pain. Abortionist Hermit Gosnell was recently found guilty, as you know, of three counts of first-degree murder for taking the lives of babies who were, according to the testimony of other clinic employees, still moving, whimpering, or breathing after delivery. The prosecutor in the case asked him in the courtroom, Are you human? But think about it if those same babies had been dispatched just a few moments before while still in the womb The procedures would have been viewed as successful, and the doctor would never have been accused of murder. The result in either case, however, is a dead child Is it only murder when it is seen? The fetus, though enclosed in the womb of its mother, is already a human being. And all it's almost a monstrous crime to rob it of the life which it has not yet begun to enjoy. If it seems more horrible to kill a man in his own house than in a field Because a man's house is his place of most secure refuge, it ought surely to be deemed more atrocious to destroy a fetus in the womb before it has come to light. John Calvin According to Planned Parenthood, the world's largest abortion provider, approximately 90% of all those who come to them to have their infants killed do so not because of rape or incest or health issues, their own or the health of the baby. But for reasons such as this, I can't afford a baby. This baby will change my life. I have all the children I want. I don't want to be a single parent. My boyfriend is not ready for the responsibility, etc. Now I want to speak very plainly to our young women. If you do not heed what the Lord says about refraining from intimacy until marriage, you may find yourself one day pregnant outside of marriage. The father of that child may not want the responsibilities of fatherhood. You may not want the responsibilities of motherhood. But remember this: if you are with child, you already have the responsibilities of motherhood. You already have a baby dependent upon you. If you violate God's word concerning the sanctity of sexual relations, the solution to your problem is not to violate his word concerning the sanctity of human life. You violate the seventh commandment. The solution is not to violate the sixth commandment. The solution is to confess and repent of your sin, to turn to your family, to your church for support. Note, I want to say this to everybody here, not just the young women. You have a responsibility here. You have a moral responsibility to try to put an end to this Holocaust. If you were driving home, as you were driving home, you're all going to be driving home soon. If as you're driving home today, You should see a car coming by you with a baby carrier on the on the hood Or on the top of the car, on the roof of the car, and a baby inside the baby carrier, what would you do? I know what you do. You'd honk your horn, you'd blink your lights, you'd pull up alongside the car, you'd roll down the window, you'd yell, stop, pull over, the baby's on the roof, the baby's on the roof. You'd get in front of the car if you had to, you'd hit the brakes, you'd try to slow it down. I'll tell you what you wouldn't do. You wouldn't just drive by and say, Well, it's not my baby, it's not my problem. I'm not gonna get involved. It's not they want to put their baby on the roof, that's fine. Listen, if it's wrong to remain silent and stand by idle when one child is being drawn to death, is it not wrong to remain silent and stand by idol when millions of children are being drawn to death? Deliver those who are drawn toward death, hold back those stumbling to the slaughter. If you say, Surely we did not know this, does not he who weighs the hearts consider it? He who keeps your soul, does he not know it? And will he not render to each man according to his deeds? Proverbs twenty-four, eleven and twelve. So whether it's volunteering in a crisis pregnancy center, supporting one financially, opening your home to an unwed mother, foster parenting a child, adopting a child, providing sidewalk counseling or prayer at a killing center, writing to your legislators Writing the newspaper editors, voting for those who vow to preserve life, running for office yourself, there's surely something you can do. I know you would like to think, as I would like to think , if you'd been a citizen of Nazi Germany or of Stalinist Russia or if you'd lived in Cambodia during the killing times You would have spoken out in defense of human life, even at great personal cost. Well you're living in the time of America's Holocaust. What are you doing now? Now let me remind you as we close that the reason for the sixth commandment is we've been made in the image of God. As theologian Michael Horton put it, God stamps his image on each person as an artist signs his masterpieces. God stamps his image on each person as an artist signs his masterpieces. So let me ask you, have you harmed that image? Have you harmed that image? Have you violated the sixth commandment? Have you ever lost your temper with your son or daughter, wife or husband, brother, friend? Have you ever sworn at somebody? Called them a fool or an idiot? Told them that at that moment you wished you were in hell? Have you ever unlawfully taken a human life, or harmed another, or stood by idol while one was harmed? Have you recklessly endangered the lives of others? Or jeopardize your own life by your behavior. Jesus made it clear you don't need to be a great sinner to be in danger of hellfire. A mediocre sinner will do. Whoever says you fool will be liable to the hell of fire. Matthew 5, 22. Well, wait a minute. Then I guess we're all Headed for hell. Yeah. You're quite right. You're quite right. According to the Bible, we are Jesus said, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. You think those people on whom the tower in Siloam fell were worse sinners than others in Jerusalem? I tell you no. Unless you repent, you'll all likewise perish. The good news is Jesus was born in man's image to die, so that man, born in God's image, might live. Jesus was born in man's image to die so that man born in God's image might live. God made him To be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. You see, God took all that sin, that guilt that his sheep had committed, and he laid it upon his son. Jesus died that we might live. So, friend, I urge you, cry out to the Lord. Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. I've broken the sixth commandment, I know it. I've broken the Sixth Amendment. God forgive me and save me. I believe that Jesus lived a sinless life, died upon the cross, rose again from the dead. I want him as my Savior. You come to God and pray that prayer and mean it in your heart. You come to God with true saving faith in the finished work of Christ upon the cross. And I can tell you, on the authority of God's word, your sins will be forgiven. God will give you this precious gift of everlasting life. Cry out to Him today. God, save me. Have mercy on my soul. Let's pray. Father, you know that each of us has broken this commandment in thought, word, or deed. Lord have mercy upon us. Remind us that you're a holy God, that one sin is enough to keep us from your holy presence. You are a purer eyes than to behold evil. You cannot look upon iniquity. But Lord, I pray that you'll draw souls to yourself. Drive us to our knees. May we cry out, God, forgive me. Save me. Thank you for sending Jesus to live a perfect life and then to go to the cross and to pay the punishment that I deserve. Thank you for raising him from the dead. I believe that he's alive. Come into my heart and save me Father, I pray that you'll do a mighty work of grace in hearts this day. We ask it in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.