Well, if you have your Bibles, or if you simply want to turn in your bulletin, we're going to be reading from Ephesians 4 as we continue on in our study of Paul's letter. Which really focuses on who the church is and how the church grows to maturity. Today we'll be reading from verses 7 through 16, but there is so much there that we will only be focusing today on verses 7 to 10, for which you all say, Amen, right? Let's hear God's word. But to each one of us was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore, he says, when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and he gave gifts to men. Now this he ascended, what does it mean, but that he first also descended into the lower parts of the earth He who descended is also the one who ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints. For the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man. to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine. by the trickery of men and the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. But speaking the truth in love may grow up into all things unto him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies. According to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth to the body for the edifying of itself in love. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you for what your word says that our that your spirit indwells upon us and within us. And Lord, as I proclaim your word, I know that I need an outpouring of your spirit. And Lord, we also need an outpouring of your spirit to be able to hear it and receive it. So we ask us, so we ask you now that you would bless us. with the filling of your spirit, that we might hear and do what your word says. We thank you and praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Before I forget, it is time to dismiss the children for wonders of worship. So if you have not already gone downstairs, you may do so, children. Well, this past week across America People were celebrating the 4th of July with fireworks, parades, and picnics in the scorching heat. This year marked the 242nd anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. And with the birth of our nation, 13 diverse colonies became united as one. And we find that Christ's church is also a kingdom full of diversity, and yet is also we are united as one. indivisible under God. Last week we looked at what unites us as a church, as God's people As citizens of God's kingdom, what unites us is greater than any of our differences. Paul makes this glorious, majestic reality clear in verses 4 through 6. We are united. We are one united body. We are united as one body made alive by one spirit. in which we share the same faith in one Lord, Jesus Christ, and in our union with Christ His Father is then our Father, so we have one Father who is over all, who dwells in us all, and who works through us all. So beloved, we have this indestructible, supernatural connection with the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. who indwells within us and who unites us together with an unshakable, unbreakable bond as one people under Christ. And yet we also noted last week that our union does not mean uniformity. Being a Christian doesn't mean that we lose our individuality and that we all become the same, like a mass-produced product, like Big Max rolling off a conveyor belt at a McDonald's assembly line. Or like an apartment building in the Soviet bloc country, gray, drab, and identical. No, the body of Christ is richly diverse. And as we've seen, Paul highlights the diversity of Christ's kingdom in his letter. As we've seen in chapter 2, the kingdom of Christ is made up of Jew and Gentile. It is an international community of people from every nation. tribe and tongue who come together as one to form one new society, the Universal Church. But then we see here, starting in verse 7 , that Paul sort of shifts the focus to yet another kind of diversity In verse 6, what is the focus there? The focus there is the universal church as one family with one father signified by the word all. We all have one Father who is over all, who is in us all, who works through us all, or as they say in the South, all y'all. Are y'alls So verse 6 is like a big family reunion photo which requires a wide lens to capture the universal church But then, in verse 7, Paul shifts our focus from the all, the universal, down to the individual. He says, but to each one of you. He narrows the lens down to each member in God's family to draw attention to our individual uniqueness. And what is unique about us, which makes us so diverse? Well, he says to each one of you, what? Grace has been given. Grace has been given. Now, if we stop right there at that verse, we might assume that Paul is referring to saving grace. The same grace that the Lord bestows on each and every believer. For everyone who believes in the gospel, it is the grace that we've been given to understand and receive the gospel as believers. However, what Paul has in mind here is a different aspect of God's grace, which is unique, which is distinctive for each individual believer. The context makes that clearer. He says, to each one of you, grace has been given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Here, Paul is not talking about saving grace, but he's talking about enabling grace. The empowering grace that the Lord gives to each believer to serve according to the gift that the Lord has given to each believer. In other words, Paul is saying, you believers, you have been given each spiritual gifts from Christ. And what he has given to you is purposeful. It's uniquely designed for you. And he not only gives the gift, but he also portions out the grace that is needed for you to be able to use the gift which he has given you. Or to put it another way, he not only gives you the engine to drive the car, but he gives you the fuel to make it run. We see this in other parts of Scripture. Paul teaches the same principle elsewhere. So if we do a little cross-referencing, we find that in 1 Corinthians 12. 4 through 12, that that passage is very similar to Ephesians 4. In those verses Paul says that there is a diversity of spiritual gifts within the body of Christ, and that the Spirit apportions these gifts to each individual believer as he wills. for the common good of the church. And then he adds, God's Spirit also empowers us to use those gifts. And in Romans 12, 4 we see a similar thing. Paul uses the analogy of the body to teach the same principle, where he says that just as a body has many parts, and each part has its own particular function, so do we as different members of the body of Christ have different functions. We have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, so let us use them, he says. And of course, Paul's not alone in his teaching, but Peter also mentions this very same truth in his first letter, where he says in chapter 410. That each of us has received a gift that we are to use to serve one another, and that gift is according to God's very grace, he says. It's according to God's varied grace. In other words, when Peter says God's grace is varied, he's referring to the fact that God gives different gifts. Now, if you look at all the different lists of gifts that we have in Scripture from this passage and from Romans 12 and from 1 Peter 4 and 1 Corinthians 12. There may be up to maybe 20 listed there. But as Alistair Bake points out, these are not exhaustive lists, but more representative After all, how can there only be 20 spiritual gifts when a God who bestows them has unsearchable riches? Well, regardless of how many they there may be, what are they? They are purposeful. And they are uniquely dispensed to each believer individually according to God's wisdom. and to his purposes. So whatever gifts you have, they have been given distinctly to you. They are designer gifts, you might say. Just like you have your own DNA, your own particular eye color, or fingerprint, or hair color, unless you dye it or have lost it. This is what happens to you when you come to know Christ. When you come to know Christ, you receive gifts that have been given specifically for you for the building up of Christ's body. And this has certain implications for us, doesn't it? First of all, it gives us a sense of confidence. Of confidence. Notice what Paul says. He says to each of you, to each of you. He doesn't say to some of you. He doesn't say to 83. 5 % of you. Have been given Christ's gift. No, each and every one who is a believer in Jesus Christ who has his spirit and dwelling within them has been blessed with gifts and then the grace to use them. Amen? Now that's significant, beloved. Because we live in a world where people hunger for a sense of identity, for a sense of self-worth or significance. And you, beloved, you have been given all of that in an instant when you came to know Jesus. Paul says that you have been so blessed by the Lord's grace that he has given you his gifts. Which are you, which you are to use somehow in some capacity to serve others and to strengthen his body. So in Christ's kingdom, in Christ's kingdom, everyone, everyone, everyone has value. Everyone has worth as a person who has been uniquely gifted by God's grace. So if you're down on yourself and you say, Oh, I'm insignificant I have no value. Or I cannot do anything. Or I have nothing to contribute. What does the Lord Jesus say to you? He says, lift up your downcast eyes and see me, the ascended Christ. who has blessed you with gifts and then the grace to live them out. Well, when we realize that the spiritual gifts we've received are tailor-made, are custom-fitted for us. by Christ Himself who empowers us to do them. It gives us confidence to say, not, I think I can, I think I can, I think I can, I think I can. But it gives us the confidence to say, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Amen? Well we not only have confidence, we also find contentment in knowing that Christ has apportioned to us certain gifts. In other words, there's a certain joy we have when we exercise our spiritual gifts because we are doing what we had been designed to do. And furthermore, if one of the fruit of the Spirit is joy, then doing what the Spirit has empowered us to do should therefore bring us what? Joy. And yet, how well we know what happens within a church or within a ministry when we lose that Christ-centered perspective? Instead of contentment, we grow envious of others who have gifts that we would like to have, where the gift is always greener on the other side. Oh, if only I could teach like him. Look at how people are flocking to his class. If only I could organize things as well as she does. She seems to always have it all together. I can't stand it. Without this perspective That Christ has given each of us certain gifts, we can easily fall into dissatisfaction Because in the body of Christ were an ear and not a nose, and oh, if I could only just be a nose instead of an ear. Pastor Teacher Brian Chapel offers this wise advice. He writes, the Christians that I know who have made the greatest shipwreck of their lives for reasons other than blatant sin are those who have not been satisfied with fulfilling the calling of their specific gifts. They always wanted to be someone else. If you despise what God has made you to be, you will never find the satisfaction he intends for you. Love what God has made you to be And believe that he is using you even in difficult places. That's good advice. We find contentment when we keep a Christ-centered perspective on our gifts, which also helps us to battle self-serving, self-seeking pride. And you know something? How can we be prideful about receiving a gift? After all, what have we received? They're gifts. And a gift, by its very definition, is not something that we earn. It's a gift. And we receive a gift with thankfulness and we show our appreciation to the giver of the gift. And what's more, we know that whatever gifts we receive from the Lord. Are solely by his grace alone, that they are totally, completely unmerited. The Lord doesn't say, oh, look at Bob there. Man, he is such a straight-up kind of guy. I think I'll give him the gift of mercy. No. In other words, they are not due to anything in us. We don't earn them. No, in fact, we receive what we didn't deserve: eternal life and a life-transforming relationship with Christ. And we don't receive what we do deserve, condemnation, God's justice, and eternal doom. And it was all God's grace, as we read from Ephesians 2 today. So where, beloved, is there any boasting? Where is there any patting oneself on the back and saying, oh, did you see what I just did? I was so kind and compassionate. That was really that was really good, wasn't it? Oh that teaching that I gave. Wow man, I just knocked it out of the park Is there anyone more dis discerning, more wise than me? What a great Counselor, I am. Did I just not nail that issue like the champ that I am? No. There's no self-congratul congratulatory end zone dances. They just don't fit in God's kingdom because whatever we do for the Lord, whatever we do for the Lord, it was only by his grace alone, by the gift he gave us, and by his spirit who empowers us. Well, in using our gifts, we find ki confidence, we find contentment. And finally, there is completeness. Completeness. We'll get to look at this more as we look at verses 12 through 16, but it bears mentioning now as well. A body is not complete and functioning fully as it was intended to if one part of the body is not working. And the beauty of a tapestry is marred when threads are missing from the weaving. And so a local church does not grow to maturity when each member does not actively exercise his or her gifts. We are less for the lack of their specific gift. And together with each one doing his part or her part, the whole is greater than the sum of our parts. And in the actions, in the actions that are seemingly insignificant, there's this ripple effect through time. That touches eternity. You sing in the Benefit Christmas concert that raises funds for a new crisis pregnancy center. And because you are part of that choir and the money was raised through that concert, the doors are open and unborn babies are saved and their mothers are helped. You teach Sunday school to four-year-olds, and even though you want to pull your hair out and you're tired, you show them the love of Christ. And you teach them his word. And those verses that are implanted in the heart of Cindy and Jonathan, they bear fruit into saving faith, so that one day, what do they do? They teach their kids those same verses. You lead a group of pioneer girls, and the kindness and caring concern that you model is just wonderfully infectious. And through your mentoring of those girls, they learn what it means to be a Christian young lady and what it means to have Christ-honoring relationships. You paint the hallways of LCS, beautifying the school, which attracts a family to enroll their son, who is then taught how to apply God's word to a worldview. You greet a visitor with a warm handshake, and they feel so warmly welcomed that that visitor comes back and he joins a men's Bible study and through that study he develops a friendship with another brother in Christ who with whom he shares his struggles in his marriage and family and through that relationship he received counsel and prayer. And we could go on and on and on and on, but I think you get the picture. Each and every person is vital to the proper functioning of any local group of believers. And each and every person doing what Christ has gifted them to do is necessary for a church to grow to maturity. It is the beauty of seeing Christ's community working together, each playing his or her part to maintain the whole and to see it grow. I suppose this is what Karl Marx had in mind. It's what he envisioned, but he could never really be attained. What was his motto? From each according to his ability to each according to his need. Well, how well has that worked out in Cuba or in the former Soviet Union? But allow me to alter that motto a bit for us as believers. based on these verses. For Christ's kingdom, our motto is to each according to Christ's grace. From each according to Christ's power. And that is how Christ's spirit-gifted, spirit-empowered community works Now none of this has any meaning to you if you do not have a relationship with Jesus Christ. To understand any of this, you need to have a life-transforming relationship with the Lord who imparts his spirit upon you and whose spirit indwells within you. And for some of you, that might sound just absolutely surreal. What are you telling me? That you have the God of the universe living within you? And we would say, yeah, we do. Well, how do you know that any of this is even remotely true? Well, we see the reality of it in verses 8. Whereas Paul writes, when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to men. And pictured in this verse is the ascended Christ. The fact that Christ is living and ascended and reigning is how we know that this is true. Amen? Well, what is Paul doing here in this verse? Paul is here quoting from Psalm 68, 18. And in doing so, what he is saying is that Psalm 68, 18 is fulfilled in Christ's ascension into heaven where he reigns. Now what is Psalm 68 about? Psalm 68 is a victory ode of David commemorating the conquest of Jerusalem and the bringing of the ark to Mount Zion. And in that psalm, the Lord is pictured as a conquering king, whose presence is represented by the Ark of the Covenant. who ascends up to Mount Zion, where he reigns among his people. And what Paul is saying here is this. If you want to understand the reality of Psalm 68 , It has been fulfilled in Christ, who is the king, who reigns not on Mount Zion, but above all the heavens. And he is the conquering king who has destroyed all of his people's enemies, death and sin and the power of hell. And verse 18 says it says that he led captivity captive. Or in other words, he led a host of captives. And who are these captives? Well, he leads us in his train of victory. We are his captives in a sense. We as his redeemed people We were once under the captivity of the evil one , under his God's judgment and under sin. We were once held captive, but now we are captivated by Christ, free to serve under his kingdom. We are now under his dominion. The writer of Hebrews says this so well in chapter 2, verses 14 and 15. where he writes, Christ has destroyed the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and delivered all of those who through the fear of death We're subject to lifelong slavery. Well, how did Christ do that? Well Paul alludes to it in verse 9, where he says that he descended to the lower parts of the earth In other words, the Son of God became incarnate, and he took on our humanity, and he dwelt among us as one who would experience the lowest of earthly existence. The Lord Jesus knew pangs of hunger. He knew suffering and sorrow and grief and betrayal. He knew what it was to be tempted, and yet he did not sin. And while he was on this earth, he conquered our fiercest enemy. Not on a stallion, and not with a sword, but nailed to a cross, where the full judgment of our sin was placed on him, bearing shame and scoffing rude. In our place, condemned he stood, sealed our pardon with his blood. Hallelujah! What a savior And when they took him from the cross, and they laid him in a cold tomb, he looked like a vanquished king Defeated by death. And yet on the third day he arose, victorious over the grave, establishing forever that he was and is the promised Messiah. Oh, hail that day that sees him rise to his throne above the skies, Christ, the Lamb for sinners given, enters now the highest. Heaven. What Paul is saying in verse 9 and 10 is that our King Jesus went from the very depths of the earth in terms of experiencing our humanity and then tasting death. To reign above all powers, all principalities, to possess total supremacy as our reigning king. Simply put, verses 9 and 10 simply say that the Lord went from a lowly humiliation to a glorious exaltation. You could even say that Ephesians 4, 9 and 10 is like a shorthand for Philippians 2. Where Paul writes, Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. But he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men and being found in human form. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Therefore what? God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above all names, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. In heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And the point that Paul is making is that the reigning ascending Christ, as the reigning, ascending Christ gives gifts, And those gifts can be people who serve as gifts to the church, as we see in verse 11-12 that he gave pastors and teachers and apostles and evangelists to equip the church. to serve. And he also bestows spiritual gifts to all of his people according to his wisdom, his grace, in order to build up the body. Now, I don't want to get lost in the weeds here, but if you turn to Psalm 68 and you look at verse 18 , You may have noticed something that's different between Psalm 68, 18 in your Old Testament translation, and Paul's rendition of it in verse 8. Psalm 68, 18 says that the Lord took gifts from men, and Paul, quoting from Psalm 68, says that he gave gifts To men. to men Old Testament says he took gifts. New Testament, Paul says that he gave gifts. Now, is that a contradiction? Is Paul somehow misquoting Scripture? Not at all. There's no quandary here. For one thing, some of the Old Testament translations that were available to Paul used the word gave instead of took. For example, like the Aramaic paraphrase of the Old Testament, which Paul may have been using. But it's also true that a victorious king would both take the spoils of war and then he would give them to his people. In other words, the king would both receive and then give back what he received to his faithful followers. And we see the Lord doing this himself in the Old Testament in Numbers 8. 18, where the Lord takes the Levi. to serve in the temple instead of the firstborn among the people of Israel. And then he takes those Levites and He gives them back to Aaron, as a gift to Aaron and to his sons, to do the service for the people of Israel in the tent of meeting. So the Lord in the Old Testament receives and then gives, and in the New Testament, the Lord Jesus as God, as the conquering king, both receives and gives. The words of Peter in Acts 2 bear this out when he said on the day of Pentecost in verse 32. This Jesus God raised up, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit. What has he done? He has poured out, he has given out this manifestation of the Holy Spirit, which you are seeing and hearing today. Now all of that is to say that Jesus receives, and what he receives, he gives. The ascended Christ has received from the Father all power, dominion, and glory, and then he shares the glory that he has received from the Father with us, so that we may be one as He and the Father are one, as Jesus prayed in John 17, 22. Now we're going to return back to these verses in a few weeks, but I want to leave you with one final application. That doesn't have so much to do with spiritual gifts, but has everything to do with the fact that we have a Savior who descended the earth and is now ascended to the very heights of heaven. I know that many of you are struggling That you have been dealing with temptation, that you may have been dealing with significant family struggles. Some of you are facing serious illness or have a loved one who is. Or you have a loved one who is facing death. And for you, it's been a hard week. It's been a difficult month. It's been a sobering year So what does it mean for you with all that is going on in your life, with all the hurts and afflictions that you have experienced, that your Savior has descended and lived on earth, and now is ascended far above all heavens, all powers and principalities. How does that frame your thinking or encourage your heart? Do you let that truth That reality sink deep into the marrow of your soul to offer you comfort and encouragement. Think about what that means for you right now. That He descended and that He took on our humanity. Doesn't Hebrews 4. 15 come to mind? For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But we have one who has been tempted in every way, yet without sin. So what? Let us approach the throne of grace with confidence That we may find what? Mercy and grace to help us in our time of need. And since Christ descended, he knows what it is to be betrayed. He knows what it is to be wounded by a friend. And because he descended to this fallen world, what was he? He was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. So he understands our loss. He understands your pain, your depression, your sadness. But the Lord has more than just a sympathetic ear. He has more than just a sympathetic heart. Yes. He is also the one who ascended into heaven. He is the ascended sovereign Lord who has said all power and authority has been given unto me. So that means that he's in control of every single aspect of your life. And when the world seems like it's careening out of control, what is he then? He is our refuge and our strength. He is an ever-present help in time of trouble. And we can stand on the promises of his word because his word is true since he speaks it as the sovereign king over all and who knows all. And his word is the foundation for the hope that we have. For we stand on the precious promises that he is working out, his purposes in our lives for our good. And the truth that there is at nothing, nothing can separate us from the love of Christ, neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers. nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. Nothing, nothing will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Amen? You know, he told his disciples in John 16, 7. Beloved, it's really to your advantage that I go away. And we can't imagine them just saying, what? Jesus? What are you talking about? How can that be? Why would it be better for you to leave us? After all, you're the perfect man who speaks truth, who shows compassion, who heals the sick, who feeds the hungry. Why on earth would it be better for you to leave this earth? We don't want you to leave. But Jesus said, if I don't leave you, if I don't leave you, if I don't ascend to heaven, then I cannot send to you my Holy Spirit Who is your helper? Who is your comforter? Who is your counselor? And when I ascend, you will receive my spirit Who will convict you of sin? Who will teach you? Who will comfort you? Who will intercede for you in your prayers? But I cannot give him until I ascend to my throne as a conquering king. But when I do Oh, when I do, I promise you this. You will all know me better than you even know me now. For what will be your experience? You won't just have me in your presence. Oh no. You won't have me in your presence like you do now. You will have my very spirit indwelling within you. And with my spirit indwelling within you, you will know me more intimately with more immediacy than you can ever dream. Or imagine. And not only will I be with you every single moment, but I will empower you. you by my grace to do all things that pertain to life and godliness Now you may feel lonely, but my beloved, you are never alone. You may be fearful, but my perfect love casts out fear. I will fulfill my promise of Ezekiel 37, which says, my dwelling place will be with them. I will be their God, and they will be my people. So I will dwell with you. As my spirit indwells within you until the day that you shall see me face to face, and you will dwell in my house forever. Beloved, can we ever fully fathom what it means to know that Jesus Christ indwells within us? Through his spirit? How can that ever be commonplace or boring What an astounding privilege it is to know and to be known by the King of Kings and Lord of Lords who is enthroned above the highest heavens. As the psalmist says, such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. So if you are trusting in Christ, then you have a relationship with the Lord who is overall, who has given us gifts according to the measure of his grace. But even more so. He has given us the greatest gift of all In the giving of his spirit, he is given of himself to us individually So how does that truth? How does that truth, how does that reality bring you comfort and peace in your trials and afflictions? Let's pray. O Gracious Father God, we are just overwhelmed with your grace. That you would vanquish sin and death through your precious Son, whose death on the cross has given us everlasting life with you? And what is more, that you by your Spirit inhabit our hearts so that we can know you intimately That we can call out to you through your Spirit who is our comforter and our counselor and our guide. O gracious Lord, we pray that we would fully avail ourselves of this privilege of being known by you and knowing you. And that you indeed give us grace to be able to use our gifts for the advancement of your body and grace. kingdom. We ask all these things in your precious name, O Lord Jesus, be our vision, we ask. In your name we pray. Amen.