Let's begin at verse 14. Now uh Joseph's brothers have been brought back to uh he's they're being confronted now. So Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, and he was still there, and they fell before him on the ground. And Joseph said to them, What deed is this that you have done? Did you not know that such a man as I can certainly practice divination? Then Judah said, What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak? Or how shall we clear ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. Here we are, my lord's slaves, both we and he also with whom the cup was found. But he said, Far be it from me that I should do so. The man in whose hand the cup was found, he shall be my slave. And as for you, go up in peace to your father. Then Judah came near to him and said, Oh my Lord, please let your Lord's servant speak a word to my in my Lord's hearing. And do not let your anger burn against your servant, for you are even like Pharaoh. My Lord asked his servant, saying, Have you a father or a brother? And we said to my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, who is young. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children, and his father loves him Then you said to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him. And we said to my lord, The lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die. But you said to your servants, unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall see my face no more So it was when we went up to your servant, my father, that we told him the words of my Lord. And our father said, go back and buy us a little food. But we said we cannot go down. If our youngest brother is with us, then we will go down, for we may not see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us. Then your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons, and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn to pieces, and I have not seen him since. But if you take this one also from me, and calamity befalls him, you shall bring down my gray hair with sorrow to the grave. Now, therefore, when I come to your servant, my father, and the lad is not with us, since his life is bound up in the lad's life, it will happen when he sees that the lad is not with us, that he will die. And so your servants will bring down the grey hair of your servant our father with sorrow to the grave. For your servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father forever. Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the lad as a slave to my lord. And let the lad go up with his brothers For how shall I go up to my father if the lad is not with me? And perhaps I see the evil that would come upon my father. Then Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood by him, and he cried out, Make everyone go out from me. So no one stood with him while Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard it. Then Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Does my father still live? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. And Joseph said to his brothers, Please come near to me. So they came near. Then he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt But now do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. For God sent me before you to preserve life. For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are still five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvesting And God sent me before you to preserve a posterity for you in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you who sent me here, but God. And he has made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Hurry and go up to my father, and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me. Do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near to me, you and your children, and your children's children, your flocks and your herds and all that you have. There I will provide for you, lest you and your household and all that you have come to poverty, for there are still five years of famine. And behold, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speaks to you. So you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt and of all that you have seen. And you shall hurry and bring my father down here. Then he fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck. Moreover, he kissed all his brothers and wept over them. And after that His brothers talk with him. We'll stop there for this morning. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Oh God, speak to us now from your holy word. Teach us from this inspired word, God-breathed word. All scriptures given by inspiration of God, all of it is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, and Instruction in righteousness. Use your word. In our hearts this day, we ask. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. We uh will dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs as we approach God's Word this morning One of two sons of Jacob's beloved wife, Rachel. Joseph was the favorite of his father. Resented and hated by his older brothers, Joseph at age 17 was sold by them to a caravan headed for Egypt. These Midianite traders then sold Joseph to Potifar, an officer of Pharaoh. Potiphar saw that the Lord was with Joseph, and then he made all that Joseph did to prosper, so he made Joseph overseer of his house. However, Joseph was handsome, and Potiphar's wife cast her eye upon him and coveted him. But he resisted her entreaties. How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God, he said. When she realized that her seductive wiles could not breach the defensive wall of righteousness that had been been built up over many years around Joseph's heart and mind, when she saw that her darts were all stopped by his shield of faith. Her lust gave way to anger. She who had betrayed a husband now betrayed a servant. She accused Joseph of forcing himself upon her, and Potiphar, in his fury, confined Joseph to an Egyptian dungeon. Yet even there, the Lord was with Joseph. Joseph remained faithful to the Lord, and the Lord gave him favor in the sight of the keepers of the prison. Pharaoh's chief butler and baker angered him in some way. They were confined to the prison, and Joseph was assigned to tend to them. Joseph saw they were dejected one morning. He asked why. They explained that they had each had a dream But there was no one to interpret it. Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell them to me, Joseph said. And God enabled Joseph to interpret the dreams. He told the butler that in three days he would be restored to Pharaoh's side, and he asked the butler to remember him and make mention of him to Pharaoh and get him out of that prison, for he had been falsely accused. It happened just as Joseph said, the butler was restored, but he forgot about Joseph until two years later when Pharaoh himself had vivid dreams that no one could interpret. The butler told him about Joseph. Joseph was summoned. Pharaoh told him his dreams. The first, seven fat cows devoured by seven gaunt cows. The second dream, seven plump heads of grain devoured by seven thin heads of grain. Joseph explained that the dreams, the two dreams, were one. The seven plump cows and the seven plump grains represented seven years of plenty that were to come. The seven thin cows and the seven thin heads of grain represented seven years of famine, during which all that plenty would be forgotten, and the land would be depleted. Joseph advised Pharaoh to appoint a man with wisdom and discernment over the land who would himself appoint other officers who would collect one-fifth of the produce of the land. during the seven plentiful years to be stored up in reserve for the seven years of famine. The advice pleased Pharaoh, who by the way may have been young, and you notice Joseph says Pharaoh treated me as his father, and Joseph was only 30 years old. He recognized Joseph's wisdom and discretion, and he appointed him to be overseer in Egypt. He gave Joseph his signet ring, clothed him in fine linen, put a gold chain around his neck, and had him ride in the second chariot. He gave him a wife and great honor. So at the age of 30, after 13 years languishing as a slave and as a prisoner, Joseph found himself through a remarkable series of events. in God's providence, the viceroy of Egypt seconded honor to Pharaoh himself. The seven years of plenty came, just as God had revealed to Joseph And Joseph gathered very much grain as the sand of the sea, until he stopped counting, for it was immeasurable. Genesis 41, 49 Then the seven years of famine began to come, and Joseph sold grain to the Egyptians and to all the countries in the area, of course, building up the wealth of Egypt. The famine extended to Canaan, and Joseph's father Jacob sent his sons to Egypt to buy grain, holding back Joseph's younger brother. Rachel had died delivering this child, and she had named him Ben Oni , son of my sorrow. But Jacob renamed this last of his twelve sons Ben-Yamin, son of my right hand. When Joseph's brothers came to Egypt and appeared before him, Joseph made himself strange to them. He spoke to them through an interpreter, although of course he could understand their Hebrew. Without revealing himself, they had last seen him as a 17-year-old being led away captive. This is the last place they would expect him to be. Joseph spoke gruffly to them and accused them of being spies. He put Simeon, one of them, in prison, and declared that they would not see him again unless they brought their younger brother Benjamin, by which they would prove that their story was true. and that they were not spies. The brothers recognized that what was happening to them was because of what they had done to Joseph so many years before. We are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us, and we would not hear. Chapter 42, verse 21. Joseph, of course, knew what they were saying, and he turned aside and wept. The nine brothers returned to their father with grain, discovering to their chagrin that all the money they had used to buy food had been returned to their sacks. Now we're going to be in big, big trouble if we ever go back to Egypt, they no doubt thought. Which brings us to the part of the story that we consider today. When they had eaten all their grain, their father asked them to return, but they said we will not go back unless we bring Benjamin. We just read it. It's fresh in your minds. Jacob resisted, but finally relented. In desperation, they he sent them with double the money they had brought the first time, uh, plus uh uh extra money for their uh for uh the new purchase along with some gifts for the overseer of Egypt to pacify what they expected would be his anger When Joseph saw them, he told the steward to take him to his house, and there he prepared, they prepared a meal for his brothers. And of course, as we saw, that's where he revealed Uh or that's where first, I'm sorry, not yet, that's where uh he had they had a meal together and then he told the servant to hide that silver cup and in uh Benjamin's sack. Then he sent a servant to uh catch them on their way. They hadn't been gone very long, brought them re he found the the g silver cup silver cup, wasn't it, in uh in Joseph's uh uh in Benjamin's sack brought the servant brought them all back to Joseph and uh and here was the real test. Would they sacrifice Benjamin as they had so freely sacrificed Joseph But no uh uh Judah pleaded for the life of his youngest brother. He couldn't go back and tell his father. uh that uh Benjamin w uh a calamity had befallen Benjamin, uh just as the father feared. And when Joseph saw that uh uh tenderness and love of Judah, both for his father, for his brother Brother Benjamin, and evidence of genuine repentance for what they had done. Joseph broke down and he wept. He sent everyone out and he revealed himself to his brother. You might ask why was uh Joseph so harsh with his brothers? What was he doing here? I think as we mentioned last week. I believe the elaborate ruse was simply to determine if his brothers were genuinely repentant, if they had learned anything over these past 20 years. And so we learn something here about, first of all, repentance. Repentance. He wanted to bring to their minds. the the sin that they had committed uh twenty years before to see if there had been any change of heart. With uh Joseph long out of the way, Benjamin remained as the only remaining son of Jacob's beloved Rachel the child of his old age. Did the older brothers resent and hate Benjamin as they had hated Joseph? They willingly made a slave of Joseph. How would they respond to witnessing Benjamin being made made a slave. Joseph was probing here. He was trying to discern their hearts, much as Jesus did with Peter after the resurrection when they sat by the Sea of Galilee. Do you love me more than these others? Do you love me more than these? So the first great truth we're reminded of in this passage is the necessity of repentance. It's it it's not an unfamiliar theme for us. We have emphasized it before. For 20 years these brothers had carried their guilt without confessing it to their father, or presumably to God. This is a terrible state to be in, having committed a grievous sin, but not having confessed it and repented of it. The true believers among them were probably expecting God's chastening at any time, wondering how it would come. The Lord tells us as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Revelation three. You may remember when you as a child, having disobeyed your parents in some way, uh and maybe broken something in the house or cowering in fear in your bedroom for the the moment when the deed was discovered And for the punishment that was surely coming when your father got home. What miserable hours were thus spent, or so I've been told. For the believer , it's not just the chastening that is dreaded, it's that lost communion with the Father. And this is why it affects uh This is how that that unconfessed sin, that unrepented of sin affects everything else. When I kept silent, my bones grew old through my groaning all the day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My vitality was turned into the drought of summer. David cried, Psalm thirty two There is no soundness in my flesh because of your anger, nor any health in my bones because of my sin, for my iniquities have gone over my head like a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. My wounds are foul and festering because of my foolishness, Psalm 38. I don't know what transgressions you may have committed. I don't know what guilt you may be carrying right now But I know that only through confession and repentance can you find peace and forgiveness. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 1 John 1 9. Repentance and confession are essential for every one of us, for every believer. Jesus said he who is bathed needs only to wash his feet. John chapter 13. Verse 10. If we've been bathed by the Spirit at our salvation, we're cleansed from sin 's defilement. But as we walk through this world, our feet That point of contact between us and the world becomes soiled and they require cleansing. He that is bathed needs only wash his feet. So repentance is needed for believers. That's why we repent. On Sunday mornings, we confess. We have a confession before God. We know our sins have been forgiven, past, present, and future, but We still get defiled in this world, don't we? We still violate God's word in our thoughts, in our words, in our actions. It's essential. Repentance is essential for each believer. And repentance is, of course, essential for each unbeliever. Jesus said, those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, current event that happened in Jesus' day, do you think they were worse sinners than all other men who dwelt at Jerusalem? I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Luke 13. John the Baptizer's message was repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. What must we do? Repent! The kingdom of God is at hand. Mark 1. 5. Jesus told the adulterous woman, go and sin no more. After his resurrection, he told his apostles that repentance and remission of sins must be preached in his name to all nations. Luke 24, 47. And Peter preached at Pentecost. Repent and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. Acts 2. 38. Later he preached to the residents of Jerusalem, Repent and be converted that your sins may be blotted out. Acts 3. 19 And Paul declared in Athens that God now commands all men everywhere to repent. Acts 17, verse 30. Now there are at least two reasons why in our culture this preaching of repentance has fallen out of favor. One of them is that to declare that you need to repent is to declare that you have sinned before a holy God. That you have engaged in behavior that requires repentance. And if you really want to build up a church, that's not what you want to be telling people. You people are all sinners. You've all offended a holy God. You failed to do what you ought to have done, and thus you need to repent for that. But there have been some influential voices over the last several decades telling us that our biggest problem is We don't esteem ourselves highly enough. Telling people that they're sinners is thus the worst thing we can do for them. We should be telling them how wonderful they are until they begin to believe it. One prominent minister in the late 20th century went so far as to say, quote, Jesus never told anyone he was a sinner, unquote. His philosophy was evidently people who preach in glass cathedrals shouldn't throw stones One wonders then what Jesus meant when he said, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. The other reason that repentance has fallen out of favor, even among evangelicals, is that we proclaim boldly that there's nothing a sinner needs to do other than believe in Jesus Christ for salvation How am I saved? Believe in Jesus Christ and you're saved. They imagine that we are adding some additional step, some work that a sinner must perform before he or she can be saved. But the biblical answer is repentance is itself the gift of God. When Peter explained how the Gentiles in Cornelius' house had been converted and baptized with the Holy Spirit, The Jews glorified God, saying, quote, Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance unto life. Acts chapter 11. God has granted to the Gentiles what? This gift of repentance unto life. Repentance is essential to salvation. If you've never truly repented of your sins, then you've never truly been regenerated. The Lord doesn't grant salvation to unrepentant sinners. Joseph was probing to see if his brothers were willing to leave Benjamin. Back in Egypt as a slave, just as they had sent Joseph to Egypt to be a slave. Were they truly sorry for what they had done? Or would they save their own necks again and leave Benjamin behind? Judah begged, if we return without Benjamin, it'll be the death of our father. We would bring down his gray hair and sorrow to the grave. Please let me stay in Benjamin's place. So Joseph saw that their repentance was real. He saw evidence of it. And he couldn't restrain himself any longer. He sent everyone away and he wept. His brothers were, of course, fearful when they realized this is Joseph. This is the one we betrayed. This is the one we sold as a slave. This is the one we had determined to kill before we changed our minds. And decided to let him live. But Joseph said, Do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. Or God sent me before you to preserve life. It was not you who sent me here, but God. Joseph's response reminds us of something else. We talk about repentance. Let's talk about a bit about anger. Joseph's response reminds us of the folly of anger and hatred. Notice what he did not do. We're making a point out of how he responded here. He didn't fall upon his brothers. He didn't have soldiers there to arrest them all. He didn't say, thirteen years I served as a slave or in the dungeon, and every day my anger and my hatred grew. Now you will know the darkness of an Egyptian dungeon. Arrest them all! He didn't respond that way. On the contrary, we see here no anger, no hatred, no resentment, no vengeful spirit. Instead, he had the spirit that would later be encouraged by the Apostle Paul, dearly beloved. Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Romans 12, 19. Let me remind you, anger in itself is not sinful. Jesus knew no sin, but Jesus knew anger Entering the synagogue on the Sabbath day, he found a man there with a withered hand, and the Pharisees were watching him closely to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath day. So they would have grounds to accuse him. We read, when he had looked around on them with anger, being grieved with the hardness of their hearts. He healed a man with a withered hand. He said to him, Stretch out your hand. Anger in itself is not sinful any more than any other emotion is in itself sinful. But anger, frequently, I would venture to say most often, results in sin. It is, anger is for us a trigger to sin. How do we sin? Well, we we vent our anger on others. First of all, we ventilate it. Raising our voice, uh using cutting remarks or uh foul language. It may be accompanied by foot stomping and and uh uh arm waving and chair kicking and uh and wall punching and hair pulling and dog chasing and cat throwing. Oh All such response to anger is under most circumstances sinful, with the possible exception of the cat throwing And the scripture says, a fool gives full vent to his anger, but the wise man, holding it back, quiets it. A fool gives full vent to his anger, but the wise man holding it back quiets it. Proverbs 29, 11. Like a city whose wall is broken down, so is a man whose spirit is without restraint. It's like a city whose wall was broken down. You have no defenses. See Satan walks right in. Proverbs 25, 28. He who is quick-tempered acts Foolishly. Proverbs 14, 17. In fact, that's why God says you can't choose someone to serve in your church as a leader in the church if he's quick-tempered. That's why elders, deacons, officers in the church are not to be quick-tempered. We had a vivid illustration of this truth just a few days ago when the governor of Maine reportedly left an expletive laden tirade on the voicemail of a state representative who had said something that displeased the governor The emotional outburst made national news. When you give full vent to your anger, that way And someone attempts to calm you down, you know, settle down, calm down. Your wife or your child or your cat, the standard thought or response is, I can't help it. And I'm so angry, I've gotta let it out. I can't control it when I get this mad. Well, let me remind you, yes, you can, and yes you do. Uh when you're in a worship service and you become angry with your child or someone else's for talking or moving around or putting gum in your hair, uh uh what do you do You don't uh throw a hindle at the child, you don't yell, you don't swear, I haven't heard it. Uh why not? If anger is something you can control, how is it that you do control it when you're at church? How is it that you do control it when you're at a restaurant? How is it that you do control it when you're at work Isn't it true that you explode only when you think you can get away with it? For example, in your home, and only then when the doors are closed, maybe the blinds are down. Secondly, another sinful response to anger is to keep it inside, to harbor it, to build up a deep-seated resentment, bitterness, like that California man I read about who made every alimony payment to his ex-wife in nickels. That weighed a hundred and sixty pounds. What is the proper response to anger? The proper response to anger is to become solution-oriented. Become solution-oriented-oriented. Remember on Father's Day we gave that illustration of dad driving home after a tough day at work and he finds the kid's one of his son 's bikes. Well well the son only has one bike. He he finds the son 's bike in the in the driveway, and it's raining. And uh so what does he do? Well, he becomes angry. So far he hasn't sinned. This is the new bike. This is why I'm working these long hours to be able to buy nice stuff for my kids and my family. And I bought this bike and uh and now it's out there in the rain. It's rusting. So so far you haven't sinned. But if you march into that house, you're ranning, you're raving, you're yelling at your child, you're looking for the cat Y you you you're angry at your wife because of course your wife ought to know at any given moment where the bicycle is Uh i if you come in and you make a a foolish vow, you know, to your uh son, as we said on Father's Day, you know, you're not gonna you can't ride a bike till you're eighteen or whatever. Then then you have sinned. Now what should you have done? You should have stayed in that car for a few minutes, just relaxed, listened to the soft rain Rusting the bike. Then you should have gone in after you've calmed down and and said, uh Bobby, you need to go out and get your bike. It's out in the rain, then come in, I want to talk to you. Dry it off, make sure it's dry because you don't want it to rust, put it in the garage. And then you sit down and you explain stewardship. You explain the importance of taking care of what God prov provides for us, what God blesses us with. And then you institute a fair punishment. Maybe, all right, now I want you to learn this lesson, so I don't want you to ride your bike tomorrow or maybe the next day or whatever you determine. And then maybe you develop a way to prevent it from happening again. Look, let's put a bike rack in the garage and you have a place to always hang it. And then on on that chart on the on the refrigerator that lists all your responsibilities, we'll add add one there. Make sure your bike is inside So this doesn't happen again. Okay? So that's how your child learns. That's how your child grows. You want to lasso and harness your anger, and you want to ride it to a solution. Joseph had evidently done this with his anger. He dealt with his anger long before this reunion. He harbored no hatred or resentment for his brothers. And that brings up the subject of forgiveness. God made it clear to us in his word that forgiveness should be preceded by repentance. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. Say ignore it. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day returns to you saying, I repent, you shall forgive him. Why? Because you do that with God all the time. You keep asking for forgiveness for things that He's already forgiven you for before, and you've done again. That's Luke 17, 3 and 4. But what if, as in Joseph's case, for 20 years we can't personally confront the offender? What if, for example, let's take the worst case scenario, someone murders a member of my family? How do I respond then? I don't even know who did it. Someone murders a member of my family. Suppose the killer is never caught. What then? Well, I can either let bitterness consume me or I can entrust the matter to God For his justice. In effect, you might say, forgiving that offender in my heart, although as far as I know, he's never repented. But suppose the killer is apprehended and convicted Well, my first goal would not be to go to him and tell him I'm forgiven. It would be, as Joseph's was, to determine if there were any signs of repentance. To help him see the exceeding value of human life, to help him see what he did to our family by taking away that family member. And to help them to understand the forgiveness that's offered through Jesus Christ when we repent and embrace him Loving my enemy, you see, doesn't mean telling some unrepentant murderer that he's forgiven. That's fine, you can murder as many times as you want, we're going to forgive you every time you do. Loving my enemy means seeking what is best for him or her, and what is best for him is for him to be caught and brought to justice if he's murdered, and to see his sin as truly wicked. Vile to repent of it and lay hold upon Jesus Christ for salvation. That, loving my enemy. The Lord doesn't extend formal forgiveness to sinners until they repent, and he doesn't ask us to do so either. As I've said before on the subject, it might be a little confusing when Jesus on the cross said uh father forgive them for they know not what they do. We say, Well isn't that a case of forgiving these people who hadn't repented? But I think he was referring to the Roman soldiers who were only following orders. They're putting nails in his po in his hands, in his feet. They're crucifying this man as far as they know he's some robber or murderer like the others, only following orders as they execute the sinless son of God, and Jesus says, Father forgive them, they know not what they do. The Sadducees, the Pharisees, the chief priests, on the other hand, they conspired to have an innocent man put to death because of envy. They knew what they were doing and they needed to repent of it. And then we learned something here about providence. Joseph says, don't be grieved Or angry with yourselves because you sold me here for God sent me before you to preserve life. So now it wasn't you who sent me here, but God. Well wait a minute, it was them, wasn't it? Yeah, it was them. They committed a sinful act and they were responsible for it. But in the sovereign plan of God, he had something else. going on that they couldn't understand. Perhaps this is the greatest lesson of Joseph's life. Whatever befalls the Christian, however dark things may appear, A loving, sovereign king has everything under his control, and he's accomplishing his purposes even through the evil acts of men. As Betsy Ten Boom put it as she neared death in that Nazi concentration camp. We must tell people what we have learned here. We must tell them that there is no pit so deep. That he is not deeper still. They will listen to us, she said to Corey, because we have been here Some of you find yourself in a pit right now. Do you believe that God is deeper still? And then we learn something here about love. Judas , tender intercession for his youngest brother. Let me take his place. Let me be a slave instead of him. What a beautiful picture of what would take place centuries later when one would arise out of Judah's own family to make just such a transaction. The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. We've spoken of repentance, anger, forgiveness, providence, and love, and they all meet together in the gospel. Anger, the justified anger of God towards sin. God is angry with the wicked every day, the scripture says. He will by no means clear the guilty. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. Love. The love that provided away. Greater love has no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friends. The second person of the Trinity was willing out of love for sinners to leave the majesty above, to take upon himself human flesh, to fulfill God's righteous law in every single respect. And then to give his life a ransom for many. And then providence. The evil acts of wicked men plotting against Jesus because of envy. Just as Joseph's brothers plotted against him, but overruled by a sovereign God to accomplish his purposes. And now, through repentance and faith, you and I can find forgiveness and peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. If you've never acknowledged yourself to be a sinner, if you've never seen that sin as vile and turned from it in disgust and said, God, I can see my pride, my selfishness, my anger, my hatred, the arguments I have, the things I say, the things I think, the lust in my heart. Lord, I see it and I don't like it. Lord, forgive me. Lord, I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life and died upon the cross and rose again. Save me for his sake. You've never come to God that way, you can do that today. God be merciful to me as Come as a little child, not proud and puffed up, but empty-handed. Ravi Zacharias writes, when the missionary John Payton arrived in the New Hebrides in the mid-1800s, he began translation work on the New Testament. First, he had to reduce their language to writing. He worked with his young helper to come to come up with a vocabulary, but he didn't know how to illustrate the word believe. It would be hard, wouldn't it? How do you explain what it is to believe? Finally, when he leaned on a chair in such a way that his whole weight was on it, the concept of trust emerged. John 3. 16 now reads in their Bible, For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son that whoever throws his whole weight upon him will not perish But have eternal life. The Greek verb to believe is fistuo, to trust in, to rest in. And so throwing your whole weight upon him is an excellent translation. I'm not trusting in myself, my goodness, my heritage, my spirituality, my sense of fair play. I'm a sinner who deserves the wrath of the Holy God, but I've thrown my whole weight upon Jesus. And I'm resting in his finished work for me. That's what saving faith is. And that's what I pray each one of you has done. You come to God that way, all your sins will be forgiven. You'll have eternal life. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me, I will by no means cast Let's pray. Oh Lord, may we be resting, trusting. May we be casting our whole weight upon you. Not trusting in any good thing we've done, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Please, Lord. Help us to rest in Jesus Christ alone. We ask it in his glorious name. Amen. Would you stand? And let's uh close our service with a hymn we don't sing very often. It's number 21 in your hymn. God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform. We're going to sing it to the tune of amazing grace. 21. God knows we know mission His one girls who were four implants