I'm going to invite you to take your Bibles as we turn together to the letter of First Corinthians. Chapter 1, verses 10 to 17. And if you haven't stood, please stand if you are able for the reading of God's Holy Word. First Corinthians chapter one verses ten to seventeen. This is the word of the Lord. I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. For it has been reported to me by Chloe 's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. What I mean is that each one of you says, I follow Paul, or I follow Apollos. Or I follow Cephas, or I follow Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptize none of you except Crispus and Gaius, so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. I did baptize also the household of Stephanus. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today. We pray that you would, by your Spirit, incline our hearts to your word. Lord, one of the promises of the New Covenant, as you gave it in the Old Testament and as it's repeated in the New Testament, Is that you would take your word, that you would put it in our minds, and that you would write it on our hearts. Another way that Ezekiel said it is that you would take out the heart of stone and give us a heart of flesh, that is a heart that is renewed. Lord, we pray that this morning as we come into your word, that as we hear you speak to us, that you would take this, put it in our minds. Write it on our hearts that we may live it out faithfully for your glory, Lord Jesus. And it's in your name that we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, this is a passage that really gets to the heart of what Paul is dealing with in the Church of Corinth. If you've been following this series for the last two sermons now, this is the third in this book that we've gotten to thus far, we've looked at the greeting, we've seen all these New Testament letters. usually come with a greeting and and a time of thanksgiving. And we saw last week that Paul was giving thanks for the gifts of the Spirit. That he found so evident in the Church of Corinth, and yet he refocused them, talking about the spiritual gifts, to say the emphasis is not on you as those who have those gifts. and are using them, the emphasis is on Christ, who's to be glorified through those gifts. Now he switches gears and he gets to the main problem that we see that will kind of follow us through the books that he addresses in many different ways. And we see our main idea this morning is that God's word begins to address Division in the local church by appealing to unity on Christ's authority or by Christ's authority And it also does this by pointing us to the power of the gospel signified in baptism. It's a really dense idea. In fact, if you have your bulletin and you're visiting with us this morning and you don't know this, you can see the sermon idea printed on the top of page six for you. Let me repeat that because that's the idea we really want to unpack this morning in this short but meaningful passage God 's Word begins to address the division in the local church by appealing to unity on Christ's authority and by pointing us to the power of the gospel. signified in baptism. And so in verses 10 through 13, we begin this morning with our first main point, the appeal to those who are divided. The appeal to those divided. We see this in verse 10 with the substance of the appeal. And so moving from thanksgiving down to the main issue of the book, he begins verse 10. saying, and I would draw your attention again to verse ten. He says, I appeal to you brothers by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind. and the same judgment. As we look at the substance of this appeal, we see the authority of the substance here And the way Paul begins this, he really lays out the nature and the heart that he has for these Corinthian believers by the words that he chooses. Notice the words. He uses appeal. By the way, you could also translate that word appeal to I encourage or I exhort or I entreat. In some contexts it could even mean I comfort. I'm not sure that means comfort here, but there's something of Paul's heart here in saying that I encourage or I entreat. Notice he calls them brothers. That's really important. I appeal to you, brothers. Now, by the way, when you see brothers in the New Testament as a form of address , It's not that he's only speaking to men. In many of these languages, Spanish is very similar. There are masculine forms of words and there are feminine forms of words and oftentimes the masculine is the catch-all for everybody. But he's speaking to them with terms of endearment, with terms of familiarity I encourage or entreat you, my brothers. Now, that signifies to you that while he's dealing with a very, very Deep and profound heart issue among these Corinthians. He's not just coming down and dropping the hammer on them He's almost appealing to them as a father would his children, or brothers appealing to one another. Now, that doesn't sound like authority. But notice how he follows that up in verse 10. I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, or in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is where the authority comes. Because when he says that he's speaking in the name of the Lord Jesus, in other words, he's not speaking under his own authority, even though he's established that as an apostle in the greeting. He's doing this under the authority of Christ. In other words, to say, thus saith the Lord, not thus saith Paul, thus saith the Lord Jesus Christ. Now You notice those are not throwaway words. So what's he appealing to them to do? Well, we see three substantial aspects to this appeal again in verse 10. There's three things that he wants to to highlight that gets at the heart of where these people are at. And I want you to notice the structure of this. He noted in these three things, the first and the third thing are positive, the second thing is negative I mentioned this before that when I like to correct people or have to correct people, not that I like to do it, but when I have to at times, I like to focus, start with something on the positive and end with something positive And put in the middle the thing that I need to address. That's what Paul does here. And it's very wise. Notice what he says. That all of you agree is the first thing. Now, the way that that's literally worded in the original Greek that Paul wrote this in, he literally tells them, I appeal to you, brothers, to say the same things. That's what he's saying. And I think the ESV very wisely gets at what he means by that. He means agreement. He wants a sense of agreement among these Corinthian believers. We saw the reason as being important back in verse 5. Remember when we saw last week that uh much of their spiritual gifting in verse 5, that in every way you were enriched in him, that's in Christ. in all speech and all knowledge. I mean those are gifts that these Gentiles as Greeks would tend to value and cherish. And now he's telling them that you say the same thing, that you agree in the way that you use your gifts of speech, the way you use your gifts of knowledge. They're to use those spiritual gifts to go in the same united direction with one another, and that direction is supposed to be centered on and going towards Jesus Christ. Now, when he says to say the same things or have the same mind among you, be in agreement, this has to do with doctrine. This has to do with the very foundation of what they claim to believe, that it must be centered on Jesus Christ. So that's the first thing that all of you agree. What's the second thing? And that there be no divisions among you. So he's getting at the symptom of the problem that he's addressing overall. Division is the symptom. Don't miss that. Like when you get sick, you may have symptoms that you see outwardly, but the symptoms them necessarily is not itself, the problem or the disease or the illness. This is the symptom. The Greek word for divisions is probably a word you can pick apart as an English speaker. It's schismata. Schism is our English word. Division is also a good word, but schism is what it sounds like. We all know what schism is. It's a word that means it can be used for power struggles such as engaging in political factions Something we've sadly seen this week. One event caused a lot of schism. You just look at social media and you can see the divide, right? That's that's an illustration of what he's talking about here. Another way to another illustration of that would be like you have a garment and you tear and rip it apart. You cause a Schism in the fabric. And so what Paul is saying here essentially when he's saying, let there be no divisions among you. Don't let people come in. And take the fabric of the church and rip it so that there is a large tear. Because obviously when you have a garment that is torn, it becomes useless. You can't wear it. You have to throw it away. And so this happens when people struggle with one another for the purposes of gaining power and gaining influence in the body of Christ. We'll see in just a moment what this looks like in more detail. But Paul warned, not the Corinthians, but the Ephesian elders, when he left them in the book of Acts and saw them for the last time, he said, Watch out lest savage wolves Rise up from among you, and notice he's speaking to elders in the church there when he says that And what what does he describe that they're going to do? How is it that what makes them such savage wolves? That they lead people after themselves. They magnify and glorify themselves rather than Christ. So he's warning here, don't let there be divisions among you. It happens when people in a local church don't agree or don't Say the same things as Paul said in his previous statement. Well, what's the positive thing? What's the opposite side of that? The third thing He appeals to them that they would be united in the same mind and the same judgment. Now I love some of the language that Paul uses here and it is it is intentional when he gives that negative uh command that there be no divisions, no schisms among you. Think of that imagery of tearing the garment again. That is so indicative of where he's going here when he says that you all be united Because that word that he uses there for this translated as united can also mean to restore something to a former condition. It can mean putting something in order again. But let me give you a different illustration of when that how that same word that he's using here for united is used. When Jesus is calling his disciples in Mark chapter 1, you remember when he sees James and John. They're sitting in the boat with their father Zebedee because they're fishermen. Uh Peter and Andrew have just been called, and they knew Peter and Andrew. Jesus sees them. But what are they doing as they sit in the boat? It says they are mending their nets. You can imagine as a fisherman, you know, you use your nets enough, you know, when you catch fish in them, the fish don't come peaceably, they struggle, and sometimes if you get big fish, they might tear the net. And so what are they doing? They are mending what has been torn so that it is useful for for fishing once again. The word that Paul uses here when he says that you be united, that word united is the same word for mending those nets. In other words, what he's saying is, something has happened in this church in Corinth that has torn the fabric of that church. And what he's telling them to do when he says that you be united, he's saying essentially, mend the broken material and the broken fabric that has caused the schism in your local church. That's what he's saying. How are they to accomplish that? Well, very simple. It's simple, but it's hard to do, isn't it? He says, by being of the same mind. And the same judgment. That's how you do it. That word judgment can also be rendered like opinions. Have the same opinions. Have the same outlook on life. Have the same outlook on values. be moving in the same direction together in the way you live, in the way you think This is how they are to agree in the same things, and I want you to think about that for just a moment, how that works. They're to return and rest on the truth of God's word and on the truth of the gospel as it's meant to be lived out. Divisions. Well, how does Paul know about this problem that he's addressing? Is the real question, one of the questions that comes up. Why does Paul talk about this now? And how did he know? Well, we see that in verses 11 through 13. Now, what is really fascinating is we work our way through this letter, what becomes apparent is the Corinthians had written a letter to Paul with certain questions that they had that they were seeking his advice on. You see that in uh indicative in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 1, as he begins to lay out principles for marriage and singleness and divorce even, he begins by saying, Now concerning the matters about which you wrote, So they wrote him a letter expressing problems. My hunch is that they did not list this problem of division in their church. They probably didn't put that in the letter out of embarrassment and maybe out of a sense of spiritual pride. So how did he know? Well look at verse eleven. You see that the problem has been reliably reported there. He says, for it has been reported to me by Chloe 's people that there is quarreling Among you, my brothers. And again, he uses that term of endearment. My brothers. There's division. How are they supposed to relate to each other in the midst of this division? As brothers. It's family. But it's been reported to me that there's quarreling. Now, who is Chloe? I don't know. I can tell you a few things. But we have to be honest, this is the only time in the New Testament that Chloe is named. Okay, she's not named anywhere else. So what can we know if we don't know much? Well what we can glean from her is this. Notice it says Chloe's people, and people is in the plural. That means That the division in the Church of Corinth was something that was witnessed by many different people. It's not just hearsay. It's not just one person said. It's a lot of people. Well again, we don't know how many, but the fact that there are many tell you that she is likely someone of influence. Maybe she had a house church that met in her home. where all these people were gathering around her and reporting. We we know that her people knew something about the Church of Corinth. Maybe she was in Ephesus. That's where Paul wrote this letter from, and people in her home church were friends with or had family in Corinth. Whatever the case may be, people that she knew knew what the problem was. They'd witnessed it and they had told Paul. And what's the problem? What did they witness? Quarreling. Now I don't know about you. Nobody likes to be around quarrelsome people. Right? What what does that mean? You know the type. People who complain and quarrel and they nitpick every detail of everything. I said before that division was the symptom. What's really the disease of the division? Well the disease is quarreling. Complaining. And by the way, I I was throwing maybe gossip in there What is gossip except for quarreling about someone to someone else who has nothing to do with it? Right? It's like indirect quarreling To get someone on your side, it's complaining. That's the problem that Paul is seeing here Quarreling is at the root that is leading to the division among the Corinthians. Now again, we'll unpack some of the more of the specifics as we work through this book of what kind of things they were quarreling over. But for now, suffice it to say, they're fighting with each other. And the problem leads to verse twelve. Factions. What did the quarreling look like? Well, verse twelve. What I mean is that each one of you says, I follow Paul, or I follow Apollos, or I follow Cephas , or I follow Christ. I mean, think about it. I mean, after all, why would someone say they follow Paul? I mean, he planted the church. And because he planted the church and they suffered with him, as we see in Acts chapter 18. Perhaps it was because of that that some people felt a special loyalty to Paul. That could be. But we also know from 1 Corinthians 1 17, the end of this passage this morning, or 1 Corinthians 10, verse 2, or Verse 10, that Paul was not very impressive in his personal presence He even admits that up front. People will say, you know, oh, he speaks so boldly in his letters, but he's not impressive in person, right? Others say I follow Apollos. Well, Apollos probably was a lot more impressive in his personal presence. We know that he was a very eloquent man. We know that he had a solid grasp of the scriptures, so much so that he would confound the Jews by arguing from the Old Testament that Jesus was the Messiah. I mean, coming from Alexandria, Egypt, which was an intellectual center in his day, you know, Apollos probably came off as really smart and impressive and professional and scholarly. And charismatic? That would draw a following. Right? Some say I follow Cephas. I mean Cephas is another name for the Apostle Peter. And we we all know that Jesus seemed to put Peter in charge of all the other apostles. Peter seemed to be the closest to Jesus. Or as our Catholic friends like to remind us, um, if from Matthew chapter sixteen, you know, what did Jesus say, Upon this you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build the church? They misunderstand that, don't they? It's really the rock of the gospel, the rock of confessing who Jesus is. Jesus is the stone of stumbling and the rock of offense, right? He's the stone upon which the whole foundation is laid. Now they make the mistake. Maybe people were making the mistake, same mistake in Corinth. Well, Peter was the one who whom the gospel came to the Jews of Pentecost and then the Samaritans and then the Gentiles of Cornelius. We follow Peter. Right? And some some say I I follow Christ. Now it's interesting as he interacts with these details. He never actually corrects that group that says, I follow Christ, but he's getting at a point here. The problem with quarreling that's led to division is that the division is expressed in factions. And factions seemed to have something to do with who people were willing or not willing to follow. It was the cult of personality. What does that sound familiar in our day and age and in the contemporary church today? The cult of personality and Let me brand myself this way so that people will follow me. There are ministries that do that. There are pastors that do that. Cult of personality. So what does Paul do? Notice in verse 13. Notice how he challenges the problem. He asks three questions in verse 13. They're pretty straightforward. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? Three questions. What is he doing with those three questions? Number one, let's note that they are rhetorical questions. They do have a no-answer for all of them, if you were to answer them. But is Paul expecting an answer? No, because it's obvious. That's the first thing. The second thing, what he's doing with these questions is he is drawing out the absurdity of these divisions. Philosophers and logicians would call this an argument ad absurdum. It means he's not just trying to make fools out of them, that's not the purpose, but he's trying to get them to see the foolishness. Of their thinking. Is Christ divided? No. He's not Was Paul crucified for you? No. In fact, later he will say, I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified, right? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul? No, you were not. So as he lays out the absurdity of these attitudes and these quarrels and these divisions or schisms , We ask the question, what are some of the causes of division? And how does Paul counsel us today through his appeal? Well, things like quarreling lead to factions, which then rends the unity that we're called to have in the body of Christ. That's the principle of application here. Things like quarreling lead to factions, which then rends the unity that we're called to have in the body of Christ. So what we see here for us today is an appeal to unity. has to deal with the source of schism, which is quarreling Which is why I think the Holy Spirit inspired the Apostle Paul to write this and put this in his holy word, which is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, because when you look at most churches today, Quarreling is an issue. And by the way, I say that because it's not like one church is better than another. It's not that quarreling was not an issue in other churches in Paul's day, but is instructive for us today because of how prevalent this is as a problem, as common as it is as a problem. We can see that the process that leads to division in a local church doesn't just happen overnight. It starts with quarreling, often about things that don't matter in the grand scheme of things. I remember in Bible college and seminary, I one of my professors was talking about some of the silly things that congregants sometimes in a local church can really start quarreling over and then divide over and I remember him saying one time, you know, like things like the color of the pews or the carpet on the floor And I remember thinking to myself, you've got to be kidding me. And and then he continued to tell a story about that and how he had seen that happen in a local church. The color of the carpet. People dividing over, fighting over. Sounds really crazy. But it's not really that far-fetched. Again, I said earlier, another form of quarreling uh that is taken is when people complain or grumble about something to someone else rather than speaking to to the person or talking to the person that they have the disagreement over. Brothers and sisters, this morning we have to understand that God hates quarreling. God hates grumbling. God hates complaining among his people. Why? Because it it reveals a fundamental heart of ungratefulness for the benefits and the blessings that he gives by providing the body of Christ and believers around us who struggle with the same things. I've used this illustration before, but I'll use it again because it fits. When I really first started walking with the Lord in a very serious and intentful way at twenty years old in college, I remember like just prior to that, my brother inviting me to a uh uh campus ministry group that he was involved with, and uh I didn't want to go because I thought, man, this I've seen some of the got kids that go there and they seem like dorts and nerds to me and I don't know how I'm going to relate to them. And then I get there and I realize, oh my gosh, I'm no better than them. They're just like me We all wrestle with the same stuff, and that group became a tremendous gift to me because I had brothers and sisters I can rely on and brothers and sisters I can confide in, and brothers and sisters , mostly brothers, that would hold me accountable. And then brothers and sisters who would pray for me and I them. What's one of the things that you can introduce into a body like a virus? They will tear it down and divide it. It is complaining, it is grumbling, it is quarreling. And Paul is counseling us through this heart, through a spirit of unthankfulness Through a spirit of quarreling and bitterness this morning. And he's calling us to repent of that, if that describes us. And so the question you have to ask this morning as you hear God's word laid out before you, have you grumbled and complained this week about something? Is there something you have against a brother or sister that you need to talk to them about? The word is calling us this morning to repent. We cannot seek unity in the body in general terms. Unless we as people, as God's people, are committed to living out the gospel call of repentance. And you know what? This applies to me first, and then you I'm not exempted from this as your pastor. Again, I remember one of my professors telling me in seminary, if you're going to be a pastor, you've got to learn to be the chief repenter. I thought, oh boy. So there's an appeal to unity that is built on a And and I I highlighted the terms there of like rending a garment and and like mending a garment or mending nets. I used that I highlighted that to you very intentionally. Because there is a call here to work for the unity and peace within the body of Christ. We need to understand. Peace usually doesn't happen in the body. It just doesn't, it's not the default. Even among God's people, this side of eternity, who are redeemed. And again, the idea of mending the nets. That's a participle, by the way, which is an ongoing ing verb like walking, running, talking, right? It shows and demonstrates that there needs to be a patient, ongoing, intentional process that every local church, that Liberty Church, should be constantly engaged in. And it illustrates perfectly what pursuing unity looks like. It takes time, it takes commitment first to the Lord. and then commitment to one another and not give up on one another. I've said in the last two weeks, the way Paul deals with these people, these Corinthians He doesn't deal with them and define them by their faults and their sins. He deals with them as family members, as brothers in whom God is in the process of working in their lives. And as he works out in their lives, he works into the life of the church. May we deal with one another that way. and value one another as brothers and sisters with whom God is pleased to redeem and to put his spirit in them and to continue his redemptive work. It takes patience and love. And that leads to our second point this morning in verses 14 through 17. The power of the gospel signified in baptism. It's not just an appeal to those who are divided. The way he continues to build his appeal is to pointing to the power of the gospel. How are we to do this? Well he tells us And he begins by in verses 14 through 16 by laying out his history of baptizing in the Corinthian church. Now that may seem to you like a totally unrelated topic or theme, but it's going to come back around and I'll show you how in just a moment. He continues this appeal um by talking about when he planted the church in that city. And the overall point he makes by bringing up his history of baptizing people, or as we'll see in the moment, the lack thereof of Not baptizing a lot of them. The point he's making is to show that there is nothing that he has done in his ministry by example that should lead them to divisions and factions. And by the way, that includes even the people who claim to follow him. This is a very subtle rebuke. No, you don't follow me. You follow Christ. Now let's lay this out really quick. He mentions in verses 14 through 15, I give thanks to God that I baptize none of you, except Crispus and Gaius. So that no one might say that you are baptized into my name. Now, who are these people he's referencing? Who are Crispus and Gaius? Because if you're like me, you read through the Bible and sometimes there's names and you don't know who these people are, and then you miss the significance of what he's trying to get across, right? Who is Crispus? Well, we meet Crispus back in Acts 18, verse 8, when Paul is planting the church in Corinth in the first place, and Crispus we find is the ruler of the synagogue who is Here's Paul preaching and reasoning with the Jews and showing from the scriptures that Jesus is the Christ that they've been waiting for, and Crispus gets converted by the preaching of Paul. Now, we don't, the book of Acts doesn't tell us specifically, but Paul tells us here that he baptized Crispus. And we find that he's baptized together with his entire household. Now we know that he believes with his entire household from the book of Acts, but Paul tells us here that he baptized Crispus Who's Gaius? Well, again, this is just, you see Gaius in Romans chapter 16, verse 23, it says this, Gaius. who is host to me and to the whole church greets you. Now that's important because Paul wrote the book of Romans from the the city of Corinth. So Gaius was a guy in Corinth. He seems to be a rich guy. And he had hospitality. He had a heart of hospitality because Paul is staying there with him. Now it's interesting, two commentators, Harrison and Hanger, write this about Romans 16. 23. Evidently this man, Gaius, had a commodious home that he made available for the meetings of the congregation. He seems to have been one of the early converts in Paul's ministry to the city of Corinth, and the very fact that Paul made an exception in his case. by personally baptizing him suggests that his conversion was a notable event due to his prominence. Okay, so that tells us who these men are, that Paul has made an exception to baptizing in the Corinthian church. But there's one more important party to baptism that he mentions in verse 16. And that is the baptism of the household of Stephanus. In verse 16, he says, I also baptize the household of Stephanus. The rest, I do not know if I had baptized anyone. Boy, that'll make you feel special if he did baptize you. He didn't even remember baptizing you. That'll bump down your pride, won't it? Who was Stephanus? Well, again, you get to 1 Corinthians 16, 15. And again, these are just like the list of farewells and greetings that Paul has that when when we read our Bibles, most of us just Glance over, but there's important details there. And what we find, Paul writes, you know that the household of Stephanus were the first converts in Achaia. Akaiah, by the way, is just southern Greece, where Corinth was located. They were the first converts in Achaia. And that the di they devoted themselves to the service of the saints. So Stephanus and his family are the first converts. We know that they have hearts to serve the body of Christ. That would make them somewhat prominent because people would know them as oh, that family that helped us out. Now, why would Paul think of them? Well, because a few verses later in 1 Corinthians 16, 17, Paul writes, I rejoice at the coming of Stephanus. and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have made up for your absence. In other words, they sent a gift to Paul in Ephesus. And Stephanus was one of them. It very well could be that as Paul wrote this letter to the Corinthians, Stephanus may have been sitting in the room within eyesight. And he remembered him like, oh, I baptized him too, and his family, and his household. So we take note his entire household. Now We see here that baptism is a sign and seal of the new covenant, and I'm borrowing that language from our confessional standards. But what does baptism have to do with divisions and factions in the church? Why is Paul bringing this up? It's almost like who cares? Well, I'll tell you why we should care. Again, take a look back at verse 15. He says, I thank God that I baptize none of you except Crispus and Gaius, that's verse 14, verse 15, so that no one may say that you were baptized In my name. That's an important phrase. In my name. It's important because it means that the one whose name someone is baptized into shows that they are associated with and that they have spiritual unity and union with that person who is named. We see this again, the same phrase come up later in the book in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 2, when Paul's looking back to Old Testament Israel going through the Red Sea in the Exodus. And he says, all were baptized, uses the same phrase, into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. In other words, Israel Was united to Moses spiritually through that baptism, believe it or not. Israel's identified with Moses. And so and the book of Acts talks about being baptized into the name of Christ Jesus. And so he's highlighting they were not baptized in his name, in Paul's name, but into Christ's name. And here's the implication. This is why he brings up baptism. I know it sounds like a detour, but it really gets to the point. The implication was that they were in union with Christ because they were baptized into Christ's name. And to be in union with Christ means to be in union with all of God's people who have been saved by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so their baptism into the name of Christ Jesus signifies the power of the gospel to save sinners by bringing them forgiveness of sins, by engrafting them into Christ or union with Christ. That they might be adopted into his family. And if this is all the case, how could they possibly continue to live and nurture quarrels and schism and division? How could they possibly do all that and claim to be one with Christ? They can't. That's the rhetorical question, right? And Alisa, one last thing before we look to apply this and wrap this up this morning, we see the priority of the gospel over baptism in verse 17. You think to yourself, okay, Paul, you made this huge deal about baptism. And now you're going to almost say that it's not important. Look at verse 17. For Christ did not send me to baptize. This is why he didn't baptize a lot of people. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. Boy, that raises some interesting questions, doesn't it? You made all this point about baptism, Paul, and now you're saying that You were not sent to baptize and to preach the gospel. What about when Jesus said to the disciples in the Great Commission in Matthew 28? 19 and 20. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey all that I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Doesn't that seem to imply that Christ sent the apostles out to baptize? And now, Paul, you're saying you were not sent out to baptize, but to preach? What do you do with that? Interesting question What are we going to make of that? I think Paul's point here in verse 17 is the emphasis of priority He's emphasizing priority. He's not necessarily saying something that contradicts in Scripture While it is true that Christ did command his disciples in the Great Commission to baptize people, namely the nations, right? The real goal for them was to make disciples. The real task is to preach the gospel. Now baptism does come associated with the gospel, but baptism is not the main thing even in the Great Commission. It is preaching the gospel that is the main thing. And when you look at Acts chapter 9, when Paul gets his his calling from the resurrected Lord on the Damascus Road. And then in uh in Damascus with Ananias, who opens his eyes, he's never told to go baptize, but he is told he would bring the gospel to the nations. There's not really a real problem here. The emphasis he's he's making here is Don't put your confidence in the fact that you were just splashed or immersed with water. That's not your focus. The focus is on what that signifies the promises of the gospel. Cling to that as what brings transformation and speaks to uniting divided people. So how specifically does the gospel signify through baptism speak to the issue of division for us today by way of application? It points to the unity that we are called to have through the power of the gospel by three things are engrafting into Christ. By the forgiveness of sins and our adoption into the family of God. Those are the three things, brothers and sisters, we need to remember and cling to this morning. Those are the benefits, part of the benefits of the new covenant, right? So let's think about that. Baptism in our engrafted unity with Christ should lead to local church unity. Now, I've already explained some of the details of that, but the fact that we are engrafted into Christ means that we have union with him by his indwelling spirit within us. And just follow the logic. If we have union with Christ individually as believers, then the same is true of all the other believers around you this morning. And if it's true of all other believers around you this morning, then we are united to one another through our union with Christ. And the implication of that, brothers and sisters, this morning, is that we have no right to be divided from one another through quarreling and schism over trivial things. In fact, if we foster division, if we give ourselves to becoming tools of quarreling and division against one another, then we are not living outwardly consistent with the spiritual reality that we profess to have in Jesus Christ. Some of these doctrines may seem like ivory tower intellectual things That have nothing to do with reality and real living, and yet that is not true. Our union with Christ, which is signified through baptism, has very practical implications. Let's delve a little deeper. Baptism and the forgiveness of sins. One of the other things that baptism is a sign and seal of is the remission or the forgiveness of sins And that really is where the power of the gospel comes to bear upon the issue of division in the local church. It begins when you allow yourself to denigrate the worth and the value of someone you see on the opposite side of things that you are on. And when you denigrate and devalue them as a person, it's easy to hold a grudge. And when it's easy to hold a grudge, it's easy not to forgive them for either real or perceived wrongs. But that is how quarreling and schism and division are often characterized By an unwillingness to forgive real or perceived wrongs due to you. But the power of the gospel calls us to do the opposite. The power of the gospel should propel us forward in not only being willing, but eager to forgive others. Because the reality is there's nothing that we can do to one another that is going to compare to the sin that we've done against the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Lord Jesus Christ, in his mercy and grace, has turned and forgiven us. It's really interesting what Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount. You know, if you forgive the one who sins against you, your Father in heaven will forgive you. If you do not forgive. Your Father in heaven will not forgive you. Those are very, very poignant words. And yet he forgives us through the gospel of his son Jesus Christ. Should we not be more than willing to forgive those around us and bear with one another? And give them the benefit of the doubt that maybe sometimes they don't mean the things that we assume they mean in their motives? And the last thing is, it's not just we're united to Christ, we are. It's not just that we forgive sins, which then strengthens our unity with other believers. But look at baptism as the adoption into the family of God. Now I chose to highlight adoption as it relates to baptism because of the household baptism component of Stephanus in verse 16. There is no doubt, when you read the New Testament, household baptisms seem to be a part of the norm of the New Testament church. Cornelius' house was baptized. Lydia's house was baptized. The Philippian jailer's house was baptized. Here we see the household of Stephanus baptized. Peter himself said on the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2, verse 38 and 39, he says, The promise is for you and your children, and as many as are far off that the Lord recall to himself. Why is that important? Well, we have to remember that if baptism signifies and seals our adoption into the family of God through faith in Christ, what an illustration we have with these household baptisms. That means that we are all a part of the family of those who call upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I know some of you Let me correct myself. I don't know specifically who. But there's got to be some of you in this room. I know. that come from families where there there is like strife and division and sometimes people don't always get along. I I get that. Those are very real realities that people struggle with in real life. But when we talk about the family of faith, there is no room for division In this family. Why? Because sin has been dealt with at the cross, once and for all, conquered in the body of our Lord Jesus Christ. And if that were not enough, we all know we're not perfect yet, this side of eternity. So we still struggle with sin. The other side of that coin is sin is still being worked through in our lives in the process of sanctification. And when you put all of this together, we have to ask the question as a church, Liberty? Are we as a family willing to forgive others in this body when we are wronged? Now don't answer that out loud, but wrestle with that in your own heart. It's an important question. Are we willing to forgive each other in in this body, in this family, when we are wronged? Are we willing to embrace one another as family, as brothers and sisters, as mothers and fathers, knowing that the promises of baptism and what they signify are being worked out in each of our lives. Are we willing to strive for peace and unity because of Jesus Christ and for his glory? In a very dark and fallen and broken world that was laid out for us very clearly this week That's what our passage calls us to this morning. Really, it leads us back to our main idea, doesn't it? God's word this morning begins to address the divisions in the local church by appealing to our unity on the authority of Jesus Christ and for his glory. How does it do it? By pointing us to the power of the gospel signified in baptism. We are one family. And we're a redeemed family. Brothers and sisters, let's go out from here into the world, living like that. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today as your family. You are our Father. Christ is our brother. He's the firstborn among many brothers, as Paul says in other places. And you've given us your spirit. One faith, one Lord, one baptism, one God and Father over all, one Lord Jesus Christ And one spirit that we've all drunk from. Lord, we pray that you would take your word. Change our hearts this morning. Lord, there may be people here that walked in this morning and they didn't have any problem with anybody, and that's wonderful. I pray, Lord, that you would Take your word and make them love your body and your people even more. Some of us in this room, Lord, others. Maybe struggling with divisions with others sitting here. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to have softened hearts. To love our brothers and sisters, to hold them up in the highest affection, and to seek their best, O Lord, in union together. Father, as I just said a minute ago, and I didn't speak too much to it in the sermon, but Lord, we saw a brother in Christ assassinated this week I haven't seen this much talk of the Lord Jesus Christ on social media in a long time. I do pray for this man's family, his wife and two daughters. One of them asking, Mommy, where's Daddy? Draw near to them. I pray that as they're in church this morning, that the family of Christ would rally around them and support them through this tough time. But for the rest of us, Lord, may we love each other as a testimony to a world that is divided over a lot of things. May we stand on the power of the gospel in Jesus as a testimony to them. We ask this in Jesus' name.