Good morning once again. Please rise and turn in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 34. Passage today is verses 1 to 9. Hear now the word of the Lord. The Lord said to Moses, Cut for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. Be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain. No one shall come up with you, and let no one be seen throughout all the mountain. Let no flocks or herds graze opposite that mountain. So Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first, and he rose early in the morning, and went up on Mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, and took in his hand two tablets of stone. The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious. slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty. Visiting in the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and the fourth generation. And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped. And he said, If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, please let the Lord go in the midst of us. For it is a stiff-necked people. And pardon our iniquity and our sin and take us for your inheritance. This is the word of God. Let's pray. Father, I pray once again for open ears to hear your word. soften hearts to receive it and to apply it. And Lord, I pray for me a weak vessel of clay that you give me the strength and the words to say to be faithful to your scripture this morning. In your son's name I pray. Amen. Please be seated. It is wonderful to be up here again, opening the Word of God to you once more. As you just heard, today's passage is Exodus 34, verses 1 to 9. I'd like to give a little background around the passage first before we begin dissecting it. This passage is an important statement. And is a self-proclamation by God about himself. And it plays a vital part in the church's knowledge of God's character Right before this passage, Israel had just been delivered from Egypt by the Lord in Exodus chapter 12. And then in Exodus chapter 19, they had come to encamp at Mount Sinai. In Exodus 20 to 31, the Lord delivers the law to Moses for the first time. But then in Exodus 32, Moses comes down from Sinai to discover that the people of Israel had constructed an idol. in the form of a golden calf, and they had begun worshiping it. Moses then intercedes before the Lord on behalf of Israel in Exodus 33. And then in chapter 34, which we read just a moment ago, Moses cuts two new tablets and goes up the mountain to meet with God for a second time. In this passage, God reveals his character for the first time in the whole Bible. And he does this right before renewing his covenant with Moses and with Israel. This fits a pattern of communication commonly used by God throughout redemptive history. This pattern is where he tells the people what he has done for them first. followed by his requirement of their obedience and faithfulness. We can see this pattern elsewhere in Scripture, such as Genesis 15. 1 Which says, where God says rather, fear not, Abram, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. We also see this pattern in Exodus 20, verse 2, which says, I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. We read that in the Westminster Catechism just a little bit ago. God commonly communicates with his people by saying, this is who I am, this is what I have done for you, and because of that, this is what I require from you. When God does this in our passage this morning, he identifies himself as both merciful and just The contrast between these things is pretty apparent, and it should bring a question to mind. How can a God who is loving and merciful and gracious also be a God who does not clear the guilty? And extends justice to multiple generations. Or another way to ask this question could be: how can God be both loving and kind while also being wrathful and just? This is the tension we need to deal with in our passage this morning. And this brings me to the main point for today. God's mercy and justice seem contradictory, but in reality these characteristics support and clarify one another. And I'll say that again. God's mercy and justice seem contradictory, but in reality, these characteristics support and clarify one another. As we move through the passage, I'll break it down into three smaller points as we look at each section. The first point deals with God's steadfast mercy and grace in verses 1 to 7. God's steadfast mercy and grace. In verses 1 to 7. At the beginning of the passage, God tells Moses once again to cut two new tablets of stone. I already briefly mentioned the context in which this passage occurs, but I'd like to look at that context a bit more deeply before we get into this first section. If we were to look at the passage just by itself, like we read a few minutes ago, it does seem to open rather abruptly. But when we look at it within the larger context of Exodus 34 and the even larger context of the entire book of Exodus, we can understand it more fully. In Exodus 31, the Lord finishes delivering the law to Moses. And once again, Moses descends from Sinai in Exodus 32 to find Israel worshiping the golden calf. And then in Exodus 33, Moses goes back to God to intercede on Israel's behalf, imploring God rather to not destroy them for their sin. I'd like to pause here for a moment. Israel had just been delivered from 400 years of slavery and oppression in Egypt. And here they were on the mountain of God, having the law delivered to them, by the same God who had just saved them. Think about this for a moment. They had seen the plagues destroy Egypt. They had seen the sea parted by God. They had seen God deliver manna from heaven and water from a rock. The same people who saw God do all of these things were now worshipping a golden idol. And they did this at the first opportunity they had. The first time Moses walks away from them. They do this. When Moses implores God to remember to forgive Israel. He invokes the memory of the covenant with Abraham. He asks God to remember his covenant with him. In Exodus 32, after Moses does this, Moses instructs the tribe of Levi to exact justice and vengeance upon Israel He tells the Levites to turn their swords upon Israel for their sin, and the Levites proceed to slaughter 3,000 men. But even this was an act of grace by God. He could have destroyed all of Israel for their sin, but he only destroyed 3,000. This immediate failure by Israel in worshiping the golden calf, despite their early deliverance, this is what sets the stage for God's revelation of his character in our passage this morning. Just here already, we already see our need for a Savior, do we not? We know from Genesis 6:5 that our hearts are sinful continually. And we also see that Israel sinned at the first opportunity they had. In Exodus 33, when Moses goes and intercedes before God, he asks him to show mercy to them. But he also asked God to show him his glory. And that brings us into our passage here. In verse 1 of the passage, God tells Moses to cut two new tablets, like the ones he had fashioned earlier. God then tells Moses that he will write on those tablets the Ten Commandments once again. Remember that Moses, when he came down to find the golden calf, he smashed the, he destroyed the first set of tablets. Once again, this is an act of grace by God. He could have refused to provide Israel with the law a second time, especially after their immediate disobedience. But God was patient, and he was merciful. He provided his covenant people with his word for a second time. God dealt patiently with his people according to the covenant that he had made with their father Abraham Think for a moment about your own life. Have you ever had to be reminded of God's word multiple times throughout your life? Maybe God has had to teach you the same lesson over and over and over and over again in your life You are God's covenant people. You are Israel. He has promised to make you his people, and he has promised to be your God. Because of this covenant God has made with you, he is patient and merciful and gracious in his dealings with you. Praise God for that. Praise God for his infinite patience and mercy in repeatedly dealing with us in love despite our sin. In verses 2 and 3, we see yet another act of mercy by God. He instructs Moses to climb the mountain again, to let no one come up with him. and to let no herds or flocks graze across the valley from the mountain. Initially that seems like kind of an odd statement. But the commentator Douglas Stewart, I like his quote here, he says that God's holiness is a threat to the unholy. So nothing and no one that he does not specifically declare acceptable may safely approach him God issued this command because nothing could come into his presence and be before him. Not sinful people, not even animals without being destroyed. This may remind you of Isaiah's vision of the throne room in Isaiah 6. We mentioned that a lot in men's study on Saturday mornings over the last few months. In Isaiah 6, the prophet witnesses God in his full glory and splendor and holiness. But do you remember how Isaiah responded to this? He said, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. With this passage, there's a temptation to view this as just an Old Testament description of God and to think this has no bearing on us as Christians today. But this does have quite a heavy bearing on us as Christians today. Without the blood of Christ atoning for you and covering for you, You could not stand in the presence of God the Father. You would react the same way the prophet Isaiah did. You would be like the animals here in Exodus 34. You wouldn't even be able to stand in the same valley or the same mountain range as God on your own. I want you to have peace and gratefulness and knowing that Christ's blood on the cross has covered you. He has covered you so that you can now enter into his presence. You can pray to him directly with Christ as your mediator. Your prayers and requests can be delivered straight. To God the Father without fear of being destroyed. God has graciously allowed you to enter into his presence without fear. Verse 4 simply tells us that Moses obeyed God's command. He cut the two new tablets of stone. He woke up early in the morning and he climbed the mountain with the stone tablets in hand. But what can we draw from such a simple verse as this? We can draw that Moses had faith in the Lord and in his purposes and methods. What happened last time Moses climbed Sinai and spent time away from Israel? They immediately turned to an idol. Immediately. I'm sure it's probably a safe assumption that Moses was worried or anxious about that as he climbed the mountain here a second time. He was probably thinking, how's God going to react if they do this again? But Moses climbed the mountain anyway. He knew that God would carry his covenant promises and purposes to completion. Verse five goes on to begin Moses ' encounter with God on the summit of Sinai That verse tells us the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. Think for a moment about the beginning of this encounter with God. The scriptures say that God descended in a cloud. This one might remind you of Job 38, verse 1, which says that Job or the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind. And think about this. Moses was standing on the summit of a mountain. He could not go any higher. And God still had to descend. and come down to speak with him. That is how much higher and holier God is than any of us. I'd also like to read the account of God's first descent upon Sinai when he spoke with Moses the first time. This is Exodus 19, verses 16 to 20. On the morning of the third day, there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain and a very loud trumpet blast, so that all the people in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their stand at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke because the Lord had descended on it in fire. The smoke of it went up like the smoke of a kiln, and the whole mountain trembled greatly. And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him in thunder. The Lord came down on Mount Sinai to the top of the mountain. And the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain. And Moses went up. I think it's safe to assume that if God did this the first time, he most likely descended on Sinai for this second encounter in a similar or the same fashion. Think of the mystery, the grandeur, the terror, the awe involved in the appearance of God to man. This is why God instructed Moses to not allow any people or animal to touch the mountain, to graze in the valley across the mountain, or step foot in the entire mountain range, because God's glory would have destroyed them instantly. They would have been undone like the prophet in Isaiah 6. In the chapter right before this, Exodus 33 and verse 17, we read about Moses asking God to see his glory. God tells Moses that he will reveal his glory to him and he will reveal his name, but he also warns that Moses cannot see his face because it would kill him. God then tells Moses that he'll hide him in the cleft of a rock to protect him from his glory. This is the reality of the glory of the holy God. His presence is so overwhelmingly holy, so overwhelmingly terrifying, so overwhelmingly just. And so overwhelmingly perfect that no man or animal can stand in his presence. When God hid Moses in the cleft of a rock here, this was yet another act of divine grace. We read a few moments ago in Isaiah 6 that the prophet was completely undone and condemned by standing in God's presence while being a sinner. In the temple in Jerusalem, there was a veil which concealed the holy of holies, the inner part of the sanctuary. It prevented anyone from entering and being destroyed by God's holiness. When Christ died on the cross in Mark 15, we read that the veil was torn in two Christ served as both the great high priest and the sacrifice itself to allow you to come to God. In Christ, you have a sacrifice which covers you with the blood necessary to protect you from God's holiness. No longer are you separated from your God because of your sin. Now are you are united to Christ. You are brought into the inner part of the sanctuary, the Holy of Holies, into the presence of the Almighty, because you are covered by the blood of the lamb. This is the whole point of the Levitical sacrifices in the Old Testament. The people had to be covered by blood from a sacrifice in order to stand in God's presence. Likewise, Jesus Christ died as your sacrifice. as the blood to cover you, as the rock cloven for you to hide in. God hiding Moses in the cleft of the rock to protect him from his holiness was an act of divine mercy. And grace. In verses 6 and first part of verse 7, we read God beginning to speak of his character. He says this. Or the passage says this rather. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious. slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands. I want to stop here and look at each of these things that God reveals about himself. When God introduces himself here, he uses his covenant name, Yahweh. This is the same name that he used with Abraham in Genesis 15 when he cut the covenant with him. Pastor Aaron preached on that a few months ago. This is also the same name that he used with Moses at the burning bush in Exodus 3. This is the covenant name that God uses for himself when he reiterates his covenant promises or the eternal nature of his character The 19th-century Dutch theologian Hermann Bavink says this about the name of Yahweh. He says, it is not a new and strange God who comes to Israel by Moses. But the God of the fathers, the unchangeable one, the faithful one, the eternally self-consistent one, who never leaves or forsakes his people But always again seeks out and saves his own. He is unchangeable in his grace, and his love, and his assistance. who will be what he is because he is always himself God uses his covenant name, Yahweh, here as a reminder to Moses of the covenant that he made with his father Abraham in Genesis 15. Moses ' mind would have immediately been drawn to God's covenant upon the hearing of the divine name here. Next, we'll look at God's mercy and grace, the next two items in the list The words mercy and grace are two words which are quite often confused in the English language. These two terms are generally used interchangeably by most people, but they do have distinct and separate meanings. The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines mercy as compassion or forbearance shown especially to an offender or to one subject to one's power. while the dictionary also defines grace as unmerited divine assistance given to humans for their regeneration or sanctification. This is an important distinction to make here. Mercy is kindness and forgiveness shown to sinners despite their status of guilt. Whereas grace is an undeserved gift, a free gift or assistance. Certainly both of these words are related, they are similar, but they are still very different. Most of you most likely know I'm a police officer in my full-time profession, and because of that I've testified in court many times. In the court of law, if a judge were to reduce someone's sentence, that would be an act of mercy. If they said, you are guilty, but I'm reducing your sentence, that is mercy. If a judge were to allow a prisoner to have visitation with his family on weekends while he was in jail, that would be an act of grace, a free and undeserved gift given to him. God shows Christians mercy when He does not levy the punishment upon us that we deserve. And he also shows us grace when he provides us the gift of eternal life. A gift which we do not deserve. The Lord next describes himself as slow to anger. It's important that he describes himself this way, particularly in light of Israel's rebellion in Exodus 32 with the golden calf. During the Exodus event itself, when they were actually leaving Egypt in Exodus 14, Israel even doubted the Lord then. Israel had just seen God devastate the land of Egypt with plagues of increasing severity and ferocity. He saw them, or they saw him, part the waters before them and destroy an entire army, but they still doubted But God, in his infinite mercy, is slow to anger with his people. He does not destroy them. for their doubt and unbelief. He is slow to become angry with them. He is patient. He remains faithful to his covenant with Abraham, and he remains patient with his sinful people. The Lord then describes himself as abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands. This idea of steadfast love draws an allusion to God's covenants with his people, in particular his covenant with Abraham. The steadfastness of God is a critical attribute of his character. The Westminster Confession of Faith says that God is immutable and long-suffering. So if that is true, if he cannot change and he is ever patient, therefore his love must be steadfast and not changing. He does not simply change his mind. This steadfastness forms the basis of God's covenant with Abraham, and it gives Christians the hope that is the sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. We just sang that a few minutes ago. We see that comes from Hebrews chapter 6. God next describes himself as forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. In Hebrew, the word translated as forgiving here in our English Bibles can also be translated as lift or carry or bear up. Also in Hebrew, the word translated as iniquity here can also be translated as guilt. So using this translation, we could say that God lifts the guilt from the sinner. He bears it up and takes it from you. The word guilt is another word that's commonly mistaken in in in modern English. Most of us use it as to describe an emotion or a feeling experienced by a person who has committed a wrong. We'll say, I feel feel guilty about doing XYZ. But guilt is a legal definition. It is a status. To use the court analogy once again, a defendant in a criminal court charged of the crime is pronounced either guilty or not guilty by a judge. The guilt that this passage speaks of is the guilt of a sinner standing before a holy God. The guilt of a sinner who has transgressed and broken God's law and is deserving of death. But God is saying here that he quite literally lifts the condition of guilt from the Christian. He lifts the condition of guilt from you. You no longer live under the status of guilt. And instead you live under the status of freedom and righteousness. Certainly, this legal condition of guilt often weighs heavy upon our hearts. It causes feelings of remorse for what we've done. Everyone every single person in this room knows exactly what I'm talking about. But just as God lifted the guilt from his people and placed it upon the scapegoat in Leviticus 16 , So does he also lift the chains of guilt from the believer's heart and places them upon Christ on the cross. Rejoice in this. Rejoice in the fact that the God who has created heaven and earth has had mercy on you, a sinner. And he has given you a gracious and free gift. This ought to cause our hearts to rejoice and to worship God. It might cause us to break out in song like John Newton did in 1779. He certainly knew this feeling when he penned the words, Amazing Grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now am found, was blind, but now I see. This takes us into point two. God's terrible justice. We see this in the second half of verse 7. God's terrible justice. Here I use the word terrible not in the modern sense of the word where it means a bad thing, but rather in the classical sense that God's justice is a great and awesome and extreme thing. The next way that God describes Himself is, but who will by no means clear the guilty. visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and the fourth generation. This word but in verse 7 is the transition point of the entire passage. God is merciful and gracious, but however He will by no means clear the guilty. This is where we begin to see the tension of this passage. I'll quote Douglas Stewart, the commentator here again on this matter. He says, God then issued a corrective against the natural human tendency to accept grace. On the assumption that because an infinite God can produce an infinite amount of grace, sin has no significant consequence. God is making the point here that, yes, he is gracious and merciful, but we cannot forget That he allows, that he does not allow sin to go unpunished. We cannot assume that he's weak. For you who are parents in here or maybe teachers at school, think about how you deal with your kids at home or your kids in the classroom. You can't always extend mercy to them, can you? Sometimes you have to drop the hammer When God says, but you will by no means clear the guilty, he is reminding Moses that sin must still be punished and atoned for. When you as Christians believe upon Christ, when he saves and justifies you, your record is not simply wiped clean as if it never existed. Instead, your guilty record is placed upon Christ. Your sin was still punished. But that punishment was levied upon Christ on the cross instead of being levied upon you Likewise, God does not simply allow sinners to continue living in their sin and die without punishment being made. All sin is punished by God, whether it is punished on the cross for the believer or it's punished in the fires of hell for the unbeliever. But you, Christian, you have been forgiven. Your sin was punished on the cross. You no longer have to worry about pleasing God because Christ has accomplished that for you. The next thing God says is that he visits the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and the fourth generation. Now, at first lance, this may sound like God is saying that he punishes multiple generations of a family for the sins of the father, but that is not what is being said here. In Hebrew, the phrase that's used here, this description is an idiom or a turn of phrase used to describe continuity or continuance. In Deuteronomy 24, verse 16, we read that fathers shall not be put to death because of their children. Nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers. Each one shall be put to death for his own sin. Given this context, this description of God visiting the iniquity upon subsequent generations cannot mean that he punishes them for the sins of the Father. Instead, what God is saying is that he punishes subsequent generations for their own sin. A father's sin tends to continue on in his children and his grandchildren. I think most people here know this. If a man is perhaps overly angry, his children will oftentimes be overly angry. If a man is physically violent with his family, his children will oftentimes be physically violent with those around him. If a man struggles with alcohol or drug addiction, his children will oftentimes do the same. But if a man is gentle, and loving and follows the Lord and his word, his children will oftentimes follow suit. This leads us into the final point for today. God's mercy and justice support and clarify one another. How does Moses respond to God's revelation of his character here? Verses 8 and 9 tell us, and Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped. And he said, If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, please let the Lord go in the midst of us, for it is a stiff-necked people. And pardon our iniquity and our sin and take us for your inheritance. Moses reacts in humility He immediately and quickly bowed his head to the ground and began worshiping God. Moses did not argue with God. He did not question God. He did not wonder how God could be both loving and just. Moses knew his place as a creature in the presence of the Creator, and he reacted in humility and worship. I want to encourage you here to be humbled and worshipful in your response to the character of God. Know your place as the creature and not the creator. God has poured out his justice and wrath upon Christ on the cross for you. And this was an incredible act of mercy and grace. But this once again begs the question, how can God's mercy and grace coexist with his wrath and judgment? I would answer by saying these two attributes are seemingly contradictory. They seem to oppose one another, but in reality they cannot exist without the other. Mercy and grace only make sense when set against judgment and justice. Likewise, judgment and justice only make sense when set against mercy and grace. This revelation by God flies in the face of modern thinking. That the God of the Old Testament was wrathful. While the Jesus of the New Testament is forgiving and loving, as if they were separate entities completely, but we know they're not This assumption that mercy and grace and judgment and wrath cannot exist together, this is a humanistic, a man-centered understanding. As sinful humans, we cannot understand how both of these attributes can exist simultaneously because we as humans are not like that. For mercy and grace to be dispensed, for someone to be saved from something, there has to be something they're being saved from. Or else it would not be mercy or grace. Throughout this passage, God has made it abundantly clear that He not only dispenses overwhelming grace and mercy, but he also dispenses perfect justice. If God were to simply forgive sin and not carry out any punishment whatsoever For that sin, his justice would not be perfect. Instead, it would be finite, incomplete, imperfect For God's salvation and forgiveness of sin to be gracious and merciful, there must be a punishment from which one is being saved. If justice and punishment were not carried out at all, or if all of mankind were forgiven of their sins and saved from punishment, God's justice would be meaningless and would be no justice at all. Conversely, if all mankind was mercifully spared from justice. then God's grace and mercy would also be meaningless. Because if everyone saved indiscriminately, it would be pointless The theologian and pastor Louis Burkhoff comments, it should be noted that while man does not merit the reward which he receives, he does merit The punishment which is meted out to him. Brothers and sisters, you deserve eternal damnation for your sins. But praise be to the Lord our God, the maker of heaven and earth, who dispenses grace and mercy in the person and the work of Christ. He sent his son, the Messiah, to take your punishment in your place, pouring out grace and mercy upon you. That's good news, isn't it? What are you struggling with this morning? Maybe you're struggling with someone who has done you a wrong or has sinned against you? Maybe you struggle with politics and current things in the world, seeing the sin and depravity in our culture and our government. Maybe you doubt that these wrongdoings will ever be punished. But rest assured that God will deliver judgment. He will levy punishment whether it is upon that person for their sin or upon Christ on the cross if they're a believer. All sin is punished. Maybe you're struggling today with a sin that you have committed Some sin which maybe you think God can never forgive you of. Maybe you feel horrible. Dirty even, spoiled. But rest assured that if you are in Christ, you are most definitely forgiven. If you are not in Christ, this is the forgiveness and the peace that the church holds out to you today. Jesus Christ the King calls you to repent and believe in him and turn from your sinful ways. Do this and live. Why does God do this for his people? Moses ' response to the end of the passage gives us an answer. Moses acknowledges the sin of Israel, acknowledges their stubbornness, and he requests that God go into the midst of them and take them for his inheritance. Moses is once again interceding before God here like he did in the previous chapter in Exodus 33. It's also the same way that Abraham interceded before God in Genesis 18 to preserve righteous people in Sodom and Gomorrah. Pastor Aaron preached on that about a month or so ago Moses interceding before God is a picture of Jesus Christ interceding for us before God on the throne. Hebrews 8 tells us that Christ is the great high priest of a better covenant, a minister in the holy places. Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father, interceding for you right now, continually and for all time Moses ' request here was a one-time thing. But Christ intercedes before God forever for you. When Moses requests that God take Israel as his inheritance, he is appealing once again to God's covenant with Abraham. In Genesis 17, when God makes that covenant with Abraham and gives him the sign and seal of circumcision, God promises that he will take possession of his people. That they will belong to him and he will be their God. This reminds me of Isaiah 43, where God declares to his people that they are his possession. That he fights for them and he redeems them at great price. Take hope in that Take hope in the knowledge that your king knows you and he has called you by name. Take hope in the knowledge that your king knows you personally, he has promised to save you, and he has taken your punishment in your place. In Matthew 28, 18, Christ says, all authority on heaven and on earth has been given to me. Jesus Christ our King has been given all authority to dispense judgment and mercy. He has become both judge and savior. In Revelation 19, 11 to 16, we see a vivid picture of Christ as judge of the world. It says this. Then I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the word of God. And the armies of heaven arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Brothers and sisters, that is your king. He judges and makes war. He declares his people to be righteous, and he declares sinners to be condemned. Take comfort in the fact that Christ has not simply let sin go unpunished, but also take comfort in the fact that you have been shown incredible mercy. God is exactly who he says he is. He is a God who carries out both mercy and justice. No longer do you stand condemned for your sin. No longer do you have to hide behind a rock from the Lord because the punishment that you deserve The death that you deserve, the burning and hell that you deserve, has been laid upon Christ. No longer will you die a sinner's death. No longer will you spend eternity separated from God. No longer are you prevented from standing in the presence of God because he has called you by name, he has redeemed you, and judged you righteous. The Lord's grace and mercy and judgment and wrath meet upon the cross. And they are laid upon Christ for you. That's the good news of the gospel, isn't it? Amen. Let's pray. Lord, Father, thank you for giving us your word in both written form and in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that today you gave us a more thorough understanding of your nature, that you gave us reassurance and hope and peace. And your covenant promises to save your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.