If you have your Bible with you, would you turn to uh 2 Corinthians chapter 12? Apostle Paul, of course, is speaking. He says, It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago, whether in the body, I do not know, or whether out of the body, I do not know, God knows. Such a one was caught up to the third heaven. And I know such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know, God knows, how he was caught up into paradise, and heard inexpressible words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such a one I will boast, yet of myself I will not boast, except in my infirmities. For though I might desire to boast, I will not be a fool, for I will speak the truth But I refrain lest any one should think of me above what he sees me to be or hears from me, and lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations. A thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. Concerning this thing I pleaded with the Lord three times. that it might depart from me. And he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities in reproaches, in needs, and persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. I have become a fool in boasting. You have compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you. For in nothing was I behind the most eminent apostles, though I am nothing. Truly the signs of an apostle were accomplished among you with all perseverance and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. For what is it in which you were inferior to other churches, except that I myself was not burdensome to you? Forgive me this wrong. Now, for the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be burdensome to you, for I do not seek yours, but you. For the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children And I will very gladly spend and be spent for your souls, though the more abundantly I love you, the less I am loved. But be that as it may, I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you by cunning. Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you? I urged Titus and sent our brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps? Again, do you think that we excuse ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ, but we do all things, beloved, for your edification. For I fear lest when I come I shall not find you such as I wish, and that I shall not be found by you such as, and that I shall be found by you such as you do not wish Lest there be contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, backbitings, whisperings, conceits, tumults. Lest when I come again my God will humble me among you, and I shall mourn for many who have sinned before and have not repented of the uncleanness, fornication, and lewdness which they have practiced. Let's pray. Father, this is your living word. Heaven and earth shall pass away, Jesus said, but my words shall not pass away Take your word and apply it to hearts this day, we ask. We pray for every believer here that he or she will be built up, strengthened, edified, instructed, challenged by your word And we pray for every unbeliever here, Lord, that your spirit will bring conviction of sin and draw that soul to saving faith. Even today, Lord, may this be the day of salvation for some. We ask it in Christ's wonderful name. Amen. A Christian leader said, The New Testament is not a record of what happened in one generation. It is a blueprint of what should happen in every generation. Well, if we understand him to mean every generation of Christians should evangelize, as the early Christians did Then we would presumably all agree with that statement. But if we understand him to mean that the signs and wonders and mighty deeds that the New Testament records are meant to be the norm for all history If we understand him to mean that the fact that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever means that he's always going to work the same way yesterday, today, and forever. And that all Christians in all places should be giving sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf and healing to the sick and life to the dead. As we read that the Lord Jesus and his apostles did, then I, for one, cannot agree with him. In 2 Corinthians 12, Paul reveals something that he had apparently kept to himself for years. He said that 14 years before he wrote this letter, he was by some means, he didn't understand how, caught up to paradise. where he heard wonderful things, words that could not be uttered, words that would not be lawful to repeat. He experienced a revelation A revelation that couldn't help but have the effect of strengthening his resolve as he went around proclaiming the gospel and received much persecution therefore. After telling the Corinthians about his wonderful experience that he had apparently never revealed before, he tells them the rest of the story. He received what he calls a thorn in the flesh, a messenger to Satan, he calls it, a physical affliction of some sort that was sent to him to disable him, to discourage him, to defeat him. But God had a different intention for the very same affliction. As we saw last week, it was for Paul a blessing in disguise, a sheep in wolves' clothing, if you will. It was sent to humble Paul, to tether him to the earth, lest the abundance of the revelations that he received should cause him to be exalted above measure, overmuch lifted. In all the writings of Paul that have been preserved for us, this is the only place where it he refers to being caught up to heaven, uh and and he's evidently uneasy talking about it, which is why he refers to it in the third person. I know a man in Christ Jesus. uh who fourteen years ago, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot tell. Such a man was raised up to heaven, to paradise. He he's he's uncomfortable talking about it. If there's anything clear in these last few chapters of Second Corinthians, it's that Paul was uncomfortable to have been forced into this position of defending his apostleship to the Corinthians, many of whom were led to Christ through his ministry. It runs counter to the grace of humility that Paul's thorn was sent to engender in him, and that Paul endeavored to manifest as a follower of Christ. You can see this conflict clearly in verse 11 of chapter 12. I become a fool in boasting. You've compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you. Who are nothing? Was I behind the most eminent apostles, though I am nothing? On the one hand, he's talking about how he's not behind any of the eminent most eminent apostles, and then he has to to uh To put that little um uh suffix there, uh though I am nothing , he's conflicted. His ministry was characterized by humility. He calls himself less than the least of all saints, the chief of sinners. But now that these false apostles have come to Corinth, teaching falsehoods and undermining the church's confidence in his teaching Paul has to do what he finds so distasteful. He has to blow his own horn. He has to compare himself favorably to others, even though he knows that in and of himself he's nothing. One would have thought that all the Corinthians would spring to his defense. After all, the signs of Paul's apostleship were manifested there. Verse 12. Truly, the signs of an apostle were accomplished among you with all perseverance and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. Now, before we consider these signs and wonders and mighty deeds, we need to establish what the scripture says about apostles. The word apostle, literally in the Greek, means one sent forth. So in its widest sense, it can be used of anyone who was sent by another In fact, even here in this letter, Paul used it in chapter 8, verse 23. In the original, we read those who went to Corinth with Titus to help collect an offering For the poor in Jerusalem were called apostles of the churches. That's how Paul refers to them. Our translators translated messengers of the churches. The Lord Jesus, who was sent by his Father, is called the apostle of our confession. One who was sent, Hebrews 3. 1. The word apostle is used of both Paul and Barnabas in Acts 14. And of Paul, Silas, and Timothy in 1 Thessalonians 2. They're called apostles of the Lord. But the term apostle has a narrower sense, in which it refers to the twelve men chosen by Jesus. They were chosen to follow him, to learn of him, they were called disciples, and they were also called apostles, those sent forth They were sent forth to preach repentance and remission of sin, and therefore were called apostles, sent forth ones, you might say. So it's got a broad sense, it's got a narrow sense. In a similar way, uh the term American has a broad sense It can refer to anyone who lives in North America, people who live in Canada, people who live in the United States, people who live in Central America, South America. We're all Americans. But of course, it also has a narrower sense, in which we most often use it, as a citizen of the United States. When Revelation tells us that the wall of the New Jerusalem that John saw had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb, it's using the term apostle in its narrow or official sense. An apostle, as we learn from scripture, had to have seen the risen Lord. Remember when they were trying to replace Judas? They had to find someone who had been with them from all the time that Jesus had had had gone in and out among them, they said, and one who had actually witnessed the resurrected Lord. And they chose, remember Joseph of Barsavas, he's also called , and then uh Matthias, and they cast lots, asking the Lord to discern which of these two should fill that position that had been vacated by Judas. If someone had not actually seen the risen Christ, he could of course still preach the gospel, but he could not be called an apostle in the highest sense of that term. Paul was an apostle born out of due time. That is, he didn't see the risen Christ what everyone else did. He saw him later when the Lord appeared to him on that road to Damascus. He declares that he is the least of the apostles. He's not worthy to be called an apostle, he says. Now why does he say that? Because he persecuted the church of Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 15, 9. But nonetheless, he was an apostle, not from men, nor through men, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. Galatians 1 Paul was commissioned by Christ. The Lord Jesus said to Paul, I will deliver you from the Jewish people as well as from the Gentiles to whom I now send you. Acts 26, 17. Paul had seen the risen Christ. Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? 1 Corinthians 9:1. Last of all, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, last of all, he was seen of me. The Lord Jesus after his resurrection, last of all, Paul says, he was seen of me. He called himself the apostle to the Gentiles, Romans 11, 13 and Galatians 2. 8. And he demonstrated the signs of an apostle That is, he had knowledge of the gospel that was derived by immediate revelation from Christ. I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. 1 Corinthians 15. But I make known to you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man, for I neither received it nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. Galatians 1. Why was that so important? Because he was affirming to the Galatians that he was truly an apostle of Christ, sent by him, and what he knows of Christ, he knows from Christ. Secondly, he was enabled by the Holy Spirit to infallibly communicate God's truth. That is, he was inspired of God. If anyone thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things which I write to you are the commandments of the Lord. 1 Corinthians 14. We speak not in the words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches. 1 Corinthians 2:13 Thus he could say, if any man preach any other gospel other than that which you have received from me, let him be accursed. Any man preach any other gospel than that which you have received, let him be accursed. He knew that he was speaking inspired of God. He was a true apostle As an apostle, Paul enjoyed the seal of God upon his ministry. That is, God blessed the word when Paul proclaimed it. If I'm not an apostle to others, yet doubtless I am to you, he said to the Corinthians. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. You came to faith through the proclamation of the gospel that I brought to you. He was flabbergasted that they could somehow be led astray, at least some of them, to doubt his very apostleship. And then, as an apostle, Paul had the power to communicate the Holy Spirit by the laying on of hands. He had the power to communicate the Holy Spirit to another by the laying on of hands. Finding about twelve disciples of John the Baptist at Ephesus, he preached Christ to them. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul laid hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied. Acts 19 He describes his abilities. Oh, there 's a point here I I guess I neglected to mention. Here. The fifth point I wanted to say, as an apostle, he had the power not only to impart the Holy Spirit by laying on of hands, but he had the power to work miracles. He had the power to work miracles. Acts 5. 12 describes this power given to apostles. But through the hands of the apostles, many signs and wonders were done among the people. So they brought the sick out into the streets that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might fall on some of them. Acts 5. 15 He describes these gifts. Paul describes these signs, wonders, and mighty deeds in those terms. Signs, wonders, mighty deeds. Three different terms to refer to supernatural works. Miracles can be called signs because they confirm the supernatural mission of the one who is performing them. So they're signs, they're signs that this man is of God. If you're wondering how this lame man who is seated here by the temple is walking and leaping and praising God We're going to tell you. It's by the power of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, that this man stands here before you whole. You see, the power, the supernatural work, was sent to evidence that the messengers were truly of God. So miracles can be called signs because they confirm the supernatural mission of the one who performs them. The word wonders refers to the effect that miracles produce upon the witnesses. They wonder at it. If we knew a lame man who'd been lame from birth and right here before our eyes he was healed and began to walk and leap and praise God, we would all wonder at that. Wow, look at the power of God at work. So these things are called wonders. They're also called mighty deeds. Dunace Dynamite is the word that's derived from that Greek term. Because they're manifestations of divine power. Divine power. Also a multitude gathered from the surrounding cities to Jerusalem, bringing sick people and those who were tormented by unclean spirits, and they were all healed. Acts 5. 16. This gift of healing, performing signs and wonders, like raising Dorcas from the dead , was granted to Peter and And uh and John and the other apostles, and it was also granted to Paul. That's Paul's point here. Now God worked unusual miracles by the hands of Paul So that even handkerchiefs or aprons were brought from his body to the sick, and the diseases left them, and the evil spirits went out of them. Acts 19. In Romans 15, Paul refers to the mighty signs and wonders that God did through him by the power of the Spirit of God. Romans 15, 19. In Hebrews we read, How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed to us by those who heard him. God also bearing witness, both with signs and wonders and various miracles and gifts of the Spirit according to his own will. God himself bore witness that these men were sent by him. How did God bear witness of it? With signs and wonders. and various miracles and gifts of the Spirit according to God's own will. Hebrews 2 It is evident that these signs and wonders the apostles did were meant to bear witness that their message was from God. By the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead by him. This man stands before you whole. In the same way, God evidenced that Jesus was in fact the Messiah who had been promised. By the miracles that he did. God evidenced the Messiahship of His Son by the miracles that Jesus did. Acts 2. 22. Peter preached on the day of Pentecost. He talked about Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did through him in your midst. The Lord Jesus Himself said, the works that I do in my Father's name, these bear witness of me. John 10. Princeton theologian B. B. Warfield says, miracles do not appear on the pages of Scripture vagrantly, here, there, and everywhere, I'm sorry, here, there, and elsewhere indifferently. without assignable reason. They belong to revelation periods and appear only when God is speaking to his people through accredited messengers. declaring his gracious purposes. Their abundant display in the Apostolic Church is the mark of the richness of the Apostolic Age in Revelation. You see, this is why the Apostle Paul, writing to the Corinthians, could point to the signs of an apostle, the signs and wonders and mighty deeds which he did. As evidence to them of his apostleship. If they had been common to all believers, even in the apostolic age, he could not have called them the signs of an apostle. Now, other things that distinguished Paul from the false apostles included his love for the saints. Verses 14 and following. Now, for the third time I'm ready to come to you, and I will not be burdensome to you. But I for I do not seek yours, but you for the children, not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children, and I'll very gladly spend and be spent for your souls. He loved the Church of Corinth, the more abundantly I love, it seems, the less I am loved in return That set him apart from these other apostles, these false apostles, who came in and devoured the church, defrauded them, demanded of them. Commanded them what to do, struck them in the face, Paul says. Paul genuinely loved the believers. That was an indication of his apostleship. And then he speaks of the blamelessness of his ministry, the blamelessness of his ministry. Verses 16 and following. But be that as it may, I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafted, I crafty, I caught you with cunning. There's the sarcasm again. Shh he didn't do that. I didn't catch you with cunning. When I sent Titus, he didn't come to take from you. We give no offense in anything that our ministry may not be blamed. We've wronged no one. We've corrupted no one. 2 Corinthians 7. And then Paul concludes by clarifying to the Corinthians that his purpose in this long self-defense that was begun in what we call chapter 10 is not to get a not guilty verdict from them. His goal is not his vindication. His goal is their edification. Look at verse 19. Again, do you think that we excuse ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ, but we do all things, beloved, for your edification. Uh I I guess we've made this point that that Paul's self-defense wasn't for his benefit. It was because if the if the Corinthians didn't believe that he was truly of God, they weren't going to listen to his message and they would be led astray by false teachers. His goal was not his vindication, his goal was their edification, building up. Now, verses 20, 21. I fear, lest when I come I shall not find you such as I wish, that I shall be found by you, such as you do not wish. He was afraid that there would be contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, etc. There were other problems in Corinth, along with the problems of the false apostles, or the problem of the false apostles. Paul was concerned that some of the same things that he dealt with in his first letter might be recurring or continuing. He even refers to fornication, lewdness, uncleanness in verse 21. He was afraid he would not find them as he wished. Well, he wished for them to be living holy, godly lives, being sanctified, growing, serving. But he was afraid he wouldn't find them that way. And he was afraid that they would find him as they didn't want him to be, that is coming to them. With boldness, with harshness. It's just like uh the kids don't want don't really want dad to come home when they've trashed the house while he was gone. They're not looking forward to his return from his uh vacation. So that's the idea. I'm afraid you're going to find me as you don't want me if these things are going on there. Paul had already made one sorrowful visit to Corinth. He doesn't want to make another. It's a humbling thing to a minister to find that those who have sat under his ministry are back wallowing in the mire Lest when I come again, verse 21, I my God will humble me among you, and I shall mourn for many who have sinned before, and have not repented of the uncleanness, fornication, lewdness which they have practiced He's got the heart of a pastor. He he loves this flock. And he doesn't want to come to them until their house is in order, so to speak. And he'd much prefer that they get it in order before he has to come and deal harshly with them. Now, let's write home a few truths. First of all, something that we touched upon in our first message from this chapter. God said to Paul, in effect, I don't want you to fret about your weakness. Yeah, you're weak, but don't worry about it. Because my strength is made perfect in weakness. That is, my strength is best demonstrated, is best manifested in weakness. My power is shown more completely in human weakness than in human strength. So, Christian, take this message. I pray that we'll learn this. It's not possible to be so weak that God cannot use you. It's not possible to be so weak that God can't use you. It is possible to be so strong that God can't use you. His strength is made perfect in our weakness. Paul ministered in weakness, in fear, in much trembling. That's how he describes it. His physical affliction only added to his conviction that he was inadequate for the task. And when God called Moses, what did Moses feel? Inadequate for the task. Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? That I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? Oh my Lord, I'm not eloquent, I am slow of speech, I'm slow of tongue. When God called Gideon, what did he say? Oh my Lord, how can I save Israel? Indeed, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh. I am the least in my father's house. God called Jeremiah, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Before you were born, I sanctified you. I ordained you a prophet to the nations. What did Jeremiah say? Ah, Lord, behold, I cannot speak. For I am a youth. What did the Lord say to Moses? Who has made man's mouth? Who makes the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Have not I the Lord? Therefore go, I will be your mouth, and teach you what you will say What did God say to Gideon? Surely I will be with you, and you shall defeat the Midianites as one man. What did he say to Jeremiah? Do not be afraid of their faces, for I am with you and will deliver you. I will be your mouth, Moses. I will be your strength, Gideon. I will be with you. I am with you, Jeremiah. My power is shown more completely where there is weakness. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the wise. It's okay to be weak if God is with you. It's okay to say that I don't feel adequate. I don't feel adequate to assume this office. I don't feel adequate to to to to shepherd these sheep. I don't feel a Adequate to teach this class. I don't feel adequate to share this gospel with my friend at work You should feel inadequate. You are inadequate. You need the power of God working through you. So you study hard, you work hard, you pray hard, and then you go. And you say, God, use me. Use me Early in his ministry at Walk Through the Bible , Bruce Wilkinson says, I felt out of control and weak. Nothing like a leader is supposed to feel Most days all I could see was the ground rushing up at me. It was early in my ministry adventure after doors had started to burst open on exciting new possibilities that walked through the Bible, but I just couldn't shake the feeling that I was the wrong man for the job Extremely upset, I decided to seek the counsel of a trusted older man. John Mitchell was in his eighties than a Yorkshire-born Bible teacher who had been a spiritual father to thousands. I told him what I thought God was calling me to do and then confessed my problem. I was still trying to describe my crisis in some detail when he broke in. Son, he said in his kindly brogue, that feeling you are running from is called dependence. It means you are walking with the Lord Jesus. He paused to let me take in his words and then continued, actually, the second you are not feeling dependent is the second you back away from truly living by faith. Well, I didn't like what I heard. You're saying, Dr. Mitchell, that that feeling that I just can't do it is what I'm supposed to be feeling? Why, certainly, young man, he said, beaming, that's the one all right. It's a frightening and utterly exhilarating truth, he writes, isn't it? As God's chosen blessed sons and daughters, we're expected to attempt something large enough that failure is guaranteed unless God steps in. I don't know if you've seen this, it's uh been around for a while, but uh somebody wrote this, I thought well done. Uh it's from uh Jordan Management Consultants, and it's to Jesus, son of Joseph, at the carpenter's shop of Nazareth. Dear Sir, thank you for submitting the resumes of the 12 men you have picked for managerial positions in your new organization. All of them have now taken our battery of tests, and we have not only run the results through our computer, but also arranged personal interviews for each of them with our psychologist and vocational aptitude consultant. It is the staff opinion that most of your nominees are lacking in background, education, and vocational aptitude for the type of enterprise you are undertaking. They do not have the team concept We would recommend that you continue your search for persons of experience in managerial ability and proven capability. Simon Peter is emotionally unstable given to fits of temper. Andrew has absolutely no qualities of leadership. The two brothers, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, place personal interest above company loyalty. Thomas demonstrates a questioning attitude that would tend to undermine morale. We feel it's our duty to tell you that Matthew has been blacklisted by the Greater Jerusalem Better Business Bureau. James, the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus definitely have radical leanings, and they both registered a high score on the Manic Depressives scale. One of the candidates, however, shows great potential. He is a man of ability and resourcefulness. Meets people well, has a keen business mind, and has contacts in high places. He is highly motivated, ambitious, and responsible. We recommend Judas Iscariot as your controller and right-hand man. All the other profiles included are self-explanatory. We wish you every success in your new venture. Sincerely yours, I Am Wrong, Director. The Lord said to the His apostles, But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost is upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of the earth. You shall receive power after the Holy Ghost is upon you. It's the Holy Ghost working through you. That's the power. It's not your abilities. So when you undertake anything for God, the question is not, are you strong enough to do this? The question is, are you sufficiently convinced of your weakness? For God than to use you. Then a word about the signs and wonders of the apostles. Can God do such things today? Of course he can. But remember that supernatural signs have never been the norm. For believers, they were always given for a particular reason. They've never been the norm for believers, I meant to say. They've always been given for a particular reason at a particular period of time, and often it was to cause unbelievers to heed God's messengers. Most people, as I said to the children, most people in the 1600-year period in which the Bible was written, or or during the several thousand-year period that's covered in the Bible. lived and died without ever witnessing a miracle. And most people alive today will live and die without ever seeing a miracle. That is a work of supernatural origin and character, such as cannot be done by through natural agents and means. We often use the word lightly. We discount it. We devalue it a bit. And we refer it uh we refer uh the word to anything that's really surprising or unusual. Uh it was a miracle, you know, that the ambulance was on my street the very time I had my heart attack. But if we use the term in its biblical sense, we're talking about healing someone who's been blind from birth, or cleansing a leper with a touch, or stopping a storm with a word, or raising someone from the dead who's been dead for several days. Now God is free to do such things whenever he chooses, and I've heard accounts of him doing such things in our day. But those who say they require to see such things before they will believe in God are simply deluding themselves. In other words, the evidence of God's existence and of his power and wisdom is all around us Since the beginning of the world, the invisible attributes of God, for example, his eternal power and deity, have been plainly discernible through things which he has made, and which are commonly seen and known, thus leaving these men without a rag of excuse. The J. B. Phillips translation of Romans 1. 20. God's hand is as evident in nature as it is in what is supernatural. If you can find a way to explain away the natural, you'll find a way to explain away the supernatural. What I mean is a plant springing up from what is apparently a dead seed in the ground is not viewed as a miracle. Because we understand, or at least we think we do, the processes that actually make it happen. But the springing of a plant from a seed speaks as clearly to an all-powerful, wise creator. As the raising of a man from the grave. The fact that we know how to do the how God raises the plant, but we don't know how he raises the man doesn't change the issue. It shouldn't diminish our wonder at either of them. If you can find a way to explain away the natural, you can find a way to explain away the supernatural. The same thing comes, the same thing applies to God's special revelation, the Bible. Paul demonstrated the signs of an apostle. It was God's way of saying, This is my messenger, listen to him. But now God has given us his written revelation. This is my word. Listen to it. And specifically he says, This is my son, listen to him. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his son. Whom He has appointed heir of all things, through whom also He made the worlds. Hebrews 1. God has spoken to you. Through his word, through his son. And what is that message? Here it is very simply. We have sinned against the holy God. He must punish sin, but his love for us was so great that he did something wondrous. He parted with his own dear son The glorious second person of the Trinity. He covenanted with the Lord Jesus to leave the glory above and come and be born of a man and live here amongst us. But to do something none of us ever could do, perfectly keep his father's law. Every single day of his life, loved God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength, and loved his neighbor as himself. And then of course he went to the cross And he said, in effect, Father, punish me and let them go free. He didn't deserve to die. He was the scapegoat for his people. He said, Lay their sins upon me that they might go free. God treated him as if he were a sinner. And the sky grew dark, and Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And we get a little glimpse into what was going on. That Christ was feeling abandoned by his father. That's what sin really deserves. Separation from a holy God. Forever. Jesus did this for his bride, for his people. He continued under the power of death for three days. And then he broke the power of death. He arose from the dead. He told his astonished apostles, go into all the world, proclaim this good news. Now, if men, women, boys, and girls will but repent of their sins and lay hold upon Jesus by faith, all their sins will be forgiven. They'll receive everlasting life. They'll be with God in heaven. Now I ask you, is that not enough for you? You want to see signs and wonders and mighty deeds? Only then you will believe Is not the birth and life and sacrificial death of Jesus Christ a sign? Is not his love and mercy and compassion for you a wonder? That he should have love and mercy and compassion for sinners? Doesn't that cause you to wonder? Was not his breaking the bonds of death a mighty deed? What more do you want? What more do you demand from God? You don't like the way He's done it? You would prefer that he did it some other way. You'd rather have an angel come down at your bedside and tell you all this. It's not sufficient for you to read it here. You'd rather be caught up to heaven like Paul than you would believe. Maybe if your late father or grandfather or brother would just come and tell you all this from beyond the grave. That would be sufficient for you. Jesus told the story of a man who died and found himself in hell. He asked if the beggar Lazarus, whom he knew from life, who had also died and was in paradise, he asked if he might be sent to his brothers, the rich man's brothers, to warn them. Of what was to come to warn them that hell was a real place and that they were headed for it if they didn't believe. Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. The rich man replied, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead. The question you and I have to answer is, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Amen? And let's pray Father, what a glorious plan. What a wonderful gospel. And how gracious you have been to us to bring it to us in our own language To give us a place where we could come and proclaim it and sing of it and bring our offerings to help reach others with it. Lord, how we praise you for the mercy you've bestowed upon us While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And Lord, forgive us. Forgive us for demanding more. Forgive us for not being satisfied with your wonderful plan. Lord, I pray for those who may be here outside of Christ. Please, Father, I pray that they will see your plan as sufficient, as complete. That they will lay hold upon Christ and say, Lord, forgive me and save me. Make me a Christian. Give me this new life the Bible talks about. Please, Lord. Draw souls to yourself this day. We ask in Christ's name. ano