May I ask you to open your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 14. And as we do, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Led by uh Rachel and Zach Dugan, I think, this month. Mark chapter 14. Let's begin at verse 12. Now, on the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover lamb His disciples said to him, Where do you want us to go and prepare that you may eat the Passover? And he sent out two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him. Wherever he goes in, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is the guest chamber? Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with my disciples? Then he will show you a large upper room furnished and prepared. There make ready for us. So his disciples went out and came into the city, and found it just as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. In the evening he came with the twelve. Now, as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you who eats with me will betray me. And they began to be sorrowful and to say to him one by one, Is it I? And another said, Is it I? He answered and said to them, It is one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them, and said, Take, eat. This is my body. Then he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank from it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many Assuredly, I say to you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink at new in the kingdom of God. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered But after I've been raised, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even if all are made to stumble, yet I will not be. Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you that today, even this night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me. three times. But he spoke more vehemently. If I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said likewise. Let's pray. Father, we come to you now and ask for your help as we proclaim your word. We pray. That you will use it in hearts and draw souls to yourself. We pray that believers present might be built up and edified, reminded of your precious truths. And Lord, as a congregation, once again, we do uh lift up uh Abigail uh Restivo, even now as uh she fights uh for her life, the doctors attempt to revive her and uh sustain her we lift up Ron and Jerry. Uh we can uh Uh imagine uh the grief and heartache they are uh undergoing right now. Thank you though that they have this assurance that their daughter is yours and that if she is absent from the body. she is present with the Lord. But we know their heart's desire and prayer is that she might be restored and returned to her family, to her husband Greg and her children. So we We do lift her up to you, Father. We as a congregation pray together that you might graciously heal her. And now feed us through your word, we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Like the words the Mount of Transfiguration or the Tomb of Lazarus. or the well in Samaria, or the Sea of Galilee. The mere mention of the upper room evokes images and emotions in the mind of the believer. In the upper room, Jesus took the basin and the towel and washed his disciples' feet as an example and a reminder of their calling to humbly serve one another. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master. I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. In the upper room, Jesus gave his disciples a new commandment that they should love one another as he had loved them. In the upper room, he prepared them for his imminent departure. encouraging them not to be troubled, because he was going to his father's house to prepare a place for them. And they would be with him again soon. In the upper room he promised to send them another comforter, one called alongside to help, the Spirit of Truth who would dwell with them. And be in them. I will not leave you orphans, he said. I will come to you, John 14, 18. How would he come to them? In the person of his Holy Spirit In the upper room, Jesus explained that he is the vine, and believers are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit, he said, for without me he can do nothing By this is my Father glorified that you bear much fruit. In the upper room he warned his disciples of persecution to come. They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God's service. In the upper room, Jesus interceded for his disciples. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one, as we are one. And of course, in the upper room, Jesus instituted what we call the Lord's Supper, a means of remembering through the eating of bread and the drinking of wine the sacrifice by which we were redeemed. Now, because we read of the sacraments either from the Gospel of Matthew, Mark, Luke, or from Paul's words in 1. Corinthians 11, every time we partake of the Lord's Supper, these words and this sacrament are like Psalm 23, or the Lord's Prayer, familiar and beloved by believers. But all those who call themselves followers of Christ do not understand this sacrament the same way. First of all, it should be evident, it should be evident to every believer, everyone indwelt by the Holy Spirit and thus enabled to discern spiritual things, that when Jesus held bread in his hands and said to his disciples, as he was reclining at table beside them, Take, eat, this is my body. He clearly meant, this bread pictures my body. It is, in a sense, like my body. There were many teachings of Jesus that the disciples didn't seem to understand. Many teachings of Jesus that they clearly did not understand at first. For example, when the disciples returned from the town of Sikar and found Jesus speaking with that Samaritan woman at the well, the story we know so well from John chapter 4. They offered him food. They had gone to town to get food. They came back. Jesus hadn't had any food. They offered him food. And Jesus said to them, I have food to eat of which you do not know. And the disciples therefore said to one another, Has anyone brought him anything to eat? Did you bring him something? No, I didn't bring. But Jesus said, No, my food is to do the will of him who sent me. And to finish his work. That's what he meant when he said, I have food to eat that you know not of. When he said on another occasion, Beware the liven of the Pharisees They thought at first that he was talking about literal bread. He was talking rather about the doctrine of the Pharisees. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. The doctrine, the teaching of the Pharisees. So you might say the disciples were at times spiritually dull or spiritually dense, and I guess you might say that of all of us. But even they seem to understand when Jesus, speaking of a sheepfold, said to them, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. That Jesus was not conveying to them that he was a literal door. They didn't say, Lord, if you are indeed a door, although you appear to us to be a man , Can we no longer trust the evidence of our own senses? When he said to them a few moments later, I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and I lay down my life for the sheep. John chapter 10. They didn't say to him, Lord, where have you left your flock of sheep? Are they in Galilee? Shall some of us go to tend them? Or have you left your flock in someone else's care? When Jesus sat beside his disciples, holding bread in his hand, and said to them, Take eat, this is my body, of course. He did not intend to be understood to be saying that this piece of bread I'm handing you has been miraculously transformed into my actual body. He was sitting beside them in his physical body as he spoke. When I have the opportunity to speak to a child about the Lord's Supper, I'll often uh reach my wall reach for my wallet and grab a photograph. I got one here. Uh a photograph of my son, uh for example. I don't suppose you can see it. It's about a twenty year old photograph, which is about the age of most photographs, I would think, in men's wallets And I show it to them and I say, uh, this is my son. Or if I take out a picture of my daughter, this is my daughter. Invariably the kids understand what I mean This is a picture of my son, or a picture of my daughter. My son is not two inches by three inches and living inside my wallet. Even a child understands this. Of course, Pastor, so why are you patronizing us? Why belabor a point that is evident to a child? Well, because this issue has divided the Church of Jesus Christ for centuries. Believe it or not, this is one of the major points of division between Protestant churches and our friends in the Catholic tradition. The Roman Church teaches that in the Lord's Supper, or the sacrifice of the Mass, as they call it, Christ is present by virtue of what they call transubstantiation. Now that's a big fancy word, meaning that the substance of the bread and wine is miraculously transformed into Christ's body and blood. The bread and wine are in essence no longer bread and wine, although they still give the appearance of being bread and wine. They are now the actual body and blood of Jesus. Now, by the way, as an aside, I had to remind myself of this this week. Why do they call it the sacrifice of the mass? Where did that word mass come from? Well, the Lord's Supper is called a Mass because the word is derived from the closing words that the priest gives in the Latin form of the service. Uh item est. It's a missa est. Go, the dismissal is made. You were dismissed, in other words. Service is over. And the congregation responds, as they always do when the service is over, thanks be to God. As as even Protestants do. So we're not so far away from one another. But uh let's get back to transubstantiation. The bread and wine are no longer bread and wine in essence, although they still appear to be. Now, what's so bad about that? Yeah, yeah, it's a bit of a stretch But what's the big deal? Well the big deal is that they take the next logical step. They declare that the Lord Jesus, because he is physically present, he's really present is being sacrificed every time the sacrifice of the Mass is offered. Here is how they put it uh on their website catholic. com you can check it out for yourself under the category the sacrifice of the mass quote the Eucharist is a true sacrifice Not just a commemorative meal, as Bible Christians insist. End of quote. Now think about it, if Christ is indeed sacrificed over and over again for the forgiveness of sins, then how can we not conclude that his sacrifice upon the cross was in some way insufficient? But listen to God's word from the book of Hebrews, chapter 10. The author of Hebrews is contrasting what Christ has done with the sacrifices of the Old Testament priests that were regularly offered. He says, and every high priest, I'm sorry, and every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But this man, Christ, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. That's Hebrews 10, 11 to 14. Now, I hope you see how one error leads to another. First, there's a rejection of a common sense understanding of what Jesus said that night. This is my body, broken for you. do this in remembrance of me. A denial that when he said that, he meant this is to be for you forever a picture or symbol of my body broken for you. That error leads to the belief that whenever the Lord's Supper or Holy Communion is offered, the bread is miraculously turned into the body of Christ, and the wine is miraculously turned into the actual blood of Christ. That mistake leads to the logical conclusion that every time Holy Communion or the sacrifice of the Mass is offered, Christ is sacrificed afresh. And if it's truly Christ's body broken and consumed, that mistake leads to the conviction that the one who utters the words consecrating the bread and wine, inasmuch as he is performing a sacrifice, Should be called a priest. Priests perform sacrifices, not pastors. And furthermore, the belief that he has been granted by God and by the church the authority by his words of consecration To turn common bread and common wine into the actual body and blood of Christ puts them in what is perceived as uh Or puts him on, I guess, what is perceived as a higher plane than other Christians. And perhaps that mistake, exalting a priest too highly in one's estimation, may have contributed to the church's abuse scandals, as children were unhesitatingly entrusted to the care of men who, because of their exalted position in the eyes of the congregants, were never suspected as having ungodly designs upon them. Now those of us who have historically rejected the idea that Christ intended the Lord's Supper as an ongoing sacrifice of himself. Those of us who refer to the table in front of us here as a communion table, because it's where we commune with the Lord, and not an altar where we sacrifice the Lord. Even we do not always agree on the sense in which Christ is present at the Lord's table. Christ is present. He's present with us as we worship. He's present with us at the Lord's table. And even we don't always agree on just how this sacrament is a means of grace to the believer. How does it minister to us? How does it feed us? How does it nourish us? Edify us? How is it a means of grace to us? And not all Christians would say it is a means of grace to us. But I think most Christians could agree with the Westminster Confession of Faith when it says, in this sacrament, the Lord's Supper, Christ is not offered up to his Father Nor any real sacrifice made at all for the remission of sins of the living or the dead, but only a commemoration of that one offering up of himself. upon the cross, once for all, and a spiritual oblation or offering of all possible praise unto God for the same It's a time for us to offer praise to God for Christ's one sufficient sacrifice upon the cross. Now, perhaps you wondered about this. As we view and as we drink the fruit of the vine, whether that's fermented or unfermented, the juice of the grapevine, it is easy for us to picture there the blood of Christ. There is an evident correspondence between the symbol and that which is symbolized, right? To put it simply, the fruit of the vine looks something like blood, but it's more difficult for us in the eating of bread. to picture Christ's body, which raises the question, why did the Lord choose bread as an image of his body? I don't know if you've ever wondered that Why did the Lord choose bread as an image of his body? There's no evident correspondence between unleavened bread and a and a human body, certainly nothing apparent. No more than, for example, a stalk of celery. is a st a stalk of celery, eat this in remembrance of me, or a fish, or a dove, might even be closer, I suppose. to a body. Why bread? Well I think the Bible suggests for us, strongly suggests, the reason. Jesus referred to himself as the bread of life. I am the bread of life, he said. He who comes to me shall never hunger, he who believes in me shall never thirst. And in doing so, he compared himself to the manna that came from heaven. The manna that came to sustain the children of Israel in their wilderness wanderings. He said, I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness. And are dead. This is the bread which comes down from heaven that one may eat of it and not die. After God delivered his people from Egypt as they made their journey to the Promised Land, it didn't take long before the um provisions they had brought with them uh had uh had been used up. Uh and so what could they do? Uh they could I guess they could begin to uh s uh slay their uh their cattle, their sheep, their goats, the the livestock they brought with them. They couldn't very well plant crops, they were on the move. They couldn't wait for a whole season So what could they do? How could they eat? And so they cried out, Oh, that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, as we sat by the pots of meat, and when we ate bread to the full. For you brought us out of the wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Exodus 16, 3. So, as we read this morning in our Old Testament reading, God provided for his people by supernatural means. In the morning when the layer of dew lifted on the surface of the wilderness was a small round substance as fine as frost upon the ground Children of Israel saw it. They said, Manah, which means what is it? And Moses said, This is the bread which the Lord has given you to eat. And as you know, the the the The word mana stuck as a title, as a name for this, as they didn't know what else to call it. Now, how does this bread foreshadow the Lord Jesus? Well, first of all, it was from heaven. Right? It it had a supernatural origin. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. God with us. Jesus had a supernatural origin. Secondly, without this bread, without this manna, the people would die Even so, he that has the Son has life, but he that does not have the Son of God, the wrath of God abides on him. John 3. The manna was free to all Whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely. Revelation 22, 17. The taking of the bread, the taking of the manna, was a simple matter. One only had to pick it up. What shall we do that we might work the works of God? The people said to Jesus. What great thing does God want us to do? What shall we do that we might work the works of God? This is the work of God that you believe on Him. whom he has sent. That's it. Believe on him whom he has sent. I think I mentioned before that when we pastored in uh Tennessee, one One of the dear ladies in our church was uh from England. She had lived in London during the uh during the Blitz, as a matter of fact. And uh had come to America, uh met her husband here and and uh married. And uh She was raised in a tradition with a lot of ritual and a lot of effort to somehow pacify God and please God. And when it was finally explained to her that that Eternal life is offered by simply believing that Jesus Christ did what the Bible says that he did, that he is who the Bible says that he is. Her response was, it's that easy It's that easy? Yes, for us. It is. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. In that sense, it's very easy. We just pick it up, we just eat it, taste and see the Lord is good. Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. It's in that sense for the for the lost soul, it's easy. Just believe. Just come Just trust him. Now, the Christian life is not easy altogether, is it? There's persecution, there's trial, there's tribulation. Ultimately there's glory. But coming to Christ is a simple matter. You remember uh when C. H. Virgin was saved, uh coming to church And that the snowstorm and the pastor was normally there wasn't there. This wasn't even the church he normally worshipped in, and some fellow got up because no with no minister was there and he started to preach. He just he started preaching and said from Isaiah, look, look to him, look to the Lamb of God, you know, cast your faith upon him. And referred him to John 3, where Jesus said, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And Spurgeon's seventeen year old boy who had been struggling to kind of f find his way to God. His grandfather was a believer, grandmother a believer. Uh he was not, and uh but he wanted to know, he wanted to know that his sins were forgiven. And that man in the pulpit wasn't a trained pastor, but he just said, he cried out, look to Jesus. He's fastened on, he's fastened his eyes on Spurgeon, 17-year-old boy in a congregation, maybe a 15, 20 year old. People. Young man, you look mighty miserable, he said. He said, look to Jesus. Put your faith in Jesus. Look to him. He's on the He's a hanging on the cross. Look to Him. He's a bleeding and a dying. Look to Him. He said, crying out. Come to me. And Spurgeon looked. He said, I looked. I just looked. I just believed him. I trusted. I stopped struggling. I just Trust him. And he went home a changed man, a changed lad. His grandparents saw a change in him right away. And before very long he was out in the streets preaching the gospel. Look to him. It's a simple thing. The taking of bread was a simple matter. And this manna was to be dependent upon daily. Here's another way to select Jesus. daily depended upon. Although Christ is embraced once for salvation, we depend upon him daily for his grace, for his fellowship. The manna was unique. There was nothing else quite like it. What is it? And they said of Jesus, never man spake like this man. What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea obey? The manner was to be gathered for every household. The head of the household bore the responsibility of providing food for the household. Even so, fathers are called spiritual leaders of their homes. And yet, the manna had to be personally appropriated. Father couldn't eat the manna for his children. And so, young people, your parents can bring the good news of Jesus to you, but your parents can't cause you to believe it. They can't bring you to Jesus. You have to see that you have broken God's laws. You have to see that you disobey your mommy and daddy. You have to see that sometimes you do bad things and that you need God to forgive you You have to come to him yourself. You have to eat of that bread and drink of that blood, in a sense. Then the manna was ground upon millstones, the Bible says, or beaten in the mortar and cooked in pans. Now, maybe that's just how they ate it. We're not to learn anything from that, but maybe God's intention there is to remind us that the Lord Jesus, the man is sent by God sent from heaven, was beaten at the hands of the Gentiles, crushed in the in the mortar of God's judgment, endured the fire of God's wrath. Those things are certainly true. Clearly there were good reasons why the Lord Jesus used bread to picture his body. He is the manor from heaven, sent to give us life. But in verse 24 of Mark 14, he goes on to say, This is the blood of the new covenant which is shed for many. What did he mean by that? What does he mean by the new covenant? Well, the old covenant, of course, required blood sacrifices over and over again. Jesus appears there to be hearkening back to Exodus 24, where we read, Moses took the blood, the blood of an animal that had been sacrificed. And sprinkled it on the people and said, This is the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you. Jesus said, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for me. For many. And the old covenant sacrifices were continually made by priests entering the temple or the tabernacle. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many. Hebrews 9. And then he tells them that he will not drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when he would drink it new in the kingdom of God. Verse 25. Now notice something. In verse 24, he says, this is my blood of the new covenant. In the very next words, he says, he refers to that blood of the new covenant. Not as blood, as if it's, again, been miraculously changed into his blood, but in verse 25 he refers to it as the Fruit of the vine. I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of God. If Jesus meant for it to be understood when he said in verse What we call verse twenty-four, this is my blood, that the wine was no uh no longer wine, but had been transformed into blood. Then reverting back to calling his blood the fruit of the vine In his very next words, would be an odd way to communicate that truth. But perhaps more importantly, Jesus in these words pointed the apostles forward to what the Bible calls the merit supper of the Lamb. The time of fellowship and communion with our Lord after the trials of this life are past. John writes in Revelation 19: I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, the sound of a might of mighty thundering, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord God omnipotent reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright. For the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. And then he said to me, to John, Write, blessed are those who are called to the merit supper of the Lamb The Lord's Supper directs our thoughts backward to his death upon the cross, but the Lord's Supper also directs our thoughts forward to the communion that is awaiting us in glory. As the Reformation Study Bible puts it, the Lord's Supper has a past reference to Christ's death, a present reference to our corporate participation in Him through faith. And it has a future reference in that it is a pledge of his return. Now, as we draw this message to a close, let me remind you: there are at least two ways in which Jesus was unlike the manna. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which comes down from heaven that one may eat and not die. The manna permitted people in the wilderness to live. But only temporarily. They're all dead. In our terms, they're no longer here. The true breath from heaven provides a life that will never end, Jesus said. I am the resurrection and the life. He that uh that that believes in me shall never die. He who lives and believes in me shall never die. The manna, secondly, produced the means of life just for the people of Israel. But only the people of Israel. But Jesus said, the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. There's a great difference. The true bread from heaven, pictured in the Lord's Supper, offers life to men and women, boys and girls of every nation, every people, every tongue. Now that's what the Old Testament Jews were supposed to be. A light to lighten uh to light every nation. But uh the manna provided for them alone in the wilderness. Now, I know it can be discouraging for believers in America to witness what appears to be our culture discarding all vestiges of a Christian worldview. It's quite discouraging. Well let me remind you that although the Spirit of God may not be moving and working in our land as he once did, at least by all appearance , He's certainly moving and working in other places. He's moving and working in China. We heard a couple weeks ago how he's moving and working in Cuba. He's moving and working in South Korea. He's moving and working in many places in Latin America. He's moving and working powerfully throughout Africa and even in the Middle East. For example, Satellite TV Ministry SAT 7, according to their website, broadcasts in Arabic, Farsi, and Turkish using the tools of uncensored Satellite TV and social media. It brings the hope of the gospel to millions of viewers in the Middle East and North Africa, and it seeks to support the life and witness of the region's 17 million Christians. Listen to some of the viewer comments they've received from a man in Palestine. My family and I always gather to watch Sat 7 broadcast, which provides us with an intimate time with the Lord. Keep up the good work and we wish you all the best From Tunisia, thank you for your huge efforts in order to present the best programs through the best channel. I watch your program thrillingly and with great interest. These programs encourage me to put my faith in God and to trust Christ Jesus and the eternal life he offers. Stat 7 increased the flame inside me to seek this spiritual way A man from Jordan asked, how can a person attain salvation? Through faith or through his works and deeds? A man from Algeria wrote, This is my first time to write to you. I watch some of your programs. But was most attracted by the Jesus film. I would like to get a copy so I can watch it over and over again. A man from Morocco wrote regarding the website. Dear SAC7, brotherly greetings to everyone overseeing this wonderful website. As a matter of fact, I came across this site by mere chance while using one of the search engines. I work at an Internet cafe, and I never knew that Christianity is such a beautiful religion. Navigating through your site helped me correct many of the misconceptions and wrong ideas I had about the Christian faith and about Christ. In reality, I realize that I desperately need to know more about Christianity, hoping to be delivered from the aimless and hopeless life I presently live. Wow. Those excerpts were taken from just the first few pages of viewer comments on that SAT 7, SAT7 website. There are 92 pages of viewer comments there. Be encouraged, Christian. The bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. And he is still drawing souls to himself. One final thought, Jesus said, most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. So how about you? Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Have you truly partaken of Christ? Have you truly partaken of the life that he offers? He said, unless you do, you have no life. Men and women, boys and girls are coming to faith in him despite the fact that they're living in Islamic countries Or communist countries where the free proclamation of the gospel is thwarted or utterly forbidden. How sad it would be if someone here, hearing the gospel proclaimed every week. Should leave this earth and hear Jesus say, Depart from me. I never knew you. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus , bread of life, water of life, good shepherd who gave his life for his sheep. Lord, work in hearts. We, your people, cry out to you. We pray that no one within the sound of my voice might perish Without Christ. We pray for boys and girls and young people, for men and women, for those who are members here, for those who are attenders, for those who are just visiting for the very first time. Work in their hearts Draw souls to Christ. We ask it in his glorious name. Amen.