If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to Genesis chapter 41? Genesis chapter 41. And uh while you turn there. Let me say it was great to see all the folks out yesterday for the uh church work day. A lot of work was accomplished. Uh I didn't get a good count If you were here for the workday, uh raise your hand. Let's see. Look at all this. Look at that. I declare. Uh so it was uh it was a great time. And I'm sure the the school School's going to appreciate uh all the work that was done there to make it look uh much more uh presentable for the beginning of of school. Genesis chapter 41. Um I wish we could read the entire chapter. and chapter 42, but we'll pick it up in verse 44. Genesis chapter 41 and verse 44. Oh, and uh I want to dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship. downstairs. Pharaoh also said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without your consent no man may lift his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zapnas Paniah, and he gave him his wife Athanas, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of An. So Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt. Now, in the seven plentiful years the ground brought forth abundantly. So we gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities. He laid up in every city the food of the fields which surrounded them. Joseph gathered very much grain as the sand of the sea, until he stopped counting, for it was immense. And to Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of An, bore to him. Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh. For God has made me forget all my toil and all my father's house. And the name of the second he called Ephraim, for God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. Then the seven years of plenty which were in the land of Egypt ended, and the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said. The famine was in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. So when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And then Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph, whatever he says to you, do. The famine was over all the face of the earth, and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians. And the famine became severe in the land of Egypt. So all countries came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain because the famine was severe in all lands. When Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, Why do you look at one another? And he said, Indeed, I've heard that there is grain in Egypt. Go down to that place and buy for us there, that we may live and not die. So Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt. But Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin, that's his younger brother. brother, with his brothers, for he said , Lest some calamity befall him. And the sons of Israel went to buy grain among those who journeyed, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. Now Joseph was governor over the land, and it was he who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed down before him with their faces to the earth. Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he acted as a stranger to them and spoke roughly to them. Then he said to them, Where do you come from? And they said, From the land of Canaan. To buy food. So Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him. Then Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed about them, and he said to them, You're spies. You've come to see the nakedness of the land. And they said to him, No, my lord, but your servants have come to buy food. We are all one man's sons. We are honest men. Your servants are not spies. But he said to them, No, but you have come to see the nakedness of the land. And they said, Your servants are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan. And in fact, the youngest is with our father today. And one is no more. But Joseph said to them, It is as I spoke to you, saying, You are spies. In this manner you shall be tested. By the life of Pharaoh, you shall not leave this place unless your youngest brother comes here. Send one of you, and let him bring your brother, and you shall be kept in prison, that your words may be tested to see whether there is any truth in you, or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies. So he put them all together in prison three days. Then Joseph said to them the third day, Do this and live, for I fear God, if you are honest men. Let one of your brothers be confined to your prison house, but you go and carry grain for the famine of your houses, and bring your youngest brother to me, so your words will be verified, and you shall not die And they did so. Then they said to one another, We are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us. And we would not hear. Therefore this distress has come upon us. And Reuben answered them, saying, Did I not speak to you, saying, Do not sin against the boy, and you would not listen? Therefore, behold, his blood is not required of us. But they did not know that Joseph understood them, for he spoke to them through an interpreter. And he turned himself away from them and went Wept. Then he returned to them again and talked with them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. Then Joseph gave a command to fill their sacks with grain, to restore every man's money to his So they loaded their donkeys with the grain and departed from there. He saw his money, and there it was in the mouth of a sack. So he said to his brothers, My money has been restored, and there it is in my sack. Then their hearts failed them, and they were afraid, saying to one another, What is this that God has given Has done to us. Then they went to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan and told him all that had happened to them, saying, The man who was lord of the land spoke roughly to us, and he took us for spies the country. But we said to him, We are honest men, we are not spies. We're twelve brothers, sons of our father. One is no more, and the youngest is with our father this day in the land of Canaan. Then the man, the lord of the country, said to us, By this I will know that you are honest men. Leave one of your brothers here with me, take food for the famine of your households, and be gone. Bring your youngest brother to me, so I shall know that you are not spies, but that you are honest men. I will grant your brother to you, and you may trade in the land. Then it happened as they emptied their sacks that surprisingly each man's bundle of money was in his sack. And when they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. And Jacob said, and Jacob their father said to them, You have bereaved me. Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and you want to take Benjamin. All these things are against me. Then Reuben spoke to his father, saying, Kill my two sons if I do not bring him back to you. Put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you. But he said , My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he is left alone. If any calamity should befall him along the way in which you go, then you would bring down my gray hair with sorrow to the grave. May God bless this reading of His holy word. Let's pray. Oh Father, speak to us through your word this day Teach us, enlighten us, convict us, glorify yourself through your inspired word. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Twenty years is a very long time to carry a horrible secret. For twenty years ten of Joseph's brothers knew the truth about him. They knew that he had not been killed by a wild animal as they had led their father to to believe. They knew that it was not the jaws of a lion or the claws of a bear that tore Joseph from his father, but their own envy and hatred. They knew that the real beast was in their hearts. For twenty years, they knew that there was hope that their brother might still be alive. They knew that the revelation of that truth would have kindled joy and hope in the heart of their aged father. But for twenty years, none of the ten broke the code of silence. Evidently, the fear of enduring the wrath of the other nine, or more likely the shame. of having to admit to their father what they had done was sufficient to prevent that confession. We can imagine how difficult it must have been for these brothers during that that period of time to pray, to worship or attempt to worship, to rejoice in God, while they harbored such a dark spirit secret. Meanwhile, of course, Joseph's circumstances had changed dramatically. Cast into a dungeon because of a lie told by a married woman whose advantage He had resisted, Joseph found favor with the keeper of the prison, who gave him oversight over all the other prisoners. Gifted by God, Joseph interpreted the dreams of two of Pharaoh's personal servants. And he asked Pharaoh's butler to remember him when he was restored to favor, to intercede for him with Pharaoh. The butler, however, as you know, forgot about Joseph Until two years had passed, when Pharaoh at the time had two vivid dreams which none of his magicians or wise men could interpret. The butler told Pharaoh of this Hebrew, Joseph, who was summoned by Pharaoh and who then interpreted Pharaoh's dreams. Seven years of great plenty were to come upon Egypt, to be followed by seven years of great want. Joseph recommended storing massive amounts of food in the years of plenty. uh to reserve for the seven years of famine. That saying pleased Pharaoh, and as Joseph had shown himself to be, by God's grace, wise and discerning, a man in whom was the Spirit of God, uh Joseph Genesis 41, 38, Pharaoh set Joseph over the land. And he served as what we might call Pharaoh's prime minister or governor of Egypt. Joseph was granted wealth and honor and authority. He instituted the plan that he had recommended. He stored up in those seven years of planning. Then the years of famine began, and the land of Canaan was not spared. Jacob heard there was grain in Egypt, he sent His sons south to Biat, keeping the youngest Benjamin with him, for fear of some calamity befalling him, as happened to his brother Joseph. Remember, those were the favored brothers, the children of So in the providence of God, all ten of Joseph's older brothers, the very ones who sold him into slavery over twenty years before. are ushered into Joseph's presence seeking to buy food. And just as Joseph had dreamed, they bowed down to the ground before him They didn't recognize Joseph. They certainly weren't expecting to see Joseph. They certainly weren't expecting to see Joseph in Pharaoh's household, now near forty years old, dressed in Egyptian finery, sitting at Pharaoh's right hand. speaking to them through an interpreter. But Joseph recognized them. And he accused them of being spies. And he placed them in prison for three days. His first thought was to keep nine of the brothers there and send one back to bring his beloved brother Benjamin back. But he uh After a few days of thick considering it, decided instead to keep one brother there and send nine backs. That way they could carry food and supplies to their father and to their households. It'd be very difficult for one one man to be able to do that. Joseph made it clear to the nine, however, that unless they brought their younger brother with them when they returned, thus proving that their story was true, they would be executed as spies. Joseph then commanded his servants to load their donkeys with sacks of grain, but also to hide in those sacks the money that they had brought with them to Egypt to pay for the grain. They returned and told their father what had happened, but Jacob refused to let Benjamin return with them. If any calamity should befall him along the way, he'd bring down my gray hair with sorrow to the grave, he said. Now all scripture is God-breathed. All of it is profitable for doctrine, that is for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for instruction. So, what are some of the truths that we can discern from this passage that might help us? Well, first of all, we're reminded here of God's gracious provision for his people. Not only providing food through the years of famine, he certainly did that, but also look at how he provided for Joseph. The Lord in his providence Granted Joseph wealth and honor. And he gave him a wife. Scripture says, he who finds a wife finds a good thing. Amen? Amen. He who finds a wife like mine finds a very good thing. Where is she? She's out here somewhere today. Where where did she where Where did she go? Oh, that back there. She's back there. All right. Uh well, in Potiphar's house, Joseph resisted the advances of another man's wife, right? Pontifar 's wife. And now God granted him a wife of his own. He in effect sought first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and this good thing of a wife was God doesn't grant the blessing of marriage to all his children, and when he doesn't, there are good and wise reasons. Reasons for it. But when he does grant it, we should recognize it as one of the prime gifts he gives to us. And then the Lord blessed Joseph with children. Children are an heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. He gave Joseph two sons. He named the first Manasseh, which means making forgetful. God has made me forget all my toil and my father's house. The grief was great, but so was the joy. The second son he named Ephraim, fruitful, or fruitfulness. For God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. These names would of course be a continual reminder to Joseph of how God had wonderfully delivered him. hope was lost. And God's incredible reversal of Joseph's fortunes is a reminder, as we saw last time, we looked at Genesis. a reminder of how God is going to exalt each believer one day. Note something else from this passage. We're reminded here, it's very clear, that it is not unspiritual for God's children to plan for the future, right? God graciously revealed to Joseph that hard times were coming. There would be seven years of plenty and then seven years of want. didn't respond as a hedonist and say, well, Pharaoh, tell your people to live it up for the next seven years. Eat, drink, and be merry, because the good times are going to roll. Joseph responded with wisdom, God is providing abundantly for us now. Let's store up a fifth of what he gives us for the lean years that are to come. Some Christians may have genuine doubts about whether or not it's uh appropriate, whether it's appropriate for us to plan for the future. After all, Jesus said, take no thought for tomorrow what you shall eat or what you shall put on. They might point to the parable of the rich fool who I know what I'll do. I'll tear down my smaller barns, I'll build larger ones, and then I'll I'll tell my soul you can relax because you have all you need for the future. And Christians are, of course, are familiar with a passage in the book of James. Come now, you who say today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city, spend a year there, buy and sell and make a profit. Whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. So Christians may be well-intentioned and conclude that it's not wise or good for them to plan for the future they should just trust the Lord with each new day. But Proverbs 22, 3 says, A prudent man foresees evil and hides himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. Proverbs 6, go to the ant, you sluggard, consider her ways, and be wise, which having no captain, overseer, or ruler, provides her supplies in the summer and gathers her food in the harvest. It's not wise planning that God condemns. It's planning without taking into consideration God's sovereignty over us. You ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will do thus and such. James 4. 15. The rich fool was condemned for laying up treasures here and not being rich toward God, assuming that he was in control. of his life. Jesus in his Sermon on the Mount was not condemning planning, he was condemning worrying. Don't be anxious about tomorrow. The Greek Word is maremna'o, to be careful, to be anxious. It's not wrong to plan. It's wrong to worry. Planning is good. Failing to plan is foolish. It's not wise to spend or to give away every dollar that you make. It is wise to anticipate the future when you may not have that dollar coming in. Husbands, fathers, what will happen to your wives? What will happen to your children if the Lord or when the Lord takes you home? Well, you say, well, it's not my problem. God's going to take care of them. Well, God has vested in you a large measure of responsibility for their care. Then he provides not for his own, especially for those of his household, he is denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. 1 Timothy 5. 8. So Joseph didn't say, lean years are coming, but I know God will take care of us, so there's no need for us to plan. There was no need for us to save. He realized that wise planning and saving in times of plenty was a normal means that God uses to provide for his people in times of want. There's a great difference between trusting God when you've attempted to be a good steward of what He's given you, and then presuming, and on the contrary, presuming upon God. After you've foolishly wasted what he's provided. Note something else. Joseph, acting on Pharaoh's behalf, did not give away the grain in the time of famine. which would simply subsidize sloth and impoverish the nation. Rather he sold it, which would motivate the buyers to hard work and industry, right? We need bread. We have no crops. We're going to work. We've got to do something to make money so we can buy food that we might survive the famine. My point is that the system of economics that is presumed, encouraged, and exemplified in Scripture is one of free enterprise. based upon labor, profit, private ownership, investment, savings. That's why we're commanded by God not to steal Sixth Commandment, or to covet what belongs to our neighbor, tenth commandment. That's why Christians are exhorted by Paul to regularly set aside a portion of our earnings as God has prospered us. Such directives make no sense at all apart from private ownership, personal responsibility. Of course, there may be exceptional times, as you know, when it might be appropriate for us to share all things in common As when thousands were converted through the preaching of the apostles just after the resurrection, they had come to Jerusalem for a very brief feast. Now they'd heard the true gospel and they wanted to sit under the apostles' teaching to learn more before they returned to their home countries. They didn't have provisions, and so Christians shared with one another. They freely shared their goods with their needy brothers and sisters, but they weren't compelled to do so. Certainly wasn't the government putting a gun to their head saying you must empty your wallets and give it to someone else. The principle in Scripture is individual labor and private ownership. He who tills his land will have plenty of bread. Proverbs twelve one. If anyone will not work, neither let him eat. Second Thessalonians three ten. And then this passage reminds us very clearly, that God's word will be fulfilled no matter how unlikely it may seem. Right? God had revealed to Joseph that his brothers would one day bow down before him. And Joseph, we might say unwisely, revealed that to his brothers. They plotted against him in part to keep that prediction from coming to pass. Right? We shall see what will become of his dreams. That's what they said. Chapter 37, verse 20. The kings of the earth rise up, the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Let us break their bonds asunder, cast away their cords from us. Psalm 2. But he that sits in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall hold them in derision. In effect, in the net which they hid, their own foot was taken, right? They were trying to uh stop this from taking place and what they did in sending him into bondage in Egypt as they thought they were ridding themselves of their brother and preventing The fulfillment of the prophecy. In fact, they were assisting in its fulfillment. What they uh did was crucial, a crucial link in a long chain of events. That caused them to ultimately bow down before their brother, their younger brother, Joseph. Just as Satan thought he was destroying Jesus and disrupting God's plans by motivating Jesus to betray him, Satan entered entered into the heart of Judas to betray the Lord, when in fact he was Uh accomplishing God's own purposes for our salvation. Note that for all these years Joseph served either as an Egyptian slave in Potiphar 's house or as a a prisoner in a dungeon, it would have seemed very doubtful to any observer that God's prophecy uh about his brothers bowing down before him would ever be fulfilled But God's word will be fulfilled no matter how unlikely it may seem to us. Jesus said, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall be away. Shall not pass away. The ancient capital of the Assyrian Empire, Nineveh, was unequaled in size among all other ancient cities We're told that its inner wall was a hundred feet tall, fifty feet wide, so that three chariots could ride beside each other on on the wall. The towers were 200 feet tall, a 20-story building. It had a 150-foot wide moat. It was seven miles in circumference. The breadth of the entire defense, including inner and outer walls and moats, was almost a half a mile, historians tell us. Yet the Old Testament prophet Nahum, writing in about 660 60 BC prophesied that the city would be overthrown with a flood. It would be burned and it would be totally destroyed and desolate. It must have sounded extremely Unlikely. That's not gonna happen, people would think. That'd be kind of like saying New York City is one day gonna be totally uninhabited And yet Old Testament scholar Gleason Archer wrote, Nahum 2. 6 contains a remarkably exact prediction. That verse says, the gates of the river. The subsequent history records that a vital part of the city walls of Nineveh were carried away by a great flood, and this ruin of the defensive system permitted the besieging armies of the and the Chaldeans to storm the city without difficulty. city. The palace was burned by the king of Assyria himself, I guess to prevent everything from falling into the into the hands of the enemy, and the city was so completely obliterated that it became like a myth until its discovery by Sir Austin Laird and others in the 19th century. I'm uh reminded of of the life of Professor Robert Dick Wilson that I've shared with you before because it's so striking. He lived at a time when the scriptures, particularly Old Testament scriptures, were under constant attack by those we call higher critics. Who went to the Bible and said, Oh, Moses didn't write this, and this king wasn't on the throne then, and this couldn't be true. So Robert Dick Wilson, at the age of uh fifteen, already realized that he had um uh uh uh some uh uh facility with ancient languages and and that God had gifted him with a an an amazing uh brain. And and so he determined to do this. He he scheduled his life. I don't know if any of you have done this, but he scheduled out his life. He said, I want to spend 15 years studying the ancient languages that would have any bearing upon the Old Testament. Then I want to spend fifteen years utilizing what I have learned and applying it to the study of Scripture, in particular the attacks that are made against the Old Testament. And then I'd like to spend 15 years of If the Lord grants me another fifteen years, fifteen years writing out my findings. And then I suppose at the age of sixty he'd take a vacation. You know, he'd go down down the ocean. But uh Professor Robert Dick Wilson kept to that schedule, and he became adept, it is reported, in over, get this, over 45 languages and dialects related to the Old Testament scriptures So Hebrew, of course, Aramaic, Coptic, Syrian, Chaldean, 45. And here's what he wrote. It's easy to remember it. 45 languages, 45 years of study. He wrote this. The result of my 45 years of study. . has . led me to a firmer faith that in the Old Testament we have a true historical account of the history of the Israelite people. And he wrote this at the end of his life. toward the end of his life, no man knows enough to assail or attack the truthfulness of the Old Testament. Write it down. No man knows enough to assail the truthfulness of the Old Testament. He said time and again, every time. A critic said this didn't happen, this couldn't have been, this city didn't even exist in his studies and with his knowledge of all his different languages. He confirmed the Bible to be true. Nelson Glick was at the time one of the world's most renowned archaeologists. He said, I've been accused of teaching the verbal plenary inspiration of Scripture. I want it to be understood that I've never taught this. All I ever said is that in all of my archaeological investigation, I have never found one artifact of antiquity. that contradicts any statement in the Word of God. If God says the sheaves are going to bow down, what are they going to do? Bow down, and that was the goat that said that. Well there you go. Now that's we're gonna uh we're gonna uh promote you over here to the sheep side. God says the sheaves are gonna bow down, the sheaves are gonna bow down. Now, a question may arise in your mind uh as you read this passage, why did Joseph deal so harshly with his brothers. Well he wasn't seeking to avenge himself, we know that. He had long since forgiven them in his heart. Why? Because he realized that God had taken their actions and brought good out of them. No, no, he has something else in mind. Why does he not immediately reveal himself to his brothers? Well I believe it was because he longed to see his younger brother Benjamin. And he wanted to see his father , but his older brother simply couldn't be trusted, right? To go back and, oh uh Dad, by the way, we saw Joseph and he's governor of Egypt. And if he had sent them all away, he might never see his brother Benjamin and his his father again. So Joseph evidently Taken by surprise at the appearance of his brothers, made a quick decision. His first thought, as we said, was to hold nine brothers captive and send one back for Benjamin. But yeah, it's kind of dangerous. One man traveling. Alone, he might never uh make it robbers on the way or whatever. And he couldn't carry back much food for the families that were left behind. You know, a lot of these these brothers were adults at this point. They had sons, right? daughters. So he later decided to hold one brother, send back nine. That way the nine could carry back sufficient food, etc. But he might also have been probing for signs of repentance by acting And speaking gruffly to them. Chapter 42, look at verse 19 again. If you are honest men, let one of your brothers be confined to your prison house, but you go and carry grain for the famine of your houses. Bring your younger youngest brother to me, so your words will be verified, and you shall not die. And they did so. And and And you know, this is not altogether unlike what they did to Joseph. You know, they left him or they got rid of him, and he was, I think, approbing Will they care if they lose another brother? And then they said to one another, We are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us, and we would not hear. Therefore this distress has come upon us. Twenty years later, uh something happens to them, distressful, and immediately they assume this is because of what we did to Joseph. Twenty years before. That's the power of the conscience. So I think that Joseph was probing for some signs of repentance. But let's think about the conscience here for a few moments. As we said, it had been over 20 years, but as soon as this Egyptian leader, there's no real connection, right, except it's Egypt, and they sold their brother into Egypt. But he deals harshly with them. Reuben suspects this is the chastening of God for their sin. Later, when they find that their money has been returned to their sacks, now how are we going to explain this to Pharaoh? We We got his grain and we we still have our money. As soon as that happens, they say to each other, what is this that God has done to us? See? That's the conscience. Verse 28. Proverbs chapter 28 verse 1. The wicked flee when no man pursues. Why? Conscience. The wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, whose waters cast forth mire and dirt. There's no peace, saith my God, to the wicked. Isaiah 57 verses 2021. What did Herod say when he heard about Jesus outperforming miracles, healing people, raising the dead? It is John whom I beheaded. He's risen from the dead. What was that? That was his conscience Even unbelievers have been blessed with a conscience. Paul says they show the work of the law written in their hearts. Their conscience also bearing witness and their thoughts accusing or excusing them. I just remembered this morning uh reading something that R. C. Stroll wrote in one of his books. I don't remember which book I couldn't put my finger on it this morning. But uh he said he met a psychiatrist and the psychiatrist said to him, you know, Dr. Sprohl, he said, uh and I forget the percentages, but uh a large percentage of the people that I deal with. are are coming to me because of guilt. They don't know what to do with their guilt. They can't deal with it. He was even offered a job once, I think, to come on staff with a Psychiatrist, it might have been the same one to help him to uh to alleviate people's guilt. That's the conscience. Conscience is a blessing from God because it can help to bring us to repentance But as you know, it can also be ignored, resisted, hardened, defiled, even deadened. First Timothy 4 2 describes those who speak lies in hypocrisy, having their conscience as seared with a hot iron. Unto the pure all things are pure, but to them that are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but even their mind and conscience is defiled. First, uh Titus chapter one, verse fifteen. Even a conscience, a conscience can be defiled. Such is the way of an adulterous woman. She eats and wipes her mouth and says, I've done no wickedness. Conscience defiled. Verse 30, verse 20. To go through life blind or deaf or lame, that would be a great trial, but to go through life with a seared conscience With a defiled or deadened conscience, that'd be an even greater handicap. So, how healthy is your conscience? Is there someone that you have unfairly treated? Is there someone who's been hurt by you? Is there a bill that you never paid? Is there a tool that you borrowed that's still in your garage years after you borrowed it? A book you borrowed you never returned? Is there a letter in your dresser drawer, lady, that you wouldn't want your husband to ever see a key on your key ring to someone else's apartment Is there a name that you shudder to hear because of the bad blood between you and that person? In broad terms, your God-given conscience is in one of three different States. It's either healthy and in good working order. And that means if a matter is brought to your attention through reading God's Word, hearing it preached. through seeing the person that you offended or some other nudging of the Holy Spirit, you seek to make amends. You desire as much as is possible, as much as it lies Within you to live at peace with all men. If it was a financial matter, you endeavor to pay it back. Even if you can only afford ten dollars a month, you're gonna pay it back because it's money that you owe. You don't just declare bankruptcy and walk away. The second possibility is that your conscience is being defiled. You are resisting the Holy Spirit. You're shrugging off every experience of conviction. You're hardening your neck. You're making excuses when the Holy Spirit convicts you. This hardening of the conscience can be a long involved process, right? The story is told of a man who, as he approached death, thought he heard his mother's voice saying, Johnny, did you take your sister's grapes? He The story came out that over 30 years before he had eaten some grapes that were sent by a friend intended for his sister as she lay dying of tuberculosis. His conscience was defiled, but not quite dead. If your conscience is in this hardened state, I would urge you to tenderize it. With repentance and confession. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And then your conscience, I trust this is not true of any of us here, but your conscience could be in that third state when it is effectively dead, cauterized, seared. To the point that you mock the things of God. Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush. Jeremiah chapter 6 Verse 15. Paul speaks of those who, being past feeling, have given themselves over unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. Ephesians 4. 19. A conscience that's effectively seared. The Apostle Peter speaks of those who walk according to the flesh in the lust of uncleanness. Like natural brute beasts made to be caught and destroyed, they speak evil of the things they don't understand, and they will utterly perish in their own corruption. They have a heart that is trained in covetous practices, eyes full of adultery, who cannot cease from sin, enticing unstable souls, 2 Peter chapter 2. Far better to be physically blind and deaf than to be blind to your nature and deaf to your conscience. But then we learn something here about God's wonderful plan of salvation. As we've seen in this brief series, there are many parallels between Joseph's life and the life of the Lord Jesus. Rejected by his own, sold for the price of a slave, delivered to the Gentiles, slandered, persecuted, mistreated, but ultimately exalted, right? Here we see Joseph dispensing the treasures of a king. Now when Jacob saw there was grain in Egypt, he said to his sons, why do you look one upon another? Why do you just sit here staring at each other? Behold, I've heard that there's grain in Egypt. Go down there to buy some food for us that we may live and not die. There was only one place to go. Got to go to Egypt. You've got to go to Joseph if you want to live. Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Acts 4. 12 How about you? How about you? You can stay where you are and die in the famine. Or you can You can come to Jesus and you can live. Oh, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. You who have no money, come buy and eat. Yes, come buy wine and milk without money, without promise. Why do you spend money for what is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfy? Isaiah 55, 1 and 2. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he's near. Won't always be near. You won't always be able to call upon him. Call upon him while he's near. Respond to the Lord while he's working in your heart, while the Holy Spirit is bringing conviction of sin. Don't harden your neck. Don't resist the Spirit. Don't allow your conscience to be defiled. Don't harden your neck. Will you come to Jesus and live? Or stay where you are and die? That's the question. Joseph's older brothers bowed the knee to the one they once hated and rejected. And one day, as Pastor Nick said, every knee will bow before For him, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Far better to confess that now and have your sins covered. than to deny it now and confess it only as you're being led away to the just punishment that is due for sin. There, Jesus said, will be Weeping and gnashing of teeth. But again, why die when food is available? When the storehouses are full? Those of us who have already come to Christ have received the promise of eternal life. Not because we were righteous, we were not. Not because we were honest, we were not Not because we were obedient to God, because we were not. Not because we were sexually pure, we were not. The Bible describes Christians as fornicators, idolaters, adulterers, homosexuals, thieves, covetous, drunkards, revilers, extortioners, etc. And it indicates the only difference between them and other fornicators, idolaters, drunkards, extortioners, is that Christians have been forgiven. Amen? We've been justified. We've been declared righteous in the name of Jesus Christ through the instrumentality of the Holy Spirit who moves and works as he pleases. He brought us to repentance. He brought us to saving faith. Otherwise we wouldn't have come. We love darkness rather than light because our deeds were evil If you're a believer today, it's because God graciously opened your heart and gave you faith to believe. So you have no right to look down your nose at some other sinner. And say, what's wrong with you? What's wrong with him? This is the same thing that was wrong with you. And the only difference is God has saved you, and you need to pray that God will save him or her. Amen? So let me just say a closing word to unbelievers. Won't you come now? Bow your knee to Jesus Christ. Do it today. God have mercy on me. I'm a sinner. Who are you trying to kid? You think you're without sin? That you're not proud, unselfish, unkind, and sometimes cruel and Harsh. You acknowledge your sin. You confess it to God. God forgive me. God save me. You come to God that way. You come as a little child, not proud and puffed up, not uh proud of all your accomplishments and all the good things you've done for Jesus. Or all the faithful ways you've served God, but you realize all your righteousnesses are as filthy rags. You're just a sinner, and you're no different from anyone else All we like sheep have gone astray, we've turned everyone to his own way. But the Lord has laid upon him the iniquity of us all. So you come to Jesus, you say, Lord, forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Make me a new creation. I'm going to bow the knee before you. I want to do it now. God, save me. You come to him that way. He'll forgive you. He'll save you. He'll give you this eternal life. This precious gift. The Bible talks about. Jesus said, What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a glorious message you have given us in your word. You didn't have to Set your love upon us. You didn't have to redeem us. You could have let us all go our way. We deserve death. We've broken the laws of a holy God But you had compassion upon us. You sent your own son to give his life. The debt had to be paid, and none of us could pay it. But Jesus, the sinless Son of God could pay it. And he did. And he rose again from the dead, and he lives today. And he's coming back one day. Lord, please work in the hearts of Every unbeliever here. Lord, open those hearts. Grant sight. Breathe upon those dry bones, just as you did with so many of us here And those of us who are yours, Lord, remind us that we're only yours because of your grace and not because of anything in us, not by works of righteousness which we have done. But according to There's mercy, he saved us. In Jesus' name we pray, amen.