If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. We're going to be looking at verses 18 through 31 this morning. And I would invite you to stand for the reading. of God's holy word this morning. First Corinthians chapter 1, beginning in verse 18. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs, and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews, and folly to Gentiles. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. Because of him, and because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God indeed. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we are thankful, O Lord, for your word. Lord, I think of even reading that, I think of what Jesus said when he prayed to you, Father. He said, Father, I thank you that you have hidden these things from the wise and you have revealed them to babes. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes this morning, open our ears, open our minds that we might understand What your word is saying to us. Open our hearts that we might receive it. Lord, if if we need to be challenged and called to repentance this morning, we pray that your word would do that. If we need to be comforted, O Lord, because our our conscience is already tender or sore, we pray that you would bring comfort in the gospel this morning. But Lord, in all of these things, we pray that you would teach us to center our lives on the Lord Jesus Christ. and on the message of the cross, which stands at the center of the gospel. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as you know, and it doesn't take a genius watching the news or sc surfing the internet to know that we live in a day and age which is incredibly divided over a a whole host of things. And yet, it seems like in dark times, historically speaking, in dark times, that is when people seem to be divided the most. And yet In those darkest of times, God calls his people, the church, to be united to one another in Christ Jesus. to shine as a light in the love that we have for one another to a dark world that in a way that might draw them in to Christ. In fact, if you've been following our series as we've begun the last few weeks in 1 Corinthians, you know That these first couple chapters, one, two, and three, and even part of chapter four, really Paul is dealing with this issue of division among the body of Christ. Now, our passage this morning comes in the middle of that argument, and he unpacks some of the things that divide them, but he really focuses on the message of the cross. Which stands at the center of our profession as Christians and what we're called to base our lives on In fact, the main idea of this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18 to 31 is this. The message of the cross is the power to save contrary to worldly wisdom, which then leads us to boast in the Lord for our salvation. Now, if you are visiting with us this morning or you've never been here before, you'll find that main idea, that sermon idea, on page 5, right at the bottom of our liturgy. But let me repeat that because that's what we want to unpack together this morning. The message of the cross is the power to save, contrary to worldly wisdom. Which then leads us to boast in the Lord for our salvation. Beginning to unpack that, our first point in verses 18 to 25 this morning is that the message of the cross contrasts with worldly wisdom. The message of the cross contrasts with worldly wisdom. Take a look with me as we begin unraveling this. In verses 18 through 21, we see the foolishness and the power of the cross. And actually, before we jump into verse 18, I want to highlight for you verse 17. Now I didn't read that this morning. That's where we left off and ended last week. But verse 17 is kind of like a fulcrum or a transition point from our appeal to a divided church last week. to what is the divided church supposed to stand on, which is what we're looking at this week. Verse 17, for Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. And not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ, that's our focus this week, right? Be emptied of its power. There is a difference between the wisdom of the world and the power of the cross. Look at verse 18. We'll see the foolishness and power of the cross kind of contrasted there. For the word of the cross is folly or foolishness to those who are perishing, but to those of us who are being saved, it is the power of God. You see that contrast there because Paul contrasting folly and power, he'll contrast later on the wisdom of God and the wisdom of the world, and then he'll contrast again What people expect and how they expect God to work versus how he actually works. He's laying off three contrasts that we need to pay attention to this week and this morning in this passage. When he's talking about the word of the cross, he simply means the preaching of the gospel, which I just read and alluded to back in verse 17. What's interesting here is the word for folly that he uses here when he says in verse 18 the word of the cross is folly is the Greek word that is essentially moros. May sound familiar to you. It's where we get our English word moron from. And yeah, we can chuckle about that. Um we tend to use that word today as kind of a a personal insult, like You might look at someone who says or does something really stupid and be like, You moron And it it's kinda got that insulting characteristic to it. In in in Greek it just simply means foolishness or folly. It's not necessarily meant to be an insult as much as it is a descriptor. But that's the word he uses, and what he's saying here is that the word or the preaching of the cross Is either foolishness or it's power, what makes the difference Well, notice the other part of his contrast here is between those who are perishing and those who are being saved. For those who are perishing, For those who are enslaved to their sin , to use his language from Romans chapter 1, At the end of that chapter, he talks about people who have a debased mind, who are given over to sin and living enslaved to sin and perishing in that. The word of the cross to those people who love their sin and are perishing is foolishness. They don't get it. They might hear the word of the gospel, the message of the gospel. They might even understand what you're saying logically. But because of the disposition of their heart and the nature of the fact that they are perishing, it just sounds foolish to them But to those of us who are being saved, he says, the word of the cross is power. Now this contrast here that he's laying out between foolishness and wisdom or power, on the other hand, this contrast is nothing new. In fact, take a look at verse 19. In order to substantiate his claim, Paul quotes from Isaiah 29, 14. When he says, you see it there in verse 19 quoted, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Now it's really helpful when you see these Old Testament quotes to take a step back and identify where where this is coming from, what was the context, and how does how is the author of the New Testament using it here. Let's do that very quickly And Isaiah 29, particularly verse 14, which is quoting from, but Isaiah 29, big picture, he is, the prophet Isaiah is making a pronouncement to the Jewish people living in the southern kingdom of Judea or Judah. in his own day, prior to the Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem, he is telling them that judgment is coming. Judgment is coming on them for their sin. And he gives this analogy where God is telling them, write these words of judgment that is coming in a book. And there's going to come a time where people are going to say, hey, read this judgment, and the priests and the scribes and the wise people and the prophets. The learned intelligentsia of Jerusalem will refuse to read the book, claiming that they either cannot read or do not understand the words. It's really a picture of the heart of God's people in the Old Testament times where Isaiah chapter 6 said You know, they have eyes, but they cannot see. They have ears, but they cannot hear, lest They do see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their minds and turn and I heal them Isaiah is speaking to people who are blinded and who are deaf to the truth. And they're wise people, their wise men, those who you think would know better in society, are continuing to give the kings of Judah Horrible advice that only hastens God's judgment because it deepens their sin That's what he's talking about. God is going to judge the sin of his people as part of his plan to redeem them and the wisdom of the people in Jerusalem were not able to comprehend it And so what is what does this have to do with Paul's day? What does this have to do with the Corinthians in their day? Well Think about it. If the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, look at what happened in the time of Christ. The Jewish religious leaders, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the wise men of the day, those who should have known better, because they knew the Scriptures. The intelligentsia were the ones who handed over their own Messiah to the Romans for crucifixion. They did not, just like the the rulers and wise men of Isaiah's day, they did not understand What God was doing to judge the sin of his people, even as he was going to redeem them through that judgment. That was what the cross is all about, isn't it? God is judging the sins of his people in the person of Jesus Christ, crucified on that cross, so that in his judgment we might be given mercy. And the wise people of Jesus' day did not get it. It was foolishness to them. That's what he's getting at. And so he's saying, look, for those who are perishing, the word of the cross, the message of the gospel, it sounds like complete foolishness. Why? Because God is destroying the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning he will thwart, as we'll see ultimately, for his own glory. He's laying bare the things that natural men rely on, and showing those things to be foolish for his own glory in salvation. And that brings that some questions kind of come out of that then, out of that contrast that Paul's making here. You see those questions in verses 20 and 21. He asks four rhetorical questions. So he's, and you can almost see Paul being a little cheeky here. Where is the one who is wise? It's a rhetorical question, but the answer is nowhere to be found. Where is the scribe? You can almost say, does it even matter? Where is the debater of this age, the one who is polished and can win any argument? It doesn't matter. And then the last question he asks, has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? Now that question being rhetorical at the same time makes a statement, doesn't it? It's a statement that God has made foolish the wisdom of the world. And look at what verse 21 says as it unpacks that truth from that question. For since No, it's gonna be a tongue twister here, but the key word here is wisdom. For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly or foolishness of what we preach. to save those who believe. Isn't that interesting? God, in his wisdom in heaven and from eternity past, decided that it will not be through wisdom that people come to know him And when you talk about knowing God, in the New Testament, kind of a parallel phrase to there is being saved. How do you have your sin taken care of? How are you brought into proper relationship with God as those who are his. It's not through wisdom. And God decided that in his wisdom Why is Paul highlighting wisdom here? Well, if you will we'll see in just a minute why Because you see the contrasting expectations of the cross lay this out in verses 22 through 25. Why did they not know God through wisdom? Well, look at their expectations. Look at verses 22 and 23. You have two groups that are given here, Jews and Gentiles, and Paul lays out what the expectations were of both, and then he contrasts that with what the cross does. First, he mentions that Jews sought for signs. Take a look at that, verse 22. For Jews demand signs. Stop there. You see this over and over and over again in the gospel accounts. For instance, in Mark chapter 8, verse 11, it says, The Pharisees came and they began to argue with him, being Jesus, seeking for a sign to test him. That's the same language there, seeking a sign. But notice the dynamic. Since the purpose was to test Jesus by demanding signs from him , What this essentially did is it put the Pharisees and other religious leaders in the position of authority to stand as judge over the gospel that Jesus preached. Notice the power play there. Notice the dynamic. If Jesus were to give them a sign and acquiesce to their demand, what he would essentially be doing is putting himself under their authority and affirming to them that you have the authority over me to judge the gospel that I preach. Now, number one, that's not true. They didn't have that authority because he called them to repent, showing that he has the authority. And despite all the miraculous things that Jesus did do, I love what John 21, verse 25 says at the end of John's gospel, he's like, you know, if if you could write in write down all the things that Jesus did, all the books in the world could not contain all the things that he did. Despite all that he did. The Jewish religious leaders still did not believe that Jesus was their Messiah because he did not fit their expectations. Why not? Well, look at verse 23. It tells us that the gospel is and was a stumbling block to the Jews. What does that mean? Well, what were their expectations of him? They were expecting Jesus to come and essentially take up the sword. as a political figure and to run the Romans right out of the Holy Land and establish the kingdom to Jerus to Israel once again. You see this in Acts chapter 1. The disciples even had that mentality. In Acts chapter 1, they asked the resurrected Lord, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? If you talk to a Jewish person who actually knows what why they believe what they believe and knows what they think and are informed, You might ask them, so what is your issue with Jesus as the Messiah? Why do you not believe that? I've asked a rabbi friend of mine that one time. Over dinner. That's the best time to do it because you're waiting for the food to come out. It's a captive audience. He's not going to get up and walk away. But I asked the question, why not come to faith in Christ? You know what his answer was? Essentially it boiled down to he did not meet our expectations. The Messiah is supposed to be a political figure. He's supposed to do this and establish his kingdom. Jesus didn't do that. In fact, we had a really interesting comment come up in Sunday school. Somebody had commented that Muhammad, Islam came up in this church. And someone said Muhammad was the quote unquote savior or messiah that Jesus was not. He spread uh Islam by the sword. I thought that was a really interesting comment. But here, when Jews seek for signs, why didn't they come to the Messiah? Because he didn't meet their expectations. He didn't bow to their whims. But second, here he mentions the Gentiles. What about the Gentiles? Verse 22. Now Paul's talking to Gentiles here, predominantly in Corinth. Gentiles or Greeks seek wisdom. Again, historically we can see this validated ever since the pre-Socratic philosophers The Greeks have been known for their intellectual rigor, their intellectual endeavors to explain the world and all there is by means of wisdom or reason. Hmm. And of course the pre-Socratics give way to people like Socrates and Plato and Aristotle, who kind of form a little holy trinity of classical Greek philosophers. They had an outsized influence on Greek culture and Greco-Roman society in Paul's day. But here's the thing, they were all looking for a logical, reasonable explanation for all of reality by trying to get at the heart of all reality, all knowledge, and all ethics. I'm not going to get into the details of all of these guys because it's not important for us this morning. But the problem is that They all sought to understand reality, knowledge, and ethics without reference to the personal God of the Bible. Fundamentally, what they're doing is not really any different from what the Jews are doing. John Frame, in his History of Western philosophy and theology, writes this. Therefore, they, being the Greeks, affirm the autonomy of their own reason. Their project was to impose autonomous reason on an irrational world. But we should rigorously, as Christians, avoid the notion of rational autonomy. End quote. What does all that mean? Those are big words. Well what it means is essentially these Greeks are doing the same thing. that the Jewish religious leaders are doing, and by their own reason and their own wisdom, apart from God, they seek to stand as the authority over all truth so that they are the authority rather than Christ. or the gospel. And if you remember, one of the things these Greeks all had in common was they saw a distinction between the world of the spiritual and the world of the material. And in their minds the spiritual was pure and good and holy and to be sought after. And the physical world of the material the of you know, the material universe that we all live in was evil. And so for them, when they hear that God took on flesh That sounds to them like foolishness. When they hear that, oh, this God who became flesh in the person of Jesus Christ was crucified on a cross And then rose again from the dead? Why would he take on flesh again? That's foolishness. Acts chapter 17. The Stoic and the Epicurean philosophers. What did they do? They mocked when Paul preached the resurrection. But at the end of the day, whether you're looking at the expectations of the Jews and the Greeks, one thing is clear with all of them. The Jews, there were many different sects. in Jesus' time that had a bunch of different ideas that were not really rooted in the Old Testament that informed their bad expectations. What about the Greeks? The same thing. You have all these little splinter philosophy groups. And whether you're talking the Jews or the Greeks, none of them can solve the problem of sin. None of them can solve the problem of death. None of them can lead to knowing God in a saving way. So you contrast that with what does he mention thirdly here in verse 23? Jews demand signs. Greeks seek for wisdom. What are we doing? But, verse 23, we preach Christ crucified. Again, a stumbling block for Jews because a crucified Messiah did not make sense to them. Foolishness to the Gentiles, because God, who is spiritual and pure, could not possibly take on flesh God did not work in saving the world and bringing people into relationship with himself the way that the world expects. In fact, the way that God works is an outright opposition to and challenge to the perceived autonomy of all people, whether Jew or Gentile. And that's why he says in verse 24, but to those who are called uh both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God And notice the contrast there between the Lord on the one hand and man. This is the final contrast he gives here. And it's it's stated in hyperbole in verse 25. The foolishness of God If there could be foolishness in God, is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Paul speaks in hyperbole to draw out the absurdity of us thinking we could get to God by our own means, by our own power, by our own wisdom, and so on and so forth. And so how does the foolishness of the cross speak to the wisdom of the contemporary world today? We're not living in the Greco-Roman world, we're living in a modern world. What about today? Well, how about this? Man's wisdom is not going to lead us to God or solve all the problems that we have. I'm going to focus on the wisdom part of this because. We are Gentiles, most of us. And Paul was speaking mostly to Gentiles. There's a lot of ways that we see people today attempting to solve all of man's problems and save themselves and the world by the wisdom of men. I'm going to give two examples here. Okay? Just two for the sake of time. One is education. How's that for an option? If many of us tend to think if only we educate people enough, we will solve all of society's problems in general, and we might even solve our own problems personally and particularly. That's a lie that has been fed to us probably for the last two hundred years in in our context. If only we educate people enough, we can make them into good people. And if we mold them into good people, they'll make good decisions because they'll make decisions out of being informed. Or another way to put this is with enough education, there's no limit to what we as humanity can accomplish. Education can save. That's the idea. It's really the same lie, isn't it? Wisdom can save. Now, let me just be clear here, okay? As an aside, I'm not against education or Christians getting educated. Let me just make that very clear. I believe, and I think scripturally, that a trained mind can be a powerful tool in the hand of the Lord. In fact, look at the way the Presbyterian Church in America or Presbyterians historically have functioned in terms of raising up leaders. Do you realize that there are educational standards that histor uh uh Presbyterians have historically required for their ministers because they want their ministers to be an educated clergy so that they can shepherd their people effectively through the the winds and the waves of the world and fads and worldviews that come our way? That's important. But what I'm saying here, when I'm saying that education uh in this case can be one of the things that we falsely lean on to save us, I'm speaking against the notion of education and human intelligence in and of itself as the the means by which we're going to come up with all the solutions to save us and make us right with God. By the way, it is interesting that the original sin in the Garden of Eden included what? The tree of the knowledge of good and evil? To be like God? In our day and age, education seems to focus really only on giving information into the mind. It's a head exercise today. But historically that really wasn't the case You realize in 1943 the Oxford English University professor C. S. Lewis wrote a book called The Abolition of Man. Which by the way, if you're a parent raising kids, I would really highly recommend you read that. I it it's really short. It's probably like seventy-five pages or something. He can get it done in a couple days. But what he's arguing in that book is that modern education focuses only on the mind. And as it does that, it begins to move from objective standards of right and wrong, true and false, to very subjective modes of knowing things In other words, what that looks like today, if have you ever been into it been in a Bible study? I have, where people might ask, you read the passage, how do you feel about that? Who cares how you feel about that? I don't care if you're uncomfortable. What does it mean? Right But that's the way we tend to think. You you know, you go in college campuses and you hear people say all the time, I think or I feel in answer to something where it implies there's no objective truth. And C. S. Lewis was highlighting this. He's like, the problem in modern education is we're moving from objective standards to subjective thinking and feeling. And the more that you move to the subjective, the more you divorce the mind and the heart. Because what he was arguing in that book is Historically, education didn't just focus on what you know in your head, it also focused on the development of the character, the development of the heart and the affections and the conscience. And one of the problems he saw, and this was so prophetic for 1943, he saw a time coming very soon, and we we're actually living in it today. where you are going to get what he said, people with big heads and small chests. What does he mean by that? He means that you're going to have people that have their heads filled with knowledge But their heart, their affections, their conscience, their sense of moral right and wrong is not going to keep up with what they know in their head. And because of that, they're going to take the knowledge that they have in their head and they're going to use it in very hurtful and irresponsible and cruel ways against other people. Does that sound familiar to you, what we see today? I mean, look at the way technology in our day and age, which comes from our educational system. Technology is increasing at such a rapid rate that it is it is outpacing our sense of right and wrong and we don't know how to use the technology we have in a righteous, responsible way. And next thing you know, you have internet pornography. You have social media platforms where students tend to bully one another and there's really no way to control this In other words, for all of our knowledge, for all of our intellectual and technical sophistication Mark this well. We have not been able to change the human heart or to save ourselves or our society by our own wisdom and means. Our knowledge, at the end of the day, has really become foolishness. Because we live in a society where you you can't define what a woman is anymore You can't identify what a real man and woman is in terms of gender? This wasn't a great mystery even in ancient civilizations, and yet in all of our sophistication, we have become so foolish. And that foolishness has re-has infiltrated churches and the body of Christ and has led to great confusion. That's not the foundation of the cross, is it? The other one I'll just add, and I'll be a lot shorter with this, not out of fear, but You can just, there's not enough time today to go through all the rabbit trails. The other example is politics. You see this in the wake of the Charlie Kirk assassination about a week and some change ago. What's interesting to me is looking at social media with all of that and seeing people come out of the woodwork with this political theory or that idea. Believing that if only we do this, that, or the other, we're going to somehow save our nation from all of the chaos that we see around us. And again, don't hear me say, please do not hear me say that Christians should not be politically engaged. We absolutely should be politically engaged. As responsible citizens. We absolutely as Christians should be voting our consciences and voting on issues based on Christian conviction rooted in scriptural principle and truth. Absolutely. But the moment we stop and we think to ourselves that that a political theory or strategy is going to save us and we let that divide the body of Christ is the moment we are really in trouble Because what it betrays is just like education, it shows a heart of idolatry in believing that some political theory or structure that is not rooted in Scripture is going to save and change the human heart. You cannot legislate redeeming the human heart. That doesn't mean you don't vote for laws to restrict evil in society. But we need to understand that just like the cross was foolishness in Paul's day, it is often foolish today. And yet, brothers and sisters, it is the only hope that we have of changing the human heart. That leads us to our second point this morning in verses 26 to 31. He's made his point that the cross stands contrary in crosshairs with the ideologies of the world, and that Christianity is not just another philosophy. But now he he transitions in our second point here. He shifts from that generic principle of God's wisdom being far superior to anything in the world, to how this looked in the way that God worked in calling the Corinthian believers to himself. Our second point in verses 26 to 31 is that the message of the cross leads to boasting in the Lord. And if you look at verses 26 to 29, we see that our calling is grounded in God's choice. This is again where God's purposes are at crosshairs with the wisdom of the world or what they expect. Let's take a look at that. And as we do, I just want you to notice the key word in this section, verses 26 to 29. is the key word chose or God chose. Let's look at this. Verse 26. He highlights our state when God called us. For consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth. What is he highlighting there? He's highlighting the humble situation and circumstances of the Corinthians when he came and preached to them the first time and they came to faith. I mean, as Gentiles who have inherited this Hellenistic Greco-Roman uh culture of intelligentsia from the philosophers, they might boast in their wisdom But notice what he says here. He reminds them that when God called them to faith, not many of them were wise. It goes back to what he said in verse 17 when he says, Look, I came to preach, and I did not preach to you in words of eloquent wisdom. Back in verse 17. It wasn't, Paul's essentially saying, it wasn't my vast learning or eloquent words that saved you. This is just the first example of God calling them and not choosing them because they were wise or had anything else impressive that the world might be awed by. They might boast in being powerful. He lists that. By the way, the idea of being powerful or mighty in this instance points to political power or influence. That's what that word refers to in this context. They could hypothetically boast in some form of political influence or popularity, but that was not the case when God called them. Do you remember in Acts chapter 18 when when Paul's preaching, the city gets riled up, mainly because the Jewish um people in the synagogue were were jealous of Paul and the fact that people are going after him, and what do they do? They drag the believers and they drag them into court. Boy, if they were influential and powerful politically, they would not have been dragged into court, but they were And so again, God does not use the things that impress the world like clout and power in calling the Corinthians to himself. And lastly, they might boast in their noble birth. That's an interesting word in Greek, the original Greek. It's eugenace, which is where we get our English word eugenics from. Means literally good genes or to have a good birth Come from a good family. And again, contrary to the world's estimation and the things that influenced the world, the Corinthians did not match up. In other words, God did not choose the things that we expect as people for him to accomplish his purposes. In fact, he chooses the things that we never would. Look at verses 27 to 29. It's an interesting way that he writes this to get at the heart of God's people. Verse 27, but God chose what is foolish in the world. He basically takes everything in 26 and he turns it on his head. God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong or the powerful. God chose what is low and despised in the world, contrary to this noble birth. Even the things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. Why? Look at verse 29. This is what God is getting at and driving at in how He works. so that no human being might boast in the presence of the Lord. God is after the hearts of his people. He doesn't want them to boast in their own resources. Whatever those may be, he wants them to boast in his glory. No one can boast in God's presence. That's what he's after here. That's what he's driving us towards. God humbles the wise, the strong, and the noble to reveal that they have nothing. That could save them, that would lead them to boast before Him. None of those things impress God. And so if we can't boast in the things that the world does, what are we left with? Well, look at verses 30 and 31. Our calling is to boast in the Lord. Look at this in verse 30. I love this. It says, and from him you are in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom for us from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption. In other words, all the things that we could seek to boast after in our of ourselves are actually found fulfilled in Christ. So that Christ becomes the substance of our boasting. I just love how he takes different aspects of our self- our salvation Christ is our wisdom. Christ is our righteousness. Christ is our sanctification and being set apart from the world for his holy use. Christ is our redemption. And that leads in verse 31 to summarize where all of this has been driving all of this time, so that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Again, here he's quoting from Jeremiah 23, verse not chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. And so again, let's just take a step back. What was Jeremiah talking about? He's prophesying that God is bringing judgment on Jerusalem through the Babylonians. He's making the same exact point Isaiah was making in Isaiah 29, only doing it a century later and closer to the judgment. And what is what what were the people boasting in at that time in Jeremiah? They were well, they were boasting in their their wealth, they were boasting in their wisdom, they were boasting in their might. In fact, the full quote says this: Thus says the Lord: Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom. That certainly applies to the Corinthians and to us. Let not the mighty boast in his might. Let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love and justice and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, says the Lord That's what he's talking about in the Old Testament context. How does that apply to the New Testament? Well, it's it's really the same things, isn't it? Those three things. Are the same things Paul talks about in telling the Corinthians not to boast in here, because God works contrary to those things. And so as New Testament Christians, the Corinthians could only boast in God through Jesus Christ, who took that judgment for their sin on the cross and gave them new life in the resurrection. And so the means by which the Lord has called us should, brothers and sisters today, lead us to humility with respect to ourselves and to boasting in the grace of God. Humility is a prerequisite for Christian unity. Let's put this right back into the larger context of Paul's argument in 1 Corinthians as we apply this. He's talking about division, he's encouraging them to unity. Humility is a prerequisite for Christian unity in the local church. This calling of humility should keep us humble. It should keep us from exalting ourselves over brothers and sisters in the church. Look, some of you in this room have impressive educational pedigrees. And that's great. But you must remember that it was not because of your intelligence that God chose you. and called you. Some of you are very influential and popular in this room and have a very wide sphere of influence in the world, maybe because of your talent. or because of your career. Again, that is wonderful, but that is not why God called you and chose you. It does not give you more standing than another brother or sister has in this local church. Let me illustrate how this, I saw this go wrong one time and horribly wrong. A church I was involved with many years ago, there was an elderly man who's now passed away since. He was one of the founding charter members of this church back in the late 1950s. About the time I knew him, he was in his mid-90s. Maybe early 90s, early to mid-90s. He owned a local business. And he was very successful. Like he this guy was worth millions. Now, I personally had very limited interaction with him, but the interaction I had, I'll admit to you, was not positive by any stretch of the imagination. I found him very discouraging to me in things he said. And I learned as time went on that this this man threw his money and his clout around the church. And that he had done this for a long, long time. I remember some one of the elders telling me at one point, oh yeah, years ago he He wanted this or that done in the church and he needed a tax write-off for his business and so he was willing to give some money, but he told the church, I will not give you this money if you do not use it for what I'm telling you you have to use it for. Um well did they take his money? Well y sadly they did take his money and they did what he told them to. But this man, through his many actions like this, revealed that he thought too highly of his wealth, and let's call it his nobility. As a founding member of that church, he took himself and his his own importance in the larger body too seriously And sadly, I learned that I was not the only one who noticed this. Most of the session members at the at that time in that church noticed this about this man. One of the things I learned as a student in Bible college, and it was even repeated in seminary, that even as a pastor They said, don't take yourself too seriously. If you can't laugh at yourself, someone else will. And it's true. My job is one of the only jobs out there and one of the only vocations out there where it doesn't really play to all of my strengths, but you guys see all my weaknesses and all my quirks. Don't take yourself too seriously. They said, don't take yourself seriously, but take take what you do and your calling seriously. And those are not the same thing. We need to be humble if we're going to be united in Christ. We need to be humble about ourselves We need to learn to make little of ourselves for the sake of the unity of the body and for the sake of making much of Jesus and the grace of God through him. By the way, that is why if you look at the first page of your bulletin, and I'll end on this, right under Liberty Church PCA, we're going to start putting our vision statement right there, under there. Our elders are pretty faithful in acknowledging this during the announcements, but look at that. Liberty Church PCA exists to glorify God by making faithful and mature disciples of Jesus Christ who have a vision and passion for the glory of Christ for all of life. Brothers and sisters, as we seek to do life together and stick together and be a light in a dark world, let's make much of Jesus and let's boast in the cross of Christ and not in ourselves. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are thankful, O Lord, that this whole thing, the church, does not rest on any one of us. But it rests on your son Jesus. He is the only one who, Lord, who has shoulders big enough to carry all of our burdens, all of the cares on our hearts, to bring healing and grace in our lives. But also, Lord, He's the only one to whom we should be giving thanks. for the wonderful blessings that you give, the blessing of forgiveness of sins and new life, that we might have life and have it abundantly as your people. We pray, O Lord, today that you would help us to make much of your son Jesus and to make little of our Son. As we seek to build one another up, united as the body of Christ. Strengthen us today, we ask, in Jesus' name. Amen.