Thank you, choir, for that lovely, lovely anthem and Providentially it fits in right with the message. So praise God for that. And uh speaking of the message, turn with me in your Bibles As we return to our study in Ephesians. This time we'll be reading from Ephesians 4, starting at verse 17 through the end of the chapter. Let's stand for the reading of God's Holy Word. Paul writes in verse seventeen, This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord. That you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk, in the futility of their mind. having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart who being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness, to work all uncleanliness with greediness. But you have not so learned Christ, if indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus That you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And that you put on the new man, which was created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness. Therefore, putting away lying , Let each of you speak with truth with his neighbor. For we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin Do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good. that he may have something to give him who has need. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good and necessary for edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you With all malice, and be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Praise God for His word. Please be seated and pray with me. O gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for your mighty, powerful word. For we know that your word does not return void, but accomplishes its purposes through the power of your Spirit So we pray, Lord, that you would use your word today to transform hearts and lives, that we would see afresh and anew the wonderful thing that you have done for us in Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. Well, beloved, with the holidays approaching, I don't know about you. But I've noticed an uptick in commercials for diet companies. Maybe they're just trying to head us off at the past. So that we lose weight before the holidays hit and the feasting commences and the waistband increases. But in any case, all of these commercials had a before and after picture of the person who used their product. And in the after picture, the dieter usually holds up some garment that they used to wear, which is about three times the size they are now. It's so big that they can hide behind it. And the dieter touts the results. With Jenny Craig, I feel better, I have more energy, I have a positive outlook on life And they're all buff and tanned, ready to take on the world. And it's just maddening. Well, in our verses today, Paul offers a before and after picture of the Christian life. And he describes for us the radical change that has taken place in the life of the believer. Verses 17 through 19 are the before photo, what we were like before we came to Christ. And verses 20 through 24 are the after photo as they highlight the dramatic transformation that has taken place within us. So let's first consider that first photo in verses 17 through 19 Now in these verses here, Paul paints a really bleak, disturbing picture of our human condition before we receive the gospel. It's an alarming picture of the unregenerate person who is outside of Christ. And he begins verse 17 with a very serious exhortation. And he gives it an extra punch. By adding the phrase, I testify in the Lord, as if to say, I, Paul, speak for Christ with his full authority as his representative. So you better listen up. This is urgent. I am being emphatic here. I bear witness to Christ that this is what he would want you to do. And what is it that they should do? Or rather, what is it that they should not do Paul says, you Ephesians should no longer follow the path of your fellow Gentiles. Don't go down that road, that well-trodden road that you used to walk before you came to Christ. And how did the Gentiles walk? Well, he tells us that they walked in the futility of their mind. In the futility of their mind. Now, what does he mean by that? The futility of their mind. After all, he could have simply said they walk in futility. And we would get that. We would get that because we would know that the road the Gentiles walked led to a dead end, to emptiness, to frustration. But Paul clarifies this futility. He calls it a futility of the mind. So he's keying us here into something that's extremely significant. That the source of the Gentiles' futility resides in the way that they think. The Gentiles' way of thinking was skewered. It's so off-kilter that it results in futility. And so throughout these verses, we see that Paul emphasizes how we think. our intellect, how our minds perceive reality. And it makes sense when we consider that our thinking governs what we do And our behavior is based on our beliefs. So he says that the way that the Gentiles think results in emptiness and futility. It's sterile. It's dead. So he warns the Ephesians, don't go back to your former ways the ways of your fellow Gentiles in their thinking because their thinking ends in sterility, in emptiness. Well, how so? Well, we could go right to the book of Ecclesiastes, to Solomon. Who said that life under the sun, life contained to just this natural world apart from God is what? It's meaningless. It's a chasing after the wind. And of course, Solomon had a lifetime of study on the subject. After all, who was he? But a man who had incredible power, immense wealth. He was the elite, the one percent of the one percent, the top of the heap, number one, the king of the hill. He had tried it all, he had done it all, and in the final analysis, he found it all wanting. A waste. Things that had promised fulfillment were fleeting, and the pleasures that he enjoyed were short-lived. And isn't that the way life is, apart from any idea of the eternal or the absolute, that it's futile Maybe you've seen those bumper stickers. He who dies with the most toys wins. Well, in the final analysis, what does the winner win? I mean, what was all the striving for to acquire toys? It's not like you can take your Lamborghini or your Ferrari with you to the grave. For naked we come into this world and naked we leave it. And we leave it with nothing. Well that leads us to our next point. Not only is the pagan's worldview futile because they think temporary pleasures can bring lasting fulfillment. But it's also futile because death itself makes everything futile. There is a way that seems right to a man. But in the end it leads to death, according to Proverbs 14, 12. Paul earlier stated in Ephesians what the Gentiles were like, in their former life. Ephesians 2. 3. They were what? They were dead in their trespasses and sins. And in verse 12, they were without hope. And without God in the world, without hope, and without God in the world. And isn't that exactly where the atheist finds himself Without God and without any hope. In the worldview of the materialist, all we are is dust in the wind. And when we cease to exist, we disintegrate into what? Nothingness There's no room in the mind of the atheist for any absolute, for any idea of eternity. Imagine there's no heaven. It's easy if you try. No hell below us, above us, only sky. But without any eternity, if this is all that there is Then how can we speak about any idea of ethics or morality if there is nothing eternal or objective, an objective absolute that is over us and above us? Such a worldview means that our lives have no more inherent value than the stink bug that we might crush under the heel of our shoe. Why? Because there is no such thing as value. Nothing really matters if all we are is matter. And such a mindset, of course, leads to despair. And that brings us to verse 18. In verse 18, it's like Paul is peeling an onion. He's peeling an onion to get to the core reason. Why the thinking of the Gentiles is futile. And he starts with the outer layer Again, addressing the mind of the unbeliever that the unregenerate person, their understanding is what? It's darkened. And why is it darkened? Because they are alienated from God. They are cut off from the life of God, Paul writes. Cut off from the light of God who is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. And since the Gentiles have no divine revelation illuminating their minds, where are they? They're in darkness. And then Paul goes a bit deeper. Why are they cut off from the life of God? He writes, because of their ignorance. They have no true knowledge about the way things really truly are. They are ignorant. They are blind to reality with a capital R. Now we have to ask, is there ignorance due to a lack of knowledge or due to a lack of evidence? No Because at the very core, at the very end of verse 19, Paul pedals everything back to the very core. And he gets to the heart of the matter. Why are Gentiles ignorant? Because of the blindness of their heart, he writes. The Greek for the word blindness is poros, which means hardness or calcification. So it could be translated, the hardness of their heart. In other words, they stubbornly refuse to acknowledge what is plainly seen. What is right before their varied eyes. These verses mirror what Paul writes in Romans 1, 18 through 20. about the universal condition of humanity, that the natural man, the unregenerate man, suppresses the truth in unrighteousness Because what may be known of God is evident among them, for God has shown it to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. even his eternal power and divine nature, so without what, they are without excuse So what is Paul saying here? Well, he's depicting the downward spiral of futile thinking of those who are apart from Christ. And here it goes. The unregenerate Gentiles, they deny the plain truth of an eternal God, which leads to ignorance about the fundamental questions regarding life itself. Because they've cut themselves off from the source of life itself, their creator. So then what happens? So that their understanding is darkened So what? So that their thinking is futile. Well, if Paul depicts the reasons for the pagans' futile thinking. He then gives us the results of it in verse 19. He writes that they are past feeling. In other words, they become completely desensitized. In other words, people can progress to a point where their conscience is completely seared. That they no longer had any sensitivity at all, that they experienced no guilt or remorse. And since they experience no guilt or remorse, they can then freely give themselves completely to their desires. As one commentator put it, insensitivity leads to sensuality. or as it is translated here, lewdness, which conveys a kind of sexual excess or deviancy. So what Paul is depicting here is a self-centered, insatiable greed which always demands more. And it's a complete bleak picture of unrestrained selfish desires which has no limits, where people take from others to satisfy their own personal lust without any remorse at all. Now, an extreme example of this, of what Paul pictures here, would be the serial killer Ted Bundi. who gruesomely tortured and murdered over 30 victims without any remorse. But Paul here is speaking about generalities. This is the way the unbelieving mind would go if there were no restraints placed upon it. And it's not exhibited in every person to the fullest. In other words, we're not as bad as we could be. But we all carry the seeds of murder and other crimes within our own hearts. So Paul's description here is accurate of our human condition. In our Westminster Confession of Faith class, we've talked about how drastically our culture has changed within a generation or two. We talked about how young kids today are exposed to ideas and language and practices that we had no idea of when we were growing up. Our culture has coarsened. And there is a kind of callousness about life. For example, several years ago there was a Project Veritas video that came out about Planned Parenthood. And in that video, an executive from Planned Parenthood is discussing a deal to sell the body parts of aborted babies. And in the course of negotiating, the Planned Parenthood Director says that, yeah, it's possible to alter the abortion procedure to guarantee a more intact specimen Which of course would result in more money for Planned Parenthood. And they discussed this deal over a light lunch while sipping iced tea. In kind of a matter-of-fact kind of way, without any sense of shame, that they're talking about marketing the parts of aborted babies. And then Planned Parenthood recently released a new promotional video. And in that video, it starts out with this picture of this adorable little baby girl. And she's cooing and smiling. And then the image fades to a caption. And the caption reads, she deserves to be loved. And then the next caption reads. She deserves to be wanted. And then there's another shot of this beautiful baby girl cooing and she reaches out her arm to you. And then the final caption reads. She deserves to be a choice. She deserves to be a choice. What kind of marketing campaign is that? In other words, she deserves to be killed. Now, just think about how twisted is that And more recently, we have seen how the Kevin Spaceys and the Harvey Weinsteins of the world, they use their power and position to gratify their own selfish desires. And when you read the papers and you hear the news about lawlessness and senseless shootings and the trafficking trafficking of young girls and the booming porn industry and opioid addictions. And it goes on and on. And we have to ask ourselves, are we really that far off from what Paul depicts here in these verses? It seems like we're living in we're living out Romans 1 in high definition and surround sound. Now, if you stopped at verse 19, we would be left with this completely depressing, bleak picture of our common humanity. But then Paul gives us the after picture in verses 20 through 24 And the after photo brings us a sense of real hope because this passage is so completely saturated in the grace of God. The Lord's grace and goodness to us underpin what he's, Paul writes in verses 20 through 24. And we see right at the beginning of verse 20, the Lord's grace. And we see it in one word. And what is that word? But But is the hinge pin in which Paul describes where you once were in your unbelief to where you are now in Christ He's saying, you used to walk in the feudal thinking of the Gentiles, but now you are in Christ's kingdom and you're walking a different path. For what has the Lord done is solely out of his grace for us? That he has delivered us from the dominion of darkness and he has transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Amen? And that new pathway requires a new kind of walk. We are to walk in a manner different than we used to in our former way of life. And Paul makes this abundantly clear when he says, But you have not so learned Christ. You have not so learned Christ. Now Isn't that an odd phrase? You have not so learned Christ. We would expect Paul to say, you have not so learned about Christ. But Paul literally says, you had not so learned Christ. Well, what's the difference? Well, we can know about a person, where they work, where they were born, the basic facts about their life. And certainly people know the historic facts about Jesus, that he was born 2,000 years ago in Bethlehem, and that he died on a cross in Jerusalem. But what Paul says here is much richer. It's much deeper. He has in mind not simply knowing mere facts about Christ. But knowing him intimately, it's an experiential knowledge which is rooted and grounded in a deepening relationship with Christ. The way a husband and a wife know each other. I don't know if you've noticed, but over time, married couples, they develop this sort of morse code with each other. Now two winks and a jab means, okay, it's time to leave the party, get my coat. And married couples can finish finish each other's sentences before they even uh before they even uh finish them because they know each other so well. So in a similar way To learn Christ is to have the same mind as Christ, as Paul exhorts us in Philippians 2. So Paul is saying, since you have this deepening love relationship with Christ, in which you know his mind. What pleases him and what displeases him, then you know how to live this new way of life. As the hymn goes, may the mind of Christ my Savior live in me from day to day, by his love and power controlling all I do and say. Well, Paul goes on to say in verse 21, if indeed you have heard Christ and have been taught by him. And again we come we confront another curious phrase, because when did the Ephesians ever hear Christ? It's not like he ever preached in Ephesus. Paul is saying here that you Gentiles, you heard his voice when he called you to receive, when you received him as Savior Not an audible voice, but when the word went out, what happened? That he took your heart of stone and he softened it. by the power of his spirit so that you can understand the gospel and receive Christ as your Savior. As the Good Shepherd, what has he done? That he has called you As he himself said in John 10, my sheep, my sheep, they listen to my voice. I know them. And they follow me. And just as Christ called dead Lazarus from the tomb to the new life, so has he called us. Jesus says, I woke your heart hard, and you came alive to me and my truth. Well, you not only heard his voice at the time of your conversion, beloved, but you hear his voice every time that the word is proclaimed or expounded upon. And that just reminds us of that this is a supernatural time, beloved, when Christ's word goes out. And his spirit does his work, that you hear his voice, and it convicts you and it encourages you and it changes you so that he teaches you. And what does he teach us? Well Paul goes on to say that Christ teaches us truth As the truth is in Jesus. Now, can we really appreciate what a radical statement that is in our day and time? That the truth is in Jesus. How politically incorrect is that? Because it implies that there is a truth with a capital T, an absolute truth that stands over and above us and governs us, regardless of whether we acknowledge it or not. So if you really truly want to know what is true, and if you're searching for answers to life's perplexing problems and issues , Where do you go to find them? In Jesus. The living word tells us in his word everything we need to know about life. about relationships, about marriage, about sexuality, about suffering, about the purpose and plan of history. And you only discover that truth if you are in Jesus. In union with him, in a relationship with him. And it's no accident that Paul writes simply Jesus instead of Christ as he usually does. In that verse, it's deliberate. It's deliberate as if Paul is stressing the humanity of Christ And the relationship that we have with him, we are in Jesus. And that phrase suggests that He that all that He is to us We see in his humanity that he is our shepherd, that he is our friend, that he's our king, that he's our priest. This is where we find truth. We find truth, not in a proposition, but we find truth in a person. A person who has loved us so deeply and gives of himself so extravagantly. Paul exhorts us. Do not walk in the way that you used to. And for some of you His name Jesus. Well, it used to be a curse word that you would blurt out when you're angry or frustrated. But now, now, in knowing him and being known by him, the name Jesus is a term of endearment. And you say his name with a tender-heartedness, because he has forever, forever changed your life. And once again we see how radical this is. Paul is writing to Gentile believers who had been immersed in pagan culture. and who had been rescued from it by the power of Christ and given a new life. So he urges them to stay the course to not give in to peer pressure and go back to their former way of thinking and living. And we can hear the plea in his voice. Why? Why would you go back to your futile thinking when you have come to know Christ, who is the way, the truth, and the life? And Paul's exhortation is no less challenging for us today. If he looked upon 21st century America , Would he not say the same thing to us? Our culture is not much different than the Roman world, and the pressure is just as strong not to conform to it. So what a challenge it is for our high school students, for our college students, for our young adults to stay true to Jesus in a culture that is increasingly hostile to him. How do you handle, how do they handle the pressure not to go down the path of futile thinking? But to stay on the path of truth and uphold a worldview that is rooted and grounded in Christ. How will our young people be prepared to do that unless we as parents or grandparents or as an extended church family prepare them to do that? by intentionally teaching them and discipling them to have a biblical worldview rooted in a relationship with Christ. So that they are not shaped by the culture, but in fact they are shaping the culture. That they're having an influence on those around them by their winsome witness, in which their words and their lives speak volumes for Christ. Well, that raises several poignant questions for us. Do we, as parents and grandparents, have a relationship with our kids? in which we can frankly talk to them about these things. And if so, if we have that kind of relationship Do we know the truth ourselves to be able to pass it on to them? And do our children see that the gospel is real? Because our lies match our words, and that they see that our faith is authentic. Well, let's move on to verses 22 through 24. And we only have time to lightly touch on their significance. But there's so much here. That we may come back to this section again at some other time. But in verses 22 through 24, Paul reminds the Ephesians of what they were taught in Jesus. And what they were taught was nothing less than the radical transformation that had occurred in them when they became Christians. When they had converted, what happened? They had received a new nature, having been born again. born from above by the power of God's Spirit, so that they became a new creation, that the old had passed away and that the new has come. And Paul describes it as being a new man because believers, beloved, this is what we receive. We receive a new humanity. And in this radical change, they had put off their old nature that Paul describes as the old man, the old man who was corrupt and decrepit and headed for destruction. And then Paul taught the very same thing, the very same truth in Colossians 3, 5 and 10, to put to death therefore what is earthly in you. Sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry, on account of these things, the wrath of God is coming. And then he goes on to say, in these two you once walked, when you were living in them. But now You must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you put on the old self with its practices, and you have what? You have put on the new self. which is being renewed and acknowledged after the image of its Creator. So to put it another way, beloved, this is what has happened to us if you're a Christian. That we went from being under the curse of the first Adam, where sin reigned over us where we were God's enemies and alienated from him in darkness and doomed to damnation. We went from that to union with our second Adam to being reborn into his image that Jesus Christ is recreating In us, his image, in our union with him, who is light and life, and in him we have freedom from sin. Amen. And this is the radical transformation that has occurred in us. So that transformation then has implications, does it not? First of all, if it were not for Christ changing us, we would still be Or we would become like those Gentiles who walk in the futility of their minds. In other words, there would be no after picture of transformation for us. But if you are a believer in Christ, there is an after picture. And it was all out of God's grace. You did not bring about your own rebirth any more than you brought about your own natural birth. So what does that mean? It certainly precludes any snobbery or any self-righteous judgmental attitude that we might have towards those who are still stuck in the before photo. Rather than our judgment, what do they need? But they need our prayers. And they need our witness with the hope that the Lord would also transform their lives. as he has transformed ours. Since it is Christ who brings about our new birth, Putting on our new nature isn't something that's just kind of pasted on. We're not talking here about a kind of empty moralistic behavior in which we try to improve ourselves. by our own efforts as to make ourselves right with God. No, our new nature is all brought about by God alone, through his grace alone, through Christ alone. What else? Well having received this new nature solely by God's grace We are then to grow in it. He changes us, and then we cooperate with him in that change. And how do we grow in that transformation? Verse 23 tells us that we are to be renewed in the spirit of our minds. And how are we renewed in the spirit of our minds? by soaking in the word which nourishes us and strengthens us, by prayer, by time spent with our Savior. And as we do, we put off the old nature. We discard it like a worn-out rag We put off the residual remnants of our old sin nature. We intentionally discard those patterns which still reside within us, but no longer reign over us. I have this old Mickey Mouse sweatshirt from when we went to Disney World from like 25 years ago. And it doesn't fit me anymore. I like to think that it shrunk in the wash, but I know better. Anyway, it's it's frayed and it's threadbare and it's covered in grass stains and all sorts of stuff. And it's something that I should really just throw out. And of course it's not anything that I would wear to a formal function or a wedding or anything like that. It just wouldn't fit the occasion And our old sinful patterns can be like that old worn garment. Familiar, comfortable. We may even be somewhat attached to them and find it difficult to get rid of them. But what Paul is saying here Is that those old sinful patterns, they may be comfortable and familiar to us, but they no longer fit the new you. And they no longer are appropriate for your new life in Christ. For what do you have? You have a new status in Christ, which means a new standard for living. And you have a new position in Christ, which means new practices. And although you may be tempted to go back to your old way of life, why would you want to go back to being your old self? Which leads to decay and death. No, what Paul is simply saying here is be who you now are. Live out your new identity We hear a lot about identity these days, identity politics, identity based on who you're attracted to. But beloved, beloved , This is our identity. We have our identity in Jesus Christ. He has changed us from a before photo when we walked in the futility of our minds to an aftershot where we have been forever changed. But the transformation isn't complete, is it? Because we know we still struggle with sin. But that only means that the good news just keeps getting better. Because one day, one day, there'll be no more ruined garments to discard, but we will be fully robed in the pure righteousness of Christ. in a world where there will be no more struggle with sin. As 1 John 3. 2 says, beloved , We are now children of God. And what we will be has not yet been revealed. We know that when Christ appears, we will be like Him and we will see Him as He is. Let's pray Oh Father God, what can we say? What can we do but give you all of our praise and thanks for what you have done in our life, for this transforming work that you have done? That you have discarded the old and that you have given us a new life. A new direction, a new purpose. Oh Father, help us to live faithfully in that new life. By your spirit and through your word, may we renew our minds so that we are walking in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have called us. We thank you for this glorious transformation. And we pray that we would live it out here on this earth to the fullest so that others may see our witness for you. In our thoughts, in our words, and in our deeds. We thank you, Father, for this great grace that you've given to us in Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.