Please turn in your Bibles to Psalm ninety-eight. Psalm ninety-eight, beginning at verse one. O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have gained him the victory. The Lord has made known his salvation. His righteousness he has revealed in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his mercy and his faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Shout joyfully to the Lord all the earth. Break forth in song, rejoice, and sing praises. Sing to the Lord with a heart. with the harp and the sound of a song, with trumpets and the sound of a horn, shout joyfully before the Lord the King Let the sea roar in all its fullness, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the hills be joyful together before the Lord. For he is coming to judge the earth. With righteousness he shall judge the world and the peoples with equity. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray Father, we ask for your presence with us now, for your Holy Spirit to take your word and apply it to hearts. And remove from us any distractions, Lord, and help us to truly worship you in spirit and truth. As we focus upon your holy word, we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I can guess what you were thinking when you saw the title of this morning's message. Mango Steens Another sermon about mango steams. But it's possible that some of you thought, well, what in the world is a mango steam? Well the mangosteen is a fruit that grows in Southeast Asia. It was so prized in the 19th century, we're told, that Queen Victoria offered the reward of a hundred pounds to anyone who could bring her a fresh one. Its edible flesh is described as sweet and tangy, citrusy and peachy And I understand that mango stines were recently imported and sold in New York City for $45 a pound. So it's among the rarest of fruits. Well this morning I'd like us to turn our thoughts to what could be called the the Christian's Mango scheme. And as I do if you're somewhere where you can't uh hear me because I'm not close enough to the mic, just raise your hand and I'll try to get closer If you picture the believer as a tree bearing a variety of fruits of the Spirit, one of the rarest of those, in my estimation, is joy. You might call it as rare as mango steam. Author Bruce Larson writes of a Christian conference that was held in a Presbyterian church in Omaha where each participant was given a helium balloon. And each participant was told at some point in the service, when you feel joy in your heart, release that balloon. So they would all be gathered at the ceiling. Well, throughout the service, several people released their balloons, but by the time the service was over, about a third of the people in the congregation still were hanging on to their balloon. Now that may be an illustration of our lack of joy, or it may just mean that a third of the people in the congregation had little kids at home and they were desperately holding on to that balloon to bring home. I've mentioned before that uh Chuck Swindahl in his little book Laugh Again uh wrote, When I started Insight for a Living, his radio broadcast, I decided to be myself, no matter what Whether the broadcast succeeded or fizzled, I wasn't about to come across as some super pious religious fanatic, intense about everything. When things struck me as funny, I would laugh, he said One of the listeners wrote in and commented, I appreciate your program. The teaching has helped me a lot. But I have one major request. Don't stop laughing. You can make whatever changes you wish on your broadcast, but don't stop laughing. Then she added, yours is the only laughter that comes into our home. Of course, Christian joy doesn't always manifest itself in laughter, and not all laughter proceeds from a heart full of joy. But as we approach the day set aside in our nation for rejoicing and thanksgiving to God, I want us to think about the many exhortations we have in God's Word to rejoice. God delights in the rejoicing of his people. As evidence of that, remember that he established for the children of Israel sp specific times each year to be set aside for rejoicing and feasting. When describing, for example, the Feast of Weeks, also called the Feast of Pentecost, because it was celebrated on the 50th day after the Sabbath of Passover Week. The scripture says in Deuteronomy 16, 11, you shall rejoice before the Lord your God. It was to be a feast of rejoicing. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God. Listen to the description of another feast. You shall observe the feast of tabernacles seven days when you have gathered from your threshing floor and from your wine press, and you shall rejoice in your feast. This was to include servants, Levites, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow among you, God said. 2 Chronicles 30 gives us an account of another occasion of joy and feasting. The Lord had brought Judah low because of the wickedness of Ahaz, the king, for he had encouraged moral decline in the nation. He had been continually unfaithful to the Lord. But upon the death of Ahaz, Hezekiah, his son, became king. He cleansed the temple and he restored temple worship. And then we read So the children of Israel, who were present at Jerusalem, kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness. And the Levites and the priests praised the Lord day by day, singing to the Lord, accompanied by loud instruments. Then the whole assembly agreed to keep the feast another seven days with gladness. They kept it another seven days with gladness. And so there was great joy in Jerusalem. Now, over time, as you know, Judah fell again into apostasy and the people were exiled. When eventually a remnant returned and began to rebuild the Temple of Jerusalem, there again we read When the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord, the priests stood in their apparel with trumpets, and the Levites with symbols to praise the Lord according to the ordinance of David, king of Israel. And they sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the Lord. For he is good, for his mercy endures forever toward Israel. Then all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised the Lord, because the foundation of the house of the Lord was laid But many of the priests and Levites and heads of the fathers' houses, old men who had seen the first temple, wept with a loud voice when the foundation of the temple was laid before their eyes Yet many shouted aloud for joy, so that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people. For the people shouted with a loud shout, and the sound was heard afar off Other examples include Nehemiah 12 and Esther 9. Over and over the Lord exhorts us in his word to joy and thanksgiving. It's almost as if, I guess it's quite true that he knew we would tend to get bogged down in despondency Deuteronomy 26, 11. You shall rejoice in every good thing which the Lord your God has given to you and your house. You shall rejoice in every good thing which the Lord God has given to you in your house. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God. Deuteronomy 27, 7. Psalm 95, 2. Come before his face with thanksgiving. The Psalm 100. Make a joyful shout to the Lord, all you land. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Enter his gates with thanksgiving. Into his courts with praise. Be thankful to him. Bless his name. Psalm 136, give thanks unto the God of heaven. Psalm 92, it is a good thing to give thanks to the Lord. Be glad and rejoice, you righteous, Psalm 32. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy in Psalm 67. Clearly, the Lord is not opposed to rejoicing, to joy and thanksgiving. God is not a celestial killjoy. God is the one who gives us richly all things to enjoy. 1 Timothy 6. Jesus' first recorded miracle is of course at the wedding feast in Cain. A minister of the gospel is, as the Apostle Paul, a fellow worker for his flock's joy. 2 Corinthians 1. A merry heart, the scripture says, does good like a medicine. Proverbs 17, 22 And of course, you know, Ecclesiastes says, Ecclesiastes says there's a time to weep, but there's also a time to laugh. The emphasis the Lord places on joy and rejoicing for believers can be seen also in the variety of words that the Scripture uses to express it. In the New Testament alone, we see Cairo rejoice scores of times, and that's akin to Cara, joy, and then Sun Cairo rejoice together Euphreno to rejoice to be merry from you, well, uh eulogy, good words, and uh freno, the mine So it's uh t to cheer, too gladden to be uh well in mind, you might say. A Galea'o to rejoice greatly, to exult, to r to rejoice with exceeding joy Uh is how Peter uses it or how it's translated in 1 Peter chapter 4. A consistent lack of joy, then, a consistent lack of thankfulness in the life of a believer is simply dishonoring to God. Now, some of you may be thinking, well, look, I'm just not the joyful type And I'm in good company because my savior, let me remind you, Pastor, my savior was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And that's where I fall on that side of the spectrum. Well, yes, of course, Jesus is described that way in Isaiah 53, but the very next verse explains that he was bearing our griefs and carrying our sorrows. Clearly, his sorrow and grief was occasioned by our sin being laid upon him. It was not characteristic of his entire life. I'm afraid our image of Jesus is so colored by the week leading up to the crucifixion, as important as that week was. That it's sometimes hard for us to envision him exemplifying joy. But if he lived about 33 years here, you could do the math That final week was only one of about seven of over 1700 weeks that he spent on Earth. That's one week out of 1700 is hardly a representative sampling Consider Psalm 45. In this messianic Psalm, we read, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You love righteousness and hate wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. This is a messianic psalm. It's referring to the Lord Jesus. Your God has bestowed upon you, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. In case there's any doubt about it, Hebrews 1 quotes this verse and refers it to the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus was anointed with the oil of gladness more than his companions. And should that surprise us Could any man or woman have more love, more peace, more gentleness, more goodness, more patience? More faithfulness, more kindness, more self-control than the Lord Jesus. Should it surprise us to hear that he had more gladness, more joy? Is it not a fruit of the Spirit? At one point, Jesus sent out 35 teams, two disciples on each team, to heal the sick and preach the gospel in the towns that he planned to visit. They returned with joy, the Bible says, with joy that the demons were subject to them. Jesus told them not to rejoice in that, but to rejoice that their names were written in heaven. And then we read in Luke 10, in that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit. And he thanked the Father for hiding his truth for the wise and revealing it to babes. Before he left his disciples to return to his father, Jesus said to them, These things I have spoken to you that my joy may remain in you. Whose joy? His joy. That my joy might remain in you. And that your joy might be full. Is that not exactly what we would expect of one in whom Christ was abiding? In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. So if Christ is living inside of us, if the Lord is living inside of us, then we can expect joy inside of us. In his high priestly prayer recorded in John 17, Jesus prayed that his disciples might have his joy fulfilled in themselves. Whose joy? His joy. Jesus even used the term Cairo or rejoice as a greeting. As we would say hello or hey. He would say rejoice. It's translated sometimes hail in our uh English version. When I taught uh sophomore Bible classes, uh it's over ten years ago now at Westminster Academy in Fort Lauderdale I showed segments of a dramatised version of the Gospel of Matthew. Some of you may have seen that film Jesus is portrayed there as smiling and laughing, and my students expressed surprise at that depiction. But since the Father exhorts his children to rejoice evermore 1 Thessalonians 5. Since we read the fruit of the Spirit is joy, Galatians 5. Since Jesus was given the Spirit without measure John 3. 34, then surely Jesus must have rejoiced in his Father always. Amen? Amen His years on earth must have been characterized not only by goodness and patience and kindness, etc. but by joy. Now, there are some things that should bring us particular joy as we contemplate them. That Jesus came to earth, of course. The angel said, Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Does this bring you joy as you meditate upon the fact that that God's Son came to earth? That's a cause of rejoicing for us. That he lives today, that death could not hold him. You now have sorrow, he told his disciples, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you John 16. And then we ought to have especial joy in meditating upon the fact that he has redeemed us. We will rejoice in your salvation. Psalm 20 verse 5. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous. Shout for joy, you upright in heart. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven, Jesus said. Rejoice. Yeah, rejoice that's great that the demons are subject to you, but rejoice, this is even greater, that your names are written in heaven. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go to prepare a place for you, I'll come again and receive you unto myself. Rejoice in that, Christian. And then we should rejoice in the salvation of others, of course. There's joy in heaven, joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner who repents. Certainly there ought to be joy in our hearts. When we hear of others coming to faith in Christ. And then we experience joy when our spiritual children follow the Lord. John wrote, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. 3 John 4 It certainly brings me joy at this uh ripe old age to look back upon uh to have to to continue to have contact with people that I've known in other pastorates who've come to faith in Christ and to see them walking in the Lord and serving the Lord and reaching others with the gospel. And it ought to bring all of us joy here at liberty when we see young people, children who've grown up, uh covenant children in our church who've taken responsibilities who've who've uh joined the church family and are they're serving in in the nursery and uh pioneer clubs and serving in assisting in teaching classes and uh and ushering in all the many ways that young people come forth serving on the praise team, serving in the choir. That should give us joy in our hearts when we see others using their gifts to serve Christ. to see that our children are walking in the truth. Another source of joy for believers is not quite so obvious. Have you ever been excluded from certain activities by those who know you are a believer? Ever been reviled or discriminated against because of your faith? Well, you remember Jesus said, blessed are you when men revile you and hate you, when they uh cast out your name as evil for my sake. For the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, he said, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets who were before you. So here the Lord encourages us to rejoice when we're persecuted. The Apostle Paul said, I'm exceedingly joyful in all our tribulations. 2 Corinthians 7. How in the world could he say that? I'm exceedingly joyful in all our tribulations. James put it this way, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. What? You know, isn't that counterintuitive? Counter-cultural? Counter-intelligence or something? Counterfeit? I might be able to muster up a little bit of joy when I finally crawl, abrupt and broken out of some trial. But the Lord here is asking me to count it all joy when I fall into various trials, to recognize the trials themselves as a source of joy, as a cause of joy. Why? How? How is that even possible? Well, he goes on to say, James goes on to say, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. That's how you can have joy in your trial. You know that the testing of your faith is producing patience. Well, how valuable then, in the eyes of God, must patience be, right? That he will allow us to be afflicted in order to develop it in us And then of course we should take particular joy in giving to the Lord. The scripture says, rejoice in your giving to the Lord. Deuteronomy 12, God describes the offerings his people are to bring, and he says You shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your sons and your daughters, giving to the Lord, in other words, should be a family affair that brings us joy. As you give to the Lord, the scripture says in Deuteronomy, you shall rejoice with your sons and your daughters. It's a family affair. Now, some of you may have already formed, I'm sure that you have, family traditions of helping others at Christmas. But if not, uh why not choose a widow or a a single mom or a a family that could use some encouragement and as a family put together a gift basket. You know, the little kids can make little cards or or make a little Play-doh gifts, I don't know. And uh put them in the gift basket and you can actually shell out some money for some real stuff. And you put it in a basket along with a a gift, a financial gift that might be a real encouragement to someone You know, make it a family affair, in other words. Make sure your children understand that Christmas isn't about us getting stuff from other people, but an opportunity to rejoice in God sending his son to earth giving us this priceless gift. What can we give to someone else who's in need? You could call the church office if you don't uh have someone in mind. And they could put you in touch with someone from our Mercy's Ne Mercy Needs Committee and they could tell you who might be particularly blessed at this time from something like that. You can also, of course, choose some kids from the uh angel tree. It's going to be uh up, I guess, in the old sanctuary, if indeed we're back there next week. And uh and you can choose uh a a child or children who's uh who have a parent who's incarcerated and give a gift to them in the parent's name. God loves A cheerful giver. And as you know, that word in the Greek is hilaros. It's from which we get our word hilarious. Joy, cheerfulness, hilarity. That's what the Lord's talking about. Give joyfully to the Lord. He's given us so much. How should our joy manifest itself? Well, first of all, our joy should manifest itself in a joyful disposition. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord. A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance. Proverbs 15, 13. A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance. He has put a new song in my heart. The Psalm 40, verse 3. Puritan pastor William Gurnal put it this way To see a wicked man merry or a Christian sad is alike uncomely. To see a wicked man merry or a Christian sad is alike. Uh uncomely. Translate uncomely for me, somebody. It's it's unfitting, un it's unattractive. That's where we are. Unattractive. Uncomely The late uh theologian Elton Trueblood put it like this: I don't trust the theology of any person who doesn't laugh. Not like that. So our joy should manifest itself in a joyful disposition, and then it should manifest itself in a contented spirit. The Apostle Paul learned in whatever state he was in therewith to be content, not murmuring, not complaining, not fault-finding, not easily provoked, not quick to judge. But trusting God's providence in our lives. You know that passage in Habakkuk, though the fig tree may not blossom nor fruit beyond the vines. Though the labor of the olive may fail and the fields yield no food, though the flock may be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Amen. And then the believer's joy should manifest itself in an eagerness to serve others. A joyful Christian is content with his own condition, so he's not seeking to be served, he's seeking to serve others. There is of course one who seeks to steal our joy. He'll try to steal it first of all by tempting us to sin. It's impossible to have true joy when we're weighed down with unconfessed sin. When David finally repented of his sin with Bathsheba, then he asked God to restore to him the joy of his salvation because he had lost it. Now, if Satan cannot lure us into a flagrant transgression, he may try to focus our minds on our trials and our afflictions to the exclusion of other things. In other words, a man may have a a wonderful family, a loving church, good health, a comfortable home, etc. But he's dissatisfied with his job, and he allows that dissatisfaction to color everything else in his life. It dominates his life A woman may have a loving family, a good church home, solid friendships, etc. but she may have a particular physical affliction. And that physical affliction begins to consume her thoughts and steal her joy. Chuck Swindahl refers to worry, stress, and fear as primary joy themes. Worry, stress, and fear. C. H. Spurgeon wrote this. A doubting, fretful spirit takes from us the joys that we have. You do not have all you could wish, but you have much more than you deserve. Your circumstances are not what they might be, but still they are not even now so bad as the circumstances of some others Your unbelief makes you forget that your health still remains, even if poverty oppresses you, or that if both health and abundance have departed, you are a child of God and your name is not blotted out from the role of the chosen. There are flowers that bloom in winter, if we have the grace to see them. Never was there a night of the soul so dark, but that some lone star of hope might be discerned. And never a spiritual tempest so tremendous, but that there was a haven into which the soul could put , if it only had enough confidence in God to head for it. Be assured that though you have fallen very low, you might have fallen lower if it were not that underneath you are the everlasting arms. A doubting, distrustful spirit will wither the few blossoms that remain on your bough. If half the wells are frozen by affliction, unbelief will freeze the other half by its despondency. You will gain no good, but you may get incalculable mischief by a troubled heart. This root bears no fruit except wormwood. Christian, what method does Satan find most successful in stealing you of your joy? We are not to be ignorant of his devices. He goeth about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And then let me remind you that our lack of joy affects others negatively. My lack of joy will affect others negatively. Someone said, we have no more right to put our discordant states of mind into the lives of those around us and rob them of their sunshine and their brightness. then we have to enter their houses and steal their silverware. Which, now that I think of it, the Tracy's and the Deirdons and the Hunzeckers did to us one time What's the statute of limitations on silverware? So let me ask you this. How do you imagine that our lack of joy as Christians is understood by unbelievers? How do you imagine our lack of joy as Christians is perceived by unbelievers? Framed, uh, I'm sorry, framed. That's good. Famed Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. reportedly said, I might have entered the ministry if certain clergy that I knew had not looked and acted so much like undertakers. Present company accepted. Some might have a similar impression of Christians in general. Puritan pastor Richard Baxter put it this way. I desire the dejected Christian to consider that by his heavy and uncomfortable life He seems to the world to accuse God and his service, as if he openly called him a rigorous, hard, unacceptable master, and his work a sad, unpleasant thing. I know this is not your thoughts. I know it is yourselves and not God and his service that offend you. I know that you walk heavily not because you are holy, but because you fear that you are not holy. But if you see a servant always sad, who was merry when he served another master, will you not think that he has a master who displeases him? You are born and newborn for God's honor, and will you thus dishonor him before the world? Christian, how do you think our lack of joy is received in heaven? Imagine that a king adopts a poor orphan. He gives him riches, he gives him honor, he gives him love and inheritance. And yet the child is discontented, murmuring, complaining, depressed, because there's something else that he wants that he doesn't have. Won't that discontentment be perceived by the king as ungratefulness Of course, as you know, there are particular times of sorrow and grief in our lives, even in the lives of Christians, even in the lives of joyful Christians, and there are dark valleys through which we must pass. The man who is known as the Prince of Preachers, the man whose sermons have been more mightily used to bring about true saving faith and spiritual growth than perhaps those of any other preacher since the apostles. Charles Haddon Spurgeon, from whom we quoted a few moments ago, said this to his congregation I am the subject of depressions of spirit so fearful. that I hope none of you ever gets to such extremes of wretches wretchedness as I go to. But I always get back again by this. I know I trust Christ. I have no reliance but in him. If he falls, I will fall with him. But if he does not, I will not. Because he lives, I will live also. And I spring to my feet again, and I fight with my depression and my downcast soul, and I get the victory over them. And so may you do, and so you must For there is no other way of escaping from it. In your most depressed seasons, you are to get joy and peace through believing. There are particular times of sorrow and grief and depression, as you know, may be the result of some physical affliction, some chemical imbalance that is difficult for us to understand. But when our general state is not one of joy, then I think we're saying to Christ, in effect, you're not enough for me. You're not enough. So let me encourage us to focus this Thanksgiving not on all that's wrong in our lives, not on all that's wrong in our nation, not on all that's wrong in our world. Let's focus on the innumerable blessings that are ours. All of them unearned, all of them undeserved. The gift of family and friends, the gift of sight and sound, touch, the gift of shelter, the gift of food and clothing and occasional warmth. The gift of a stable government. You know, imagine if our government was were unstable like some. You know where uh I meant that seriously. A a stable government. We don't have to fear a revolution in our streets. We don't have to fear a coup I I hope. Uh we have police and fire protection. You can call 911, you know someone will come. That's not the case in many places in the world. Access to clean water in your own home. and access to health care and so many blessings that others in history have not enjoyed. The freedom to live where we please, to get in our car and drive to another state. The freedom of speech, of course the freedom of worship. But the greatest gift we've received is, of course, the gift of God's Son. the Lord Jesus Christ and all that is ours through him. And it's possible, of course, that you don't have joy because you don't have Christ. If you look at your life and you say, I don't have joy in my life, it may be because you're not resting in Jesus. You may still be trusting in yourself. For as you heard me say before, it's been well said, joy is the flag flying from the castle when the king is in residence there. I guess when the queen is in the Windsor Castle, they fly her flag. Joy is the flag flying from the castle when the king is in residence there. The problem is you and I have sinned against God. God is a holy God who must punish sin. But his love for us was so great. That he provided a way for us to be forgiven. He couldn't just ignore our sin. He couldn't just slap us on the wrist and say, that's all right, I forgive you. Sin must be paid for. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. But God's love constrained him to provide a way for us. He sent his own dear son, Jesus became man that he might keep the law that we broke. And that he might be able to go to the cross and bear the punishment that we deserve. We deserve death for our sin. Jesus said in effect, Father, I will go. Punish me instead. Let them go free. Lay your wrath upon me. Spare these, my sheep, my bride, my church. You can have that joy in your heart by asking the Lord to forgive you your sins. By telling him, Lord, I know I've broken your law. I know I've taken your name in vain. I know I've been proud. I've been selfish. I've been ungrateful. I've been unkind. Lord, I I can name them all. Many, many times have I sinned against you But God, I believe that your love was so great that you sent Jesus into the sinful world. Born of a virgin, he didn't inherit the sins from his father. He was the sinless, spotless Lamb of God. The Holy One without iniquity. He kept your law. He went to the cross. He took my place. And now he says He told his disciples, go into all the world and preach this good news. He who believes in me has everlasting life. Lord, I believe. Save me for Jesus' sake. Not because of any good thing I've done. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. But according to his mercy he saved us. You come to God that way. Pray that prayer, mean it in your heart. God says, all your sins will be forgiven. Like the thief on the cross, you can have that assurance. You'll be with him in paradise. That thief had not done any good work. He just looked at Jesus. He believed. He repented of his own sin. He laid hold upon Christ. That's the way of salvation. That's the wonderful news we have to share. May God use it in our hearts. May He give us true thankful spirits this Thanksgiving. Let's pray. Father, I pray we pray specifically if there be someone here without Christ. Someone here still dead in sins. That this might be the day of salvation for that one. Lord, it's a spiritual work. It's a supernatural work. You're the one who regenerates We're born from above. We're born again by your spirit. You have to breathe upon these dry bones that they might live. But Lord, in your providence you allow us to have a part in this work by praying for others, by bringing the good news to them. Lord, we we pray for them now. We pray that each one in this place might be joined together one day in that great assembly above. And Lord, those of us who are yours, forgive us for ungratefulness, for murmuring, complaining. It's so easy to find things that displease us. Lord, may we give you the glory that's due unto your name. May we rejoice in you this week and every week. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.