And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come to the unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That we should be no longer children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men, in that cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. But, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things unto him who is the head, Christ. from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the whole body for the edifying of itself. In love. Praise God for His word. Let's pray. Gracious Father God, Lord, we do thank you for your mighty, powerful word. And we pray that your spirit would attend to us and to it now. That as we meditate on it, as we expound on it, Lord, that you would meet with us. to teach us, to convict us, to encourage us, to challenge us through your word and by your spirit. We thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen Well, the last time we looked at these verses, we mentioned how chapter 4 is a pivotal point in Paul's letter. It marks a turning point to a different kind of focus. In the first three chapters, Paul describes our identity in Christ, who we are in Christ. And then the last three chapters, he describes how we are to live for Christ. So the first three chapters are about doctrine. And then the last three chapters are how we are to live out that doctrine. And in chapter four, he begins to teach us. How the church is to function well, how it is to grow both numerically and in maturity as the body of Christ. And so as a congregation, what we want to do is to mind these principles of a healthy and vibrant church to better understand what it means to be God's people. And when we last looked at these verses, we spent time looking at verses 7 and 8, where Paul teaches us that the Lord, out of his grace, has given each one of us gifts. to build up the body. In verse 8, Paul quotes from Psalm 6818, and he says that Christ is the fulfillment of that psalm in which Christ is pictured as a victorious king who returns from battle to give gifts to his people. And the gifts that Paul has in mind here are the distinctive spiritual gifts that every believer has that are vital to the proper functioning of the church. Now Paul lists in several places in Scripture some of the spiritual gifts that the ascended Christ graciously gives his people. We see a list in Romans 12 and in 1 Corinthians 12. There he lists gifts that could broadly be divided into three different categories. Leadership gifts. Word gifts such as teaching and encouragement, and then service gifts such as giving and mercy. But in Ephesians 4, in this list , Paul does something here very different. Here we see the gifts are not qualities or activities, but the gifts are people. Leaders who have been commissioned and set apart to do a particular task for the church. These gifts to the church are the apostles, the prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. So today we're going to briefly review the significance of these gifts, these men who were and are given particular responsibilities in the church. And for some, for some of you, I know this will definitely be a review indeed As you are already familiar with the meaning of these offices, but I encourage you not to check out, but to stay with me. For after all, review is good for the soul, is it not? Going over the same teaching congeals what you already know, and by reviewing these truths, it equips you and me than to teach others about them. So I encourage you to stay with me and stay the course. Well, the first gift that we see in verse 11 is that we read of in verse 11 is the gift of the apostles. The Lord Jesus, out of his tremendous grace, gave some to be apostles. Now the apostles are listed first because they were foremost of all the other offices as they set the foundation of the church. We can praise God for the apostles, for without them there would be no church today. As Paul says earlier in Ephesians 2. 20, which we've already looked at, The church is based on what? It's founded on what? The church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Now in the New Testament, we see that the word or term apostle has three basic meanings, which John Stott delineates very well in his commentary on Ephesians. First, there are apostles in the most broad, general sense. The word apostle comes from the Greek word apostolos Which basically means messenger. Messenger or someone who is sent out. It is a word that is used in John 13, 16. in which Jesus says, a servant is not greater than his master, and the apostolos, the one who is sent, is not greater than the one who sent him. So we can see that in a, or we can safely say that in a very general sense, we are all apostles. Since we are all called to be messengers of the gospel and the sharing of the good news with others. In addition to this very broad general definition of messenger, John Stott also points out that there were apostles of the churches, apostles of the churches Which Paul mentions in 2 Corinthians 8. 23. John Scott describes these kind of apostles as messengers sent out by the churches as missionaries or on some other kind of errand. We see this in Philippians 2. 25, for example. Where Paul says that he is sending Ephroditus on an errand to encourage the Philippians, and he refers to him as a what? as an apostolos, an apostle or messenger who has ministered to Paul. But what Paul has in mind here in verse 11 What he has in mind here is a much narrower, more select group of men, of whom he was a part of this group. He describes himself and the other apostles in this group as an apostle of Christ Jesus. He does this in 1 Corinthians 1. 1 and Colossians 1. 1, for example. Now you think about it, of all the hundreds and hundreds of disciples of Jesus' day, there were only a few men, just a few men. who were given that office and who met all of the criteria. There were, for example, the original twelve recorded in Luke 6, verses 12 through 16. And then Matthias was added to that group to replace Judas after Christ rose again from the dead and ascended into heaven. And then Paul was added to their number, as well as James, the Lord's brother. Now what was the criteria that was needed to be in this privileged group? Well, first and foremost, you had to be personally chosen and commissioned to that office by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. For example, we see this in Acts 1, with the commissioning of Matthias. Matthias didn't volunteer for the job when it became vacant And the disciples didn't simply elect him to be an apostle to replace Judas so that they would once again have twelve apostles. No. What happens in Acts 1? Well, the disciples had narrowed it down to two candidates, Joseph and Matthias, who had been followers of Jesus Christ from the very beginning of his ministry. And then once they narrowed it down to these two men who fit that particular criteria, what did they do? Did they just say, okay, well let's uh interview them or see what what we think about them or who do you think would be the best one? No. They didn't do any of that. The disciples prayed to the Lord to choose between Joseph and Matthias through the casting of lots. And when they were cast, the lot fell to Matthias. So it was through the Lord's commissioning, direct commissioning through the casting of lots, that Matthias was uh Authorized to be an apostle. And again, we see this direct commissioning in the life of Paul. In Acts 9, after Paul has his conversion experience on the road to Damascus. The ascended Lord says to Ananias in a vision, Go to Paul, Ananias, and lay your hands on , go to Paul and lay your hands on him and open up his blind eyes. Now, when Anaias objected and said, wait a minute, go to Paul, the persecutor of the church? You mean he's a part of our band now? What does the Lord say to him? He says, I have commissioned him to go and proclaim my name to both Jew and Gentile alike. So there is the commissioning that is the criteria for an apostle in this sense of the word. Well, in addition to being commissioned by Christ to be an apostle, you had to have seen the risen Lord. Paul makes this clear in 1 Corinthians 9. 1, where he defends his apostolic authority, and how does he do it? He appeals to what? He says, Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? And again, in First Corinthians fifteen, seven and eight. He makes it abundantly clear that Paul is on par with the rest of the apostles because he has seen the risen Lord. He says, Jesus appeared to James, and then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me, the least of all, the apostles. So finally, and finally to be an apostle, it meant that your teaching and your preaching was authoritative, that you spoke the very words of Christ Himself. In the Roman world, the word apostle was also used in an official capacity by those who were sent by Caesar or in a government official to speak on their behalf. And the word, and the words of that apostle, that authorized representative, were to be taken as the very words of the emperor himself. And to disregard those words was to then disregard the emperor to your own peril. So in speaking for Christ, with the authority of Christ, the teaching and the preaching of the apostles became the foundation of the New Testament. Which is why Paul exhorts the believers in 2 Thessalonians 2. 15 to stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or Now, given the fact that an apostle in this strict sense of the word had to have been somebody, a man who had seen the risen Christ, it makes it very clear that this office died out when the last apostle died. So, beloved, what are some implications of that? Well, first of all, the gift of apostleship is gone. It's gone. There can be no more apostles. The office ended, so apostolic authority then cannot be handed down from one man to the next, as we see in the Roman Catholic Church with the Pope. No. The only apostolic succession that we have today is the apostles' teaching, which formed the bedrock of the New Testament. The apostolic succession happens when God's word is passed down from generation to generation to generation. That is apostolic succession. But there are other implications as well. Furthermore, you cannot separate What Christ taught in the Gospels from what the apostles taught and wrote You can't say, well, you know, I really, really love the ethical teaching of Jesus in the Sermon of the Mount. Wow, what a what a beautiful sermon. I could live by that sermon. But you know that that Paul? Oh, that Paul, he's such a sexist, such a chauvinist. I wouldn't have nothing to do with him. And that James character, well, he said some really harsh things in his letter. I don't know if I like that. You know, instead, just just give me Jesus and those other guys that you can just forget No, an apostle spoke for Christ. So what they taught has the full ring of authority as if Christ himself said it. You can't reject the teaching of one without rejecting the other. Well, what else do we see? Well you may go to a church in your church experience in which a church leader calls himself an apostle, the Apostle Harry or something like that. Now if he means this to call himself an apostle in the broad sense of the word I'm an apostle as a messenger of God, of the gospel. I suppose that's okay. It's fine, but since we're all called to be God's messengers of the gospel. But I have to say it's somewhat confusing and potentially misleading. As some might think that Apostle Harry is putting himself on par with the Apostles Peter, James, and John. And that he has the same authority and that he has the same significance. And if he does put himself on par with the Apostle Paul, That he's saying, hey, I speak with the same authority as Paul. What is he saying then? He's saying that my words are new revelation. distinctly given to me by Christ himself with a binding authority. And if he is saying that, if he is thinking of himself as that kind of apostle in the narrow sense, then you have a big problem. Because there, beloved, there is no new revelation. With the end of the apostolic age came the end of Scripture and Revelation. The canon is closed, and no one, no one is to add to God's word. As we are warned not to do in Revelation 21, 18 and 19, we are not to add to God's revelation. Scripture is complete And therefore we cannot add to it. And this point ties us then into the next gift, the next gift of the church, the prophets. Now, what does Paul mean by the word prophets? What are prophets here? Well prophets are those who were the mouthpiece of God during the first century church. Who spoke direct revelation from the Lord, whose revelation carried the authority of, thus saith the Lord God. and whose revelation formed the foundation for the New Testament along with the apostles. And once again we go back to Ephesians 2. 20 Where Paul says, what? That the foundation of the church is built on the apostles and the prophets. And once that foundation was built, once that foundation was laid, you do not add to it. There are no new additions being built on God's word, which is why we have to reject Mormonism. Jehovah Witnesses or Islam or any other religion or cult which claims fresh divine revelation. Just as the office of the apostle has ended, the work of the prophet has ceased with it, the canon of the New Testament is complete. So there is no more need for this particular gift to the church. However , However, there is a sense in which a prophetic voice still continues today. Well, what do I mean by that? Well, what I don't mean is that prophets today bring new revelation. But there are those within the church who have a prophetic gift of applying God's word to contemporary society Men who are gifted in such a way like the Old Testament prophets who applied the law to the injustices that they witnessed in their day. There are those who have a keen understanding of the culture and then can aptly apply God's word to the times in which they live. To bring about an awareness, to bring about a conviction of the social injustices that are prevalent in our society. In the past, it was those who spoke against slavery. Today, it can be any number of things. Those who preach against racism or abortion or the corruption in our cherished institutions, any number of things. So in that sense, the prophetic gift continues. It is like forth telling that the Old Testament prophets engaged in, where they spoke truth to power and declared God's righteousness to an unjust people. Well, next on the list after prophets is evangelists. The term evangelist is used only three times in the New Testament. It's used here in this verse, of course. And in Acts 21, in Acts 21, 8, in that verse, Philip is called an evangelist. And then finally in 2 Timothy 4. 5, where Paul exhorts Timothy to do the work of an evangelist. Now, we may wonder with so little explanation as to what that word is or what that office is, how can we discern what Paul means here by the gift of an evangelist? Well, as we know, an evangelist is someone who is gifted in sharing the good news of salvation through faith in Jesus Christ to those who have not yet believed in him. And it would seem that what Paul is referring to here is those in the New Testament church who boldly went where no man had gone before. Who broke new ground for the gospel, and then once that a new church had been established, they moved on to new territory. And unlike the apostle and the prophet, this gift continues today. An evangelist is like a missionary at work in a new part of the world spreading the gospel. Or a church planter who goes to a new area where there is no Christian witness in that area. Now, we know that all of us are called to share the gospel, yes? But for many of us, what is that experience like? We s uh our hands get all sweaty. And our needs knocked together, and we are fearful to share the gospel with other people. But then there are those in our local congregation. who seem to have such a wonderful special gift for connecting with unbelievers and sharing the gospel in a whimsome and natural way without any hesitation or without any fear. The gospel goes trippingly off their tongue. And they'd be able to, and they seem to be able to just reel in people like a good fisherman. While they are have buckets of fish at their feet, we're still trying to bait our hook. And they are a tremendous blessing to the church because their example spurs us on to witness to others. And the lives that they touch bear fruit. in the growing of the church. So we need to pray to the Lord that the Lord would raise up more evangelists in our midst. men and women gifted in sharing the gospel, and that he would raise up more church planters and missionaries to spread the gospel so that the church would grow not only here, but around the world as well. Well, last on our list of gifts given by Christ to the church is pastors and teachers. Now, there is some debate as to whether or not Paul has one office in mind here or two offices Is he talking about pastors and teachers as two separate and distinct offices? Or is it one office that he's speaking of? the office of pastor slash teacher. Because those gifts, if you'll notice in that verse, those gifts are not separated by the word sum as the other offices are. In other words, he doesn't say he gave some to be pastors and some to be teachers, but he says he gave some to be pastors and teachers, as if they are one office, one gift. But it really in some ways it really doesn't matter whether it's one office or two, because what is common to both is the proclamation of God's word. The pastor preaches it, and both the pastor and the teacher teach it. We're going to talk more about this, the importance of this role to the church next time we look at this passage. But there's one thing that we can mention today. Of all of these off of these offices, two have ended, the apostle and the prophet. But the rest continue on in the life of the church. And whether these offices have passed from you or whether or not they continue, all of these gifts have the same thing in common. There is a common thread among all these different gifts to the church. And what is that common thread? The apostle, the prophet , the evangelist and teacher, pastor, all of these leaders focused on bringing the Word of God to the church. And that only highlights how foundational the Word of God is to the church. The significance of the Word of God to the life of the church cannot be overstated. But I'm going to try. The church rests on the teaching of the apostles and the prophets. which continues to be spread across the globe by evangelists and taught and expounded locally by faithful shepherds of his word. So that God's word is then passed down from one generation to the next. And God's word is not only foundational to the church, God's word is powerful. Beloved, have we not seen what God's word does in our lives and in the lives of others? Amen. It is God's word which through the power of God's Spirit renews our minds, changes our lives, guides our actions, and equips us for works of service in his body. As we will see next time, the proclamation of the word not only births the church, but it matures the church as well. Now some might say, huh, well that sounds to me like you worship the Bible, like you worship some book. But, beloved, we don't worship a book. We don't worship the Bible. We worship the Lord Jesus Christ, the living word, who is revealed through his written word, the Bible. Amen? And his written word tells us about how we can have a life-transforming relationship with Jesus Christ. the living word, and then how we can grow to be more and more like him as we absorb more and more of his word. So, is God's word not complete? Is God's word not all sufficient, telling us all that we need to know about how we can have eternal life through Christ? What do we do? We look at the Old Testament. And what do we see in the Old Testament? We see there Christ foretold. For it points to the coming of Christ through the Old Testament prophets and through the sacrifices and through the law. And then in the New Testament, there are the gospels, which is Christ revealed, telling us of his first advent. in which he came to earth to take on our humanity so that we c so that he could die as a perfect substitute for our sins, and then he rose again from the dead, having been crucified on the cross, and is now ascended into heaven. And in the New Testament there are the epistles, which are Christ applied. They expound on the meaning of his death and his resurrection and what those implications mean for us as believers. And then we have finally the book of Revelation. Christ anticipated as we look to his second coming and the consummation of his kingdom. But beloved, it gets even better because Scripture not only tells us the way to eternal life, it teaches us how to do life and the here and now It not only tells us about salvation through Christ, it helps us to deal with the nitty gritty of just getting through another week. So God's word. God's word is always relevant. It's always timely because its teaching is timeless And it is transcendent, transcending all cultural boundaries, all racial boundaries, and all national boundaries. How is that possible? Because it answers our most profound and perplexing questions, the big questions of life. What is the aim and purpose of my existence? What happens to me after I die? How am I to interpret the pain and suffering that I experience as a Christian? And it answers relevant questions for us about life. Who can I marry as a Christian? How do I please my spouse? How do I raise my children? How do I handle my finances? How do I treat my body? What do I do when someone hurts me or I offend someone else? How do I handle the frustration of an unreasonable boss or an unfair professor or deal with a family feud? And beloved, we could just go on and on and on with questions, and the Bible is sufficient, more than sufficient to answer them. Psalm 119, 105 sums it up well. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. God 's word is a light lighting our path. It is like a lighthouse leading us safely home. Amidst the murky waters of despair and stormy seas of sadness. It is a light which brings the warmth of the sun. to comfort us in the winter of our lives when there is no when there is confusion or doubt This is a light that shines on our corrupt culture, exposing evil and darkness. And it is a light that exposes our corrupt hearts The light of God's word penetrates our hearts, its heat singes our souls, exposing our sinful and selfish hidden motives and our smug self-righteousness. As Hebrews 4. 12 says, for the word of God is sharper than any two-edged sword. Able to divide both down to the vis to the division of the soul and spirit and of the joint and marrow. And it is a discerner of the thoughts and intentions of our hearts. And beloved, have we not seen the power of God's Word Next year, this church will be celebrating its fiftieth anniversary. Fifty years. And I've often heard it said when people talk about liberty, that despite all of its ups and downs, Liberty Church has been faithful to preach the word of God. It stands strong on the firm foundation of the apostles and the prophets as faithful men have preached and taught God's word from this pulpit. And beloved, that is something to celebrate, is it not? And yet, if this church is going to live and grow for another 50 years , It will need to carry on in this very fundamental principle. To preach the word In and out of season to stand strong with full confidence in God's all-sufficient, all-powerful word. Amen Think about it. Think about what happens to churches that stop preaching God's Word Whole denominations have taken a jackhammer to the foundation laid by the apostles and the prophets, and they have wrecked that foundation, they have torn it up And they say that this doctrine is no longer true, that the deity of Jesus Christ no longer matters, and while we're at it, we'll destroy this doctrine as well. Because we don't like it or we don't believe it. And what has been the result? The result is that some churches are Christian in name only. But the Lord would say to those churches, depart from me, I never knew you. And he takes away their light. We've seen what has happened in Western Europe and in Britain over the past century or so. Churches which were once vibrant and alive and vital had been turned into museums and community centers and cafes. And the pulpits where God's precious word was preached are now empty and silent I tell my Westminster Confession class and my leadership class, you know it only takes one generation. Just one generation. So you all need to be Bereans. You need to be aware of what is going on within your denomination. And what is being taught, because it only takes one generation. One generation for the church to slide right off the firm foundation of God's word and cease to be Christ. church in our culture. The evangelical world has also been influenced by the church growth movement. And in some ways we can appreciate the intention of that movement, which is to spread the gospel and to see people come to Christ. But within the church growth movement, there seems to be an underlying principle, which is that God's word is really not sufficient. God's word really isn't powerful enough. Somehow it's not relevant enough. So we have to bolster it up. We have to prop it up some. We have to dress it up or water it down. So that we can appear cool, trendy, fit I know of a church in Georgia, a PCA church. One session meeting, the pastor told the elders at that meeting what he learned from a church growth seminar. And he gave them his plans for what he would like to do. He told them the basic framework of that uh of that movement. He said, Sunday isn't for the believer. Sunday is for the unbeliever. So we're not going to preach the same way anymore. We're going to tailor the service to the unbeliever. So, what we're going to do is we're going to get rid of this, and we're going to take away that, and we'll move this, and we'll get rid of that. And furthermore, if believers are going to get fed They're going to have to go to a Bible study during the week to get the meat that their crave. Because on Sunday, we're going to focus solely on evangelism. Now who can argue with being evangelistic? Of course we want the share of the gospel, but at what cost? At the expense of God's word? That sounds contradictory, doesn't it? But the session went along with it. And you know what happened to that church? Within five years, it closed. Dead. And it was sold to the Baptists. I used to say in the South that the Baptists rule rule and the Presbyterians drool. And it just proved my point. So again, we see the implications of these precious gifts that the Lord has given his church The apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastor teachers, whose responsibility it was and is to shine the light of God's Word and all of its beauty and all of its depth and in all of its richness. Why? Because God's word is powerful. And God's word is all sufficient. And it is foundational to the life and health and growth of the church. But those implications are not just for a denomination. are the local church. Those implications are for us as individuals as well Isn't the foundation for the life and the growth of the church of each believer the apostles and the prophets? As well as for the church as a whole. So it causes us to wonder, I can say I'm a Christian and that I love Jesus But is there evidence in my life that I love his word? Do we have a full appreciation for the power of God's word When we come here on Sunday morning, do we come expectant? When we come to this holy, supernatural moment in the week when God's word is proclaimed. Do we anticipate that God is going to do some business with us? That his word will convict us? That his word will challenge us? That his word will comfort and encourage us? For what the scripture say, Isaiah 55, 11 says that his word does not return void, but it accomplishes what God pleases, and it will prosper where he sends it. Beloved, I don't know about you, but I know this, that this passage challenges me. It causes me to think through how I spend my time and what are my priorities. We know, we know that God's word is sufficient and powerful for his church, and his church is built on it and strengthened by it. But does that truth reverberate in my life? Do we spend significant time and study of his word throughout the week Or do we do other things, many good things, which crowd out the best thing? Do I spend more time on social media Than I do on the sanctifying media of God's Word. I leave you with a test. In the past week or month, How has your mind been renewed by the power of God's word because you've been absorbing it? How has it affected the affections of your heart? How has God's powerful word refocused your priorities? Or unearthed your inconsistencies, or trained you in righteousness Well, we will uncover more of these verses in a few weeks. But as we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper, what can we do? We can praise God for his grace. And mercy in laying such a sure solid foundation of his word for us. Revealed through Christ and his apostles and prophets and proclaimed by evangelists and preachers throughout the world. Oh beloved, what a humbling privilege it is to know his word. Which brings us life and hope and joy and peace through the living word, Jesus Christ. Let's pray