Mark chapter twelve. Let me uh just say another word about uh Sally Mitchell. You know, I think she's beginning her third week in the hospital. She's at Northwest Hospital, she's on floor four now, which is where the rehab is uh being done. And uh she uh I know she'd appreciate calls, uh cards, uh visits. She's able to receive visitors now and so Just so you know, she'll looks like she may be there another couple weeks uh for a rehab. Mark uh chapter twelve And once again, let's begin at verse 28 and read through verse 34. And uh I'm sorry, uh We do dismiss at this time the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Mark chapter 12, verse 28. Then one of the scribes came and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? Jesus answered him, The first of all commandments is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. with all your mind, with all your strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, like it, is this. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. So the scribes said to him, Well said, teacher, you've spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but he, and to love him with all the heart and And with all the understanding, with all the soul, with all the strength to love one's neighbor as oneself, is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Now when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. But after that, no one dared question him Let's ask God's blessing upon His word. Lord, uh help us to uh simply and clearly apply these simple and clear words of our Savior. Please, Father, open our hearts that you might write upon them this day. May our time here in your word have eternal significance. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen If you had been privileged to live during the time of Christ, and if you had been privileged to live in Palestine, and if you had actually had an opportunity to meet the Lord Jesus, and to ask him a question, the question you asked could very well be this one. It's it's it's an obvious question. Master, what is the greatest commandment? What is the most important thing in God's eyes for us to do? Of all his commandments, of all the laws revealed to his people, which one is the greatest? Which one is of most importance? Which one is primary? Well, someone did ask that question, and Jesus responded, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your of strength. This is the first commandment. This is the primary thing. This is the principal thing. And then he gave us a bonus answer. The second, like it, That is, the second most important commandment, similar to the first, like it, is you shall love your neighbor as yourself. We read in Matthew 22, an account of this same conversation, it appears, that he also said, On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. We considered this last week, didn't we? The first table of the law. Uh sh you shall uh uh uh I am the Lord thy God, thou shalt have no other gods before me, thou shalt not make make unto thee any graven image, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy? That first tablet of the law could be summarized in Jesus' words, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. The second table of the law uh honor your father and your mother, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, etc. That those commandments that deal with our relationships with one another could be summarized by this second great commandment, the bonus answer Jesus Jesus gave us, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. It's a good summary of everything that God tells us in his word, in the Old Testament, the word that Jesus was speaking of here, all the law and the prophets. So this is the framework, this is the skeletal structure, you might say, that the law and the prophets, the bulk of the Old Testament, simply flesh out. Well, this morning I'd like us to consider Jesus' second or bonus answer, his second great commandment. It can be found in Leviticus 19, where it's tucked away in the midst of a long list of civil laws. Those civil laws included you shall not cheat your neighbor, nor rob him, you shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind. Right? Curse to death, put a stumbling block before the blind. But you shall fear your God, because he's aware of what you're doing You shall fear your God. I am the Lord. You shall not go about as a tailbearer among your people. You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people. But you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Leviticus 19 verse 18 Isn't it remarkable that the Lord Jesus pulled one part of one verse out of a long list of laws? and declared it to be the second greatest commandment. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. I suspect no mere human teacher would presume to do such a thing. And the first question that would probably come to mind upon hearing that commandment for the first time would be, who was my neighbor? You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Alright, well who are the ones that I I have to love and who are the ones I don't have to love? Because I don't want to love certain people. So who is my neighbor? Well, Moses spoke of the children of your people, fellow Jews, right? But Jesus made it clear in the story that he told us that we call the parable of the Good Samaritan that your neighbor refers ultimately to uh every other human being, all other people of whatever ethnicity, even if you may consider uh him or her to be your enemy. That's what was made clear, right, in the parable of the Good Samaritan. The religious people passed him by, but the Samaritan. He he stopped and helped this enemy of his and brought him to an inn and paid the innkeeper, etc. So clearly then, my neighbor in this second greatest commandment is every son of Adam, every daughter. of Eve. These are my neighbors. We 're told by Jesus that we are to love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength, the greatest commandment, and that the second greatest commandment, next to importance to the first, is to love our neighbor as ourselves His words are not complicated. They are, on the contrary, quite simple. And I want to attempt to set forth this simple commandment in very simple terms this morning. The scripture says the world is divided into two great groups of people. Two great categories. If you're familiar with God's word, you know this. The Bible calls them the righteous and the unrighteous, the sheep and the goats. the uh saved and the lost, the wise and the foolish, the good and the evil. The category described as righteous, as sheep, as saved, as wise, as good, is not made up of people who are righteous and wise and good in and of themselves, right? Why not? Because there is uh none righteous, Paul makes clear in Romans, there's none righteous, there's uh none that seeks after God, not one. So that category over there uh that is referred to in scripture as the sheep, the saved, the wise, the good, the righteous, etc. is uh is made up of sinners. It 's filled with sinners, just as is this uh a group over here, or this category, if you will. So they're both made up of sinners, but this group is called wise, righteous, sheep, etc. Electride. So there's a great difference between the two groups. Those in this category over here have been forgiven. They've been brought by God's Spirit to the point of recognizing that they've sinned against the Holy God. They've repented of that sin, and they've fled to Jesus Christ for deliverance. The only redeemer of God's elect. The one who lived the perfect life, who kept that law that they have failed to keep, and then who died as a substitute, who paid the debt that they owed. So those in the category of the righteous over here are there because the righteousness of Jesus has been placed upon their account. They are declared righteous by a sovereign judge who has determined to accept the sacrifice of his son in payment for the sins of those who deserve his wrath. Now, looking at people from our perspective, apart from the matters of God's sovereign election, which is one of those secret things that belong to the Lord our God, Deuteronomy 29, 29. Each person on earth is in one of those two categories. Remembering, again, that some presently unbelieving may be, in fact, among God's elect. And some professing to be sheep over here may in fact be goats. But at our point in time And that's where we live. Everyone we meet is either a believer in Christ or not. He is either a sinner who has not repented of his sins and places faith in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, thus he's a sinner who is on a course that leads leads ultimately to hell. Or he is a sinner who has been brought by God's Spirit to a point of repentance and faith, and thus he is a sinner who is on a course that leads to heaven. Now, if one of the two great duties of my life, what the French would call my uh raison d'etre by reason to be if one of the two great duties of my life according to the Lord Jesus Christ is to love my neighbor as myself How do I do that? How do I flesh out my love for these two great classes of men? Well, Jesus helps us answer this in his Sermon on the Mount, where he says, whatever you want men to do to you , do also to them. For this is the law and the prophets. Matthew seven, twelve. So how do I act upon this second great commandment Jesus gave us, to love my neighbor as myself? How do I do that? Well, the answer could well be, whatever I would want him, my neighbor, over here or over here, to do to me, I am to do to him, right? Now, let's apply this rule of gold to these two classes of men, these two great classes of men. First of all, let's take the smallest class over here, the Christians. Jesus said, whatever I want them to do to me, I am to do to them. Well, what do I want other Christians to do to me? What comes to me Well, I want them to be honest with me. I want them to be fair with me. I want them to be truthful in what they say to me and what they say about me. I don't want them to slander me. I don't want them to gossip about me. I want them to be kind to me. I want them to be gracious toward me. I want them to pray for me. I want them to come to my aid when I'm in need. For example, when I'm hungry or when I'm sick or or a poor. I want them to encourage me when I'm down. I want them to sympathize with me when I'm mourning. I want them to rejoice with me. when I'm joyful. Rebuke and exhort me when I need it. And use their gifts to build me up. I want them to live peaceably with me. I uh don't want them to do anything to harm my family or my property or my good name. I want them to extend hospitality toward me. I don't want them to covet what I have or to ventilate their anger upon me. In fact, in their dealings with me, I want others to put away all bitterness and anger and clamor and wrath and evil speaking with all malice. I want them to be tender-hearted toward me Forgiving me, even as uh those of them who are believers were forgiven for Christ's sake. And that's the class we're talking about, right? believers. I don't want them to be judgmental toward me or rude to me. I want uh the older believers to treat me as a son. I want children to treat me as they would a father. I want younger men and women to treat me as they would a brother. Now, if this is how I want to be treated by the great class of men and women and children who are Christians, and I think you will agree that's how you want to be treated by that great class of men, then how am I to treat them? That's the question here. Well, in the very same way, of course. That was Jesus' point I am to treat them the way I want them to treat me. I'm not to do anything to them, say anything to them or about them. or think anything about them that I would not want them to say, think, or do uh to me or about me. No, we're missing the bow if we think this golden rule which we're citing here as a way to help me to flesh out what it means to love my neighbor as myself. We're missing the boat if we think the golden rule, uh if we think of it from a selfish perspective. Jesus is not saying, treat others as you want to be treated, because that's how they're going to end up treating you, right? Now there may be some truth to that, but that's not what he's. He's not uh urging us to do it for our own sake. He's urging us to do it for God's glory. For the sake of others. It's for their sake, not yours. They may not treat you the way you treat them. How they treat you is not your responsibility And it's not what is at issue here. Now, if this is how I am to treat this great class of people over here who are called Christians, then how am I to treat this m this much larger class of people over here who are not Christians? Well, I am to treat them in the same way. I am to treat them as I would want them to treat me. In other words, in the very same way mentioned a moment ago, with one important addition. If I were over here in this class of man, if I were still lost, unsaved, without hope, without God, if I were over here still headed for a priceless eternity, In a place where Jesus said the fire is not quenched. And if there were other people on this planet who knew the way of eternal life, people over here. They knew the way in which I could have my sins forgiven, the way in which I could be reconciled to God. What would I want them to do for me as I'm over here in this group? What would I want them to do? for me. If I were blind and my cousin knew how I could receive my sight, what would I want him to do? If I had a fatal illness and a friend at work had been wonderfully healed by a great physician of the very same illness, And that friend knew that I could be healed as well. What would I want him to do? Now You may respond, okay, uh Pastor, all right, I get it, I see where you're going with that, but there's a great difference between a man who is spiritually blind and a man who is physically blind. There's a great difference between a man diagnosed with a fatal illness and a man who is over here headed for hell. The man who is physically blind knows He's physically blind. The man with a fatal illness knows he has a fatal illness. It's been diagnosed in your illustration. And he's no doubt seeking healing. But most people who are spiritually blind don't know they're blind. Most people who have a fatal illness of the the fatal illness of sin don't know it's fatal. And that they will one day stand before a holy God, whose eyes are as a flame of fire, that they will one day have to face a righteous judge, who is of pure eyes than to behold evil, who cannot look upon sin. The one who says the soul who sins must die, the wages of sin is death. They don't know that. And many of them would not believe me if I told them. In fact, they might laugh at me or be angry with me. They might misjudge me or dislike me. Yeah, that's true. They might. They might just respond that way. Many responded to Jesus that way. Many responded to the apostles that way. They spoke words of life, and many rejected them. But we are asking the question, what does it mean to love non-Christians? As yourself. That's what we're asking. What does it mean for me, as one who has been forgiven by God, to do to one who has not yet been forgiven by God as I would want him? to do to me. His response to what I say to him is not really the issue, is it? Now that's not to say that it doesn't matter how I present this news to him I should speak to him with kindness and with sensitivity and with grace, as the Lord Jesus would, and resting and trusting in the Holy Spirit to help me in the process of sharing this good news. with this person. But the point I'm trying to make here is quite simple. If I'm called by Jesus to love my neighbor as myself And my neighbor's greatest need is to be reconciled to God, then am I not compelled by God and by natural human compassion? To do all I can to bring my neighbor this good news. I cannot control how he responds to this good news Now, an excellent uh illustration of this is the story of the four good Samaritans. Now The story of the Good Samaritan, singular, is found in Luke chapter 10. It's that parable Jesus told we referred to it a moment ago. The story of the four Good Samaritans is found in 2 Kings 7. These were the days of the prophet Elisha, and Samaria was the capital of the northern kingdom of Israel. Israel in the north, you got Judah in the south, Jerusalem, the capital of Judah in the south, and Samaria the capital of Israel in the north. Well, Israel and specifically Samaria, the city, was besieged by the Syrian army. Now that means, boys and girls, it means the army of the Syrians, the bad guys, surrounded the city of Samaria so that no food could get in, no people could get out. They were choking them off basically. If you do that long enough, people start to starve and then and then the city eventually uh uh uh uh gives up. Well, that's what they were doing. And it was so bad in the city of Samaria, it got so bad, there was so little food, that uh the Bible says you If you had the head of a donkey, you'd eaten every other part of the donkey, and now you're going to make donkey head soup. And if you could sell that donkey head for two pounds of silver. Uh in other words the money was was getting w worthless. If you eat as much donkey as we do, you know the donkey head is not the choicest part of the donkey, right? So that that's that's what you you leave till the very very end and the end of the month and have donkey soup for for a few days. But uh that's how severe this famine was. That the Bible tells us that to help us understand how bad it was. Now, ironically, right now in 2016, as you may know, the Syrian army is besieging some rebel-controlled cities and the desperate striving inhabitants have reportedly uh resorted to eating grass and soil just to fill their stomachs because there's nothing else else. And the rebel army is reportedly doing the same to government-controlled cities. Human cruelty is alive and well 2,800 years after the Syrian army besieged besieged Samaria. Well, in the midst of that horrendous famine, the Lord revealed something remarkable to this prophet, Elisha. The Lord told Elisha, By the next day, fine flour and barley would be so abundant, so plentiful in Samaria that you could buy large quantities of it, bushels of it, for uh a small coin, a shekel. What? And when one of the advisors of the king who heard this, as Elisha made this The Lord told Elisha, Elisha pronounced it to the king, and one of the king's uh advisors said, Look, if the Lord would make windows in heaven, could this thing be? Well, here's how it came about. There were four lepers, these four good Samaritans were saying, who were huddled outside the gate of Samaria. Gates were locked. To prevent the enemy from getting in. They were huddled outside the gate. And they were trying to determine what do we do now? Do we try to get into the city of Samaria and just starve with everybody else if they let us in? Well, they reasoned that if they entered the city they would die. They decided to go throw themselves on the mercy of the attacking army. So they said, what's the worst that can happen? They put us to death. And we're gonna die anyway. Maybe they'll have mercy upon us. Oh, these are lepers. My uncle was a leper. Let's provide for them. Whatever. So they determined to throw themselves upon the mercy of the besieging army. But when they went to the enemy's camp, they were shocked to find nobody was there. The scripture says, for the Lord had caused the army of the Syrians to hear the noise of chariots and the noise of horses, the noise of a great army. And they got to thinking, oh no Uh the the the king of Israel has has uh made an arrangement with the Hittites or the Egyptians. He's he's hired them to come against us. They heard these sounds of of chariots and so they decided to get out of Dodge and they left in in great fear. And and they they left immediately. They left horses, they left some donkeys, they left food, they left clothing, they they left money. They arose and fled at twilight, leaving behind tents, horses, donkeys, provisions, fleeing for their lives, as people do when they're terrified. The four Samaritans came to the outskirts of the camp. They entered a few tents. They said, this is great. They started eating and drinking. It's been a long time since they had any food, presumably. and he had decent food. And then they started carrying away some of the silver and gold and hiding it so they could uh come back and find it later, presumably. And then they said to one another, Well, we're not doing right This day is a day of good news, and we remain silent. If we wait until morning light, some punishment will come upon us. What are we doing? We're feeding ourselves and meanwhile we've got a whole city full of people, some of them starving to death, maybe tonight. So they returned to Samaria that very night, and they called to the gatekeepers, and they told them what they had found. Now, it's worth noting that they were not immediately believed. The king thought it might be a trick to lure the Samaritans out of the city and then pounce upon them. But the lepers had done their duty. They couldn't make people believe the truth, but they could proclaim the good news, right? Now that's what they did. It was the servant of the king who suggested that they had nothing to lose. Look, king, send a few men with some of the remaining horses. The king must have kept a few horses alive and see if what the lepers said was true. Before the day ended, Elisha's prophecy was fulfilled. And the the barley and the the fine flour was flowing in the streets of Samaria again. This is a day of good news, and we remain silent. That's what the leopard said to each other. each other. Now those four Samaritans couldn't possibly be loving their neighbor as themselves, knowing their neighbors were perishing, knowing they had the good news which could bring them life. If they kept that good news to themselves, us two we for no more. If one of the great responsibilities of my life is to love my neighbor as myself, and if the greatest need of most people that I'm called to love is to hear the good news of Christ, then one of the great responsibilities of my life is to do what is in my power to see that others hear this good news Amen. Is that clear? It should be clear. Now, there's no doubt that some Christians are more gifted in this we call evangelism than others. But that doesn't negate our personal responsibility. Some Christians are more gifted with faith. Some are called, but but all are called, I meant to say, to exercise faith, right? Some are more gifted with giving, but we're all called to exercise giving. We're all called to give. Some have been gifted with a spirit of prayer, but we're all called to pray. So, how then do we know that we're all called to evangelize? Well, first of all, as we've seen, we're all called to love our neighbors ourselves. But secondly , maybe you need a little more convincing, the responsibility for evangelism was given to the disciples of Christ, who clearly represented all of us. Jesus said to them, go into all the world and preach the gospel. Go make disciples of all nations. I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. Right? Well, these disciples were going to die off. He was talking to all of us. I'm going to be with you even to the end of the age. If only those with the gift of evangelism are expected to declare the good news, then why would Jesus give this command to all the disciples? We would expect Peter, I want you to evangelize. And Matthew, I want you to handle the finances. And uh Andrew, uh, I want you to care for widows, etc. He didn't do that. He said, I want you to go and know all the world, preach this good news. Well yeah, but maybe each of the apostles was given that gift of evangelism. I didn't get it. Well, what about Acts 8, where we read, at that time a great persecution arose against the church which was at Jerusalem, and they were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. The whole church was scattered, everybody but the apostles, they were still in Jerusalem. Jerusalem and those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. Those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. They had good news for these people over here We we know who the Messiah is. We know how you can have eternal life. They went everywhere proclaiming the word. Now, how can we do this? Let's get as practical as possible. How can I, in this generation, preach this good news? How can I reach others with this? How can I love my neighbor as myself? If he's an unbeliever. Well, in our everyday conversations, for one thing. I've mentioned before a dear lady that we knew when we passed her in Tennessee, her name was uh Dorothy, Dorothy Foxworthy. She was in her I guess at this point maybe in her eighties. She lived at the top of a high rise, you know, uh high rise for uh Tennessee. It was uh several stories high. And uh and but it was uh there was uh lodging there, you know, uh uh for uh people don't have a whole lot of money and it was supplemented uh is that the word by the by the state I guess. Anyway, she lived in a in a little apartment there. And uh she told me about a conversation she had with her neighbor whose name was uh Jonesy a member of our church, uh the church that I pastored, a member of our church had died. And uh this woman who died had been very close to Dorothy. So Dorothy went over to her neighbor's house and said, Jonesy, could I borrow your newspaper? I want to read uh the obituary that was written in honor of my uh my friend. And uh Jonesy said, oh I'm so sorry your close friend died. And Dorothy said, uh oh, uh it's fine, she's she's with Jesus. And uh this you know, it it's a blessing really, 'cause she had uh cancer for a long time. fought it diligently. And so Jonesy said, Well how how can you know this, that she's with Jesus? And Dorothy took that opportunity. She spent about twenty minutes sharing the gospel with this neighbor of hers. Apparently she hadn't had an opportunity to do that before or hadn't taken it. So she explained the gospel to Jonesy. And And uh and it was all quite natural. Uh friend died. We do it in our normal conversations The Lord has been faithful to my family. Even in our deepest sorrow, He gave us peace. He helped me overcome this particular habit. He took away my fear of failure, my fear of death. We can share the good news with cards, with letters. We can share the good news in emails. We can share the good news through social media We can ch raise your hand if you've ever been to a any of you people ever go to a restaurant. Raise your hand. Let's see. Oh well several. Several of you. Wait, there's two over here. Right. Uh well when you go to a restaurant generally you you have to pay for your meal. W why not leave a track there for your server or hand your server a track and say this changed my life. This is the most important thing. In all the world, Jesus said, What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? This tells about about Jesus. It's really I hope you could take a moment sometime when it things are quieted down and you can read this. Uh you know the the first time I heard the gospel uh clearly presented was through a tract that I would get lots of 'em when I worked at this gas station ten o'clock station in Orlando, Florida. I think it was sixteen at the time, working part-time while I was in high school, and people would give us tracks. And I'd go back in that little booth there and I'd sum through and read it. And I I I don't know, uh I I can't remember what I read at the time, but it was a few years later that God brought me to to true saving faith in Christ. But I I think that was the first time I saw the gospel or read it, you know, clearly presented. You can share your testimony with uh your Facebook friends, right? All these people on Facebook, they keep growing and growing and growing. They all have birthdays and birthdays and birthdays. So you can You could give your testimony, you could share, you could post it there on your wall. This is how God brought me to faith in Christ. I want all all those who know me to know this. You can share the good news at family gatherings. You can share your testimony. You could host a neighborhood open house. Invite your neighbors to come in and and and and have the opportunity to share with we wanted to share with you the the most wonderful thing that happened in our lives and that's this and tell them about Jesus and what he did. And and and how now you know you're gonna go to heaven because of what Christ has done for you. Starting a Bible study, distributing CDs of sermons, uh, or uh gospels, Gospel John. mission trips of course, doing local uh visitation at hospitals, nursing homes, uh folks, even folks who visit uh our church, retirement homes, prisons. You may be certain however they may respond now, all who hear the good news from you will one day be thankful that you cared enough to share it. However they may respond to you now. Oh I don't want to hear that. Oh you must think you're so uh hoity toity. However they respond to you now they will one day be grateful that you took the time to share the good news with them. Finally, there are these two great classes of people. You got the saved and the lost. In which class Are you? In which class are you? Well, I'm a church member. Well, that's good. Are you saved or are you lost? Well, I I'm a good person. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God God. Are you saved or are you lost? Well, I stand on my record. By the deeds of the law, the Bible says no flesh will be justified in his sight. I stand on my record. No, no. Are you saved or are you lost? What must I do to be saved? Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Christ has done the work. What do I do? I just believe. Lord, I believe it. I believe that you lived that perfect life, that you died upon the cross, that you rose again from the dead. I see my sin. As vile and I turn from it in disgust and I lay hold upon you. Have mercy upon me. Save me. You say, well, I don't know how to I don't know how to share the gospel with people. That's it. That's the simple gospel. God's a holy God, he must punish sin. You and I have broken this law. But God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son. If we believe in him, our sins are forgiven, we have eternal life. It's a simple message. Friend, are you saved? Have you come to faith in Jesus Christ? You can come to him today. God forgive me. And save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Make me a part of your family. Adopt me into your family. Let me remind you not to put it off. Or let me uh encourage you, exhort you not to put it off. You remember Dorothy I mentioned and her neighbor Jonesy? Uh it was uh a few weeks after they spoke that Jonesy took a ill and a week after that he died. No man knows what a day may bring forth. Redeem the time, the day You don't have forever to talk to your children, to your aunts, to your uncles, to your cousins, to your friends, to your neighbors. You don't have forever. To talk to them about the Lord. Jesus said to his apostles, Lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest. And he who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life. That both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. Let's learn from the from the lesson of the four good Samaritans. This is a day of good news. May we not remain silent. Let's pray. Lord, I do pray that you'll take your simple word and engrave it upon our hearts. We ask it in Crust day. Amen. Number three