Or his male servant, or his female sir , or his ox, or his docy, or anything that is Vernatus , This is the rural Blue. Pain speed are gone. We've got PC again. We're afraid of it. Lord, thank you, Father, for giving us your holy, inerrant, infallible word, Lord. Father, we pray that tonight that you speak through your scriptures this evening, that you may increase I, your servant in defect. Your sons, I pray. Well, good evening everyone. Tonight's sermon is obviously on the Tenth Commandment, which falls at the very end of the Ten Commandments, or the second table of the law. If you remember, the first table of the law, the Ten Commandments, contains the first through and fourth commandments, and it details her duty to God. While the second table of the law contains the fifth or tenth commandments and details your duty to you who are fellow man. A few weeks ago, Pasper Aaron preached on the ninth commandment, the prohibition is bearing false witness against others in duty to tell the truth. Tonight we'll study the tenth commandment and the prohibition against Covet. If you remember, we've looked earlier, one of the earlier sermons about hermeneutical methods for interpreting and understanding the Ten Commandments. If you were to pull up Westminster Ord of Catechism, Question 99, it says, where a duty is commanded, the contrary sin is forbidden. And where sin is forbidden, the contrary duty is commanding. This method for reading and understanding the Ten Commandments is correct. Each of the Ten Commandments contains a sin forbidden, and the inverse, the opposite, is a duty commandment. There's much more than Ten Commandments than simple cohibitions. There are also duties which are commanded to carry out. This brings us to the main point for this evening's sermon. Do not desire after mother's belongings, but instead be content with what God has provided for you. I'll read that again. Do not desire after others' belongings, but instead be content with what God and have provided for you. So let's look at the first point of the sermon here, because sin forbidding. The last time I preached for evening worship, I preached on the eighth commandment, which has to do with theft. Now the eighth and the tenth commandments are very similar in that they both deal with a heart issue involving desiring things which you do not possess. So as we look at the 10th commandment this evening, we have to ask and answer the question, what exactly is coven? Is covening in and of itself always a sin? If you were to look at the Webster's Dictionary, an earlier edition in 1828, it defines Covet as to desire or wish for with eagerness. To desire earnestly to obtain or possess in a good sense. To desire inordinately, to desire that which is unlawful to obtain or possess in a bad sense. So you can see from this definition there are two basic signs of coveting. There is good covenant and there is sinful coveting. Now an example of good coveting would be 1 Corinthians 12. 31, where the Apostle Paul, after spending all of chapter 12 dealing with spiritual gifts, tell the Corinthians to earnestly desire or covet the higher gifts. Now an example of sinful coveting would be David with Gathsheba, 2 Samuel 11. David desired something or coveted someone which he did not ask. So hopefully here you can see the difference between good coveting and bad, sinful coveting. It is good to covet good things. such as spiritual gifts, hard work, encouragement, or some of prayer. Maybe you've heard someone say, I would covet your prayers about XYZ. But it is sinful to covet things which belong outright to another, or things which you have not been due. If we were to look at the Hebrew text here, the word translated as covet here in the Hebrew has multiple other instances where it appears throughout the Old Testament. And every time it has a sense of intense burning desire. There's a sense in which the word cabbage brings a meaning with a strong, intense desire or craving. Now this word in and of itself has does not have a good or bad connotation by itself. And once again, there is a good form of covenant. Say, for instance, Psalm 68, 16, which speaks of how God covets or desires Mouse. But there's also a bad form of covenant, which would show itself as inordinate, ungoverned, and selfish desire. God is making a point here in the 10th commandment that you should not strongly desire, lust after, or crave after the possessions and belongings of another. Think about what coveting does, the effect, which attacks. Matthew Henry says that coveting causes injury to your neighbor and only serves your own sinful desires. When you covet or strongly desire after another's belongings or possessions or spouse, then you are sinning against both God and your neighbor. Ultimately, every possession you have is from God. James 1. 17 says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. Coming down from the Father lights. What gun there is no variation or shadow due to change God has ordered creation so that things are possessed by individuals, by businesses, and by society. So when you covet something, it is simple, a simple desire, which flies in the face. Well God's sovereign order of civil society. It is an insult against God's plan for site. It is the desire of something which was not intended for you. Now what about the heart issue? Coming itself is certainly a sin of the heart. We know that. There's not but there's not usually an outward sign which presents itself. It's mostly eternal. But what is at the root covet? Kovany is when you look at something or someone and think to yourself, I want it. And you become consumed by the fauna. Now the root beneath covenant is really a discontentment with God's permission for your lust. Jesus says in Matthew 15, 19, For out of the heart of evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, they slander. Have you ever seen another person's lummies that thought about how bad you want them? Maybe you saw the nice house of a friend and became jealous of it Maybe you saw your family member's new car. Oh man, I wish I could drive something like that. Maybe you saw the vacation that your friend is going on. I know everyone here had that frame that seemed to go on a vacation every two weeks, right? There's always people that everyone knew that are like that. And one see that and say, I wish I could have that com to these. But what is beneath all this desire and jealousy? It is being dissatisfied with what God has given you and provided for you in his life It is a distrust of God. Think about this for a moment. If you were truly satisfied with what God had given, would you ever desire and long after what others doubt? If you were truly satisfied what God needed. Now I would venture to say it won't hear a struggle with commonness or something. But now I serve a path. I make a state to assume all the F the Pax Well who are me to question John and his provision for a box? Ecclesiastes 7, 13 to 14 says this. Consider the work of God. Who can make screen what he has made crooked? May the day of prosperity be joyful. And in the day of adversity, consider, God has made the one as well as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be at bury. God has providentially given you exactly what he knows that you eat exactly what By way of application here, I would encourage you as you think to seek content you with the Lord's permission for your was. Now I know the head is a much easier said than dove. That's not easy thing to do. Your life may be much more humble than he wishes to be. You may have less money, it's free time, it's recognition at work, not as nice of a car or a house. So how do you go about seeking contentment with God's provision for your life? I read earlier from James 1. 17 about how very good gift is from God. I would encourage you here to think and dwell these good gifts and bless it in your It's a good practice to take notice of the good things in your life which God has given. But something to remember here is that you can only do this through the power of the Holy Spirit. You cannot have, you cannot think positively about what God has given you and dwell in these good days without the Holy Spirit changing. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, which you have dwelling in you as Christians, you can just leave from sin and run towards that which is good. As you begin to make a more conscious effort to notice the blessings of your life, thank God for those things. Pray to God as thank you for that. Spend time praying and thanking God is blessing which He has healing. When you do this, you will cultivate appreciation, in your heart toward God And as this appreciation and thankfulness to God is cultivated and grows in your heart, the Holy Spirit will help you learn what God. I would also encourage you to reframe your thinking when you're attempted to come. When you see something that you wish you had, or someone spoused through your attempt to buy Consciously pause and think to yourself, God has given me exactly what I need. Think to yourself that what you are looking at is not something or someone which God has given to you Brothers and sisters, do not covet and long after, desire after things which do not belong to you. Instead, remember that God has given you exactly what you need in your life. If you do not have it right now, then God has decided you do not need it. Be thankful for the good friends and the lesson he's in your life. And that takes us to the second point here this evening. The duty command here the type community. So now that we have taken a look at the sin forbidden, this commandment, let us take a look at this dewey dewey. Westminster larger county says that question 147 asks and answers this Question is, what are the duties required in the 10th King? And the answer is, the duties required attend the King Call are such a full contentment with our own condition In such a chair the frame of the whole soul toward our nearer, as that all our inward motions and affections touching them tend unto and further all that good which it says. Y'all address the couple of you are. So the answer to this categorising question is says that there are two parts. with the duty of life. There's content you with what you have, and also the desiring of the good of your neighbor. There's two sides of the duty of you. So what does it look like to have full contentment with your own commission? I spoke about this a few minutes ago as part of an application in the first meeting. But I want to add a little bit more of your on this section. The Puritan minister at author Jeremiah Furrows writes that Christian contentment is that sweet, inward, quiet, gracious, fragmentary spirit. Freely submitting to you and taking complacency to God's wise and fatherly disposed. By the way, have this ticket from Saramaya Burroughs book The Rare Jewelers you can tell. If you have not read it, go by tonight is one of the best purity perks you've Burrows is saying here that true Christian content is a sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit. It's quiet. It's gracious. Have you ever met an older saint who is so merely content with their station and their lot in life that is obvious to everyone? Maybe that person is a family member who's always contended no matter what hardship or health conditions befall that. Maybe this person is a Christian co-worker who never seems to be stressed out about things at work. One of the common themes you see in these saints is this quiet, gracious, and inward spirit. The sphere of Christianity kept in a knob loud and boisterous. Nor is it bragged. Nor is it tight. Instead, these things are grateful for what God gives them and praise their way, no matter what it is. They are not bragging about the ban, but instead they celebrate others' accomplishments and successes. Brothers and sisters, this is the attitude we should all strive for, it glears. With a sanctified attitude like this, the people of God will weather every storm he comes their way. With the firm, confident knowledge that Christ is king, that he is providentially in control of the people of God who never cast us. So by way of application here, how do you go about cultivating and encouraging growing this quiet and contents here? Yes, the Holy Spirit groves the fruit of the spirit of your life, and you do not grow it yourself. But there are practical ways to cultivate those fruit, to tend to those fruits. to make the soil of your heart a little bit more receptive to growing back fruit. Christians who are quiet and content live a lot you saturated with the word pray. Live a life saturating with the bird can pray. I cannot count how many times I've talked to someone who is discouraged Or riddle with anxiety, fear. And when you ask them if they've been in the Word regularly or praying regularly, what's their answer? Always always it. Answer almost always it. They've neither been in the word regularly nor been in Creator regularly. Now I do not say these things that make you feel bad or make you Seem as if or baby seem as if reading the word and crank are some magical fixes for all problems in your life, because that's certainly not the case. But brothers and sisters, the word of prayer are two of the ordinary means of grace which your God has given to you. They are good, yes, given to you, given to discharge. And if these are good gifts from God, the ticket bands, He's given them to you as ways of growing and sanctifying you and girding you up. Strength them Make good use of the word in prayer in Lord's Day worship. Do not neglect these most important things in the Christian life. Now there are many practical ways to get at the words and prayer more regularly. It does not have to be a difficult task, though it often feels like a difficult task. For getting into the word more regularly, there are many good scripture reading plans out there to take advantage of. The early 19th century Scottish minister Robert Murray Machane has an excellent scripture read plan which sets out Old Testament and New Testament readings each day of the year. I believe it's usually four readings spread throughout the day, two in the morning and two at night. I've personally used this plant many times over the years, and it is fantastic. I will warn you it is a lot of reading. It's a heavy volume of reading, so be prepared for that if you choose to do that. Another method is to begin in Genesis and Matthew and just read one or two chapters of each one and just go through the Old Testament and New Testament, one or two chapters at a time each day. And when you reach the end of that testament, start over at V and Eka. Just keep on here. But what I personally do is I do that second, is what I usually do here. So if I have an Old Testament reading, a New Testament reading, and then a reading of Psalms. Every U Three Reads. And nowhere for the Psalm reading Sometimes some years I will start at Psalm 1 and go all the way to 150 and we go back at the beginning. Lately I've been reading the psalm that we're singing out of us. Out of the salt. So that way I read that every single day before And get really cheap. So these are just examples. Like I said, there's a uh out of the different scripture where you find out varies between Google and both of the wow. But these are just some value where So no matter how you end up doing it, I promise that you will be encouraged and strengthened and refreshed the more and more it is of course. For prayer, it is quite simple. Ask God for understanding when you read His Word. Ask God to illuminate His Word as you read it. Ask God to intermediate for your friends and family. Ask God to intermede for brothers and sisters in the church. Ask God to strengthen your pastors and ruling elders and deacons. So to go about the work of connections. Ask God to grow his church, expand his kingdom, to bring more people to us up. You could choose a psalm on the psalm of it, grave back to God. Ask it again for the same things the psalm is past, God grew it away Think about this. When you prep, you are going directly to the throne of the key to ask him for something personal. You're going directly freely, boldly, to his brown to ask him where you want. Think of how hard your metal is. We've been talking in the Sunday school class on Volk of Esther about how every time someone could go before the king or King Xerxes. They had to come into his presence and Xerxes had to hold out his golden scepter to a black rat Percy as a sign of allowing that person to do his presence. Well you don't have to do that. You go straight to the can The writer of Hebrews says, let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace. that we may receive mercy and fight grace to health if I may ye. Brothers and sisters, when you pray, when you read the scripture and when you pray, you are aligning your hearts and minds for that trust. You are reading and learning about God's plan for his people with Greek planetics. The more you read The word. Study more and it pray. The more you will learn the mind and heart of Yah, and the more you will be content with your Lanimaks. God will sanctify you through them. Let us look now at this static part of that answer for the Western Scripture Academy Curve and 147, desiring the good of your neighbor. Douglas Stewart writes that God calls people to take an approach to their neighbors that respects them in their possessions. But what did that look like traffic? So earlier this past meet, Astra Heron and I through the Begospel Reformation Network National Conference Corbaldale, and on the last day of the conference that we will handle the session. One of the ministers on the panel was answering a question about friendship in Ministri and use the example of the football team He said that when the team captain scores a winning custom from the game, the entire team runs out on the field to Seliker. He meant they don't sit back on sidelines jealous that they should have been the ones, wishing that they should have been the ones to score the running thus down. Seeking the good of your neighbor is similar. It is seeing others and more important than yourself. You may remember the passage in Matthew 22, 34 40. It says this. But when Varaces heard that he had silos the sag, they gathered the And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question of Sester, Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? He said to me, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, you will fill your soul with all your mouth. This is the great and first commandment. And a second and like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all law and prophets. This passage is considered to be the summary of the law, in particular the summary of the first and second tables of the law, or ten commandments. The summary of the second table of the law or the fifth or tenth commandment is loving your neighbor and as yourselves. If you were to love your neighbor as yourself in regards to the tenth commandment, what would that look like? Think about this. Would you want someone envying you or desiring what you have? Or desiring your spouse? Or your house, where you are, or the job. You stay at you, but it's like you want people to desire your doing and your success and your prosperity John Calvin writes that we are commanded not for real anything except for his break if you please he's the god There are many other scripture passages about seeking the good of your neighbor, such as 1 Corinthians 10, 24. Let no one seek his own good but the good of Adiva. Well Philippians 2. 4. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. These are the dowe's commandments, in the tense commandments. By way of recapitation here, I'd like to encourage you to seek the Guda Bamindeva. Encourage the people around. Briefer. Be willing to assist in working towards their good. Do not be envious of a friend that he is successful, but rather simple Be ready and willing to help your friend as well. As we close here as eeping, I'd like to leave you with encouragement to flee from the sin of Kal. Because from that sin rose all manner of lust, except and enemy. When you begin to experience the temptation to God of Fleeve her. Put it from your mind. And recall scripture to mind who's dead. Put it out of your mind and remember God's providential good blessings for your election. Lord , thank you, Father, for as you say in James chapter one, giving us every gift, everything we have of this furni. Father, I pray that you grow in us a newfound satisfaction, content, true content. Not materially, not physically, but true spiritual content. Lord, grow that in our hearts. Give us a renewed, refreshed understanding today if we're full. Lord, keep us free from sin and temptation. Give us the strength to flee from sin and to not embrace it in a loud royal walk. Sandmiwapra