If you uh have your Bibles, I would invite you to turn in them to John, the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verses 1 through 18, and if you are physically able to stand for the reading of God's holy word. John chapter 1, verses 1 through 18. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him. Yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him and cried out, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God, you may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you once again. We are thankful, Lord, for the gift of your word, the gift of your Son. And Lord, as we delve into this passage, which for many of us is very familiar. For some of us, if it's not as familiar, that's okay. Lord, we pray that one way or another you would open our eyes to see and to value and to treasure your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, above all else this morning Lord, we pray that your Holy Spirit would use your word to transform us, O Lord, from the inside out. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well there was a time in my younger years, it was probably somewhere in my teen years, that I think Christmas lost some of its excitement, some of its importance in my own eyes. You know, being raised in the church, and maybe some of you can really resonate with this. Being raised in a Christian family, going to church every Sunday. I had heard the Christmas story. I've heard of the birth of Christ. and celebrated it year after year and we did this so much that I came to not see it as that special anymore That's a temptation that I think many of us tend to wrestle with. It becomes too familiar, becomes too mundane. And sadly, it can become too commercial, at least living here in the United States. Maybe you've come to feel that way too as you sit here this morning. But the Gospel of John, as I read the prologue, I read the whole prologue, we're not going to focus on the whole prologue, but the whole thing is aimed to recapture some of that awe and that wonder by pulling back the veil of the historical drama of Christmas, for us to see the majesty and the significance of what God was doing at Christmas time from a heavenly perspective. In fact, for our purpose this Advent season, the main idea that the Apostle John contributes in his prologue here is this. The Christmas story finds its significance in the eternal nature of the Son of God and his incarnation that reveals the Father Himself. Now if you're here this morning and you're visiting with us, or you're not here that often because you're visiting again, you can look on page 4 of your bulletin and you'll see that idea printed out for you. But I think that's the point of John this morning. The Christmas story finds its significance in the eternal nature of the Son of God and in his historical incarnation. that reveals the Father Himself. Now notice I broke that into two kind of subheads, two ideas. I'm not going to cover the whole prologue this morning, verse by verse. I'm really going to focus on verses 1 through 5 for our first point And then verses 14 to 18 for our second point this morning. And I want to draw your attention to verses 1 through 5. We see the main point here is the eternal nature of the word. The Word. We see in verses 1 through 2 the Word as eternal. Take a look at those two verses again in how this book begins. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God, period. Now what's really interesting here is when you look at verse 1, it divides very conveniently into three little sections there. Each clause is its own section. And in that you really see the story of Christmas and its significance unfold, not first and foremost in the historical drama. of the birth of Christ as a child born of the virgin, you see the significance rooted in eternity. Look at verse look at the first clause there. In the beginning was the word Now it doesn't take a genius. Just to draw your attention to the fact that when it says in the beginning, this points us back to Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. If you remember, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And what's really fascinating here is you you see these technicalities in the Greek language, which the New Testament was written a lot more specifically than you do in English, but in the beginning, it's very clear he's talking about the beginning of time. Because prior to the beginning, time did not exist, logically and by definition. Now, what is really fascinating here is when he says in the beginning was the word, the word was that he uses here in Greek is in the imperfect tense. Now some of you, I don't mean to get too technical with the grammar, but some of you who maybe have taken high school Spanish, for instance, know that there is a difference in the how you describe the past tense You could say, for example, he walked somewhere from point A to point B, and you're really just focusing on the completed action. He walked, it's over, it's done. Or you could say he was walking, highlighting the continual nature in the past tense. What's really interesting here is the way John writes this is designed to create this awe of Christ's majesty and his eternal nature. Because at the beginning That point in time at which there was no previous time, Christ was already existing in some past tense form. Now, if you're sitting there thinking to yourself, that's like a logical punch to the brain, you're right. It really defies human language and human concepts And what what John is really trying to get us to see is that Christ, the second person of the Trinity, the Word Existed outside of time before time existed And he calls them the word here. One commentator, Robert Mounts, writes this about that term, the word. Which is the Greek word Logos. As far as Heraclitus in the 5th century BC, the Logos was understood to be the unifying principle of all things. For the Sophists, one group of Greek philosophers, the Lagos was predominantly human reason. Philo, a prolific writer and leading citizen of the Jewish community in Alexandria, which was Egypt, used the term more than 1300 times as a mediating figure linking the transcendent God and the world. In Greek speculation, they viewed the Lagos as the principle of reason or order in the world. Now that's a pretty broad concept there. We can't really necessarily limit the way John's using it to one of those in this particular passage. Because as we'll see, the biblical idea of the word carries far more weight, far more glory, and stretches the concept beyond what the Greeks in all of their wisdom and understanding could possibly grasp. So how does John do that? Well, look at what he writes secondly in verse 1. And the word was with God Again, the imperfect tense is used. I'm not going to elaborate that. But the whole point here is that the word was face to face with God. And when it mentions God here, we're talking about the Father. And so what this entails here is the word being face to face with God is in relationship with God. And if the word is in relationship with God , the Father, then the word is personal and eternal in nature. Think about how that stretches and goes beyond the concept of the Greeks and all of their wisdom and understanding. This quote-unquote unifying principle, this human reason, this organizing rational principle, as they called it, is really just impersonal. It's cold. And because it's impersonal, it really doesn't have any definition or real meaning. This is why you have the discipline of philosophy. One one of my professors I remember saying, you know, you have Plato, and then everything after Plato in philosophy is just a footnote on Plato. Because you can read philosophers and they speculate about everything and come to no real conclusion that has any real tangible meaning for real life as we know it. Why? Because everything is rooted in something that's impersonal. But the word here is personal, relational, and eternal. And because of that, he concludes verse 1 by saying, and the word was God. This highlights the fact that the word by nature is fully divine or fully God. And because of that, he summarizes in verse 2 all of everything he just said in verse 1, he was in the beginning with God. It just brings it full circle. But because he's in the beginning with God, we don't just see that the word is eternal. We see in verse 3 that the word is also the creator. Look at the significance of how verse 3 unpacks verses 1 and 2. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. You could translate that word made to came to be in verse 3. It's used three different times in that third verse. And the whole point is very simple. The word is the instrument or the agent through whom all things in creation were made. Again, you go back to Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1, verse 3, verse 6, verse 9, verse 11, verse 14, verse 20, verse 24, the phrase is repeated over and over again, and God But said And then he created something, right? And God said. The Apostle Paul essentially picks up the same theme in Colossians 1. 16 through 17, he writes this, for by him, he's talking about Christ there, all things were created in heaven and on earth. Visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. He is before all things, talking about his rank And in him all things hold together. Think about that for just a moment. Everything that you know about your life, relationships, your family, your physical house, the car you drive. The very ground you walk on, the air that you breathe, everything about that is held together by Christ. The word as creator. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3 again highlights something very similar. He, being Christ, is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, fully God. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. So we see that the word is eternal, the word is creator, but the word is also life and light in verses four and five. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines and the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Hmm. This is such an interesting statement about life here. Again, Greek has two different words for life. in it and one of them is actually a name that we have in our society. It's the name Zoe. Right? You may have heard somebody named Zoe or met someone named Zoe. Well that name means life. The other Greek word, and you're probably very familiar with this, is the Greek word bios, which is where we get our word biology from. Right? Two different forms. The Zoe really highlights the supernatural nature and origin of life. And that that's what John uses here. And what he's saying here by calling the word life And light of men means that every one of us, believe it or not, whether believer or not, owes our very lives to the word who sustains us every moment of the day. And you should understand the importance of that distinction in those two kinds of life because look, there is there's there is obviously a biological life that we know and we can measure scientifically, but then there's there's an aspect of life that you really can't measure. What is it about somebody when they pass away? If you've ever been in the presence of someone who has died and You see them go through that process. There's a point in which they're there, and then there's a point in which they are not there any longer. What is it that is about them that leaves? Well, it's this idea of Zoe. And Christ is the source of the life that is sustained within us every moment of the day. And then in verse 5, you see kind of this almost contrastive statement here that kind of gives a background here. He mentions, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. What an important background for understanding the meaning of, say, the star that outshone all the other stars in the sky in Matthew chapter 2. Which happened actually two years after the birth of Christ when the Magi came following the light in the sky What an important background for the fact that the shepherds, when Christ was born, had the glory of God shining around them at night when they received the news about the birth of Jesus Christ. What a background for what Jesus says in John chapter 8, verse 12, John chapter 9, verses 4 and 5, and John chapter 12, verse 46, when he says, I am the light of the world. Notice what he says here in verse 5. The culmination of this is that the darkness cannot overcome the light. The darkness can't seize the light. The darkness can't gain control of the light. And the darkness cannot understand the light. One author wrote something really kind of interesting, and I put this in my notes here. He kind of says this is almost the summary of the gospel right from the beginning. Well, what is the gospel? The light, Christ, invades the realm of darkness, this sinful world. Two, Satan and his subjects resist the light, but are unable to thwart its power. And three, the light, Christ, is victorious in spite of the opposition. And boy, did he face opposition, didn't he? He went to the cross. That is where this gospel is going Where he was put to death. He was resisted and opposed by not just the Jewish religious leaders, but also the Romans, Jew and Gentile alike. crucified him and yet at the end of the story he does not stay dead. He rises again from the dead. And so the question I want to ask you is, how does this affect the way we understand the story and the drama of Christmas this year? I mean that that is what we're celebrating this morning. This is the fourth uh at uh Sunday of Advent. What is this? How does this affect us in the way we understand Christmas? Well, this causes us to stand back in awe and wonder this Christmas at the eternal magnitude of who Jesus is. We need to respond, brothers and sisters, with awe to Christ this Christmas. The reason that John writes what he does under inspiration is to inspire this awe and this wonder. Because it's so easy to miss when you hear the story, and it is a beautiful story. It's told in Matthew and Luke about a baby that is born of a virgin in Bethlehem, and you think of the baby lying in the manger, it is very easy. to miss the magnitude of who that child was. But when we see the eternal nature of the Son of God , It draws us deeper into worship because we realize that we will never exhaustively understand the fullness of Christ. You will never understand it exhaustively. I mean the Apostle Paul says in Corinthians, not Corinthians, I'm sorry, Colossians chapter 2, that in him dwells all the fullness of deity in bodily form. Wrap your mind around that. I don't care how academic or intellectual you are, you will never grasp the totality of that. And you will always have something that you will uncover if you meditate on that your whole life And it's important because when we understand who Jesus really is, it gives us a really profound and eternal reason to celebrate this morning. Jesus is not, brothers and sisters, just some prophet like Muslims claim. Jesus is not just some divine emanation who is God's first creation Where he didn't exist and then he came to exist at some point in time, as Jehovah's Witnesses claim, he is the eternal Son of God. And it's something we need to remind ourselves this Christmas. We tend to celebrate Christmas at a certain time of the year. We call Advent, and we celebrate the birth, and we limit it to that, but the scriptures don't. The scriptures actually root his birth in eternity and its significance. And the second thing I want to draw your attention to, by the way, of application, is the victory of the light. Why is that important? Well, because when you look at the world around us, I mean, look at just the last several years. Right? You've had COVID, you've had all kinds of political upheaval and turmoil. You've had, we're in the middle of a moral revolution. um where good is being called evil and evil is being called good. It's so easy to look at the bleakness of society and feel despair because the world just seems to be falling to pots. And why is the world falling into place the way that it is? Why are the chips falling where they are? Because we see the world suppressing the truth of God in unrighteousness. Think about Romans chapter 1, verse 18, a description not just of our society, but a description of all human society. What's the problem? People have a knowledge of God and they suppress its truth and unrighteousness. But we have the promise this morning that the darkness cannot overcome the light of Christ. And that should encourage us this Christmas season as we think and we pray for the hearts of people around us who are lost, who don't know Christ in a personal, saving way. We can be confident that because they're made in the image of God and because Christ is the light of men, even in a general sense, They are not beyond the reach of Jesus Christ, who is our Lord and Savior. And it is it is the image of God that is in them that we can appeal to when we share the hope and the beauty of God in Christ and we call people to faith in Him and repentance for their sin. And that leads us to our second point this morning in verses 14 through 18, the entrance of the word into the world. It's not just that the word is eternal and exists outside of time. some you know pie in the sky way? No, the entrance of the word came into the world. Verses 14 through 18 Now again, for the sake of time and for the sake of our focus on Advent this morning, I'm only going to focus on verses 14 and 18. I want you to look at verse 14. This is the word who is eternal. Verse 14, became flesh and dwelt among us. Now the importance of that cannot be overstated. Why? Because we saw in verses 1 through 5 that the word existed eternally with the Father in eternity past. But now the verb changes. It's not was, now it's he became. And the word flesh here is a reference not just to physical to the physical body. Now that's true, he did become a physical human being. But it implies the entire human nature Why is that important? Well, if you sat through our Sunday school class in church history that Peter taught this uh This past couple weeks, you know that there's been all kinds of debates about this, and I won't go into all those details, but the idea of Christ taking on human nature and its importance is so that he can save all of us. Isn't that just the reality of life? You can look around you and you can see the proof of it every day. Look in your own heart, you see the proof of it. That every bit of our human nature is fallen. Our mind, our affections, our thoughts, our desires, our actions, everything, our sexuality. Just look at society around us. There's nothing about us, our bodies. I mean, don't they fall apart as we get older? Everything about us is fallen. Why is it important that Christ become human in every respect so that he can redeem all of it? And what's really fascinating to me is when you talk about Christ being fully divine and fully human, this isn't like talking about somebody who is um You know, uh it comes from two different cultures, like me. I mean, my mother was American, my father was from Mexico. I am 50% Mexican and 50% American. I'm not a hundred percent either one, I'm half and half. But when you look at Christ, it's so different. It's not that he's half human and half divine. He is 100% divine and 100% human. Which really makes for a 200% being, doesn't it? Do the math on that one and explain it to me. I don't know. But that is what the scriptures are very clear about. And so this is, again, this is the Christmas gift that in Christ that we're never going to be able to wrap our finite minds around But God is calling us to have some understanding and trust this Advent season in this person. And what's again more important for Christmas is don't miss the language when he says that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. That could be transitivity tabernacled. And again, you find here the principle of the incarnation. The body of Christ is the precise place in which the presence of God dwelt with men. Everything that the tabernacle, everything that the temple pointed forward to in the Old Testament is fulfilled in Christ, that is where God's presence dwelt in a special way. And I love the way verse 14 ends. We beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten Son, from the Father, full of grace and truth. Boy, I love that. Sometimes when people tell the truth, they don't do it with grace, right? And then you get people who are so gracious and and so bending that they never take their stand on the truth. Christ is the perfect blend of that. Because he's the only begotten son. Where would John have likely come to understand that? I was thinking about that when I was preparing this this week. Where would John have picked up on that and gained that insight? And the one thing I can think of from his experiences with Jesus would have been the Mount of Transfiguration. You remember that when his body was transfigured in front of them, his glory shone The glory cloud came and said, the voice of the Father said, This is my beloved Son. Listen to him. I think the special identity of Jesus as the Son of God does look a little different. From John's perspective, then say Matthew or Luke, not entirely different, but when he calls him the only son here, I actually prefer the way the old King James translates that, the only begotten. It's the idea that the Word was eternally begotten from the Father outside of time, and because that is true in eternity, he was born or begotten of the virgin within time and history. That leads to verse 18, which is a magnificent statement. No one has ever seen God, the only begotten God. Who is at the Father's side? He has made him known. Hmm. It is true to say that no one has ever seen God You can scale through the Old Testament. All the times when people said they've seen the Lord, the New Testament tends to interpret those things as referring to the fact that they had not seen the Father. But they had seen the sun. One example of that that I can think of is Isaiah chapter 6, when the prophet at the death of Uzziah goes into the temple and he has this magnificent vision. Of his calling. He sees the Lord seated on his throne in smoke filling the temple. Remember that? And the angels crying out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty. You can make the argument there, well, what about him? He saw God. Well, what does John say later in this gospel in John chapter 12? Verse 41, he tells us that the prophet was actually seeing the glory of the Son of God. Go back even further. Do you remember when Moses wanted to see God? Right after Israel sinned with the golden calf and God was going to wipe them out and Moses is pleading, don't do it. But then he says, look, God, if you're going to send me to lead these people through the wilderness for God for only you know how long Don't make me do this if you don't go with me. And the way that I want you to prove that you're going to go with me, as I deal with these people, they're stubborn and obstinate and sinful. Show me your glory. And the Lord did that. But even he didn't see God's face. But despite that, look what verse 18 says here. Well, it is certainly true that no one has ever seen God It goes on to say, the only begotten God, that's a reference to the Son, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. You know the strange thing about that phrase, he has made them known? It's the Greek word exegesita, and you're like, why are you telling me Greek? Well, because it sounds like the word exegesis, doesn't it? It's where we get the word exegesis from. And what does that mean? He interprets, he explains, he makes known, he makes plain who the Father is. And so what we see here is the incarnate word brings forth the heart of God in a profound revelation for both Jew and Greek. And I love that relational language, don't you? The begot only begotten God, the Son, who's in the bosom of the Father. He's the only one who has seen the Father and makes the Father known. Which is why right before he goes to the cross in the upper room in John 14, particularly John 14, verse 9, you might remember Philip says to him, Lord. Show us the Father, and it'll be enough for us. And Jesus looks at Philip and says, have I been with you now for all this time? And you don't you don't get it? Anyone who's seen me has seen the Father. I've made him known. And so again, we've looked at what the impact of Christ being eternal should have on us this Christmas. What should the impact of the incarnation be on us this Christmas? Well, I think the doctrine of the incarnation is meant to humble us by the eternally gracious heart of the Father who did not withhold his only begotten Son for our salvation. And so John again he pulls back and reveals the eternal drama of Christmas. He helps us to see the awe and wonder by pulling back that curtain. to see a glimpse of what he was doing in eternity by sending an eternal son born to a virgin in time. What's the point? The point is at a at a time of the year when we tend to focus on gifts and buying things and giving them to people and we tend to wonder what are we going to receive this Christmas? This is the greatest gift that you could receive this Christmas. And the question I want to ask you by again by way of application is when you get a gift, how do you value the worth of that gift? How do you value the worth of it? Do you value it by how much it cost? And I'm asking you personally, do you value it by how much it cost? Do you value it by its sentimental value? Do you value it by how useful it's going to be to you in your daily life? Do you value it by how beautiful it is? I want you to understand that any way you can think of trying to value Christ by human worldly standards like I just laid out for you is bound to fail. Christ will transcend every single one of those. This is what John is trying to get us to see. The Son. Jesus is the Son who shares glory with the Father, which makes him more beautiful than anything you can imagine. It doesn't matter what kind of beauty you're talking about. The beauty that comes in a woman, I'm saying that as a man, the beauty that comes in creation, like a sunset, or a work of art. There are beauty in those things. But understand that beauty finds its origin, its source. And its measure in who God is and how He reveals Himself in Christ. Or think about what I what I said. Do you value the value of a gift by what it costs? Understand that you cannot value monetarily something that is eternal. This is why the Apostle Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 1, you were not redeemed by perishable things like gold or silver. As if to kind of make it sound like those things are cheap. But you were redeemed by the imperishable blood of the Son of God. You cannot value that. Jesus is the eternal Son of the Father and therefore the apple of the Father's eye. He's worth more than you can possibly value him as. And as the gift from the Father, that's the gift that was meant to be received this Christmas. And what's so important? It reveals the heart of the Father. I read it earlier when we lit the candle, which signifies love this week. From 1 John 4, 7 through 11. If you want something to do this week, like a doing kind of application, spend time reading, thinking, and meditating on that passage. which is the love of God the Father in sending his son to be the propitiation for your sins. How does that demonstrate the love of God? The fact that you are a sinner. The fact that without Christ you deserve to go to hell. That's a strong statement. None of us stands righteous in this room on their own two feet. But what a gift. That the heart of the Father did not want to just send people to hell. Think about what he says to Ezekiel, the prophet Ezekiel in chapter 3, and again in chapter 33. I take no delight in the destruction of the wicked. But I would that they would turn from their sin and live. Brothers and sisters, he accomplished that in sending his son, which we celebrate at Christmas time. It 's more than just a cute little story that you tell the children about a baby in a manger. It is that, but it's much more. The Christmas story finds a significance in the eternal nature of the Son of God and in his incarnation that reveals the heart of the Father for you. Himself. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning thankful for the gift of the Son. Lord, having just worked through part of that passage this morning, Lord, we have to acknowledge that there is no one sermon that could do an entire entire justice. to what you've revealed in that passage. But Lord, we pray that you would impress upon our hearts this morning the eternal nature and value of your Son. And the importance that the word became flesh. As Jared read in our assurance of pardon earlier, He had to be made like us in every respect so that Lord, as you know, when we are tempted, we can run to Him and He will redeem us. From the sin that so easily ensnares us. Lord, we just pray that you would again change us, transform us this Christmas to not take Jesus For granted, but to treasure him and value him above all else. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.