Rise for our scripture reading for the sermon this morning. It's taken from Galatians chapter 3, verses 15 to 29. Hear now the word of God. To give a human example, brothers, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the promises were made to Abraham, to his offspring. It does not say, and to offsprings, referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring, who is Christ. This is what I mean. The law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to make the promise void. For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise. But God gave it to Abraham by a promise. Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise has been made. And it was put in place through angels by an intermediary. Now, an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise. This is the word of God. Please be seated. It truly is wonderful to be before you today on this Lord's Day opening the scriptures. Let us pray together. Father, once again I pray for ears to hear and hearts to understand and relish your gospel and your scriptures here this morning. Lord, continue to give me strength as I deliver this word and once again give ears to hear and hearts to understand. In your son's name we pray. Amen. As you heard a minute ago, today's sermon passage is Galatians 3, verses 15 to 29. I would like to give a little bit of context around the passage first before we begin dissecting it. Galatia, which is the region where Paul sent this letter, was a Roman province in the center of Asia Minor, which is in modern-day Turkey. In Galatia, there was a group called the Judaizers, who were Jewish Christians trying to require Greek Christians to follow the Jewish Old Testament law, in particular circumcision. These Judaizers were attempting to blend Christian teaching with Jewish law. Now it's unclear from history if these Judaizers were actually members of the church in Galatia. or if they were simply false teachers from outside the church who were influencing the members in the church, such as the false teachers did in Acts 15. What is clear, however, is that the Christians in the Galatian church had begun believing this false teaching. And it was serious enough of an issue that Paul had to write them a letter to address it. At the beginning of Galatians, Paul gives a customary greeting, similar to his greetings in other New Testament epistles. But in Galatians 1 verse 6, Paul addresses the Galatian church in what seems to be a harsh fashion. In Paul's other epistles throughout the New Testament, he thanks God for the recipient's faith. He thanks God for their fellowship. He thanks God for their spiritual gifts But in Galatians 1, 6 and 7, he says, I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. Can you imagine hearing that from a pastor or one of the elders, much less from an apostle, hearing that spoken to you? Paul continues on in chapter one with a stern warning to the Galatians in verses eight and nine. He says, But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. And Paul really opens this Galatian letter, just laying all his cards out on the table, doesn't he? He begins with this proposal that the church has been deceived by a false gospel, and he spends the rest of the letter speaking and writing against it. In the rest of chapter one, in the beginning of chapter two, Paul reminds the Galatians of his own calling as an apostle and how he was accepted by the other apostles in Jerusalem. Then at the end of Galatians 2, Paul recounts his confrontation with Peter in Antioch. If you remember that passage, Peter had been eating with the Gentile Christians. But when the circumcision party arrived in Antioch, again the Judaizers, Paul began avoiding his Gentile Christian brothers and sisters, and began eating only with the Jewish Christians. Paul confronted Peter because he had fallen back on the law and because of the division he was causing within the church. And here in this letter, like building a house, Paul builds a theological and practical argument for justification by faith alone in Christ alone. In chapters 1 and 2, he pours the foundation of the house. In chapters 3 and 4, he frames out the walls and adds the roof trusses. And in chapters 5 and 6, he adds the insulation, the siding, and the shingles to the outside of the house, rounding out his treatise with practical application for Christian living in light of this justification by Christ. In today's passage, we find ourselves right in the middle of Paul's framing out the walls and the roof. He's adding meat to the bones of his argument, if you will. The church in Galatia have been tempted to bind themselves under works once again, even though they knew that would never save them. And likewise today we still experience the same temptation. This leads us into the main point for today's sermon, which you will see printed in your bulletin. You are no longer bound by the law, and instead you can know that the covenant of grace is supreme. the purpose of the Mosaic Law, and that you are justified by Christ alone. I'll say that again. You are no longer bound by the law, and instead you can know that the covenant of grace is supreme the purpose of the Mosaic Law, and that you are justified by Christ alone. Let's begin by looking at point number one. The covenant of grace is supreme, and we see this in verses 15 rather to eighteen. Paul opens this passage with an address directly to the Christians in the Galatian church. Brothers. he calls them. At the beginning of chapter 3, Paul calls them foolish Galatians, but here he calls them brothers. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, Proverbs twenty-seven, six. Paul may have called them foolish, and indeed they were fools. But they were still his brothers and sisters in Christ. Paul wrote this letter to them because he was concerned for them, for the health of the church, and for the glory of Christ. This is iron sharpening iron, like we see in Proverbs 27. This is Paul as an apostle of Christ exercising his apostolic authority and correcting wayward brothers and sisters. Have you ever had a faithful brother or sister say something hard to you? I certainly hope you have. Christ has built his church to bring glory to himself, to edify and sanctify and perfect the saints and to build the kingdom. And this is exactly what Paul is doing in this letter to the Galatian church. In verse 15, Paul goes on to say, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. This sort of forms the basis or the foundation for his argument here in this passage. Most of you know that Pastor Aaron is preaching through the book of Genesis, as he has been for most of this year. If you remember back to Genesis 15 and a covenant promise to Abraham, God promised that Abraham's offspring would be as numerous as the stars of heaven. If you remember to Genesis 17 with the sign and seal of circumcision, you'll remember that the promise was made once again to Abraham and to his offspring. And finally, if you remember Genesis 22, the passage where Abraham took Isaac up onto the mountain to sacrifice him. You'll also remember how God told Abraham that through his offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. These are certainly gracious promises to Abraham and to his offspring, are they not? But when the Mosaic Law comes in Exodus 20, It may seem as though a bit of legalism is entering the mix. Did the delivery of the Mosaic law somehow undermine the covenant of grace which God made with Abraham? Certainly not. And Paul is arguing here in this passage that the covenant of grace given to Abraham is still in effect. It was not nullified with the coming of the law to Moses 400 years later. Paul mentions here that no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. He's speaking of a covenant. There is some speculation amongst scholars as to what exactly Paul is referencing here. Some believe he may be referring to Roman law. While others may be uh believe he may be writing of common uh Greek common law or even Jewish inheritance law. It's not entirely clear. But of these three things, Greek common law seems to make the most sense. In their common law at the time in the Greek culture, there was a stipulation that when a will or a covenant or some type of agreement between two parties was ratified, it was sealed and sent to the government office, and it was recorded, it could not be changed once that happened. It was permanent record at that point. Paul is arguing here that even with a man-made covenant, it cannot be changed or ratified once it is written in the book of the law. That covenant is binding. So if this is true for a man-made covenant, how much more true is this for a God -made covenant? In verse 16, Paul goes on to say, Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say and to his offsprings, referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring, who is Christ. Pastor Aaron made important points earlier in his Genesis sermon series about the word seed and offspring, which we see multiple times throughout the book of Genesis. The covenant promise was given to Abraham and his offspring after him. If you remember, Abraham was the covenant head or the federal representative of this covenant of grace. Here in Galatians 3, Paul is pointing out that the word offspring used in the covenant passages with Abraham was a word in the singular, not in the plural. It is off-spring and not off-springs. I know that's not proper English, but that's what it says here. Paul then points out that the singular offspring of Abraham is none other than Jesus Christ himself. If you were to look at the Hebrew text of the passages in Genesis, the word offspring is the Hebrew word zared and is indeed written in the singular and not the plural. The same Hebrew word is used in Genesis 3. 15, when God says that the offspring or the seed will bruise Satan's head. That same Hebrew word is used once again in 2 Samuel 7 and 1 Chronicles 17, when God makes his covenant with David. He promises to raise up David's offspring after him and establish his throne forever. Paul is arguing here that all of these references to offspring were referencing a singular person. He is saying that these are all pointing to Christ as their fulfillment. We are no longer waiting for the covenant to be fulfilled. We do not have to work ourselves to fulfill it because it has been perfectly fulfilled in the life, the death, and the resurrection of Christ. In verses 17 and 18, Paul goat Paul goes on to say, This is what I mean The law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God so as to make the promise void. For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise, but God gave it to Abraham by a promise. Paul is once again going back to his earlier argument about the Mosaic Law not erasing the covenant of grace made with Abraham. But here Paul is fleshing out this idea just a bit more. The commentator Timothy George notes that the Judaizers were focusing upon the law given to Moses at Sinai rather than focusing upon the gracious covenant promised to Abraham 400 years earlier. They were, you could say, missing the forest for the trees. Paul reminds the Galatians that the previous covenant with Abraham was not erased simply because God delivered law to Moses at Sinai. Paul's comment in verse 18 here is sort of interesting and it kind of closes out this first section of the passage. Paul points out that if the inheritance were to come by the keeping of the law, then it is no longer a promise, because it depends upon your own keeping of the law. An inheritance is not a promise if you have to do something to attain it. But God gave it to Abraham by a promise, meaning that this inheritance will be given to God's people freely. It will not depend upon their own efforts. Instead, it depends solely upon God's efforts. Right now, I ask you to be honest with yourselves for a moment. How many of you think deep down that you can be just a little bit better of a Christian if you just try a little bit harder? Which one of you think that if you just read your Bible a little more throughout the week, stop cursing at work so much? Stop watching porn, stop being so angry with your children? That you'll just be just a little bit better than the person sitting next to you in the pew. You cannot earn your salvation by doing it on your own. Beloved, do not chain yourselves to the works of the law when you have already been freed by Christ. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, Romans 3. Every one of you in this church, myself included, are sinners in the sight of God. You've broken the law, you failed to trust in God's promises, and you have tried and tried to make it on your own. Man's natural tendency, your natural tendency, and my natural tendency, is to chain yourselves in a dungeon of a works-based salvation. rather than resting in the palace of God's grace. Brothers and sisters, do not be deceived. You cannot earn your salvation. I just read Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But what does the next verse say? and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. This redemption is the promise that came to Abraham. And it is a most gracious gift from God. And that, beloved, is the good news of the gospel, is it not? This takes us into point two. The purpose of the Mosaic Law. And we see this in verses 19 to 24. If you were to look at this passage as a whole, there is a logical progression to Paul's argument, as he does in all of his epistles in the New Testament. He spends the first paragraph of the passage pointing out that the inheritance was given to Abraham by promise and not by works of the law, by grace and not by works. In this section, Paul is saying, well, if that was the case, then what is the purpose of the law? Why was it sent if that's not what saves us? Paul begins verse 19 and 20 by asking, why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made. And it was put in place through angels by an intermediary. Now, an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. Paul is asking this rhetorical question. If the law was not designed to save or bring salvation, then what was the point? Paul writes elsewhere in Romans 5, 20 to 21, he says, Now the law came in to increase the trespass. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. One of the purposes of the law is to show our sin. John Calvin the Reformer in his Institutes of the Christian Religion writes of three uses for the law. I'll talk about two of them today and leave out the third. Calvin first wrote that the law accuses us of our sin. It shows us our sin and thereby drives us to seek grace from God. You may hear other theologians or pastors refer to this as the law as a mirror. It mirrors back our own sin and fallenness to ourselves. God's law in all its prom or perfection and holiness delivered to Moses at Sinai was not designed to make you feel good about yourself. Instead, it was designed to expose the most heinous of sins residing in the depths of our hearts. Go and read the law in Exodus 20 to 24. Go read the law in Leviticus or in Deuteronomy. Do you think you can keep all of those commandments? Do you think you can keep the civil or ceremonial commandments in Leviticus and Deuteronomy, or the moral law and the Ten Commandments in Exodus? If you think you can, let me disabuse you of that notion by pointing you to Matthew 5. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches that if you have hatred in your heart towards your brother or anyone , Not just your brother, but any human, you have committed murder in the sight of the Lord. If you have looked at another man or woman with lust in your heart, you have committed adultery in the sight of the Lord. The law came to expose the sin which our hearts so desperately desire, not just the sin in our actions. The law stands as an accuser. It points out that every intention of the thought of man's heart was only evil continually. Genesis 6. 5. Have you ever had a teacher or a coach who was constantly writing you about everything you did wrong? Or maybe it was a parent when you were grown up, or a boss at work Most of you know I served some time in the Marine Corps years ago. When I went to recruit training at Paris Island, the drill instructors were absolutely relentless. They were constantly pressing us day in and day out, every waking minute, not giving us a moment of peace from any mistake or transgression. Obviously the drill instructors did not have the goal of driving us to Christ. That was not their purpose. Probably probably far from it, actually. But rather their purpose was to break us down and mold us into Marines. That was the point. Some of you in this church were in the military and you know what I'm talking about It's not entirely the same, but in a somewhat similar fashion. The law of God exposes what we've done. It exposes our sin and depravity. But where the law differs from the drill instructors Is that the law makes plain our need for a savior, showing our need to be molded and sanctified and changed. For the Christian, the law drives us to seek grace from God Calvin writes the second use of the law as a restraint against evil and sin, a control in a society against wrongdoing. Think of the Ten Commandments. This is a table of the moral law of God. It's full of shall not commands, which make up a code of morality. There's punishments listed later on in the law for breaking those. This is what verse 19 of our passage is speaking of, when it says that the law was added because of transgressions. Based upon these first two uses of the law, of which Calvin wrote, we see that Paul is arguing that God enacted the law to make sin plain and obvious. To restrain the evil of men in the world and to show our need for a savior. When God gave the law to Moses in Exodus, it increased the transgression. It increased the sin committed by Israel Paul argues this in Romans 7, when he writes, What then shall we say that the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, You shall not covet. We would not know what sin was a part. from the law of God. This law was delivered to make plain our sin and to show that we need a savior and to restrain the evil of sinful men in the meantime. Paul goes on to explain in the rest of verse 19 of our passage that the law was given until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made. If you remember back to the first part of this passage, you'll remember that the offspring of which Paul writes is Christ. Paul is reminding us that the point of the law is to point us forward to Jesus. J. V. Fesco writes that the law had the purpose of driving Israel to the one in whom the promise of redemption would be fulfilled. The entire law, all of the covenants, the prophets, the kings, all of the Old Testament serve the purpose of pointing us forward to Jesus Christ the Savior Now, what about this comment in verses 19 to 20? Seems a little odd. It says about how the law was put in place through angels by an intermediary. Now an intermediary implies more than one. Seems like a bit of a strange comment. What do you think that means here? If you remember Exodus 19, when Moses was on Sinai receiving the law for the first time, you'll remember that the mountain was surrounded by thunder. By lightning, by clouds, and fire. There was a belief in Jewish tradition at the time that these things were caused, this lightning and thunder and fire, were caused by an army of angels. which had descended upon the mountain along with God. The Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, holds to this in its translation of Deuteronomy 33. 2. in Psalm 68. 18. We also see this repeated in the New Testament in Acts 7. 38 and Hebrews 2. 2 and here in our passage. Clearly, Paul believed that in this interpretation as he's referencing it in our passage. And if we know that all scripture is breathed out by God, 2 Timothy 3. Then we know that this we can confidently know that this belief about the angels on Sinai is true. When Paul repeats this belief here, he does so to prove the point. That the promise delivered to Abraham was delivered only by God himself, whereas the law delivered to Moses was delivered by both God and the angels. So you're making this point to prove that the covenant of grace is superior to the law because it was delivered by God alone. Paul then goes on in verse 21 to ask another rhetorical question. Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? The answer is certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law Paul has already been showing the purpose of the law throughout this passage. And here he's asking if the law is somehow opposed to the gracious covenants. Paul is saying here that if you could be justified by obeying the law, you would have done so already. Or someone else would have done so already. But clearly we know this is not possible It is impossible to be justified as saved by works of the law In verses 22 to 24, Paul goes on to say, But the scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now, before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified. By faith. Paul is arguing here that the law was also given, another purpose of it, was given to hold the people of God until the coming of the Messiah. He writes that the law was our guardian until the coming of Christ. It was never meant to save us. This word guardian is translated from the Greek word pedagogos. In the Greek culture and biblical times, a peta gogos was a sort of tutor who accompanied a child. This tutor would help raise the child, defend him, teach him manners and rules and things of the world. And act as somewhat of a surrogate parent. However, these tutors in this time period had a reputation for stern and violent discipline of their wards. These tutors served a distinct purpose of crafting a child into responsible men and women in the Greek and Roman culture Likewise, the law served a distinct purpose of crafting the men and women under its care. The law was never meant to give life because only Christ can do that. John Calvin, again, writing on the uses of the law, says that the law was to hold their minds in readiness until his coming, Christ's coming. even to kindle desire for him, and to strengthen their expectation in order that they might not grow faint by too long delay. For the non-Christian, the law crushes. It exposes their sin And their rejecting heart, and it shows the penalty of eternal death, and all it does is leave them gripped with terror. But for the Christian, for you, the law brings comfort. It is a comfort because when you read it, you know there's no possible way that you can keep it But you also know that there is one who has kept it perfectly for you in your place. The law is a comfort to the Christian because it reminds you of the work which Christ alone has carried out on your behalf. The law was given in Exodus 19 to hold everything in prison until the coming of the Messiah, to expose the sin of God's people, to prove to them they can never keep it, and to prove to you that you can never keep it. All of this, the point of it was to drive the people of God, to drive you to your knees at the foot of the cross in dependence upon Christ alone. Brothers and sisters, you are justified by faith in Christ and not by your own works. Amen? This takes us into point three. You are justified by Christ alone. We see this in verses 25 to 29. In the last section, we talked about some of the uses of the law and how the law was our guardian until Christ came. But verses 25 and 26 say, but now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith After the coming of Christ, we are no longer bound under the law, and instead we are free through faith Hebrews 10, 1-4 makes it clear that the law could never save anybody because the Old Testament sacrifices had to be repeated every day. But it also points out that there was one perfect, sufficient sacrifice, which justified all of God's people for all time. Christ's perfect life on earth, his perfect obedience to the law, his perfect death on the cross and taking the punishment for the elect, this accomplished salvation. You are no longer bound under the Pedagogos, the tutor, because you have been freed by Christ through faith Verse 26 says that you are sons of God through faith. You are not simply freed, but you are adopted. Just like the Israelites in Exodus were freed from slavery in Egypt and adopted as the people of God, so you are freed from the slavery of sin and adopted as a son or daughter of the king. Think for a moment about the imagery in verses 25 and 26 here. I mentioned the Peta Gogos or the Tudor earlier Here Paul draws a comparison between the tutor and the father. What is the difference between the paedagogos and a father Whereas the tutor was harsh, unforgiving, and perhaps violent, the father is loving, kind, forgiving, and gentle. Now this is not to say that fathers cannot be stern with their children, because it because there certainly are times and places for that. But a father nurtures his child in the way that a tutor does not. A father loves his child in the way a tutor does not. A father leads his child in the way a tutor does not. When you were saved, you were no longer under the care of the tutor because you were adopted as a child of God and you are now treated and loved as a child of God. This brings us to the crux, the focal point of Paul's argument here in this passage. Remember back to the beginning of the sermon when I mentioned the context around the epistle, how Paul wrote it to the Galatian church to directly address issues being taught by false teachers. These false teachers would have had Gentile Christians becoming circumcised and following the Old Testament laws and dietary laws. This would have, in effect, created different classes or groups of Christians. It would have divided the church into those who are Jewish by descent and those who are Gentile by descent. These false teachers were claiming that Gentiles could only truly be saved, truly Christian, by following these Old Testament regulations. And this was causing division. Within the church. It was not uniting them, it was dividing them. It was causing them to return to works of the law rather than a reliance upon God's grace. In verse 27, Paul says, For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. He's reminding his readers that they were baptized into Christ. They were baptized in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit When you were baptized either as a covenant child of Christian parents or as a new believer, you have the blessings of Christ and has salvation imputed to you, credited to your account. When you were baptized, you have put on Christ, to use Paul's words here. When you take the name Christian, you are taking the name of Christ. You are identified with him. You are not only joined with Christ, but you are joined with the invisible church throughout the ages. You are all one in Christ Jesus. In verse 28, Paul says, There was neither Jew nor Greek, there was neither slave nor free, there was no male and female, for you were all one in Christ Jesus. In today's culture, distinctions between gender and skin color and country of origin, these things have been elevated to become the chief identifying features of human existence. To the pagan world, your gender or your skin color is the most important identifying feature about you. But Paul is arguing here quite rightly that the most important thing about you is not those things, but rather it is your standing before a holy God. The pagan world's belief and identity is blatantly false. Who and what you were before becoming a Christian before being saved, before being baptized, no longer matters. What matters is your standing before God What matters is that you have put on Christ. You are a Christian. You are a new creation. I mentioned earlier I spent time in the Marine Corps. A common saying we were told in boot camp was that we were no longer white or black or Asian or Hispanic or wherever we came from because now we were green , signifying that you were a marine. The only color that mattered to us was that. And this held true in my experience in the Marine Corps as well. It didn't matter to any of us our race because instead we were united to a larger purpose. There was something outside of ourselves that was more important than where we came from. Those things did not divide us. And likewise, those things ought not to divide us in the church today When you fall back on skin color or ethnic or national identity or gender, you're being a poor witness to Christ When you rely upon those things, you are willingly yoking yourselves to the chains of slavery and works. But in reality, you've been clothed with a robe of grace. The Apostle Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 5, verses 16 and 17, he says, From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. Brothers and sisters, you are new creations in Christ, and you have been baptized into his name So what now is the implication of this? What is the practical application or outworking of this passage? What bearing does it have upon our lives to be baptized into and identified with Christ? Verse 29 of our passage gives us the answer. And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise. Earlier in this passage, we looked at how works of the law were insufficient, how they could never save us. In fact, the law was never designed to save anyone. But think about this for a moment. Verse 29 is precisely what both Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob failed to do at certain points of their life Abraham and Isaac both lied and said that their wives were their sisters to avoid being killed. Jacob deceived his father Isaac to receive the larger portion of the inheritance. All three of the patriarchs, instead of trusting in God's provision for the covenant to be fulfilled, they tried to do it on their own. They were not believing that they were truly offspring of the covenant. Pastor Aaron just preached on one of these incidents last week. Well, this does leave us with a few questions. One of which is, what do we inherit as Abraham's offspring and heirs? If we are of the offspring and heirs of Abraham, then we inherit the promises of the covenant of grace. These promises are eternal life, forgiveness for sins, adoption as sons and daughters of God. Christ does not simply leave you to wallow in your sin and loneliness. Instead, he grafts you into the vine of the covenant. He gives you gracious gifts and he redeems you. We're also left with another question. What is this faith by which we take hold of the covenant promises? Westminster Shorter Catechism, Question 86, asks this and gives us the answer. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace. whereby we receive and rest upon him alone for salvation, as he has offered to us in the gospel. To have faith in Christ means that you rest upon his promises and his finished work. Having faith in Christ means that you no longer have to work to try to save yourself. You are no longer bound by the strictures of the law because you have been freed by Christ. Romans 10, 4 tells us, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes You can have faith and belief in Jesus Christ because he has obeyed the law in your place. And you could take that to the bank all day, every day. If you are here today and you do not belong to Christ, I ask you, what are you waiting for? You will not find meaning or purpose in your life. You will not find life itself. You will not find forgiveness for the things that you have done apart from Jesus Christ. If you are here today and you're not a Christian, I call you to repent and throw yourself upon the cross. Believe in Jesus. This is the free offer of life that He holds out to you, that the church holds out to you. If you are here today and you're a believer, if you're my brother or sister in Christ, I plead with you to not willingly submit yourselves to the yoke, the chains, the bondage of slavery once again. Do not willingly bind yourselves to sin and your own works. Brothers and sisters, nothing you do will save you because you've already been saved. Remember the one who has made you free. Remember the one who has loosed your chains. Remember the one who's opened your eyes. Remember your Savior and hold fast to the grace which He pours out for you. I ask you once again to examine your hearts here today. What do you truly think about the justification of Christ? Does your heart love it or despise it? Do you ponder and pray about it or do you ignore it What things do you turn to in an attempt to find meaning in your life? Is it work and career advancement? Is it your kids travel sports on the Sabbath? Is it sex? Is it the gym and working out? What does your heart and your conscience desire above all things? Are the affections of your hearts drawn to the things of this world, the things that will rot and die and pass away? Or are the affections of your heart drawn to the things of the Lord, the things which are eternal and will never decay? Brothers and sisters, throw yourselves upon the grace of Christ. Throw yourselves upon the ordinary means of grace. Throw yourselves upon the scriptures. Throw yourselves upon the foot of the cross. Only in these places will you find salvation, mortification of your sin, and rest for your weary souls. Imagine for a moment a cell in a dungeon. This dungeon is below the surface of the earth. Windowless. Dark, damp, lined with cold stones. Filled with the filth and the stench of your own excrement, of your own attempts to make yourselves right with God. Your own attempts to find meaning and purpose of your life. You lie there, dirty, cold. Starving, with chains upon you, weighing heavy across your shoulders, restraining you, crushing you, blinding you, accusing you These are the chains of your own works, your own attempts to make yourself right with God. And this is where you were born in a pit of depravity and despair. Where before this is all you could see, now you see someone enter your dungeon cell. He removes the chains from your shoulders. He fills your eyes with light. He leads you out of the pit and into the palace of his grace. The Savior is Jesus Christ. Your Savior stands before you and he cries, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. No longer do you see your own filth. No longer do you sit in darkness. No longer are you bound by the chains of your own making. Because Christ has made all things new. He's cleansed you. He has redeemed you. He has removed the chains of works from your shoulders and replaced them with a white robe of grace. In Jesus Christ alone you will find the salvation. And that alone is the good news of the gospel, is it not? Let's pray. Lord, thank you, Father, for giving us your word in both the written form and in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that each of us here in this church today go forth from your Sabbath with a renewed sense and understanding and love and appreciation. of your day, your Sabbath day, and the salvation which you have wrought on our behalf. In the name of Jesus Christ alone I pray. Amen