Hey man, thank you, man. That was our MRS group. That's uh Men Roped Into Singing. But uh yeah the or the missus we call it. All right, thank you guys. Uh 1 Corinthians, uh sorry, 2nd Corinthians chapter 10. We're in 2 Corinthians You should know that by now. Second Corinthians chapter ten. And we'd like to read uh into chapter eleven, stopping at verse fifteen. Now, I, Paul, myself, am pleading with you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ who in presence am lowly among you, but being absent am bold toward you. But I beg you that when I am present, I may not be bold with that confidence by which I intend to be bold against some Who think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. And being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled Do you look at things according to the outward appearance? If anyone is convinced in himself that he is Christ, let him again consider this in himself. that just as he is Christ, even so we are Christ. For even if I should boast somewhat more about our authority, which the Lord gave us for edification and not for your destruction I shall not be ashamed, lest I seem to terrify you by letters. For his letters, they say, are weighty and powerful But his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible. Let such a person consider this That what we are in word by letters when we are absent, such we will also be indeed when we are present. For we dare not class ourselves or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves, but they, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise. We, however, will not boast beyond measure, but within the limits of the sphere which God has appointed us, a sphere which especially includes you. Well, we are not overextending ourselves as though our authority did not extend to you, for it was to you that we came with the gospel of Christ. Not boasting of things beyond measure, that is, in other men's labors, but having hope that as your faith has increased We shall be greatly enlarged by you in our sphere, to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's sphere of accomplishment. But he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. For not he who commends himself is approved, but whom the Lord commands. Oh, that you would bear with me a little, uh with me in a little folly. And indeed you do bear with me. For I am jealous for you with godly jealousy. For I have betrothed you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. But I fear, lest somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, so your minds may be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. For if he who comes preaches another Jesus whom we have not preached, or if you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you may well put up with it. For I consider that I am not at all inferior to the most eminent apostles, even though I am untrained in speech, yet I am not in knowledge. But we have been thoroughly manifested among you in all things. Did I commit sin in humbling myself that you might be exalted because I preached the gospel of God to you free of charge? I robbed other churches, taking wages from them, to minister to you. And when I was present with you and in need , I was a burden to no one. For what I lacked, the brethren who came from Macedonia supply. And in everything, I kept myself from being burdensome to you. And so I will keep myself. As the truth of Christ is in me, no one shall stop me from this boasting in the regions of Achaia. Why? Because I do not love you? God knows. But what I do, I will also continue to do that I might cut off the opportunity from those who desire an opportunity to be regarded just as we are in the things of which they boast. For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for Satan himself transforms himself into an angel of light. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also transform themselves into ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, we need your presence with us now as we open up your word. Speak to us. This is the very word of God. Heaven and earth shall pass away, Jesus said, but my word shall not pass away. Is not my word like a fire, saith the Lord? It's like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces? Use it today in hearts. Break rocks in pieces, we ask. In Christ's glorious name. Amen. As many of you know, one of the features of Christmas fellowships in our circles is that white elephant gift exchange. That's when everyone is asked to check out his closet shelf or the top drawer of his or her dresser for a little trinket that he could wrap up and give to someone else. Someone else might choose to open it and bring it home. Most of the time, of course, the gift that you choose at a place like that, at a fellowship like that, has no value except as a potential contribution to next year's Christmas uh white elephant gift time. But sometimes the gift is actually a decent gift, such as a box of chocolates, in which case uh Pat Tracy will somehow find a way to bring it home with her Well the point is you can't tell the value the value of a gift by the way it's wrapped. Uh the chocolate may be in a a brown paper bag and you know the uh uh battery operated tie rack, uh maybe wrapped up uh in beautiful paper, uh which and the tie rack that's destined for that top drawer. Well the Apostle Paul didn't come in fine wrapping The Apostle Paul didn't come in a way that some expected a mighty apostle to be. But in fact, neither did his Savior. As he drew to the close, what we call 2 Corinthians, Paul found it necessary to defend his apostleship, to defend his sent -by-godness. For after Paul planted the church in Corinth, some men came to them claiming to be apostles as well. And they were casting doubt upon his teaching Even questioning his apostleship. I mean, after all, he wasn't one of the original twelve, he's some one born out of due time. And they cast doubt upon everything Paul was teaching the Corinthians. They were critical of his preaching and teaching, and he frankly admits that it was not with excellence of speech, nor of man's wisdom. They said he was a weak man with a very strong pen. His letters are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is frankly contemptible. Well, Paul responded that if necessary, he could be as strong in presence as he appeared to be by letter in his absence. Some of those false apostles suggested that Paul was one who walked according to the flesh, perhaps because he didn't abide by the restrictions that the Judaizers imposed. Touch not, taste not, handle not. He was touching, tasting, handling. He was walking according to the flesh. He was just ministering to his own flesh and encouraging people to do the same. He didn't teach the Gentiles to abide by the ceremonial law. Which he saw as being fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. You can imagine how a Jewish teacher of the law One whose whole life had been given up, uh consumed, you might say, with a passion to to carefully keep all these ceremony ceremonial laws and rules, and to teach other people to do the same And then not only that, but adding to those laws and rules by the laws and rules of the Pharisees and others, you can see how they would view Paul as a renegade, as a rebel, as a traitor. For going around telling people you don't no longer have to keep all those ceremonial laws. They were only pointing to Jesus. They viewed him as disrespectful to the law, to the point of actually attempting to kill him, some of them, which of course is contrary to the law. But these who were trying to usurp Paul in Corinth did not come to the church as Hebrew rejectors of Christ and the gospel. That's not how they appeared to the church. That's not how they presented themselves. They came as apostles of Jesus Christ, with testimonials, with references, you would say, letters of commendation. They were smooth, they were slick, they spoke with authority, and apparently with a powerful command of language, capturing their audiences in a way that the Apostle Paul simply did not. None of which I suppose the apostle would have minded, that is their speaking ability, the fact that it seemed to supplant his, had their teaching actually been of God. But these eloquent pulpiteers were preaching another gospel. And for the Apostle Paul, them were fighting words. But what an awkward position this put Paul in. He certainly didn't want to boast about his own gifts or accomplishments. He didn't want to get down in the mud pit with his critics. But the gospel was at stake. For the Corinthians to turn a deaf ear to Paul's teaching was not just a personal affront to Paul, the one who founded the Church of Corinth, but it was a frighteningly dangerous course for them. Look at chapter 10 and verse 12. For we dare not class ourselves or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves. But they, measuring themselves by themselves, comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise. We, however, will not boast beyond measure, but within the limits of the sphere which God appointed us A sphere which especially includes you, you Corinthians. These men were self-satisfied and they were self-deluded, Paul says. He didn't want to play their game, but he didn't want to let them deceive the Church of Corinth either. Verse 14. For we are not overextending ourselves as though our authority did not extend to you, for it was to you that we came with the gospel of Christ, not boasting of things beyond measure, that is, in other men's labors. Which by the way the false apostles seem to be doing, but having hope that as your faith is increased, we shall be greatly enlarged by you in our sphere. As the banner of truth commentary puts it, the Judaizers boasted of gifts they did not possess, and they fastened themselves like parasites on churches which others had founded. Paul hoped that Corinth might actually serve as a base of operations, helping him preach the gospel in regions beyond. That's what he's saying there. Perhaps Rome, perhaps Spain. The Judaizers, on the other hand, were content to encroach upon a field where another had done the labor. Look at verse 17 But he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. For not he who commands, commends himself is approved, but whom the Lord commends. Paul quotes from Jeremiah 9, a passage by the way he quoted from in his first letter to the Corinthians, chapter 1. It's foolish for these men or for any men to boast of their supposed gifts or accomplishments. He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. The judgment that matters is not our judgment of ourselves, Paul's saying, or someone else's judgment of us, but God's judgment. And the only commendation worthy of our efforts Is well done, good and faithful servant. And then let's move into chapter 11, verse 1. Oh that you would bear with me a little folly. I'm sorry. Oh that you would bear with me in a little folly. And indeed you do bear with me. He knows it's folly to toot his own horn. Well, the Proverbs say, Let another man praise thee and not thine own lips, a stranger and not thyself. He knows that. But he's been thrust into this position, and he wants the Corinthians to bear with him a little bit in his reluctant boasting. And indeed, he says, you do bear with me. He's confident that their love for him will allow Him, we'll listen to him as he goes on in this vein for a few moments. He's confident that his children in Corinth will heed his words. Verse 2. For I am jealous for you with godly jealousy, for I have betrothed you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste version to Christ. As their spiritual father, Paul had betrothed these believers to one husband, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's concerned now that they may be defiled. Paul's words have been explained this way. It is necessary that the bride should concentrate her attention on the one man to whom she is engaged, and not open her heart to any other. But there is reason to fear that the Corinthian Church is having its attention distracted from the true object, namely Christ, as he was proclaimed by Paul. He's afraid that this bride, his bride, that the the the church of Corinth, he's describing as the bride of Christ, of course, that the bride is allowing other views to be introduced into her mind, views which are inconsistent with her first loyalty. He's afraid that they're being distracted from their love of Christ. Remember what he wrote to the Ephesians, or what the Lord Jesus wrote to the Ephesians in Revelation 3, I guess it is. You've left your first love. You've left your first love. Look at verse 3. But I fear lest somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, so your minds may be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. Paul feared that the minds of the Corinthians might be deceived, corrupted from the simplicity, the purity of simple faith in Jesus Christ alone. It could be translated from the singleness of mind toward Christ and drawn to another. It's a beautiful picture. Of course, a a a husband, a godly husband, or a father would be concerned that his daughters affections be set upon her her husband and not upon another. So Paul writing here as in a sense the father of the church is urging them to have their affections uh uh single-hearted or single-heartedly uh uh toward Christ, you might say Look at verse 4. For if he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached Or if you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you may well put up with it. You see what he's saying? Would you put up with me for a few minutes as I try to defend myself as an apostle? And uh I'm sure that you will, because after all, when others come preaching a different Jesus Relying upon a whole different spirit, giving a different gospel, you bear with them, and you're willing to listen to them. So now he's asking them to bear with him. When someone preaches another Jesus, maybe Jesus the legalist, are you willing to receive another spirit, not the Holy Spirit, but some demonic spirit of falsehood? That was brought by these false apostles. You put up with that. You put up with a different gospel than the one I proclaimed. What gospel was that? The gospel they were putting up with is was a gospel of faith in Jesus plus something else. Faith plus something else That's not the gospel. It's not everything Jesus can do and everything you can do put together. You keep the ceremonial laws, you get circumcised, you do this, you do that. And everything that you can do, plus what Jesus did, that's all you need. No, no, no, Paul says. That's a different gospel. I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto a different gospel, Paul said to the Galatians. But there's really no other gospel, is there? And he he makes that clear to them. It's a false gospel. So surely then you can put up with a little boasting from the apostle who led you to faith in Christ, the apostle who planted your church Look at verse 5. For I consider that I am not at all inferior to the most eminent apostles, even though I am untrained in speech, yet I am not in knowledge. But we have been thoroughly manifested among you in all things. The most eminent apostles. So take the Apostle Peter, Apostle John, the Apostle James, the super-apostles, if you will. My credentials are by no means inferior to theirs, though I be rude in speech, though I be untrained The Greek word refers to a private person as opposed to a patrician, that is, a member of the aristocracy. It refers to an uneducated, unskillful man. As opposed to one who is specially trained for work. Paul's saying, look, I get it. I acknowledge I am no professional speaker. Our culture, as you know, has no such emphasis on oratory as the Greeks had. Most Americans would be hard-pressed to name, I suppose, even one or two great orators. uh but eloquent persuasive speech was an art form among the Greeks, and orators such as Antiphon, Lysias Isocrates, and even the Roman orator Cicero, were honored men among the Greeks, well known to the public. You know, they be as familiar with their names as we are with contemporary uh musical artists, I suppose, pop singers. The most famous Greek orator may have been Demosthenes, one I'm sure you've heard of, who lived in the fourth century BC Biographers tell us that he overcame a speech impediment by going to the ocean and shouting over the ocean waves, the crashing of the waves, so as to be heard over the sound of the waves crashing. Biographers tell us that he sought to overcome a speech impediment by putting pebbles in his mouth and endeavoring to speak so as to be heard clearly despite pebbles. in his mouth. I'm not sure he ever really had a speech impediment. I suspect people just assumed that when he walked up and said, Hi, my name is Demothenes. If his name had been Bob or Gus, he wouldn't have had to worry about the pebbles at the mouth. Paul readily admitted, look, I'm untrained in speech, verse 6, but I'm not untrained in knowledge. Knowledge of God and knowledge of spiritual truth is much more important than speaking ability. Paul's reminding them. I'm untrained in speech, yeah, but I'm not untrained in knowledge. Paul said to the Galatians, the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. You hear that? He says to the Galatians, I didn't get this gospel that I'm proclaiming to you from men. When Paul was converted, he didn't run off and study under the apostles for years. The gospel which was preached by me is not according to man. I neither received it from man nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. Galatians 1. 12. The message Paul proclaimed was received by direct revelation from the risen Christ. Probably during a time in Arabia that he speaks of in Galatians 1. 17. And that knowledge was clearly perceived by the Corinthians, he says in verse 6. You get this. It's been thoroughly manifested among you. He's reminding them of it. Verse 7, did I commit sin in humbling myself that you might be exalted because I preached the gospel of God to you free of charge? Apparently, when Paul was in Corinth, he didn't uh receive support from the Corinthians. While he ministered among them, he got his support from churches uh in the north, the uh the the the churches of uh like Philippi and uh Thessalonica, uh Berea, and perhaps other churches. Now why he chose to do it that way in Corinth It it's it's not clear except that he says he didn't want to be a burden to them. And and I and presumably you wanted to make it clear that he wasn't there to uh make merchandise of them. Why he chose to do it that way in that church, I'm not sure. Perhaps they had had trouble with that. Uh They maybe they were very sensitive of of religious teachers or philosophers who make merchandise of people. I don't know. But in any event he says, look The reason I did that, the reason I did it that way was so as not to be a burden to you. Apparently these false teachers were coming in saying, look Paul's not a real apostle. Why he didn't even he wasn't even supported by you when he was here proclaiming the gospel for what was it, eighteen months? He labored with his own hands or he received support from others. A real apostle, you know, the labor is worthy of his hire, he he would have been supported by you. So they were taking that and using it against him. He says, why? Because I do not love you? God knows. But what I do, I will also continue to do that I may cut off the opportunity from those who desire an opportunity. to be regarded just as we are in the things of which they boast. Kind of hard to follow that, isn't it, as you read that in the English. But are you taking this as a sign that I don't love you? Uh it it it's not that at all is basically what he's saying. The Phillips J. B. Phillips translation puts it this way, I am determined to go on doing as I'm doing, so as to cut the ground from under the feet of those who would dearly love to be those To be thought of as God's messengers on the same terms as I am. He wants the difference between him and the false apostles to be clear. And false apostles is in fact what these men were. Look at verse 13. For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. Now you know the word pseudonym. A pseudonym is a false name. People write under pseudonyms at times. Mary Ann Evans wrote Silas Marner under the pseudonym George Eliot. The most familiar one is, of course, Samuel Clemens, who wrote under the pseudonym Mark Twain. Pseudonym, a false name. Well, here Paul uses the word pseudapostaloi. Pseud apostoloi. False apostles. An apostle, as you know, was one who was commissioned by Christ, sent forth by Christ, gifted by Christ. Gifts that included inspiration, knowledge, the ability to perform miracles. Paul's going to say soon in this letter, the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all signs and wonders and mighty deeds. So in the strictest sense of the term, the apostles were the original eleven, let's exclude Judas for a moment, along with Matthias, who was chosen to replace Judas. And Paul himself, who was an apostle born out of due time. He saw the Lord Jesus on the road to Damascus, and apparently the Lord also revealed himself to him later. Although the term apostle can also be more loosely used to describe anyone sent by the Lord, right? Someone set out by God. But there were some who claimed to be apostles, who claimed to be sent by the Lord, people like Judas himself, who were actually impostors. Uh they were actually sent by the enemy of Christ, right? Wolves in sheep's clothing, you might call them, or or wolves in shepherd's clothing. They're workers who use deceit, assuming the character of the apostles of Christ. And that shouldn't surprise us, Paul says, because Satan himself is able to be transformed into an angel of light So it's no great thing if his ministers also are transformed into ministers of righteousness. It shouldn't surprise us. If an evil angel can assume the appearance of a good angel , Should it surprise us that an evil man can assume the appearance of a righteous man? Now note, here's the thing, these false apostles didn't come to Corinth. uh carrying pitchforks, uh you know, and with those hooves on their feet and a long tail and horns, they came as genuine teachers of the gospel. But what they taught was a false gospel. It was a gospel of faith plus works. Clearly, not all teachers of error are blatant. Many are very subtle, as is the deceiver whom they serve. Their end, Paul says, will be according to their works, not according to their disguise, but according to their works. Now It's a long passage. It's kind of hard to follow, but there's some truths I want us to pull out of it. Let's think about a few of them. First of all, let me underscore this. We must be aware of the cunning nature of our adversary. The cunning nature of our adversary Not only does he go about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour, but he comes into the church in a suit, in a tie, or in a robe. Paul told the elders of Ephesus that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And even of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Satan is most hurtful to the church, wrote 17th century English Presbyterian William Jenkin Satan is most hurtful to the church when he opposes it by subtlety and creeping, when he comes not as an open enemy, but as an appearing friend. He's never so much a devil as when he appears in white and transformed himself, transforms himself into an angel of light. He does more harm by creeping into than by breaking into the church. False apostles and seducers in the church have been more hurtful to it by fraud. than bloody and pagan persecutors by force. Now let me give you just one contemporary example of this. We could list uh many. The Religious Declaration on Sexual Morality, Justice, and Healing Now here's a statement which has been used to seek to persuade school boards, judges, legislators, etc. to take certain actions. And it includes this statement. Sexuality is God's life-giving and life-fulfilling gift. We come from diverse religious communities to recognize sexuality as central to our humanity. And as integral to our spirituality. We're speaking out against pain, brokenness, oppression, and loss of meaning that many experience about their sexuality. Okay, so far so good. They're speaking out against pain, against brokenness, against oppression, against loss of meaning. We could all join with them in that. But the statement goes on to say this. We call for a faith-based commitment to sexual and reproductive rights, including access to voluntary contraception. abortion and HIV slash STI, sexually transmitted infection, I guess, prevention and treatment. The statement, listen, the statement has been signed by more than 3 ,500 clergy members and religious leaders, seminary professors, seminary presidents, theologians. From over 50 different denominations or religious traditions is the way they put it. Now, what do you think a legislator will conclude When he gets a statement from signed by 3,500 religious leaders calling for access to voluntary abortion Well, he's going to conclude. I guess most Christian churches support a woman's right to choose to kill her baby. I guess that's what Christian churches support. The the right of the woman to choose to kill her baby takes precedence over the right of the baby to live. So it must be only the radical fringe. You know, these crazy evangelicals out there that are opposed to it. You see how dangerous that sort of thing is False apostles, that's what I would call them. Secondly, this passage reminds us of our holy calling. I have betrothed you to one husband, Paul says, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. This holy calling that we have as Christians. Although Paul's using sexual imagery here, he's not speaking specifically about maintaining sexual purity. He speaks about that elsewhere very clearly. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. Flee sexual immorality? Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body, 1 Corinthians 6. Here he's using that imagery. to speak about the corruption of our minds. I fear lest your minds may be corrupted from the singleness in Christ, singleness in mind, that is. Paul feared that the Corinthian single-mindedness might be corrupted. The teaching of the false apostles could lead them to say or think this. Yeah, okay, Jesus is very, very important. But other things are important too, such as ceremonies and traditions and laws and rules and regulations. Maybe Paul was wrong. Maybe we're giving Jesus too much emphasis in our lives. And even so today, how many professing Christians view Jesus as just one aspect of their lives? And not necessarily the most important one. They pigeonhole their Christianity just as they do their responsibilities at work or their responsibilities in the PTA You know, on weekdays from eight to four thirty I'm an accountant. From six to eleven I'm a husband and a father. Every third Thursday night I'm a shriner. And Sunday mornings from uh uh uh ten forty five to whenever he stops talking. That's uh That's when I'm a Christian. No, no, no. If you're a true Christian, Jesus Christ is your life. He is your life. He's not a part of your life. He's not a pigeonhole in your life. Amen. He affects everything you do. He affects what you say. He affects what you think. He affects what you do in the office. You take him with you to the office. You take them with you in the car on the way home. You take them with you in the front door. You take them with you to the PTA. He's Lord of what you see, he's Lord of what you say, he's Lord of what you hear, he affects how you think, he affects how you vote, he affects how you drive, he affects The way you treat your wife or husband You see, if Satan can't get you to turn your back on Jesus Christ completely, and of course he can't if you're truly a follower of Christ. If you're one of the elect, if you're a part of the bride of Christ, if you're truly a sheep, no one's able to pluck you out of his hands. If he can't get you to do that, he'll try to get you to isolate him in your mind. To keep him in the church file. Keep him out of the work file. Keep him out of the family file. Keep him out of the friend file. Keep him out of the entertainment file. Satan wants to corrupt your mind from singleness to Christ. You see it? Singleness to Christ. By supplanting him with other loves. You've left your first love. He wants to supplant him with other loves. So, is Satan's strategy working in your life? Is Satan's strategy working in your life? Thirdly, and finally, the apostle alludes to that power of the gospel. Satan's powerful, but Christ's power is greater. Casting down imaginations, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. Bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ He's talking about the power of the gospel, which is greater than the power of Satan. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. The weapons we use are powerful in God's warfare for the destruction of the enemy's strongholds. Our battle is to break down every deceptive argument, every imposing defense that men erect against the true knowledge of God. We fight to capture every thought until it acknowledges the authority of Christ. I came across a striking illustration of this several years ago. It's difficult to imagine, isn't it, a stronghold against the gospel more imposing than that which was erected in the minds of the leaders of Nazi Germany. Hitler believed that he had freed Germany from the stupid and degrading fallacies of conscience and morality, you remember. The Nazis taught that man was nothing more than the product of blood and soil, heredity and environment. But listen to this letter received by a St. Louis housewife on a hot summer day in 1946. This was reported in the St. Louis Post Dispatch, March 16, 2000 Her husband, U. S. Army Chaplain Henry Garrick, a Lutheran minister, was due to return home from Europe any day. Now remember, this is 1946, the war's over. Most of the other soldiers had come home long before, but he had been asked to remain for a special assignment. Imagine his wife's mixed emotions when she read the English version of this letter, which was also written in German. It's uh uh it's written from Nuremberg, June 14, 1946. My dearest Mrs. Garrick. Your husband, Pastor Garrick, has been taking religious care of the undersigned Lutheran defendants during the Nuremberg trial. He has been doing so for more than a year. More than half a year, sorry. We now have heard, dear Mrs. Garrick, that you wish to see him back home after his absence of several years. Because we also have wives and children, we understand this wish of yours very well. Nevertheless, we are asking you to put off your wish to gather your family around you at home for a little time. Please consider that we cannot miss your husband now. During the past months, he has shown us uncompromising friendliness of such a kind that he has become indispensable for us in an otherwise prejudiced environment which is filled with cold disdain or hatred. We simply have come to love him. Oh I'm sorry. I missed the paragraph. Our dear chaplain Garrick is necessary for us not only to minister not only as a minister but also as the thoroughly good man that he is. Surely we need not describe him as such to his own wife. We simply have come to love him. In this stage of the trial, it is impossible for any other man than him to break through the walls that have been built up around us. in a spiritual sense even stronger than in a material one. Do you get that? Therefore, please leave him with us. Certainly you will bring this sacrifice, and we shall be deeply indebted to you. We send our best wishes for you and your family, God be with you, and then the signatures, including Herman Gehring German field marshal, com uh commandant of the Luftwaffe, second most powerful leader who devised pol the policies of terror bombing. Joachim von Ribbentroff, foreign minister under Hitler who negotiated the Axis alliance. William uh Wilhelm Kittel, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Alfred Rosenberg, Nazi Party leader who formulated Nazi racial theories. Julius Streicher, editor of Derstormer, a rabbit anti-Jewish newspaper. Here's another Hallmark Schacht formulated and carried out Nazi economic policies Rudolf Hess, the man to whom Hitler deck dedicated Mein Kampf, or dictated, sorry, dictated Mein Kampf, his third deputy directly below Gehring. Hans Fritsch in charge of Hitler's radio propaganda, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, leader of the Gestapo, Albert Speer, the party leader. And then it's signed. I sincerely join into this request, even though I am not a member of the evangelical church. This I do with all my heart. And this is evidently the man that wrote the letter, A. Alfred Jody, J-O-D-I. Mrs. Garrick wrote her husband an airmail special delivery letter saying he should continue his work bringing the gospel to the Nazis. Some of the men, as you would imagine, resisted the gospel and remained unrepentant, including Gering, who took Sinai just before he was to be hung, and Rosenberg, who ultimately told the chaplain not to bother him anymore. But Chaplain Garrick, get this, Chaplain Garrick was sufficiently convinced of the repentance of seven of the men that he granted them communion during the final four months of his chaplaincy. Come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet They shall be as white as wool. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. As scarlet, white as snow, as crimson, red like wool. I don't know what you've done. But I know something of the wonderful grace of Jesus I know something of the power of Jesus Christ to save you. I know that if you'll repent of your sins, if you'll literally fall down before God and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I've broken your holy laws. I need a savior. Forgive me. Save me. Come into my heart. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. If you come to God that way. Pray that prayer and mean that in your heart. God says He'll forgive all your sins, whatever they are. He'll restore you to fellowship with him. He'll promise you everlasting life in his presence. Jesus said, He who believes in me has everlasting life. Amen. Let's stand and sing wonderful grace of Jesus, 702.