Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this evening, and we thank you, O Lord, for the opportunity to pour out our praises to you once again, and then to sit at your feet, Lord, to hear from your word. Lord, we pray that you would help us to make sense of this commandment, Lord. Um it seems simple, it seems straightforward enough, and yet there is so much meat in this, Lord, and it points us to your son in a very unique way. We pray that you would open our eyes to see that, and because of that, not only to obey this command, but to love Jesus all the more, that our obedience to this command might be out of love. uh for him. And so Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well I think it's fitting on this first evening service of 2026, we kind of turn a little bit of a corner. If you've been with us at all last fall, you'll know we're in the middle of a series on the Ten Commandments. And uh Pastor Jared and I worked through the first four commandments, and then I believe Pastor Jared did the summary right at the end of November of those first four commandments. Table of the law. And that summary was you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. That's how Jesus summarized it. The greatest commandment encapsulates all four of those. Well these other commandments, commandments five through ten , comprised the second table of the law, which Jesus then summarized as you shall love your neighbor as yourself. And I want to draw that connection to you as we come into this second table of the law, that loving our neighbor as ourself, as we'll see through the rest of these commandments. is so organically and intimately related to loving the Lord our God that you cannot have one without the other. And so it's interesting that just as those first four commands deal with our relationship with God , who is above us, the first commandment of the second table begins with our relationship over uh the authority or the relationship we have to the authorities in our lives. In fact, the main idea of this particular command is this Our response to authority leads to the hope of long life through the hope of the gospel Again, just like this morning, we have the main idea printed in the bulletin right under our evening liturgy for you. But again, it's our response to authority leads to the hope of long life through the hope of the gospel. And that's what I want to unpack with you this evening. I want to begin first with the command. Just a straightforward command. Then I want to look at the promise of the command. And then I want to look at how the command relates to the message of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want to begin with the command first and foremost in the beginning of verse 12. And the command is really to honor authority. Now I'm not going to read the whole verse, but the first part of it is very simple. Honor your father and your mother. Let's stop there really quick. Because it leads to the question, what does it mean to honor father or mother? What's the meaning of honor? Well, the Hebrew verb is the same verb that's often translated as a noun in other places for the word glory. That's interesting that honor and glory, at least in the original Hebrew that this is written in, come from the same fundamental root word. It's a word that's used when we talk about someone or something that is really important, or for someone, say that has a type of gravitas to who they are. It can be translated as weightiness. And I don't mean to say when you talk about somebody having honor and so saying that someone is weighty, saying that they weigh a lot. It's not a description of their bodily frame. It's a description of their importance. We might talk about the weightiness or the gravitas. of somebody uh because of their office in life. Now, you probably wouldn't look at the news today or listen to political discourse today to draw this analogy from today, but at least historically in our country, when we talk about someone like the the President of the United States, just to give an example, Historically, people have given that person a certain measure of honor, a certain measure of request, or of respect, excuse me, in the way they look at him or speak of him. Not because of who he was as a person, but because of the nature of his office, the importance of his office I mean, history is littered with presidents who have done really bad things in their personal lives, and yet For most of our history, people have always looked up to the President of the United States because of the importance of his office. He had a type of gravitas to him because of the office. In other words, it's not the individual persons that makes the office or the title, but it is the title or the office that marks and makes the person. And so even in our day and age, if you were to be invited to stand before uh either the president or some kind of royal dignitary if you were visiting another country Whether you like the person or not, you honor the person , because of the office that they inhabit. And the same is true of parents. Now I want to draw out something of the historical context to you just to show you how important that principle is of honoring the person in the position rather than just the person because of who they are. Think about the first generation of Israelites that came out of Egypt who received this commandment. We know, because we if you read the whole law, you get the whole story of the Exodus. You know that that first generation of Israelites that came out were largely under God's judgment. Were they people that you would imagine you would look up to and want to be like them? No. When you read the book of Exodus and then the book of Numbers, what you find Is that was a generation that grumbled, they complained, they rebelled against Moses and his authority, they came under God's judgment, they constantly went back to idolatry. And yet, despite the fact that that generation were imperfect as parents, God's law still applied to those, the second generation coming up behind them that they were to honor their imperfect parents. Just because the parents were not perfect did not make this command any less true Why is that? Well, let's look at the command to treat the parents as important. This command relates most importantly to one's parents, obviously, because he mentions mother and father. But it's because these parents are the first authorities that God places over us in our lives. And the reason for this would be because it is our parents whom God uses to produce physical life in us. and then to bring us into the world. And then when they bring us into the world, they in spend their time, their energy, their finances, their money. their focus, their attention, everything they invest into their children to raise their children up. Therefore, God holds the parents responsible for their children in raising them in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. That's why. That draws a very interesting connection between this commandment as the first of the second table of the law. And the rest of the other four commandments that come before it in our relationship to God. God is the authority over us, but what is the first authority we have in life? It's our parents. And so just plugging in the different nuances of that word and what it means to honor our father and our mother, we can say they were called to treat our parents as important. We are called to treat our parents with a certain level of gravitas. We are to give them a certain due weight in our consideration as we make decisions in life. We are not to treat them lightly or trivially or as if they are insignificant because of who God has made them to be in our lives. We might want to ask a further why question. So, okay, I grant all that, but why should we honor our parents? Well, the particular command, as I just said, is organically connected to the first four commandments. Ultimately speaking, One's honoring of his parents is a good indicator of how one sees and understands the authority of God above us. Why? What's the connection? Because just as our parents are the vehicle of bringing people into the world and giving them life, Ultimately, God is the one who brings people to saving faith by giving them eternal life in Jesus Christ when they're born again. That's the connection. There's no mistake in Scripture. There's no inconsistency in the testimony of God's word when God is revealed as a father. If you go back to Exodus chapter 4, verse 22, what you find is God is telling Moses at the burning bush, I'm going to send you to Pharaoh. And I'm going to call you to tell Pharaoh, let my people go. And on what basis are they c is he going to let my people go? Because Israel is my firstborn son. Israel as a nation had a relationship to God of being a father and a son relationship. Isn't it interesting that this commandment that is to be applied horizontally in our human relationships has such a profound connection to our relationship with God as our father. And lastly, as we just look at the the blanket statement, honor your father and your mother. We have to see that this command has far reaching implications, further reaching implications than just our parents in the home. Now that's that is the most important authority, especially for children when they're growing up. It's the most intimate society. It's where we learn to be socialized and learn to respond appropriately to a authority, but it goes even further than that. You may be asking, well where do you get that from in this commandment? Well, if you know anything about the book of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter five repeats the ten commandments. Commandments and then the end of chapter 5, all the way through the end of chapter 26, what that does is it just unfolds the Ten Commandments. and shows how those commandments were each to be applied within different case laws that would relate to how Israel would live in the land of Canaan in their particular culture and their particular society. And when you look at the way that God, through Moses, in the book of Deuteronomy, unfolds the exposition of this particular commandment, what you find is that it repl it applies to things like the authority of judges and kings in Israel. You see, the judge we read about the judges this morning in our Old Testament scripture reading prior to the New Testament. Testament sermon. We saw that in Deuteronomy 16, verses 18 to 20, and 17, 2 to 13. Talk about judges What we didn't read earlier was Deuteronomy 17, 14 through 20, which looks at the authority of kings among God's people. And what was what was uh the same for judges and kings, depending on what type time in his Israel's history you're looking at, is they both had the authority to judge legal, civil, uh criminal cases among God's people. And if you remember when we read that this morning, The law makes it very clear in Deuteronomy, whatever the priest or the judge at that time tells you, the verdict that they give you, you are to do and not to deviate from the right or to the left. Anyone who does got the death penalty for obstructing justice. And so this commandment in Deuteronomy is applied to the civil authorities. like prophets and priests. And you see that in Deuteronomy 18, 1 through 8 for prophets. Or priest, rather, and then Deuteronomy 18, 15 to 22, for prophets, pointing forward to the prophet who will come like Moses, who ends up being the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this particular commandment covers the entire scope of how we're called to relate to authority in the different spheres of authority in our lives. But let's face it, we don't have uh kings any longer, at least not in this country. Uh we don't have prophets, we don't have priests in the way that God has has sovereignly orchestrated how his people are to be governed today. Like they did in the Old Testament. And so we have to ask by way of application, what is the scope of authority in this commandment today? Well, this is going to be a generic statement, but let me unpack it. The scope of authority in this command extends to all levels of authority that God puts in our lives. And I'm going to exchange on all levels of authority to say there are what many people have called spheres of sovereignty. spheres of sovereignty and authority over God's people. What do I mean by that? Well let's look at three. The Bible does talk about three and You can take those three areas from Deuteronomy that I just said, and you can contextualize that for today. Obviously, the first is the authority of parents And that's on the surface of this commandment. God gives fathers and mothers authority and responsibility over their kids. Children are commanded to honor their parents. It's interesting that when the Apostle Paul quotes from this particular commandment in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 to 3, he adds a phrase in there that's really important. You know, children, obey your parents, and he adds the words, in the Lord, for this is right and pleasing in the sight of God. In the Lord. Parents, this puts a limitation on your authority. You have no right to command your children or require them to do something that is disobedient to God's word You yourselves are under that authority of God's word. And so that is an important thing. But the authority of parents is the first sphere of sovereignty. This the second sphere of sovereignty is the authority of religious leaders. Now again, we don't have uh prophets and priests in the same way they did in the Old Testament, but we do have things like pastors and elders and deacons today. This is an authority really that relates to the worship of the Lord and the communicating of God's word and its teaching. and preaching accurately. Now there's something I want to be very clear about when I talk about the authority of religious leaders or the authority of pastors and elders or people like me or the session or the deacon. The Book of Church Order in the PCA takes what I think is a solid biblical principle that we do see In this passage and laid out in Scripture as a whole, to talk about the authority of the church. Our authority is not punitive. Our authority is not to bear the sword like the state. It uses two words that I think are really important in the preface to the Book of Church Order. Our church authority is only ministerial and declarative. That's it. That's the only authority I have is ministerial and declarative. And by declarative, it's what I'm doing right now as an exercise. I'm taking what is God's word. And again, just like there was a limitation to the authority of parents where children are to obey them in the Lord. My authority only extends as far as it is faithful to this book. That's it I can't get up here and just share my own opinions about things and then require you to bind those on your heart and do them if it's just my opinion. Ministerial. Like serving and declarative. And I believe the Book of Church Order says that because it is a biblical Principle. What what was the authority of the the prophets and the priests in the Old Testament? It was to guard the deposit of God's word. It was to guard the worship of God when God's people Particularly for the prophets when revelation was still being given. It was to speak to God's people and call them to repentance and to faith in the promises of God that had been revealed at that time And then lastly, the third sphere of sovereignty is the authority of the civil magistrate. And again, we don't have kings like they did in the Old Testament, but we do have things like judges. We do have things like a president that has an executive function in our society. Those are civil magistrates. And this also carries over into the New Testament. The Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 13, verses 1 to 7, tells people to submit to the governing authorities, to every institution. as it is established by God. 1 Timothy 2, 1 through 5 commands us to pray for the civil magistrate and the authorities that God has put over us. And to pray for their salvation for the purpose of us living a quiet and dignified life in Christ Jesus. In 1 Peter 2, 13 through 17, we're called to submit for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor Supreme, or you just put president in there, I guess, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. You know it's interesting about Those commandments between Peter and Paul in their original context of the first century? They're writing during the reign of Emperor Nero. And I'm not going to get into all the details of historical details of Emperor Nero's reign, but we know that he was a pretty bad king, a bad emperor. He did horrible things. And yet, despite how horrible he was as a person, it comes back to what I was saying earlier about we honor the office. and the person in that office for the sake of the office, not because of who they are as a person. The same is true And again, just like there was a limitation on parental authority in the Lord, just like there's a limitation on authority of religious leaders, they need to be faithful to God's word, there is a limitation to the authority to which uh civil magistrates have and there is a limit to our obedience. And again, I don't I I really wish I Had more time to preach. This is supposed to be more of a homily than a full Sunday morning sermon, but there are so many great areas that you could look at this from. But let me put these passages before you. In Acts chapter 4, verses 20 and 21. And then Acts chapter 5, verse 29. In both cases, the apostles were preaching Christ in Jerusalem after the resurrection in the early church. They got in trouble with the religious authorities, which also had a measure of some they had some measure of civil authority at that time in Jerusalem, even though the Romans were ultimately in charge. And Peter, in both cases, speaks to them and basically says, I'm going to put them together and summarize, whether it is right for us To obey you or obey God, you decide. But we must obey the Lord. In other words, there is a limit to our obedience to the civil authorities, and if they're requiring us to do something sinful or contrary to God's word, as it's revealed, in Scripture, then we have every right biblically to not obey. But uh if they're not calling us to sin, we must obey. We must submit to that authority and honor them. Justly. Now let's just be honest. I'm not going to say much about this in terms of our application. I can leave this to your own conscience to work out in relation to God's Word, but When we read the law, any of these commandments, what we find, if we're honest, is we can always look at ways in which we do not honor those different levels of authority that God has placed over us. Every single one of us, whether it's in the home with parents, whether it's or you can extend that even to your teachers at school or your boss at work. Those are kind of another layer of authority there I didn't mention specifically, but We all sin and fail to uphold the law at some level of our lives. And so there is a call to repent if we have broken this law. But what do we repent in light of? We repent in light of the promise that's offered in this commandment. And that's the second thing I want to draw your attention to in the second part of verse 12. It's very clear it says that your days may be long in the land and that the Lord your God is giving you. Now I'm not going to get too much into the details. I just want to draw out two things here. There's a general statement about long life And I want to be very upfront and clear with you that we have to understand that this is a general promise, that it does not apply in every single circumstance with absolute precision. When you look at the full testimony of Scripture, when we look at our experience of general revelation in our own lives and history. I think we can understand that there are some people who honor their parents in their lives who do in fact die young. That does happen. And there are some who are scoundrels towards their parents in this life, and they may live a long life. There are exceptions to this rule. It is a general statement of truth. Much like the Proverbs. If you read the book of Proverbs, it's full of all these maxims. They are general principles of truth. But they don't always apply in an absolute sense in every single circumstance. And that's what this promise is here. It's not an absolute one. It is a general promise of long life. And then I want to just say something about the statement of the land. The intended audience would have heard this and understood the land of Canaan, which God had promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now, I'll just say in a moment when I look to apply this , this does apply today. We might be tempted to think it doesn't. Because we're not living in physical Canaan or Palestine, as it's called today, or Israel. But I want to highlight for you that this promise is tied to God's covenant. promises. And because it's tied to God's covenant promises, again, just as it generalizes things, it's general by nature, that also makes it much more general in its application. And so what does the promise of long life mean in light of the gospel? Well, I do think the commandment is broadened out in the New Testament, and I do believe it applies generally today. Not just the promise, but the commandment. Again, all I'm going to say by application here for the sake of our time this evening is Ephesians 6, 1 through 3. Let me read that to you. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise. That it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land. By the way, I love how Paul adds that, doesn't he? That it may go well with you. You listen to your parents, it's generally going to go pretty well for you. You don't listen to your parents, you're going to get into some kind of trouble, and life could be pretty hard. But because Paul uh applies this and repeats it to the Ephesian church, which is largely Gentiles and not Jews. Living outside of the land, uh literal land of Canaan, they're living in Asia Minor at that time in modern-day Turkey, it's still a principle and a commandment that applies today. Another last thing I want to cover this evening as we look at this commandment is the gospel and the command. We have to understand how this commandment drives us to the gospel. and how it is fulfilled in the gospel so that we can then turn around because of its fulfillment and apply it in our own lives. And so I want to look at that this evening. I do think that we see in the New Testament how Christ fulfills this aspect of the law on our behalf. And I want to just draw just a few things to illustrate that for you and to drive that home. First, Jesus Christ is the perfect son who honored his father and his mother perfectly. Notice how I use the word perfect twice, or perfectly, right? The perfect son who honors his parents perfectly. Well, let's begin with his mother, because he was born to the Virgin Mary without the agency of a human father. We know that he obeyed his mother, uh probably meticulously. I just point you out to the point you to the example of Luke chapter 2 verses 41 to 51. It's interesting that we don't really get a too much information about the childhood of Jesus. We know that the wise men came in Matthew 2 and presented him gifts when he was probably about two years old. We know that they had to flee and he spent some time in Egypt. We don't know exactly how old he was when they came back from Egypt. I suppose you can plug in the dates historically of when Herod died and probably figure it out. But we do get this story of Jesus in Luke chapter 2, verses 41 to 51, when Jesus was 12 years old. You remember the story. They go down to Jerusalem. They were living in Galilee. They go down for the feast of Passover. That would have been important in Jesus' life because at twelve years old in Jewish culture you uh well today we call it the bar mitzvah, back then you that at age twelve is when you became a son of the cu of the commandment. That's what they called them. And as the son of the commandment, you had a right as a full-grown male at that point. That's what was considered a full-grown male, twelve. You can go and celebrate in Jerusalem all the feasts. And you remember they leave Jesus behind. All right, that makes it sound worse than it is. He stayed behind. Let's just be honest. He planned that. In fact, that is what Luke says. He stayed behind. He doesn't say they left him. But three days after finding him, and they go home, if you look at Luke chapter 2, verse 51, it concludes by saying And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and he was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And so we see this general statement of Jesus' childhood that he was submissive to his parents. He honored them. He even honors his mother at the cross. This is not in my notes, so this is always dangerous when I do this, but in John chapter 19, when he's on the cross. He says to his mother, who's there with his beloved disciple John, you know , Mother, behold your son. And he says to John, Behold your mother. He honors his mother even at the moment he's dying by providing for her someone who's going to protect her. And someone who's going to continue to provide for her in a material sense, even when he is physically gone. He honored his mother perfectly. What about his father? He didn't have a human father. We just saw in Luke 2. 51 he honored, he was submissive to them, including Joseph. Not just Mary. But we have to speak of Jesus honoring his heavenly father instead. And we see him honoring his heavenly father in his perfect obedience to his father's will. Jesus says this over and over and over again in the Gospels. He particularly says it, for example, in John chapter 5. to the Jews, what I hear the Father uh saying is what I say. What I see the Father doing, I do. For the Father is working even now. Which was controversial because he said that on the Sabbath The Apostle Paul makes the same claim in Philippians 2. 8. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient. To the point of death, even death on a cross. He honors his father in his obedience to the work that the Father had given him, which led to the cross Even before he gets to the cross in the Garden of Gethsemane in Matthew chapter 26, verse 39, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And Christ perfectly honored his Heavenly Father, fulfilling the law , this law, particularly on our behalf. The second thing I want to highlight for you is that Jesus Christ is the perfect son who lives long, he receives that promise of long life, in the land, so to speak, in his resurrected glory. Now this is so important for us to see. Because Jesus' obedience unto death would seem like it invalidated the promise of this commandment of long life. I mean he was cut off at what, 33 years old? That's where the resurrection comes into play. He was resurrected unto eternal life, and death no longer has power over him. And he is going to come, he's going to usher in the new heavens and the new earth, everything that Canaan in the Old Testament was meant to foreshadow and point forward to Jesus will usher that in he will receive the nations as his inheritance he will live among his people forever and ever And so I want you to see that this commandment, this fifth commandment, honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God has given you. was fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the ultimate son who fulfills this commandment, receives its promise in his own resurrection and ascension, and one day in his return. So in light of the gospel of Jesus Christ and how this law points forward to the gospel and how the gospel then fulfills that law, what are we to do? Well the gospel means that Christ has fulfilled this command on our behalf with his perfect righteousness life, and he writes this law on the hearts of those who are his. Don't miss that. What does the new covenant promise ultimately? And it applies to all these commands, by the way. That God will take his law, he will put it on their minds And he will write it on their hearts. What does that mean? Well, Ezekiel says it a different way. I will take out the heart of stone, and I will give them a heart of flesh, and cause them to walk in my commandments and statutes. When we receive a new heart and the law is written on our hearts, when we're born again and we become come to faith in Jesus What that does is that changes everything internally so that what we do is we naturally keep the law. We live it out. And so I want you to see that Jesus fulfilling the law is applied to us through grace by faith in him alone. I want you this evening to take great comfort. I said right from the beginning, we can look at this law and every if we nitpick ourselves to death, we really could. Every one of us has failed this law and every other law we talk about among these ten. And yet, the comfort of this come in the gospel comes in the fact that Jesus has fulfilled this law. uh both for us in his active obedience in living that perfect life according to the to the law, in his passive obedience and going to the cross and paying the penalty for our violating the law. And it is through his obedience That we can call on God and Christ and receive the righteousness of Christ as a gift. And it is offered to us freely by God the Father when we come to faith in His perfect Son Jesus. and trust in him for the forgiveness of our sins and for our eternal life. And so if you're here this evening, I'm calling on you, on the authority of God's word, to trust that Jesus Christ has fulfilled the law on your behalf. And it is through his honoring God as Father, perfectly in his life, death, and resurrection, that we are made sons of God and brought near to our Heavenly Father as well. Where our relationship with Him as Father is established. And because of that, Jesus secures for us the promise of long days in the land, in the new heavens, and the new earth. Now I want to be clear here. There is a twofold application point here. This doesn't mean that we don't apply this law to our lives today because We're waiting for some future kingdom or new creation. We do apply it today. Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 through 3, which I read a moment ago, makes that very clear. It does apply to our lives today. But the real fulfillment of this promise speaks to the hope that we have in the gospel. We live with the Lord in the new heavens and the new earth one day. Where death itself will be done away with, and the promise of long life will be fulfilled And so even as we relate to the different levels of authority in our lives, we relate to them, we live under them, we submit to them, we're obedient to them, we honor them in the hope of this promise being fulfilled one day. And it brings us right back to the main idea, doesn't it? Printed right there on page six. Our response to authority leads to the hope of long life through the hope of the gospel of Jesus. Christ. Amen and amen