If you have your Bibles, please go ahead and take them and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 9, and I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's Holy Word. From 1 Corinthians 3, 1 through 9. But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people But as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ, I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it And even now you are not yet ready, for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? For when one says, I follow Paul, and another, I follow Apollos, are you not being merely human? What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each. I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither is he who plants, nor he who waters anything, but only God who gives the growth He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor. For we are God's fellow workers You are God's field, God 's building. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's go before the Lord in a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you and we do ask and pray, O Lord, as we heard last week about the Ministry of the Spirit, opening our eyes and ears, we pray that your Spirit would do that today. Lord, that your word would go forth clearly and speak to our hearts where we are at. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' precious name I pray. Amen. Well, as I think about this passage, I can't help but reminisce the story that I'd heard and I I think it's probably anecdotal. I don't know that it actually happened, but the story goes that there was a man who had been away from the Lord for a long time He was raised in church, uh, grew up in church, he knew the Bible, and yet in his adult years, probably sometime during college, he walked away from the Lord and began to live in the world And as he got older, he woke up one morning on a Sunday morning and decided, you know what, I really need to go back to church. And so he got up and showered and cleaned himself up and put nice clothes on and went to church. Only he had no idea what was going on in that local church that he happened to stumble into that morning. What happened was there was a church split going on, and that was the last week that that church was going to be meeting together. And so at the end of the service, some announcements came. And they were splitting over the issue of Calvinism and Arminianism, as you can imagine. And so they said, well, those of you who are on the Calvinistic side of this debate, you guys go over there and next week you'll meet together in a new place and plant a new church. Those of you who are on the Arminian side can go on this side of the building and get to know each other, and next week you will plant a new church, and we will go our separate ways. Well this guy had no idea what was going on as he sat there at the end and so w w what did he do? He happened to walk over to the Calvinistic side, not knowing what either side meant, and they welcomed him. Oh brother, welcome, welcome. We're so glad you're joining our side. Tell us why why are you here? Well, I woke up this morning and Just thought I should go to church, and so I decided to come on my own free will. So these Calvinists say, free will! You're not one of us. Go over there. So he goes over to the Armenian side. Oh welcome brother. We're so glad you're here to join us. Tell us why why are you here? And he said, Well, I went over there and they told me to go over here and so I had no choice in the matter All this to say, that's a funny anecdotal story, isn't it, about church splits, and yet Division in the church is really, at the end of the day, no laughing matter. Um, but it is something that has been happening from the beginning of the church age, hasn't it? We see it right here. In the book of 1 Corinthians, as Paul circles back around to this issue of division that he has been covering for several weeks now, as we've been working through this from the beginning of the book. And if I were to try to crystallize this the idea of this passage into one phrase, one idea, it would be this. The diagnosis behind church division is rooted in the flesh. And the prescription back to unity is acknowledging God's role in salvation and church life. If you're visiting with us this morning, you can see that printed right there at the bottom of page 5, right under the liturgy, as we always print the idea. But let me repeat that, because that's what I want to unpack with you this morning. The diagnosis behind church divisions is rooted in the flesh, and the prescription back to unity is acknowledging God's role in salvation and church life. We see this begin to unfold for us in verses 1 through 4 with our first point this morning, division from the flesh. Division from the flesh Look at me at verses 1, and then through the beginning of verse 3, we see the spiritual maturity of the flesh. Paul writes to them, but I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants In Christ. Actually, let's go ahead and stop there. I want to highlight first the spiritual infancy of the Corinthians that we see in this passage. Now what's really interesting is when you look at the whole context of what we've been looking at so far, the last thing we saw at the end of chapter 2, particularly verse 16, if you look there Paul says, for who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. So what Paul says here is kind of a unexpected. He he contrasts these people as being not Spiritual, but fleshly. And by the way, those words are key words in this passage. Spiritual and fleshly. They come up over and over again in different forms in this passage. You would not have expected Paul to say what he says here in verse 1, talking about the spiritual infancy of these Corinthians. And you've got to imagine this would have been such a blow to their ego and to their pride. I mean, after all, if you go back to chapter 1. . . Particularly in verse 5, Paul acknowledges in his thanksgiving that in every way you Corinthians were enriched in him, as Christ, in all speech and all knowledge. And we we saw last week how he's talking about the ministry of the Holy Spirit, who opens the eyes of people to see and understand spiritual things, to understand the gospel in a way that the world without the Spirit can't. You can almost imagine this pride that might well up in the Corinthians, like, well, we have the spirit. We understand this secret knowledge that no one else understands. And Paul corrects them in the very next turn of phrase here, saying, No, I can't even speak to you guys as spiritual. I have to speak to you guys as fleshly as infants in Christ. I mean, isn't it interesting? They would have been tempted to think that they were spiritually mature, the guardians of some secret knowledge. But by calling them the people of the flesh, your infants in Christ, this would have really confronted them and bumped down any spiritual pride that they may have. And he goes on to kind of build this analogy of being babes in Christ in verse 2. He doesn't just contrast being spiritual versus fleshly, he also contrasts Spiritual milk in contrast to solid food in verse 2. Look what he says there. I fed you with milk, not solid food. For you were not ready for it. Let's just stop there again for just a moment. Again, contrast between spiritual food or spiritual milk and solid or spiritual food. Most of you who have children or have had children understand that when an infant is born Uh you can't just, you know, s have them sitting at the table if you cut a piece of steak and put that little piece of steak on the kid's plate and expect that little infant to take that thing and chew it and swallow it successfully. Babies don't eat solid food. Why? Well, for the primary reason is their teeth haven't grown in and so they can't adequately chew the food to break it down so that it can go down into the stomach. But, you know, it's more than that. You know, when we chew our food as adults, not to be gross, if you're hungry this will kill your appetite. Um You know, we our saliva works and gets on the food and all these enzymes get on the food so that when we chew it and break it down with our teeth, it goes down into the stomach with a bunch of enzymes on it already. so that our stomachs and digestive system can adequately extract from that food the nutrients possible to nourish the body. That's how it works. Well, because babies or infants don't have their teeth grown in yet. They got these little gums. I mean they can certainly chew on something, but it's not really going to be adequate, right? They might suck on something, but not chew it adequately to swallow it, their bodies are not prepared yet to extract the nutrients that would be necessary from a say piece of steak. So what do you do? You give them milk. You give them milk. This is why mothers, many mothers, you can't say all, but many mothers tend to breastfeed their children. It's God's built-in mechanism to nourish that child at that stage of life so that they have the nutrients, so that they can grow in a way that their body can receive. And the Apostle Paul, by using this analogy in verse 2, he's telling the Corinthians, look, you guys are not even ready yet to chew solid spiritual food. And because you're not ra ready and adequate to chew solid spiritual food, when it goes down, you don't even have the adequacy to extract the nutrients from solid, deep, spiritual teaching. Rather, you guys like infants need something far more basic. You need milk. Something far more foundational. Spiritual milk. Again, if being called a spiritual infant. wasn't humbling enough, you can imagine the humbling effect this would have had on the Corinthians who boasted in their gifts of knowledge and wisdom You might be tempted to think as you read this, well, he's talking to Gentiles. Of course they're spiritual infants. They didn't grow up necessarily with the Old Testament Like the Jewish people did, the Jewish people would have known. But if you go to Hebrews chapter 5, verses 12 to 14. You know, the author of Hebrews says something very similar to the Hebrew Christians or the Jewish Christians who were struggling under persecution and were tempted to go back to the old ways of Judaism. The author of Hebrews says this. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. He's saying that to Jewish believers who would have grown up with the Old Testament, who would have probably known it like the back of their hand, and he says that to them. He goes on to say, you need milk. That's solid food. For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil. So as we work through Paul's argument here, if if the Corinthians are spiritual infants and they need spiritual milk. Why is this the case? Why are they like that? Why are they the way they are? Why are they struggling? Well, we see the end of verse two continues to go on into verse three. We see the spiritual state of the Corinthians is rooted in the flesh. Again, look at the end of chapter, I'm sorry, verse two And even now you are not ready, beginning of verse 3, for you are still of the flesh. Again, let's just stop there. The answer as to why they're spiritually infants or infantile and why they spiritually need basic things is because they are operating out of the sinful nature. That's what's going on. Oftentimes when Paul uses the word flesh in his letters, not just the Corinthians, but many of his letters, he is referring to the sinful nature, or at very least. the outworking of that sinful nature. You can see that in Galatians chapter 5, verse 19. But the works of the flesh are evident. And then he gives this whole litany of the works of the flesh, right? In other words, the sinful nature that we're all born with working itself out. And so to sum it up so far, Paul is saying that they are not spiritually mature, but they're rather spiritual infants in need of spiritual milk because they're living more like those who live in the flesh than those who live in the spirit. There is a disconnect. They have come to Christ. They have received a new heart. But like many of us know from personal experience today. Just like just because we have Christ and the Spirit dwelling in us, the flesh is still indwelling in us. We theologians call this indwelling sin. Right? And there's this battle going on inside of us. And we're going to obey one or the other. We're going to lend our members as instruments. to sin and death or instruments of righteousness and life, as Paul says in Romans chapter 6. The Corinthians are falling into the flesh. They are living in the flesh. And so what does this look like practically for them? Well, look at the end of verse 3 and into verse 4. We see strife and the jealousy of the flesh. He says very clearly. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? That's a rhetorical question, by the way. The answer is obvious. Verse 4, he goes on to say, for when one says, I follow Paul, and another I follow Apollos, are you not being merely human? You see, clearly in verse 3, I don't think I have to say too much, strife and jealousy are expressions of the flesh. When you go back to chapter 1, verse 11, he's already addressed this, hasn't he? He's already started to address this, I should say. He says, for it has been reported to me by Chloe 's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. We've already seen this. The argument he's making here is that they're living and acting out of the spiritual nature from which God saved them out of. And that is the evidence, or the evidence of that is their jealousy and their strife. And they are not living consistently in the state of redemption that they have been called to and that they profess to believe. They're professing to be Christian. They're not living like it. They're living like the world. And we notice that strife and jealousy leads to divisions and factions. And he highlights the fact that they are following simply earthly leaders rather than Jesus Christ. You can really amend verse 4 to say it like this. This is what you would call a dynamic equivalent translation. It's not literal, but it really gets at the point and the nuance of what he's making. with a punch. Some of you say, I am of Paul or I am of Apollos. If you're going to follow a mere man, doesn't that show that you are being merely human and acting out of the sinful human nature? That's the gist of what verse 4 is getting at. And the way that Paul words this when he says, I am of Paul and I am of Apollos in the original Greek, highlights that what they're saying essentially is that they themselves are the property or the possession of Paul or Apollos. I not only follow them, this person, I'm possessed by them like property. Kind of almost sounds like a cult leader, doesn't it? That's the gist of what Paul is dealing with here. And he's seeking to correct this, but before he corrects it He has to expose the spiritual immaturity of it. He has to expose how foolish this sounds, and that's what he's doing. And so as we think about applying this today to ourselves here at Liberty Church in the 21st century, how does our passage diagnose the cause of division in the local church? What do we need to take away from this? The cause of division comes foundationally from the sinful nature, which is then expressed through strife and jealousy in the body. That's a very simple idea for application to tease out. But think about this. Think about the humbling reality of spiritual immaturity. If this passage was meant to be a reality check of humility for the Corinthians who heard firsthand the ministry and the teaching of the apostles, how much more for us today? Maybe you're sitting there and you're thinking to yourself that you are more spiritually mature than you really are. I mean it's easy to do. It's easy to think that we're more mature spiritually than we really are I remember not to make too light of the point, but I remember years ago I was talking with one of my former mentors who's passed away now. Um he was probably 66 or 67 when we had this conversation. Uh, he had just retired. I was I think my first year of Bible college or something like that and he we were talking about like just ministry and what that might look look for me going forward and I said to him, Yeah, I'm still praying about what I what I want to do when I grow up. Which is kind of a weird thing for a twenty one, twenty two year old to say. You know. And I remember him looking at me with the straightest face, he s said to me, You know, I'm still praying about what I'm going to be when I grow up too. But it is so easy. You know, that that kind of humility is rare. It's so easy for us to think more highly of ourselves than we are, than we really should. It's so easy to think that we're more mature and have it together than we really do. Paul says in Romans 12, 3 For by the grace of God given to me, I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. And so as we think about this application, the kind of the first nuance of it that I would call you to this morning is to take an assessment, brothers and sisters, of Where you are with respect to your spiritual maturity in the Lord. This is not really an age thing, to be honest with you. I I've met in in my you know 20-something years of really intentionally walking with the Lord, I've met people who have been walking with the Lord, or so they say, for 40 years. And I think to myself, really? You can't tell. I would never say that of course. You say that inside, right? Um 'cause you want to be respectful. But you get the point I'm trying to make and then you you I've come across people who've been walking with the Lord for just a few years. And the spiritual maturity that they seem to have seems to defy their years and their experience level. And the question you have to ask yourself this morning as you think of taking that assessment of your own spiritual maturities, do you need to repent for thinking of too highly of yourself this morning? Maybe you do. One practical thing you can do to take an assessment of yourself spiritually is take a look at Galatians 5, 19 through 23. I already referenced Galatians 5, 19, but Broaden that out to 5, 19 to 23. Paul contrasts there the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. And really take and take an assessment in your own private time with the Lord and ask him to show you where you're really at spiritually. Lord, do I Do I seem to demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit and show Christian maturity in my life? Or does my life look more like the works of the flesh? Two of th two of them which he mentions here in this passage are jealousy and strife. Another thing you can do, another place to look to find a good assessment is 2 Peter 1 verses. 4 through 8. Peter, I call it Peter's version of the fruits of the Spirit. He lists a few different things, but what he essentially does is he lists a ton of things like faith and knowledge and and brotherly love and and virtue and he ends by saying like look if if these things are present in your life and they are increasing you have room for great confidence. And he ends that section by talking about make your calling and election sure. How do you do that? Taking the assessment of your life. Where are you at in relation to the Lord? But what if you're sitting here this morning and you look at yourself and you're you're really honest and you think, boy, I don't think I'm that spiritually mature at all, and I can admit that. What about you? What about me? What do I do? What if that's you? Well, Paul again gives us some wise counsel in Ephesians 4, verses 11 through 14. By the way, the whole book of Ephesians is about unity in the body, so I think that's relevant here. But here's what he says. He gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers. to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for building up the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God. It's a mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children that interesting Tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes. Okay, you're thinking, why did you say all that? Um, you know, if you don't feel like you're spiritually mature, you know one of the best things you can do to mature really quick? Jump in head first, dive in to the body of Christ and start serving some way, shape, or form. I had a conversation with um some of you know right after General Assembly I went home this past summer in uh June And I married off a friend of mine that I discipled for several years in Illinois before I came here Uh it's always really uh a blessing for me to get to do weddings like that for people I've discipled. Um because you you see the maturity in these these young men and I don't usually know their brides as well, but Um, I called this young guy this week. It's the first time since I married them off that I got to talk to him and I always ask people that um I know that get married, I always ask 'em a couple months in when I see them or talk to them. So what's something that you see the Lord teaching you now that you're married, that he didn't teach you when you were single? And uh this guy did not disappoint. He kind of said what I thought he was going to say. He he said, man, I'll tell you. It's been very humbling. Number one. Um, but in in a good way. He said, you know, you don't realize how immature you are when you're single. And I'm single, so I said, you don't say. Okay, tell me more. And he said, you know, it's just that I I had to take stock of of how I was using my time And this guy's really into comic books and and loves the Marvel comic movies and DC movies and all that. I mean You could ask them about this storyline or that and he just knows the storyline and I used they used to kind of drive me up the wall because I kind of I told them one time, dude, you need to grow up and You know, men don't really care about we we can enjoy the movies, but we don't really care. That's not our life, you know. And he said, you know, I had to start thinking about how I'm using my time. Because I'm realizing that my wife requires that I serve her. And I have to die to certain things that I didn't even think about when I was single. But do you see the point here? That I'm the comparison I'm making? If you feel like you're spiritually immature this morning and you're you you have no bones about being prideful about spiritually being spiritually mature And you know you need to grow, what's one of the ways you can do that? Talk to one of your talk to your shepherding elder. Because the more you serve, the more the Lord will continue to humble you, keep you on your knees, but also grow you in grace and in Christ. Christ. And I think Paul will get there in chapter twelve when he talks about spiritual gifts, but he's given us a little glimpse of that here. And it applies to us today. Because when we look at um The idea of strife and jealousy coming from the sinful nature. I I have to I have to mention that because I'd be remiss if I didn't talk about that in some way, shape, or form. We have to understand that both strife and jealousy in the local church, when it is present in the local church, stands as a rebuke to that local church or any group of believers. And that factors into how we assess ourselves of our spiritual maturity. Do we have strife with others? Are we the facilitator of contention and jealousy in the body of Christ? And if there is, how do we handle that? Where where do we start? Do you start by going to the person you have a problem with? No. You start by looking at yourself. Paul says in Galatians 5, I know I mentioned already Galatians 5, 19 through 23. Do you know what he says in 24? And then I'm going to skip to verse 26? Immediately after talking about the fruit of the Spirit and contrasting that with the works of the flesh, he says this: And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Let us not become this is verse twenty-six. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another Just remember, strife always finds a starting point in jealousy. And jealousy obviously comes from things like envy and coveting. When you see those things cropping up in your life, in your heart. The best thing you can do as far as your sanctification is concerned is to bring that to the cross and violently crucify it. Because if you don't, that sin will snowball out of control, and it will become bec it will start to affect other people in the body of Christ or in your family and those who you're who are close to you. So, as we think about division in the body being rooted in the flesh, does Paul leave us there? No, he carries the point on in verses 5 through 9, which is our second point, unity in God's sovereign role in salvation. Unity in God's sovereign role in salvation. We see in verses 5 through 8, God's sovereignty in bringing the growth in the body. He picks the argument up right where he left off in verse 4. In verse 4, he mentions some of you say, I am of Paul, I am of Apollos. Notice what he does in verse 5. He picks the up the same point. What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants. Through whom you believe as the Lord assigned to each What is he highlighting there? He's highlighting the sovereignty of God over the servants in verse 5. In order to debunk any hints that the Corinthians belonged to either Paul or Apollos, Paul sets the record straight that look At the end of the day, we're all just servants of the Lord. And when he adds that he and Apollos are merely servants , As the Lord assigned, he says, to each. The verb assigned could be given. In other words, what he's saying here is the Lord in his sovereignty has assigned to me and to Apollos each our task Each our sphere of ministry, and we are merely the instruments in God's hand through whom teaching and preaching has come to you so that you might believe. Notice what Paul does here. He does not boast about his apostolic standing among these people and say, you need to listen to me. I'm the leader, I'm the apostle. He doesn't do that. He doesn't look at Apollos and say, look at him. Do you remember? This guy refuted all the Jews in the synagogue, and look how eloquently he speaks. He doesn't do that. He says, No. We're just servants through whom you believed. That's it. So we see the sovereignty of God over his servants in verse 5. We see in verses 6 through 8 the sovereignty of God in the work of the gospel. Look at verse 6. He says, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. Now obviously when you talk about planting, you're talking about seeds. In this case, the seed is the word of God that came through preaching and teaching. Paul did that in his missionary journey when he went to Corinth in Acts 18, 1 to 17. When he spent that year and a half there planting the seeds, constantly planting, that's what Paul did. Clearly Apollos at some point after him came behind him and ministered for some time among them, were He continued on Paul's work and continued building on that foundation that Paul had laid. But Paul's point is clear. Despite our labors, he says, God is the one who causes the growth. Yeah, I can plant. Yeah, he can water. But none of us really made this happen. God is the one who caused the growth. Verse 7 works out the implication for this for ministry. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but God only who gave the growth. In other words, not only are they just instruments in God's hands, they are nothing because they can only plant and water the seed of God's word among the people. They cannot make the seed grow by their own power. Only God can cause that growth And so that's where the last clause in verse 7, when he says, But only God who causes the growth, that is a present participle. And you've heard me use these words over and over again. A participle is an ING word, like walking. Eating, sleeping. It's something that's going on. And so when he uses that in the present tense, what he's saying to the Corinthians is like, look, what I started, well Apollos continued, God continues in your midst. He is continuing to make the seed grow. It's a timeless, general, continuing fact. And he drives the point home in verse 8 for the Corinthians regarding their divisions. He who plants and he who waters are one. And each one will receive his wages according to his labor. So the irony here, this is what he's getting at. Just as they're dividing over the ministry and the influence of Paul and Apollos. in the flesh. Paul's rebuking them essentially saying, Look, the very people you are dividing over are the same people who were united in this one same gospel for the work of the one same Christ and his glory among you. Don't divide over those who are united and working together. It's foolish And so not only that, God's sovereignty also comes up again because he says the Lord is the one who rewards the laborer according to his wages. So, what's the implication in verse 9? He summarizes the point. We see God's sovereignty over the church, not just over causing the growth. He says in verse 9: for we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field. The field kind of goes along with the analogy of the seeds, right? The planting, watering. But then he ends shifting the analogy and setting us up for next time. He says, You are God's building. But the point is very clear. Because they're one in watering and planting and all the work that they've done cultivating the soil in the Corinthian church And God causing the growth, because all of that has to happen, he says that they are God's fellow workers. And the word fellow workers in the original Greek is the word sunergoi, which is where we get our word synergy from. Do you know what synergy means? Just simply means working together. Working together. Later on, Paul, at the end of the Great Resurrection chapter, and Chapter 15, Paul will encourage the Corinthians that this even though we live under the shadow of death this side of eternity, because of the resurrection of Christ, he says, your labors are not in vain. Why are they not in vain? Well you come back to here. Because you are God's fellow workers. We are God's fellow workers. So how does our passage counsel the way back to unity in a local church that might be struggling with division? This is kind of a long idea, so bear with me. We find the way back to unity by acknowledging that there is nothing that we can do in our own power to cause people to come to Christ or grow the church, and yet by acknowledging that we are God's fellow workers in the mission of the gospel. Sounds like two antit antithetical ideas, doesn't it? By acknowledging that there's nothing we can do in our own power to cause people to come to Christ, and yet by acknowledging that we are God's fellow workers in the mission of the gospel. What do you do with that? You keep to maybe you're asking, you're thinking to yourself, what are you giving me here? Well, the sovereignty of gr God brings the growth at liberty. Let's just talk about liberty. That's where we're at. Paul's talking to a church. I'm talking to a church. In the body of Christ, it's easy to divide over the different people we look up to, which only hinders the unity of the body and the success of the mission of the gospel. But the one thing I want to remind you this morning is that we are all on the same team. As a church, we're all on the same team. It drives me crazy as a pastor when I hear other people talk about certain pastors that they like and then some that they don't like Because of the way they preach. I'm serious. I have people, oh, I love that guy. I just love the way he preaches. Okay, well that's good. That of the pastor, I wish he'd preach like this, or I wish he did this or this. Keep thinking to myself, really? It's like falling into the spirit that these people fell into in this passage. Like, who cares? Do you realize that whether you're talking like me or Pastor Jared or Phil Lamboy who sometimes fills our pulpit or any other guest preacher that comes here, look, the only thing you need to be concerned with is are they faithful in actually preaching what is in the passage? God has gifted very different men in very different ways to accomplish the same purpose. At the end of the day, you know what we are? Jared and I, I'm gonna use you and I as an example because we're the pastors here. Jared and I are just like we're like two servers in the house. We're like butlers and you know every week there's like a feast that the master puts on and it is our job to come out and hold the tray, right? And you guys are all sitting at the table, you know, and we're there to serve you, and we're holding the tray. And when I hear people compare one pastor to another, uh and it's not like, well, whether they're faithful or not, it's just how they preach. To me it's I'm just hearing this like it's like, well, I like the way this guy held the tray. He held it at a little bit of an angle. Uh this guy, he took it down a little bit like this. It's like, who cares? Did you get the food? I just want to remind you, we are all on the same page as a church, right? And as we think about being on the same page as part of a local church, I want you to know that as your pastor, I want you to grow in as much maturity spiritually as possible. I want to see you guys remain as spiritually faithful to Jesus and grow in your love to Jesus as possible. I want your marriages to succeed. As I watch you have children and raise your children, I want to see you succeed and be successful in planting the seed of God's word in your children. And watch them grow up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Because at the end of the day, the more you grow, the more you succeed spiritually, the more blessed I am as your pastor because of it. You know what one of my greatest joys in being a pastor is? Serving you guys and watching the Lord work in your lives. It's one of my greatest joys. And I would hope that you would pray for my faithfulness and the work that God has. given me to do. I would hope that you would pray for Pastor Jared's faithfulness and success in in the work and the ministry that God has given him. I would hope that you would pray for your ruling elders and your deacons and other ministry directors and volunteers Why? Because we are all under the sovereignty of our God in our work as a local church, and that should bring us tremendous unity and deference for one another. But we also see by way of application the sovereignty of God in his, I'm going to call it his synergy with us, his working together with us. One of the things, if you know anything about Reformed theology, you don't hear the word synergy that often. You hear monergism. And we usually use that word to indicate that salvation is entirely from beginning to end the work of God. That you bring nothing to the table of your salvation with one exception, your sin. Which you need to be saved from. Right? And that is true. We do see very clearly that God is the one Who brings the spiritual work and effect of the gospel in our lives to fruition. You see that at the end of verses 6 You see that at the end of verse 7, you know, Paul says, I planted Apollo's water, God gave the growth. God is the one who opened your eyes, chapter 2, to see and understand spiritual things. He's the one who drew you to faith. Interestingly enough, um James this morning, and he didn't know I was gonna do this either, in Sunday school, um was talking about John chapter six, and I I noticed something that caught my attention. He didn't bring it up And probably better for him that he didn't, because it's harder to understand. But in verses 28 and 29, there's an interesting turn of phrase that makes this point that salvation is a work of God in him alone. The Jews asked Jesus, what must we do, verse 28, to work or do the works of God? And clearly, what the Jews had in mind when they say the works of God is what must we do to do works for God? God is the object for which we are serving and working for. What must we do, Jesus? He turns that phrase, works of God, very subtly in verse 29. And he said, the work of God. . . Is that, or this is the work of God, that you believe in the one whom he has sent. In other words, he turns that phrase work of God not from work you are doing for God, but this is the work that God is doing that results in your faith. Isn't that interesting? Yes, salvation is a work of God and God alone. And yet at the same time, when some people hear that, they're tempted to think, And I'm bringing this right back to the whole serving the Lord and the body issue. I'm bringing this back to the Great Commission, what Paul's talking about, planting and watering. There are people that hear that and say if salvation is only the work of God, and that includes, by the way, election or predestination, why bother doing any ministry whatsoever? Why serve? Why go out and share the gospel if God is going to do it anyway? What do you say to that? I mean after all, Pastor Lira, you did say, and Paul said in verse 9, that we are fellow workers of God. Doesn't that disprove what you're saying? No, it doesn't. Yes, salvation is the work of God But understand, brothers and sisters, God ordains the means and the ends. And what is the means by which God has ordained? That we are his fellow workers. As you think about discipling your children, understand parents, you are God's fellow workers in that task. As you serve the larger body of Christ here at Liberty, you are God's fellow worker. Doesn't that give a tremendous value to what you bring to the table? And I want to encourage you this morning that as you seek to share the gospel with people around you, whether they're in your house, your family, extended family, friends, neighbors, coworkers. Wherever God gives you a sphere of influence, remember the results are not your responsibility. You are not made to bear that burden. Your faithfulness is your responsibility. But the fact that we are fellow workers with God should produce in us a boldness And a confidence in knowing that ultimately our work will not fail. And the fact that we are fellow workers of God should allow us to rally around one another in greater unity as the local church here at Liberty, because we're all on the same team, and that is Team Jesus. Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do come before you. We are so thankful. Not only, Lord, do you call us into fellowship with you this morning to present ourselves before you this morning and to enjoy your presence during this time. But Lord, you also call us to be your fellow workers. Lord, we know that you are doing things that we cannot possibly understand or comprehend exhaustively, but that doesn't mean that we are completely ignorant. You call us, O Lord, to participate in the work of redemption in this world. And we pray, O Lord, that you would give us a boldness to stand on the foundation of Christ Not on the foundation of any other mere human being, but to understand we have a role But you bring the growth. Lord, we submit all of these things in our lives, all of our efforts. We submit them to you because you are sovereign, O Lord, and we need you to work in us and through us. We ask this in Jesus' name