Well a common phrase that you may have heard is that the night is darkest just before dawn. The night is darkest just before dawn. I think that that particular phrase really fits well with what is going on in this passage. What was the dark night that we're talking about here? The dark night was the fact that the Son of God was put to death on a cross Friday afternoon. And as we, if you were here for Good Friday, we looked at that here in the Gospel of Matthew and we focused on one thing, the darkness that pervaded the land from noon to 3 p. m. An unusual and supernatural darkness signifying the judgment of God on sin as Jesus was dying on the cross for sinners. Think about the hopes that that many of Jesus' followers had, that they they nurtured for three years as they watch heard him teach, as they watched him do miracles only to see it come crashing down from their point of view as their Messiah was crucified on a cross. And taken down and put into a a tomb. And they had to wait a whole day and Really celebrate a Sabbath right after the death of their Messiah. Hopes that were dashed. Dreams that were crushed of what could be. That's the darkness of the night that we're talking about when we talk about night is darkest just before the dawn. But in this passage we see the dawn come. with great hope. In fact, when we look at this particular passage, the main idea is this. We must seriously consider the testimony, and I would maybe pluralize that, the testimonies to the resurrection. And how those testimonies call us to respond today. That's what Matthew is trying to accomplish in this passage by writing this under the inspiration of the Spirit. And I'll go ahead and repeat that. We must seriously consider the testimonies to the resurrection and how those testimonies call us to respond today. If you're visiting with us or you're unfamiliar with how we do things here, you'll see on kind of the bottom of page five we put that sermon idea right there in the bulletin for you to remind yourself of as we work our way through passages. of Scripture, because that is the passage we want to unfold this morning. And really I want to break it down into two sections. The first this morning is this: the testimonies of the resurrection. Now, the big picture testimony here that Matthew is pointing out is the testimony of the women, which in a Jewish culture is significant enough. But I want to highlight four things that these women experienced, four historical facts that impress themselves on these women, that form testimonies that we need to take seriously this morning. And the first is the testimony of the empty tomb. The empty tomb. We see this mentioned in verses 1 and 2. We see the angel allude to it in verse 6. But in order to understand the empty tomb, we've got to look at the context of the tomb. And to do that, I would draw your attention to the verses just before Matthew 28, 1, particularly Matthew 27, 62 to 66. Now for the sake of our time this morning, I'm not going to read through that and I'm not going to say everything there is to say about that, thankfully. I just want to highlight a few things there. Um, Matthew is a gospel, is the only gospel that tells the story about the uh Jewish religious leaders coming to Pilate and asking him for a guard on the tomb to seal it. Matthew is the only one of the four Gospels that includes that, and we want to pay special attention to that. We look at verse 64 of Matthew 27 specifically. to see that the goal of setting a guard and a seal on the tomb was to prevent a fraudulent lie by the disciples who might come and steal the body. It's interesting that when you look at the gospels, and this is true of all four of them, the way they present the facts, it seems that the twelve disciples, and then you minus Judas, the eleven that are remaining. They seemed to miss the point and the significance and the meaning of what the resurrection was going to be about. They didn't seem to get it. And yet the Jewish religious leaders, ironically, seemed to understand exactly what Jesus was claiming. That's why they went with a request to Pilate. They assumed or thought that the disciples might come by night and steal Jesus' body and then make a fraudulent claim that he rose from the dead. And so they understood that the tomb was ground zero for any claim that the disciples might make to Jesus rising from the dead. And so that context of the importance of the tomb is important for us as we come to Matthew 28, verses 1 and 2. In fact, take a look at verse 1 again. Now, after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, that would be Sunday in the Jewish calendar. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. Notice the purpose for them going. Matthew says it very simply. To go and see the tomb. Now maybe you might wonder, well, what do they want to go see the tomb for? Well, this is where scripture interpreting scripture comes in handy. We can look at Matthew and Luke in their gospel accounts of the resurrection and Mark 16. 1 and then Luke 23 , 56 and 24, 1, they gave it a little bit of a different purpose And it's not a contradiction, it just adds flavor to the story. Their purpose is to bring the spices, the aromas, and the things that they had prepared to complete the process of anointing Jesus' body for burial. Remember, if Jesus dies at 3 p. m. The Sabbath begins at 6 p. m. That gives them a three-hour window of time. To take Jesus' body down, prepare it, and put it in a tomb Friday night for burial before the Sabbath. You can imagine when you've got to go and ask Pilate for the body. Pilate asked to send a guard. to make sure that Jesus is actually dead before he gives the body. You know, the t amount of time you really have to prepare Jesus' body is very minimal. And on top of that, in that culture and time, it was common for women to prepare bodies for burial in first century Jewish culture. So this is not unheard of that they'd be going to do this, but notice what happens in verse 2 as we look at the tomb. So we see the context of the tomb, the purpose of going to the tomb, to anoint his body and complete the burial process so that they can lay him to rest. Verse 2, we see something about the stone and the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake For an angel of the Lord had descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. Uh that that's a a really important detail because in in the other gospel accounts as the women are going to the tomb They're asking one another on the way there as they're talking, who's going to roll away the stone for us so that we can go in and anoint the body? And we find here that an angel from heaven came and it took him to do it. William Lane Craig, uh noted apologist in his book The Sun Rises. The historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus says this about the stone in the tomb. In a very expensive tomb, a round disc -shaped stone could be rolled down a slanted groove and across the door of the tomb. Although it would be easy to close the tomb, it would require several men to roll the stone back up the groove to open it. Only a few tombs with such disc-shaped stones have been discovered in Palestine, but they all date from Jesus' day. Now what's the point of the empty tomb? When you look at the witnesses and the testimonies and the historical facts around the resurrection. What is the point? Well got you gotta remember who is Matthew writing for? Matthew is writing for Jews in the first century who likely lived in Palestine and would have been familiar with the environs of Jerusalem. And so the Jews of the first century who would have read Matthew's gospel, hearing about Jesus' crucifixion and resurrection. could have gone to Jerusalem, they could have found the tomb of Jesus, and they could have verified for themselves that it was in fact empty. That's the force of this particular strand of of testimony or evidence. It could have been verified for themselves. In fact, in Acts chapter 2, verse 29, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he says in his sermon that they have the tomb of David, that they could go see that David was still buried. And if they had the tomb of David, which would have been a thousand years old by that point, how much more could the Jews have have verified this fact that the tomb was empty? Which then would require an explanation How did it get empty or why was it empty? And that leads to our second testimony or strand of evidence this morning. Looking at verse 4, the testimony of the guards. We have the testimony of the empty tomb. Now we have the testimony of the guards. And if you look at verse four, it's it's really kind of interesting. For fear of him, that's the angel, by the way, the guards trembled and became like dead men. Now that seems like such a passing statement, doesn't it? Why would you focus on the testimony of the guards? Because there's more to the guards than you would think on a surface-level reading of this particular passage. And again, just like we gave the context for the tomb, we've got to give the context for the guards. What was the purpose of the guards? Well again go to verse 64 of Matthew 27. It was to prevent the disciples from stealing the body, as we've already said. But I want you to know something about these guards. There were different types of guards that were used in Jerusalem at this time. Think about when Jesus got arrested by night, Thursday night, going into Friday morning in the Garden of Gethsemane. Those were Jewish guards that were sent from the chief priests and the rulers and elders and the Sanhedrin of the people. These guards are different. There's a high level of vigilance that is required by these guards. There's a high level of discipline. And it's because they are Roman guards, not Jewish guards. Notice the guards don't come from the Sanhedrin or the Jewish religious leaders. The guards come from Pontius Pilate himself. They were granted from him. Which means they are highly trained. They know how to do their job. They are highly disciplined. And the reason that they are highly disciplined is if they fail in their job, they get the death penalty as a result. I can illustrate that when you look at Acts chapter 12, verse 19. Peter was arrested, put in prison. The angel lets him out of prison. What happens the next day when King Herod comes looking for Peter? and doesn't find him. He brings the guards in, examines them, and has them executed for failing their job. Or what about when Paul and Silas were in in the prison in the city of Philippi? And the great earthquake came and their bonds were broken. The guard comes in assuming that the prisoners had escaped, he pulls out his sword and he goes to kill himself before Paul says, Don't harm yourself. Why? Because that guard, as a Roman guard, knew if he failed his job, he would be put to death. And so there is a tremendous purpose in sending these guards. Highly trained, highly disciplined. The stakes are incredibly high around this testimony of the resurrection. We see the response in verse 4, as I read to you already. They fell down as dead men due to the fear of the angel. And that's highly ironic. Why? Well, think about what's going on again in the context of this story. You have guards who are alive by definition. going to guard a tomb of a man who is supposed to be dead. And at the tomb of the man who's supposed to be dead, when he rises from the dead, these guards then appear in fear to to be dead men themselves. Matthew is trying to lay off for us the irony of the resurrection, and the irony of this particular test. And it gets even more ironic when you look at verses eleven through fifteen, which again I'm not going to read in detail, but the guards go and they report what they saw to the Jewish religious leaders. Again, remember they don't go to Pontius Pilate, because Pontius Pilate would likely have them executed for failing to actually guard the tomb successfully. They cannot give an account for where the body is. They can only give an account for the fact that the tomb is empty, and they can say what happened. And so what do they where do they go? They go to the Jewish religious leaders. And the Jewish religious leaders pay them off and say, you know, if anyone asks you, just say that the disciples came at night and stole the body. And what we'll do is we'll keep you out of trouble with the governor. Now that's highly ironic because they were put there for a purpose. The purpose didn't stand according to verse 4. Now they go and they bear witness to those who hated Jesus the most, that Jesus was gone and the tomb was empty. What a testimony And then when you think about it, the lie gets even worse because if you if you spread this rumor that the disciples came and stole the body, despite the fact that you did everything to make sure that that didn't happen, and it happened, the body's gone. That begs the question, well then how did the disciples get in and actually steal the body? The lie begins to beg some questions And when you start digging into those questions, you cannot escape the fact that the guards fell asleep. Well then that begs the other question, well then how did the rumor get started? Well the guards went and told the Jewish religious leaders And then why are the guards still alive when legally they should have been put to death? Do you understand the power of this particular testimony? The lie , when you start digging into it and peeling back all the layers, testifies more and more and more clearly to the truth of the resurrection of Jesus. And so we see in verse four a passing testimony of the guards, which actually carries great profound truth. We see the third testimony in verses two through six is the testimony of the angel. The testimony of the angel. No, you gotta imagine again the women come to the tomb, they find it empty. What happened? Where is the body? They don't know. But the angel is there. And it's interesting when you look at verse three, the way the angel 's described after coming down and Removing the stone. His appearance was like lightning and his clothing white as snow. Wow. And he tells these women in verses five to six, do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He's not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come see the place where he lay. Let me stop there really quick. As we look at this testimony. He basically announces to the women the resurrection. And it's interesting how he words it. When he says, you know, you're looking, I know that you're looking for Jesus who was crucified. He's acknowledging that Jesus was truly dead. He tells them, I know you're seeking Jesus. He knows what their purpose in coming was, despite them not telling him what their purpose is. which again alludes to his angelic origin. But this particular strand of evidence or factual historical detail includes something supernatural. And what's interesting in verse 6 he shows the women the empty tomb. That builds on the testimony of the empty tomb. Because Jesus' body is not there. But if we're reading this carefully and methodically, we're still asking ourselves, well then where is Jesus? We're being told he rose from the dead. Where is he? Well look at verses nine and ten. This is the fourth strand of evidence. The testimony of Jesus Himself. Now, what's really interesting is when you look at what the angels say and when you look at what Jesus says, is they roughly say the same thing. They proclaim the resurrection and they tell the women what to do about it. But there's one detail in verse 9 I want to draw your attention to that again is very easy to just skim over. Verse nine, and behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. Well, that's nice. That wasn't a joke. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Now the detail that is is easy to miss, skim over is the fact that they hold on to his feet. And what that tells you is that this appearance of Jesus to these women, it's not like they're just seeing some ghost or some spirit or some something immaterial. That you can put your hand through like an apparition. They are are encountering Jesus in his physical literal body. So physical, so physical, so real, that they can hold on to his feet as they bow down and worship him. And by the way, holding on to his feet shows a measure of desperation that they have been feeling and experiencing after his death. They're clinging to him because they do not want to lose him again. But this is the point that Jesus rose physically, bodily, literally, and historically, and that has been part and parcel of the Christian profession of faith. since the beginning. If Jesus just rised as some spirit creature, that's not a resurrection. This is a resurrection. So we ask ourselves by way of application, why did Matthew record these factual testimonies for us today? Well I think the answer to that All of these four testimonies have a dual purpose. First, to call us to faith in Jesus as the resurrected Messiah. And secondly, to challenge the unbelief of those who do not believe that Jesus truly rose from the dead. Think about that for just a moment. Think about the factual testimonies to the resurrection and the fact that they call us to faith in Jesus Christ. On Good Friday, we looked at the immediate events leading up to Jesus' death on the cross, and then the immediate events after that followed before his body was taken down from that cross. And I I'd mention how the Jewish disciples would have likely had their messianic hopes and dreams crushed when their Messiah was killed brutally in in a humiliating fashion on that cross. Well the factual testimonies of the empty tomb, the guards, the angel, and Jesus himself were intended to offset the crushing blow that they experienced. Just days before. They're meant to call the Jews in the first century and us today to faith So I want to give an encouragement and then a call here. Let me give some encouragement this morning to believers. If you're here this morning and you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you've been converted to faith in him, these factual testimonies are intended this morning by Matthew, who inspired him through the Holy Spirit to write them. to build up your confidence that your faith is not some pie in the sky affair. Now when you talk to unbelievers Unbelievers often make the mistaken assumption that Christians have some kind of blind faith. Let me just say the Bible never sanctions, never once encourages blind faith. Christian? Christian? This is meant to encourage you. You do not have a blind faith. Your faith corresponds to the facts of history and the facts of reality as they are. It's not made up. It's not imaginary. It is real. That's why these facts are laid out for us. It's meant to encourage you. Living in a world that is hostile to everything we believe. That what we believe is real. Secondly, there's a call here to the unbeliever. Maybe you are here this morning and you have not yet come to faith in the risen Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Well, these facts call you to respond by believing that Jesus died for your sins and that he rose from the dead The Apostle Paul writes this in Romans chapter ten, verses nine and ten. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. The call is there for you. The facts are there. What will you do with it? That leads to the factual testimonies to the resurrection. challenging unbelief. Now this is something that not a lot of Christians or preachers or even apologists put forward, but I think it's there. We Christians are usually put on the defensive having to explain and prove what we believe. And I I understand that. But the facts surrounding the resurrection are facts. And if they're going to be denied, then those facts must be explained away. Notice what that does. That does not put the onus on the Christian. That puts the onus on the unbeliever. The facts of the facts If you're going to deny them, then this is an open challenge to your unbelief. You must explain it away. And explain it consistently. Now, because I'm not an unbeliever, I'm not put in that position. I don't have to speak for that this morning. I laid out the facts. But that leads us to our second point this morning. The factual there is a testimony, but the testimony requires a response. Now this is where it gets interesting because again, from the Christian worldview, rooted in Scripture. Yes, facts are there and they're real, but facts always must be responded to. No, it's interesting how we see the women. I don't want to focus on the women here. How the women in the story respond to the facts. I want to look at first the response of fear. There's going to be three of them. The response of fear is one. See this in verse 5, 8, and 10. Now fear is mentioned four times. We've already talked about the guards, so I'll leave them out now. Let's focus on the women. It's talked about three times. Look at verse 5. We see the fear of the unknown. Again in verse 5, the angel says to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. Interesting that he addresses them where they are. Emotionally. Existentially. What they're going through in that moment. Do not be afraid. Why would they be afraid? Well again, in short order, remember there'd be fears that come up to an open tomb that they expected to be sealed and closed. Otherwise they wouldn't have been having this discussion on the way there. Who's going to remove the stone for us? Oh. Wait. Wait. The stone's already gone. What what happened here? Then there'd be fears they don't know where the body is. You see that really laid out well in John's Gospel. Even before all all this interaction with the angel happens, they freak out and they run back and they tell the disciples, They've taken the Lord's body and I don't know where he is. And then fear. And then fear. As they see an angel. I mean look at the description in verse 3. That says it all. And isn't it interesting? Because in the Bible, whenever an angel shows up, it's never like these little cupid things you see in a card. Cute and lovely, it's always frightening. Angels have a habit of telling people when they meet them in the Bible, do not be afraid. So there's the fear of the unknown in verse five. There's the fear of the uncertain in verse eight. Again, look at verse 8. After they go, they depart quickly from the tomb, after hearing what the angel says, with fear and great joy, they ran to tell his disciples. There's fear. What are the disciples going to say to them? Are the disciples going to believe them? Or are they going to come across as crazy? Fear of the unexpected. Fear of the uncertain. Fear of the unexpected in verse 10. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Let me stop there really quick. That's the first thing he says. That's the same thing the angel said. Why would they be afraid? Because they did not expect to find Jesus. The angel just told them he's going to Galilee. They didn't expect to find him along the way. They're probably wondering, did he really rise from the dead? But he did. So there's fear. There's joy in verse 8. Look at again at verse 8. They go quickly from the tomb with fear, but notice that and great joy. Why would these women have great joy? Well Think about it. The crushing blow to your faith of seeing your Messiah crucified and then seeing him right in front of you and having him announced by an angel that he had risen from the dead. He wasn't dead as they thought. What does that mean? That means, secondly, he conquered death. And thirdly, their faith has been vindicated in his resurrection. They're not defeated people. So we have fear, we have joy, but look at the response of proclamation in verse 7 and 10. Again, the angel and then Christ say the same thing. In verse seven. The angel says, then go quickly and tell the disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. They're to proclaim to the disciples that Jesus has risen from the dead. Why? So that to tell them, go to Galilee, you'll see Jesus there. By the way, if you really think about it, if you're reading between the lines of the story, Jesus told his disciples As they were about to go out to the Mount of Olives, where he would be then arrested at the Garden of Gethsemane. He tells them that they're all going to deny him, but after they all return, in other words, when they repent, he will go before them into Galilee. These women weren't there when he said that. So for them to come and say, go to Galilee, he will meet you there, that should have been confirming enough for the disciples. But then we see Jesus say to them in verse ten, not only do not be afraid, he says the same thing. Go and tell, but he doesn't say my disciples, he says my brothers. Notice he says the same thing except for that. My brothers. Go tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me as well. What happens when they go to Galilee? Well you see that at the end of the book , the disciples will then be sent out to proclaim the same truth. We see this in the Great Commission. Go therefore. Make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. So brothers and sisters, what is the response today for us to the resurrection? What does it call us to? Well the response of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead should fill us with the fear of the Lord, but also with comfort, with great joy that overflows in the desire to tell others what happened. Now while we are calling them the fear of the Lord, I want to latch on to what the angel said and what Jesus said to the women when he says, do not fear. Now fear is the response that many of us naturally have in common with these women when they first went to the tomb. We also fear the unknown, we fear the uncertain, and we fear the unexpected. And I want to I want to just say like tease this out in two different ways. One, I want to be very broad, and then two, I want to be specific to Liberty Church. Broadly speaking, Christians in general fear sharing their faith in Jesus and sharing the gospel with other believers. We do, don't we? Much like the women. We tend to fear what people might think of us. We tend to fear how sharing the gospel might come across unbelievers. Are we going to offend them? Parenthetically, let me add maybe How will it affect our relationships with friends and family? Relationships that we treasure and prize and value. Or. I've heard this from many Christians. What if I get asked the question and I don't know the answer? Again, let me just say parenthetically, then you don't know the answer. That's okay. Just tell them that. These are there are all kinds of unknowns and uncertainties and unexpected things that come up in following Jesus in the midst of unbelievers. Brothers and sisters, the encouragement this morning for you is do not fear. Don't be afraid. Why? Because Christ has conquered the grave. And notice what he says at the end of that great commission. I am with you always to the end of the age. Wherever he sends you, whatever you're doing in life, Christ promises to be with you when you walk with him. And that's rooted in the truth and the glory of the resurrection. Let me get really specific to Liberty Church here. How does this apply to us? Dealing with fear and unexpected things. Well to be very blunt, we had nine members pass away in 2025. We've had two pass away already this year. One very, very recently. And when our loved ones pass away, or as we ourselves face sickness and death, look, there are all kinds of unknowns, all kinds of uncertainties. All kinds of things that unexpectedly come up in that process. But I want to encourage you this morning that God 's word speaks to us very clearly. Do not be afraid. Jesus has conquered the grave. And when we grieve and when we mourn the people that we have lost, and we have lost as a church. Jesus is able to guard those we entrust to him for the day of redemption. Our loved ones who knew Jesus are safe and secure in his hands. And his they're in his presence. Why? Because he has conquered the grave. Do not be afraid. And that leads to the question of our second application here. Great joy. Joy. Do you have joy this morning? I heard someone say yes, praise the Lord. Okay, someone else said yes. Glad to hear that. The resurrection of Jesus Christ, brothers and sisters, is meant to fill us with joy this morning, and it's rooted in a hope of something that has already begun, but something that we don't see fully realized yet. That's what the resurrection of Christ is. It's like a down payment that is going to come to fruition later on. The Apostle Peter writes this in 1 Peter 1, verse 8. Though you have not seen him, remember he's writing to Gentile Christians who did not see the historical Jesus, though you have not seen him, what? You love him. Though you do not now see him, by the way, that puts us in the same category, doesn't it? Though you do not now see him , You believe in him with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. And then he goes on in verse 9 to say, obtaining is the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. You read First Peter, chapter one, verses three through ten this week. And it points us to a salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last times with the promise that we are kept through the power of faith for that salvation. Joy. We can have joy this morning in knowing that our deepest faith and hopes in Christ is in someone who's conquered death on our behalf in his own resurrection. That leads to our final application, telling others what God has done. Let's just say that might be the hardest one, maybe, for us to do this morning. But I want to encourage you as you go off from here Ask the Lord this week whom he would send you to or whom he would put in your path in order to share the hope of Jesus and the gospel. And there's many ways you can do that. You can either have the conversation with them. Maybe you send somebody a sermon or a podcast that was meaningful to you that might get a conversation going. There's any number of ways the Lord might give lead you to do this. But the important, and remember, the important thing is not to know all the answers. The important thing is that you know Jesus. And you want others to know him as well because he has risen from the dead. Leads us to our main idea, doesn't it? We must seriously consider these testimonies to the resurrection and how those testimonies call us to respond today. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. We are so thankful, O Lord, that you raised your Son from the dead. Lord, we have had the curse of death from the fall of Adam reigning in power and dominion over us until the cross. Well we thank you, O Lord, that in the death and the resurrection of your Son Jesus, as Paul says in Romans 6, death has no dominion over us any longer. Because we are alive in Christ. And Jesus, you are the resurrection and the life. And though we die in the flesh, We are alive in the Spirit, and one day we will rise again from the dead because you have risen from the dead, and we will be with you forever, and we will see you because we will be made like you. Lord, encourage us today with these truths we ask. Transform us through them. And create new life and vitality in our very souls. We ask this in Jesus