So you have your Bible with you. Would you turn please to the last chapter of the Gospel of John? John chapter 21. Pastor Berry mentioned Barb McKay, just for your information, she's at the Union Memorial Hospital recovering from knee replacement surgery. And also Dee Jones had surgery recently. I'm not sure if Bob and Dee are here today. Dee's recovering at home from foot surgery. So those two things didn't make it into the Bolton. Gospel of John chapter 21. Let's read the first 19 verses After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and in this way he showed himself. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing. And they said to him, We're going with you also. They went out and immediately got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning had now come, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said to them, Children, have you any food? They answered him, no. And he said to them, cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast. And now they were not able to draw it in because of the multitude of fish. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he had removed it, and plunged into the sea. But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from land, but about 200 cubits, that's about 100 yards, dragging the net with fish. Then, as soon as they had come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid on it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have just caught. Simon Peter went up and dragged the net to land full of large fish, 153. And although there were so many, the net was not broken. Jesus said to them, Come, I need breakfast. Yet none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you, knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then came and took the bread and gave it to them, and likewise the fish. This is now the third time Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he was raised from the dead. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him again, a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him again, the third time, Simon, son of Jonah. Do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Most assuredly, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished. But when you were old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you. and carry you where you do not wish. This he spoke, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said to them, Follow me. May God bless this portion of his inspired word to our hearts. Let's go to him in prayer. Lord, as we prepare to come to the Lord's table, we pray now that your word would feed us. Father, we are hungry. We are weary. Uh we are in need of your truth to strengthen us. And we do pray for those who might be here outside of Christ. May this be the day of salvation. for them. May there be rejoicing in the presence of the angels this day over a sinner who repents. We ask it in Jesus' perfect, holy, glorious name. Amen. Uh Jeff, I'm getting a little uh vibration up here. Maybe you could back the mic down just a bit Like uh many of you who grew up in this area, if you grew up here several decades ago anyway, uh I spent many happy hours at the Enchanted Forest in uh Ellicate City. a children's uh theme park. We went as a family, I think we took more than one field trip probably while I was in elementary school. For those of you who uh Who aren't familiar with it, it was a a park, uh a children's theme park, you might call it, with displays that depicted characters or scenes from fairy tales, from children's nursery rhymes or children's literature. It included, as I recall, anyway, at this point, three little pigs, Pinocchio, Hansel, and Gretel, and Humpty Dumpty. I want you to focus for a moment on Humpty Dumpty. You may have heard what happened to him. It was said that he was seated upon a wall. When someone, whether through uh uh somehow, whether through a strong gust of wind or a simple loss of balance or maybe a rock or a stone or uh or a shove from uh someone who was egg intolerant, Humpty Humpty fell. And you could call it a a great fall. And the first responders, all the king's horses and men, uh, may have had little or no medical training in in any event They weren't able to be of much help. In fact, it's believed that uh all those horses clamping around at the scene may have done more harm than good to uh the remains of Humpty But the end result was uh all those king's horses, all the king's men uh were reportedly unable to put Humpty together again. Now there are many believers who have at least one thing in common with humpty, and I'm not referring to body type I'm not referring solely to body type. Many of us have fallen tragically But what the king's horses and the king's men could not do in that nursery rhyme, the king himself can do in real life. He can put us together again and even make us stronger than we were before that great fall. For three years Peter had traveled with Jesus. He had heard his teaching, witnessed his miracles, experienced his mercy, his compassion, his holiness, his power. He had watched Jesus heal the blind with his word, the leper with his touch. He saw him feed the masses with five loaves of bread and two fish. He saw him suspend gravity by walking on a churning lake. Peter was there when Jesus raised a 12-year-old girl from the dead. He was there. Peter was there when the father declared Jesus to be his son, speaking from heaven on the mount of Metamorphosis. Peter had personally testified at Caesarea Philippi, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And on the evening of Jesus' arrest, he had proclaimed before the other disciples, though all men forsake you, Yet I will never forsake you. But when soldiers took Jesus to the palace of Caius, where Jesus was falsely accused, slapped, and spit upon, Peter failed his master miserably. Matthew chapter 26. Listen to verses 69 and following. Now Peter sat outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him saying, You also were with Jesus of Galilee. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you are saying. And when he had gone out to the gateway, another girl saw him and said to those who were there, This fellow also was with Jesus of Nazareth. But again he denied with an oath: I do not know the man. And a little later those who stood by came and said to Peter, Surely you are also one of them, for your speech betrays you. Then he began to curse and swear, saying, I do not know the man. Immediately a rooster crowed. And Peter remembered the word of Jesus who had said to him, Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. So he went out and wept bitterly. What a tragic fall. A man so privileged, sinking so low. If anyone had reason to think himself a failure, it was Peter. If anyone had cause to think he could never again be useful to the Lord Jesus, it was Peter. But after the resurrection, an angel at the tomb said to the women who had come with spices to anoint Christ's body, Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth who was crucified. He is risen. He's not here. See the place where they laid him. But go tell the disciples and Peter that he is going before you into Galilee. There you will see him, as he said to you. And on that same day, the scripture tells us that the Lord Jesus appeared to Peter. Luke 24, 34, and 1 Corinthians 15, verse 5. Now, we're not privy to what was said at that first meeting, but we do know some of what was said a few weeks later when Jesus kept an appointment in Galilee. Some of the disciples had gathered at the Sea of Galilee, also known as the Lake of Gennesaret, the Sea of Tiberius, and because it was shaped like a lyre or a harp. It was called by the by the Jews Lake Chinnareth, the Hebrew word for lyre. It's uh about twelve miles long, about seven miles wide at its widest point. On the shores of this lake, Jesus gave his sermon on the mount. Here he stilled the raging waves with his word. Here the disciples witnessed a herd of swine stampede into the water When Jesus cast the demons from the poor afflicted man of Gedara. And here, notably, some of the disciples had once toiled all night, catching nothing. And then casting the net one more time at Jesus' prompting, they caught so many fish that their boats began to sink. The Lord Jesus had told the disciples that he would see them in Galilee, and at this point seven of them have congregated beside the lake. Rather than just sit on their hands, they can only wash each other's feet. so many times, Peter suggested they go fishing. He said, in fact, I go fishing, and the rest of the men said, Well, we're going with you. The scripture says, in all labor there is prophets. Some of these men had families to support. So they went fishing. But once again, they toiled all night and caught nothing. As they approached the shore in the morning, they would presumably be bone-tired and hungry. And if they're anything like me, when I'm bone-tired and hungry, cranky. Someone they didn't recognize called to them from the shore about a hundred yards away. Lads, have you any food? He used the word prosphagia, as John does in his account, prosphagia. It was a relish that was often made with fish, which came to be used as a word for fish or any solid food. Lads, uh uh padia, I guess it is in the Greek, lads, have you any uh food? And the way the question was posed suggests that a negative answer was expected. So it would be something like this. You haven't caught any food, have you? Or you don't have any food, do you? And they answered back, no. And then this person, again, that they don't recognize, on the shore, about 100 yards away, yells out: Cast your net on the right side of the boat, and you will fight. Now think about this. Some of these men were experienced fishermen. This was their vocation. This stranger was 100 yards away. Telling them after they had fished all night long and caught nothing how to do their job. Cast your net on the other side of the boat. We're right here. If there are fish over here, we would see them, not you. You're a hundred yards away. But uh they accepted that counsel. It would be a little like uh Chris Davis in the midst of a hitting slump Hearing someone, uh let's call him Gus. Let's call him Gus Kitsampus Hearing someone yell from the stands, Chris! Now Chris is in the midst of a hitting slump, Chris, choke up, choke up, and open up your stands a little. Casting it on the right side of the boat. It's a wonder that the disciples didn't respond in anger. There might have been a sail by stoning. But they surely remembered what had happened once before, and they must have realized they had nothing to lose. They cast in the net, they caught so many fish they couldn't draw it into the boat. John puts two and two together and says to Peter, It's the Lord. How typical of Peter to jump in at the news after toiling all night, he's so anxious to see Jesus that He swims to shore. The rest of the disciples come along, dragging that net full of fish. They find that Jesus has started a fire of gold with fish and bread already on it. Verse 9 It's interesting, isn't it? The last time a fire of coals was mentioned, it was when Peter was warming himself at the fire, as Jesus was being There are uh a number of theories about the significance of the number of fish. Verse 11 says there were 153. Someone's determined that that is the numerical equivalent of the word Simon Jonah in Hebrew. You assign a number to each letter and you add them all up. It comes to a 153. Someone else has calculated it happens to be the sum of all the numbers from 1 to 17. Another said it may represent 100 for the Gentiles, 50 for the Jews, 3 for the Trinity. I think there's a much better explanation for why the number of fish was given. These men were fishermen. When they got to shore, they did what any fisherman would do. They counted their catch. John was there. Instead of just saying there was a great number, he says, how many there were? There were 153. That's a pretty good catch. Notice it says none of the disciples asked of Jesus, who are you? Knowing it was Jesus. This suggests to me anyway that Jesus looked somewhat different. We know he did it to the two on the road to Emaeus, until he uh opened their eyes that they might recognize him. We know that uh Mary, perhaps because of the darkness and the early uh Dawn, uh because it she was seeing him in the dawn, uh didn't recognize him at first, supposed him to be the gardener. But uh This does suggest at least that Jesus, although Jesus looked somewhat different after the resurrection than before. As they sat about the fire following breakfast, Jesus turned to Peter. Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? Now, not only was Simon's father named Jonah, But what Peter did in resisting the Holy Spirit and cowardly denying the Lord Jesus made him a son of Jonah in another sense, right? Do you in fact love me more than these? That's what he had said. Though all men forsake you, I will never forsake you. I don't know about these guys. Do you love me more than these? Surely Peter's mind would flash back to those earlier disputes about who would be the greatest in the kingdom, and specifically to the night before the crucifixion. Listen to it from Mark chapter 14. Verse 27 Then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I've been raised, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, even if all are made to stumble, yet I will not be. Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you that today, even this night before the rooster crows twice, you'll deny me three times. But he spoke more vehemently, I if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And they also said likewise. Even if all stumble, I won't, Peter said What Peter demonstrated there, we would have to call spiritual pride. Even if all men stumble, I won't. I have my suspicions about these other guys. Matthew the tax collector, Daddyus, Bartholomew, Simon the Canaanite. I wouldn't trust them either. But though all men forsake you, I will never forsake you. Nobody loves you like Simon Peter does. Let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. Who makes you to differ from another? What do you have that you didn't receive? Scripture says. Reminds me of Moses, you know, angry with the dense, hard-hearted, fearful Congregation that wanted to head back to Egypt every time the going got rough. Takes his rod. Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Excuse me, Moses, God says. Who are the we to whom you refer there? Well, you and me, Lord. It's us against them. Elijah, after the great showdown on Mount Carmel, fleeing for his life, finding refuge on that same Mount Horeb on which God spoke to Moses. I have been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant and torn down your altars, killed your prophets with a sword. I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. God responds, Yet I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him. You are not the only one, Elijah. This incident reminds us to beware of spiritual pride. It is God who works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. It's God. Look at verse 15 now, back in John 21. So when they'd eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, yes, Lord, you you know that I love you. He said to him, feed my lamps. Do you love me more than these lambs? Dr. A. T. Robertson said it well, Jesus was piercing the joints and marrow of Peter's inner life to remove the pus of sin, doubt, pride, boasting, cowardice, whatever may be lurking unseen by Peter. Now we have to say a few words, we have to say a bit about the words that were used here. We believe Jesus and his disciples spoke in the common language of the day, which was Aramaic. That's a Semitic language closely associated with Hebrew. And there are several Aramaic words and phrases that are uh that made their way into the New Testament and that are preserved for us. A talatha kumai. When Jesus said to the little girl, a little twelve year old he raised from the dead, Talatha Kum or Talatha Kumi, damsel, young girl, arise. He said to someone who's uh who was deaf. Ephata said o of his ears, be open. Abba, Father, Maranatha, our Lord comes The Zonderban Bible Dictionary says it is probably safe to assert that our Lord habitually spoke Aramaic and occasionally Greek. We know at least some of the apostles knew Greek, of course, for it was the language in which they wrote the New Testament. And why all that matters here is that John uses different words for love in this passage. Which may mean they are translations of different Aramaic words that were used by Jesus and Peter in their conversation. Or more reasonably to me, the Greek words for love were so familiar to the Jews that they were used in conversation, as we might use amore today, or even agape. Greek word for love or unconditional love. John records Jesus using a form of the verb verb agapa , you know, derived from agape or uh uh related to agape, when he asks Peter if he loves him. Do you love me, Peter? Using again uh Agapa, uh, do you love me with this deep unconditional love? The love God has for us. Do you love me that way? Not an impulse of the feelings, but a godlike love. And Peter replies with the word Phileo. Tender affection. Lord, yes, I I love you. Tender affection. And Jesus says, guide my sheep. Then verse 16. He said to him again, a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And uh Simon responds again and he says to him tend my sheep first time he said feed my lambs second time tend My sheep. Verse 17, he said to him again the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Here Jesus adopts Peter's word, Phileo. He asked him twice, do you love me with that agape love? Twice Peter responded with Phileo. The third time Jesus adopts Peter's word. Do you in fact love me with that tender brotherly love, affection. And Peter was grieved, derived from lupeo, pain of body or mind. Why was he grieved? I think it's because Jesus asked him three times to verbally affirm his faith. Three times Peter had denied it. Because the very posing of the question suggests a doubt, right? Do you love me? And it would surely remind Peter of the cause of the doubt. Now, how are we to understand that subtle Change of wording. Peter had confidently declared previously, though all men forsake you, I will never forsake you. Do you really love me more than these other disciples? Peter doesn't say, Yes, Lord, I love you more than the He doesn't even say, Yes, Lord, I love you, using a form of adapa'o. He says, Yes, Lord, I love you, using the word Phileo, a brotherly love, a tender affection. What I see here anyway is that gone is the confident boasting, gone is the spiritual pride. Think about it. The pre-denial Peter would quite probably have answered, yes, Lord. I love you more than all these, and I'll prove it. The post-denial Peter answered simply, Yes, Lord, I love you. I will not presume to say I love you more than the others, and I I won't even declare I love you with that utterly unselfish, unconditional love, agape love, but Lord, I do love you, and this you must know. And then I guess we could ask, why did Jesus deal with Peter this way? I would suggest, first of all, to make it clear to both Peter and the other apostles that he knew all about Peter's denial. If there was any question of that, can any hide himself in secret places that I do not see him? Do not I fill heaven and earth, saith the Lord. To teach Peter, secondly, that by reminding him of his fall that just as he wouldn't see any fruit from his labors except through God's blessing, as the provision of the fish that morning made clear, right? Even so, Peter could not even remain true to Jesus apart from his grace. Peter couldn't even remain true to Jesus apart from Christ's grace, his upholding, empowering grace. Now we believe that the Bible clearly teaches the perseverance of the saints, perhaps better described as the preservation of the saints We're not saved today and lost tomorrow. But we have to understand that we're no more able to keep ourselves believing as we were to make ourselves believers. Christ is the author and the finisher of our faith. His power was manifested in saving you, and his power is manifested every day in keeping you. We're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. Evidently Peter learned his lesson. He's the one that wrote the words were kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. First Peter 1. 5 The Apostle Paul asks, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? So if you are in fact on your way to heaven today, you will be on your way to heaven tomorrow, or already there, right? Those are the only two options. If you have genuine life in Christ today, you will have it forever. No one is able to snatch you out of my Father's hand, Jesus said, John 10. You've been regenerated. You've been born from above. You've been adopted into his family. Praise God that he saves us, and praise God that he keeps us. Amen. And then thirdly, I think Jesus dealt with Peter this way to restore him before the eyes of his fellow disciples Why not just a private conversation with Peter? Why do it here with the other disciples at breakfast? Note that throughout church history there have been occasions when some professing Christians have under severe persecution denied their Lord. And then when the conflict was over, and when Christians were permitted to freely assemble once again, they sought readmission into the church, declaring their sorrow and repentance for their former denials. Some, however, have steadfastly refused to readmit deniers of Christ back into the church. Imagine the problems that might have arisen in the early church if Peter's future ministry would have been thought to be invalid because of his denial of the Lord on the night of his arrest. Jesus prevented that by his dealing with Peter publicly here. Do you know a Christian who has fallen and subsequently repented? See that you receive him as Jesus did Peter. There are no second-class Christians in God's eyes. We're all forgiven sinners. And then one other thought on why Jesus dealt with Peter this way. I think maybe to point out again the lesson he sought to teach the disciples several times before: whoever would be great among you, let him be your servant. Peter, do you really love me? I want you to feed my lambs. Do you really love me? I want you to tend my sheep. Do you really love me? I want you to feed my sheep. I'm sending you on a great mission, Peter. What is it? What is my mission, Lord? Shall I do battle with your enemies? Shall I cut off the head of the corrupt high priest as I cut off the ear of a servant in the garden of Gethsemane? Whatever you ask me, Lord, I'll do it. Feed my lambs. Tend my sheep. Frank, you may have only three or four little ones in your care. Is it not a blessing to consider that you are doing the very work that Jesus commissioned the apostle to do? Feed my lambs, tend my sheep. Then there's some lessons I think we can draw from this passage. First of all, the importance, the necessity of repentance. We see it over and over again in Scripture, we certainly see it. here. God never simply shrugs off sin. He never treats sin as a minor matter. The Apostle Peter had to face his deed. He had to confront his demon. Just as the woman at the well had to face her past. Go call your husband. Sir, I have no husband. Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. Why did he bring all that up The rich ruler had to face his covetousness. Zacchaeus had to confront his theft He had to confess it. He had to return the money he had taken. Have you sinned against someone? There can never be full forgiveness until there is full repentance. And then secondly, true repentance will manifest itself in a changed life. Peter was not the same confident boaster after his fall and his repentance and his restoration. There was a change here, at least it seems that way. to me. And thirdly, we learn here of God's forgiveness. Peter sinned grievously, but he was forgiven. He was restored. And he was mightily used. Just a few weeks after his restoration, he preached in Jerusalem, and about 3,000 souls were converted. How have you failed the Lord? How have you denied him? Through a covetous lifestyle? Through pride? Through lust? Through anger? Harshness with your children? Coldness toward your spouse, gossip, drunkenness, fornication Adultery? Loving pleasure more than God? Conformity to the world? Stealing from your employer? Rebelling against your parents? Laziness? Selfishness? Gluttony? I don't know how you may have failed the Lord. I don't know why you may view yourself in some respects or in all respects as a failure. But I know this. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Amen? If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just not only to forgive us our sins, but to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Peter realized that. Peter came to understand that. He's alive. He's alive. He's alive and I'm forgiven. Heaven's gates are open. Why? I'm forgiven. Forgive it. And God used it. I think maybe one reason God gives us new years, new months, new seasons, new days. And so we can start again. I suppose one of the most emotional passages in English uh literature is when Ebenezer Scrooge, convicted of his selfishness and pride, Looking at his own neglected gravestone , beseeches the spirit of Christmas yet to come to have pity upon him and grant him time to make amends. In his agony, he caught the spectral hand. It sought to free itself, but he, Ebenezer, was strong in his entreaty, and he detained it. The spirit, stronger yet, repulsed him. Holding up his hands in a last prayer to have his fate reversed, he saw an alteration in the phantom's hood and dress. It shrunk, collapsed, and dwindled down into a bedpost. Yes, and the bedpost was his own, the bed was his own, the room was his own, best and happiest of all, the time before him was his own, to make amends in. I will live in the past, the present, and the future, Scrooge repeated as he scrambled out of bed. The spirits of all three shall strive within me. O Jacob Marley, heaven and the Christmas time be praised for this. I say it on my knees, old Jacob, on my knees. And he went on light as a feather, happy as an angel, merry as a schoolboy. Why? Because he had the chance to begin again. He had the chance to begin again. Perhaps you blew it last week. Perhaps you blew it last month or last year. You can begin again. Peter repented. Peter was forgiven. Peter was restored. Peter was used by God. Not only was Peter forgiven, but I think his denial and his tragic fall it was The thing that was used of God for good in his life and for God's own glory. It really prepared him for his life of usefulness. I would suggest that Peter could not have been as greatly used had he not fallen. Is it uh coincidental that the two apostles who were such mighty instruments in the hand of God, Peter and Paul, both had humbling encounters? With Christ. Before they were raised up, they were brought low. So it would be clear to them and to others that the excellency of the power was of God and not of them. Apostle Paul was arresting Christians and throwing him into jail. He stood there while Stephen was stoned and he consented unto his death. When God intends to fill a soul, wrote Puritan John Flavel, he first makes it empty. When he intends to enrich a soul, he first makes it sensible of its own miseries, wants, and nothingness. John Owen put it this way in a devotional that Don and I read this week together. He said, until we're tested, we think that we're living on our own strength. It is God alone, however, who keeps us from falling by his preventing grace. The effectiveness of an antidote is not realized until we've been exposed to the poison. The preciousness of a medicine is revealed by the presence of the disease. We will not know the power of grace until we feel the power of the testing. Before honor is humility. Proverbs 15, 33. Your tragic fall may be the first step toward your season of most usefulness to Christ It's not the time to go jump off a bridge. It's the time to repent, ask God's forgiveness, and ask His help to get up and move on. Finally, we learn here the importance that our love for the Lord Jesus has to Jesus Himself. Three times he asked Peter, Do you love me? Three times. Lord, you know I love you. What would you say to him if Jesus asked you today, do you love me? Do you love me? How would you answer that? Lord, you know you know I've tried to serve you faithfully. Yeah, good. Do you love me? Lord, I've tried not to sin Do you love me? Lord, I've tried to treat others as I would have them treat me. Do you love me? Our love may at times be weak, may not be as deep as we would want it to be, but if we don't on some level, to some degree, have in our hearts a love for the Lord Jesus Christ. then we're not his. We're not redeemed. We love him because he first loved us. If you can't say in all sincerity that you love the Lord Jesus Christ, I would urge you to drop whatever plans you may have for today. Take God's word. Go to the the Gospel of John or the Gospel of Mark, Mark only 16 chapters, and take it and read it and say, Lord, if this is true, show me. I want to know. It's the most important thing in all the world. Lord, if you're really the Son of God who came to this earth and lived a perfect life and Died on my behalf and rose again from the dead. I want to know. Open my eyes, Lord. Give me faith. Faith comes by hearing the word of God. Faith comes by hearing Hearing by the word. Ask God to convict you, humble your proud heart, so that you can say, Yes, Lord. You know all things. You know that I love you. Let's pray. Lord, uh, we all acknowledge that there are times when it seems like our love grows cold. Some of us it seems have left our first love. But Lord, we ask your forgiveness. We repent. We cry out to you for your help. Lord, uh Give us a greater love for you, more love for you. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.