If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them as we stand together for the reading of God's Holy Word. Let's open to Psalm 24. Verses 1 through 10. And I'm actually going to read the superscription as well. But this is the reading of God's holy word. A Psalm of David. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the rivers. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, he who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully He will receive blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty. The Lord, mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts He is the King of Glory. Selah. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning and we are thankful, O Lord. Again, to have the opportunity to stand in your presence and also now to sit at your feet and to hear from your word, to hear it proclaimed. Lord, we pray That in the weakness of preaching, O Lord, and Paul calls it foolishness, Lord, that you would be pleased to attend to the preaching of your word by your Holy Spirit. That you would stir the hearts of your people this morning to know you more deeply because of your word this morning. Well, Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Well earlier in our service we read from Matthew chapter 21, verses 1 through 11, which is one of the traditional passages. That is often read on Palm Sunday. It is a passage that just narrates very clearly what happened in the event that we tend to call today the triumphal entry of Jesus Christ. And if I had to summarize or sum up what the triumphal entry on Palm Sunday was in the Gospels that we read, it would be this. And just a few summary statements. First, Jesus travels to Jerusalem for the final week of his life. And as he does so, if you remember, he's coming from Galilee through Samaria and the Transjordan , crossing the Jordan River through Jericho, and he's on his way to Jerusalem as he does so geographically. He must ascend upward to reach the holy city where his sacrifice must happen. That is just the way the geography of the Holy Land works. Jerusalem is elevated in the mountains, and so you've got to ascend to get there. So that's the first thing. He travels and ascends to Jerusalem. Secondly, after finishing his ascent , Jesus finds himself in the holy city where people are shouting and cheering Because they think that Jesus as their Messiah is coming to liberate them from the captivity of Roman occupation in their land. This is kind of like the idea of the zealots, Jewish nationalism, if you will, at that time. Thirdly The first thing that Jesus does when he enters the city, which we didn't read this morning, but if you just read a few verses after what I read earlier, what you'll find is the first thing Jesus does when he enters Jerusalem is he goes to the temple and he cleanses it. You might remember that dramatic event overturning tables of the money changers. Letting animals and I'm sure birds fly free, even forming a whip and whipping some of the money changers as he chases them out. Quite dramatic. But that is really what happens in this triumphal entry of Jesus as the King of Gory. Now, as we come to our psalm this morning, if you have an ESV Bible like I do, it titles it, and this is not an inspired title, but it is there, The King of Glory. And where do they get that from? The question in verses 8 to 10, who is this king of glory? Now We have to understand something about the triumphal entry of Christ if we're going to understand this Psalm, Psalm 24, this morning. Many of you have heard, when we talk about theater or acting and drama, you hear the term dress rehearsal. It's when the actors have practiced their lines, they know their blocking and and all of their movements on stage, they've rehearsed it many times, and now They are pretending that they're going to deliver it for an audience in costume. And in some cases in theater, not every show is like this, but sometimes the very first showing. on opening night is the final dress rehearsal. What we have to understand is the triumphal entry of Jesus on the first week, or the first day of the last week of his earthly ministry, Palm Sunday, was essentially a dress rehearsal for a greater triumph. And that greater triumph is what we have laid out for us, prophetically speaking, in Psalm 24. Now I want to just kind of zoom out of Psalm 24 really quick and give you a little bit of a snapshot because it is related to Psalms 22, 23, and 24. Those Psalms, in a sense, form a block or a unit. And if you think about what's going on in each of those three Psalms, in Psalm 22 , It begins in Psalm 22, verse 1, with the familiar words to you, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me Or in Hebrew, Eli Eli, Lema Sabakhtani. That sounds familiar because that was on the mouth of Jesus when he was on the cross. And if you look at the structure of Psalm 22, you have the death and then the prophesied resurrection of Christ in the second half of that Psalm. But what happens when he is crucified? And when you read Psalm 22, it is a tremendous description of what happens in crucifixion. It fits the narrative of what Jesus did on the cross. That leads into Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Remember what it goes on to say, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Many people looked at Psalm 23, following Psalm 22, looking at the crucifixion, as this is The death of Christ. He's in the grave. Despite that, even the Father will shepherd his son through the valley of the shadow of death in that grave. And then that breaks forth into the resurrection glory of Psalm 24. And it's not only the resurrection that is in sight here, it is also the ascension. Because we forget as we come approaching Easter, we often focus on just the event of the resurrection, and that is centrally important. But what follows the resurrection is equally important, is the ascension of Christ to the right hand of God the Father. And brothers and sisters, I'm submitting to you this morning that the big idea of this psalm is simply that the triumph of Christ Consist in his ascending to God in glory and leading us into the presence of God That's what Palm Sunday is all about. That's what the triumphal entry was a dress rehearsal for. And that is what Psalm 24 is encapsulating and prophetically pointing us towards. this morning. So I want to unpack that in in three points here. Our first point is the king's domain. If we're talking about the triumph of Christ, we're talking about a king. It is a king that triumphs, and it's the king's domain that we see in verses 1 and 2. And it begins in a superscription with what I'm just calling the King's Psalm. Now oftentimes we it we just ignore these little superscription titles when we're reading the Psalms, don't we? This one's very simple. A Psalm of David. But it is important because in the original Hebrew text it is there and it is part of the inspired word of God. And so we want to pay attention to it. What does it mean? Why is it important that it says a Psalm of David Well, this is why I call it the King's Psalm. It's written by King David himself. Now, just again, just making a few preliminary remarks about David as to why he's important to the theme of this psalm. If you remember, God had anointed David as king in 1 Samuel 16. He rejected Saul from being king over his people because Saul was disobedient. But if you remember the way that God describes David in 1 Samuel 16 to the prophet Samuel, when he says that he's rejecting Saul, he's going to choose someone else to reign in his place, and he calls David. The man who's going to reign in Saul's place, a man after his own heart. What a description of King David. What a description of anybody. To say that somebody is a man or a woman after God's own heart. And that's how David is described. You can really see the affective nature, the emotional nature of David kind of come out in a statement like that. And it's not surprising that a man after God's own heart, who's To use a modern terminology, in touch with his emotional side, could pen so many reflective, profoundly spiritual psalms that deal with the heart. And it is this man that God made a promise to in 2 Samuel chapter 7 that he would establish his kingdom and set one of his descendants on the throne forever. We call that the Davidic covenant, don't we? And what we often miss, we don't talk about this too often when we think of the triumphal entry or we think of the ascension of Christ. To the right hand of God the Father, but that is, in a sense, the fulfillment of what God had promised to David in this Davidic covenant. And because of this superscription that says a psalm of David, we can be confident that King David is writing this psalm prophetically about the king who will come triumphantly From his own line of descendants, and who will rule and reign forever. And so we see that as part of the King's domain, this is the King's Psalm, but also with domain comes authority. And you can see that in verses 1 and 2. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The world and those who dwell therein, for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. Notice the possessive nature there. The earth is the Lord's and some of the things in it? No. That's not what it says. Everything in it. Why? Because the Lord had created it. He established it upon the waters. Notice the king's domain not only covers the things in this world, but the people. in it. What does that mean? Well that means the king has the right to call into account every single person that lives in his world And it is interesting because we do live in a world where many people deny the authority of the king. I was watching uh an uh interesting video uh about two weeks ago now. And there's a pastor out in Arizona by the name of Jeff Durbin, who, if you've heard of him, he's been very vocal uh about trying to get abortion abolished. He's done a lot of wonderful work. Um and his work is different than the pro-life movement. His work is really trying to take the claims and authority of Christ, the Lordship of Christ, and bringing that to bear on this decision, even in the political sphere. And it was interesting, he was in North Dakota before some lawmakers there presenting a case of why, biblically, why abortion should be abolished. And it was really fascinating to watch the responses of some of these lawmakers just bristling at the claims of Christ's authority in this decision. But this is what the Psalm is about, isn't it? In verses 1 and 2. The king's authority is over all those who are in his domain, whether they recognize it or not. The authority is there. And the reason is because the Lord established creation. He is the one in Genesis 2 who founded the domain. And part of that domain is including this, is um his creating man in his own image and man to then turn around and rule over creation, as we see in Genesis 1. 26 through 28. And so we see the king's domain as part of his kingdom and part of his triumph in verses 1 and 2. And we need to take a step back and ask how this applies to us. Well, because we live in the king's domain in this world, who created us in the first place, we do not belong to ourselves. I want you to think about how that challenges the cultural notion that we have, and it's also a philosophical notion in our society, what we just call American individualism. Think about how the King's domain relates to that concept of American individualism. I just gave this example of Pastor Jeff Durbin presenting this case to these lawmakers in North Carolina, I'm sorry, North Dakota, and their response really centered on this idea of American individualism. Right? My body, my right, was the argument back. Now, even though most of us as Christians would never say this out loud, this idea of American individualism. Or many of us don't even realize how close to home this truly hits us. Most of us deep down, if we're really honest, if we really search our hearts. We know that we live as if we belong to ourselves and no other. This this kind of hit hit me this week as I was looking at my life. Do I often live that way? Yeah, I live sometimes like I'm not going to give an account to anybody. And that's sinful, isn't it? Think about it, as Americans who live in a relatively free country in this world, we are not used to hearing that we belong to anyone else. Right. Think about it. Those of you who are married, you may not believe that you belong to your spouse, but you do. What does the Apostle Paul say in 1 Corinthians chapter 7? He says that you belong to your spouse. Husbands, you simply can't do what you want to do with yourself because your very body belongs to your wife. She's got claim over you in that sense. Wives, in an age of women's rights, it is offensive to say that you belong to any man, including your husband. But that's exactly what Scripture says. 1 Corinthians 7. Think about it. If that's true of just human-to-human relationships, Like in the covenant of marriage? How much more importantly than your husband or wife here on earth do you truly belong in an eternal sense to God who has authority over your body and your soul? It's kind of the same logic as Jesus said when he's like, you know, don't be afraid of those who can merely kill the body and then can't do anything else to you after that. Well, what does he say? Fear the one who actually has the power to take your physical life and then throw you into hell. Right? We belong totally to the Lord. See, he has a right to tell us what he expects from us with the gifts that he gives us, with the freedoms that we have in the gospel. And this is a clear call to glorify God in all that we do in this passage right from the beginning. This is a clear call. Most of us don't stop and read this passage and realize that in 1 Corinthians 10, verses 23 through 33, the Apostle Paul actually quotes this passage. when he's talking about Christian freedom and the ability to enjoy the good gifts that God gives us in this world. And the reason we can do this according to Paul is because the earth is the Lord's and everything in it The logic of Paul in that passage is because everything belongs to the Lord, and because you are his people, he has given all things into your hands as God's redeemed. How about that? That sounds pretty triumphant to me, and that's not triumphant in the um materialistic name it, claim it, prosperity gospel kind of preaching. But rather the response in verses 31 to 32 is whatever you w whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God. Do not cause anyone to stumble, whether Jews or Greeks. Or the Church of God. And so the way that we glorify God is those who belong to Him. And who live in his domain is to live lives of thanksgiving. That is the context of 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And that is, I think, the applicational response of this first point. As we apply this, this thanksgiving points us to the call to worship that David intends for us. at the beginning of this psalm. And make no mistake about it, this is a call to worship. Now let's explore as we unpack the psalm how this worship is possible. But moving forward to the second part here in verses 3 through 6, we don't just see the king's domain, we also see his ascension In verse 3, you see the ascension very, very clearly. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place? If there's a call to worship, there's a call to be in God's presence. And in the Old Testament mindset, think about where this is taking place. There has to be an ascension to the hill of the Lord, so the holy place. By the way, I want to take a look at those two phrases really quick with you as we unpack that. Let's look at the hill of the Lord first. That's the first question. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall truly come and worship on that hill? In the ancient world, it was common, it was a common belief that the gods lived on the mountaintops. That was just the mindset. And you can understand why they might think that in a primitive culture, in an ancient culture, the gods are somewhere in the heavens, up there, mountains reach up to the heavens. The Canaanites believe that Baal or Baal, however you want to pronounce that, lived on the top of a mountain called Mount Zafon, which is a mountain on the Turkish Syrian border using modern geek geography. But in Israel, many of you know this because you've read the Psalms many times, or the prophets, they talk about Mount Zion. Where is Mount Zion? It's in Jerusalem. Notice the similarity in sounds between Mount Xophon and Mount Zion. What is that communicating to you? That's intentional, by the way, on the Lord's part. It's communicating that there is a contrast, an antithesis between the belief systems of the world And the God of the Bible, as he's revealed himself to his people, through his word, through his prophets, and ultimately through his son. But that's the hill of the Lord. The hill of the Lord is referring to Mount Zion. And what was on Mount Zion? Well, that leads us to the second phrase in the second question. Who shall stand in his holy place? By the way, those are two parallel statements. Hebrew poetry uses parallelism a lot. The hill of the Lord is paralleled by the holy place. Well, what's on the hill of the Lord? The holy place was the temple that Solomon built. And if you remember, Solomon's temple represented the presence of God among his people. What happened when he built that temple in 1 Kings chapter 8? The Shekinah glory came down and filled that temple so that even the priests could not stand to minister before the Lord because of how glorious His presence was. That stood on the top of Mount Moriah or Mount Zion in Jerusalem But it is interesting here when you really stop and think about this, you know, who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? Think of the examples of some of the most prominent Old Testament saints. Standing in God's presence. Think about Moses. Remember in Exodus 3 when he sees the fi the burning bush And he goes up to explore, I I must turn aside and see this wonderful sight. How is it that the bush burns and is not burn is not burned up and consumed? And he approaches, and what does God do? Remember he calls out to him, Moses. Moses. He says, here I am, Lord. Take off your shoes or your sandals, for the ground that you are standing is holy ground. You remember what Moses did? He took his shoes off and he bowed down. Why? Because he was afraid to look at the Lord. Or what about Isaiah? Centuries later. Isaiah chapter 6, verse 1, in the year the king Messiah died , He saw the Lord seated upon his throne and the robe of train of his robe filled the temple. And as he saw the angels crying out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. What did he do? He cried out, Oh, woe is me! Because he knew, centuries later, he could not answer these questions in the positive sense for himself. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? Not I Oh, woe is me. Guys, if this is the prophet Isaiah, where do we stand today? Well, it leads us to verse 4. It's not just the king's ascension and worship here. We see the king's ascension and the character of worship. We get the answer to those two questions in verse 4, and then some elaboration in verses 5 and 6. But the main answer in verse 4 is he who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not Swear deceitfully. Boy, you got two sets of parallelisms there, don't you? That is a lot to take in. Clean hands and a pure heart. Someone who doesn't lift up their soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. You've got positive characteristics and negative characteristics. Notice on the positive side, the positive characteristics of those who worship God in spirit and in truth, to use Jesus' terms from John 4. Worshipers must have clean hands and a pure heart if they're going to ascend the hill of the temple to stand in God 's presence. The hands, representative of what you do, your actions, and the pure heart is the heart that stands behind those actions. God does not just care about what you do practically. He cares about the heart and the motive that underlies those actions. And those things have to be clean and pure if you're going to stand in his presence. This is because people were supposed to purify themselves before coming to the temple to worship according to the law of Moses. They couldn't just walk in willy-nilly, sometimes the way we do in church. The negative characteristics here, worshippers must not lift up their hearts to vanity or swear deceitfully. These are just in contrast to what he said before. This is because when people swore oaths to God, they had to come to the temple, stand in the holy place, and fulfill their vows in God's presence. By the way, those who broke their vows forfeited the right to stand in God's presence. And so the result of someone ascending to the hill of the Lord and standing in the holy place in the following verses, verse 5 and 6. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Notice that gift. Blessing and righteousness. So what does this tell us? We're called to seek the same holiness that characterizes our ascended King who stands in God's presence representing us. Again, this is what the triumphal entry is all about. Christ is the one who ascends the hill, just like the dress rehearsal in Jerusalem, and he's the one who stands in the holy place. Just like when he went into Jerusalem, he cleansed that temple, that's what he did in the heavenly tabernacle. And by the way, when you read those descriptions, clean hands and a pure heart, someone who doesn't lift up his soul to vanity. or swear deceitfully. Christ Jesus is the only one who met this criteria perfectly. He's the only one who ascended to God's right hand when he returned to heaven. And so this passage can only find this true fulfillment in Christ because when we examine ourselves, if we're honest, none of us perfectly meets these requirements. I mean do you always have clean hands and a pure heart? I know I don't. Do you ever lift up your soul or your affections or your desires to things that you know are ultimately vanity? Yeah. Do I? Yeah We fall short of the glory of God. And because we don't meet these requirements, what right do we have in and of ourselves to come into the presence of God? The reason that we can see this passage fulfilled only in Christ is because He's the only one who ascended into heaven on our behalf. Notice what Hebrews chapter 9, verses 11 through 12 says. But when Christ came as a high priest Of the good things that are now already here, he went through the greater and more perfect tabernacle that is not made with human hands. That is to say, it is not a part of this creation. He did not enter by the means of the blood of goats and calves, but he entered the most holy place once and for all. With his own blood, thus obtaining an eternal redemption And so what we need to see is that Christ's character is the pattern for our own as worshipers in God 's presence. Maybe you're here this morning and you feel like you're searching for God in the midst of life struggles that you don't have the answers for. Maybe you want to draw near to God this morning. The point of the passage is the same as it was for the Jews in Jesus' day who saw the triumphal entry. It's the same as the Israelites who received Psalm 24 from the pen of David. And the need is this. If you're going to draw near to God, then you must draw near to Christ. Because he's the only one who ascended when he went back to heaven, and he's the only one who stands in God's holy place, representing those who belong to him by faith. There's two separate ways we need to apply this this morning as we think about this. There's two forks in the road. On the one hand We need to recognize every single one of us is going to stand Before the Lord one day and give an account to the king, who we saw in verses 1 and 2, has the authority over our lives to call us to account for every thought, word, and deed. And when we stand before him one day to give an account, and that question from verse 3 is posed. Who is it that presumes to ascend my hill? Who presumes to stand in my presence in my holy place? What will you say? What will you say? In whose name do you stand there before him? Because if you seek to answer that under your own righteousness , Your hands are not clean in the flesh, and your heart is not pure in and of yourself. We only stand, brothers and sisters, through faith in Jesus Christ. That's it. That's it. Not only is that all we have, but that is all we need, and it is more than we need. Praise God indeed. The other side of that application is what this means in response from you and I who Claim to believe in Christ already, and we've already been saved, is that we must seek the holiness that Christ demonstrated before he ascended into heaven after his resurrection. Do you remember what the author of Hebrews says? Without holiness no one will see the Lord. This is not legalism, brothers and sisters. I'm not simply telling you you must be holy in order to earn God's favor. I'm saying we are holy because we pursue holiness, because we have received God's grace and his favor. Let me ask you this question just by we don't answer out loud. This is just personal reflection, right? Do you examine yourself in terms of your readiness to come into God's presence on Sunday mornings? Do you think about that on Saturday? Or even Sunday morning before you come in here? Do you examine your heart? This is what David means when he writes in verse 6, such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek your face, O God of Jacob. And so we've seen the King's domain in verses 1 and 2. We've now seen the King's Ascension in verses 3 through 6. That leads us to verses 7 through 10. the king's glorious entrance. It's not just that there's a domain. It's not just that he's ascended. There is an entrance. And it is glorious Look at the refrain in verses 7 and 9. By the way, 7 and 9 reflect each other, and then 8 and 10 reflect each other. Look at verses 7 and 9. It's the same basic proclamation. Lift up your heads, O gates. and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the king of glory may come in. Not for the sake of time, I won't read it again, but it's repeated there for emphasis, isn't it? There's a proclamation that's at play here. Now, one of the things I think of when I read that Talking about the King of Glory coming in, David is not referring to himself He's referring to someone else. And when you think about the ascension of Christ into heaven, you can almost imagine the angelic centr centuries. I think I said that right. Sentries, guards, sentinels standing at the gates of the heavenly Zion. seeing Jesus from afar, ascending into heaven, and drawing near. They see their king, and these angelic voices crying out these words, lift up your heads, O gates. And be lifted up, O ancient doors. In other words, open up. He's home. And he's home in victory. So we see the refrain of his entrance. We also see the refrain in this song of the king's identity. Who is this king of glory? Now remember, they're writing this from an old , David's writing this in the Old Testament. Who is this king of glory? Now just like seven and nine were the same, eight and ten are almost the same, there's a little bit of a difference. Look at verse 8 Who is this King of Glory? Well, it gives the answer. The Lord, strong and mighty. The Lord, mighty in battle. Notice it focuses on a battle that has just occurred. He's been victorious. And in the ancient world, when a king returned from victory against the enemy, he would parade his army through the city for all to see and cheer on, and behind them would trail along some of the captives from war and some of the spoils to demonstrate the king's victory. You can see an example of this when David goes out, he's at the head of Saul's armies, he's leading the army out, he's coming in, and you remember the refrain. The women would come out in the city from the city and they would dance as the as he returned. Do you remember what they would say? David has killed his ten thousands. And Saul his thousands. And Saul got jealous, right? But that was the praise. They were praising the victory of David. And David here is highlighting that the victory belongs to the Lord. I kind of think of the joy that must have attended that verse 8, that's proclamation here. One illustration I thought of was maybe like at the end of World War II. Some of you have seen that picture in Times Square, um, where the sailor 's coming home, he's a Navy guy, and he just he's got that woman and he's kissing her. Uh you know it's really interesting. Uh they didn't even know each other in real life. This guy was just so lonely and beaten down from this war, he just grabbed the first woman he could find. And just kissed her. I'm home. You can imagine the celebration involved. And you know, uh and and if I think if you can understand that, I think you'll understand the joy and emotion behind this musical refrain at the end of the There's been a long, weary battle, a battle with sin, a battle with death, and those things have been conquered. And so there's a battle, but the king the refrain is repeated almost verbatim with the one difference in verse 10. Notice verse 10. There's a progression to the idea. Same question. Who is this King of Glory? Now this time he doesn't say the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle, like verse 8. He Progresses the idea further, the Lord of hosts. He is the king of glory He's not just a mighty warrior who's fighting the battle as part of the army. Now he is the Lord of hosts over the army, and he is the king who has entered into his glory. He is the king of glory. Selah. Some of you are wondering what does Selah mean? I don't know. I just know that oftentimes in the Psalms, you see that phrase come up oftentimes, and that is the psalmist 's way of kind of marking off a thought unit, right? Now I know I broke this psalm into three parts, but if you look at it, there's really two Selah there, so one through six, that's of one part, major part. Seven through ten another. Saylah. It's the end of the story. He is the king of glory. And so what do we do with this application? Well, brothers and sisters, Christ has entered into heaven, the heavenly tabernacle, and in doing so. He leads us into God's presence positionally. And again, we have to apply this, if we're going to apply this correctly, we have to look to Jesus first and then to us. He is the king of glory because God glorified him by raising him from the dead, which is what Holy Week is driving towards, which we're going to celebrate next week for Easter. The battle that he won as the King of Glory was the cross, where according to Paul in Romans 8. 3, Jesus condemned sin in the flesh. He broke our captivity and slavery to sin. So that we can find grace from God in Christ alone through faith alone. Boy, this passage has come up several times in the last several weeks, but it Paul writes in Ephesians 4, 7 through 10, but to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is why it said, when he ascended on high, he led many captives and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. When we read of the story of Christ's triumphal entering to Jerusalem on this first Palm Sunday, which we read earlier today. We're seeing the dress rehearsals, I've said, for the real triumphal entry of the resurrected Christ into the heavenly tabernacle, where he cleansed the heavenly temple with the sacrifice of his own blood. And where he leads us into God's presence as he takes his seat. The triumph is over sin is complete. By the way, that's why Paul says in Ephesians, we are seated with him. In the heavenly places. This is why Paul says in Colossians 3, your life is hidden in Christ with God. Now he only waits for all things to be put under his feet, the last enemy being death. He began that victory in his resurrection, but we today await our own resurrection, our own triumph. When that happens, it will be finally complete. And so here's my exhortation to you this morning. There's a big idea and there's a big exhortation. The big idea is the triumph of Christ consists in his ascending to God in glory and leading us into the presence of God. What's the exhortation that flows out of that ultimately as we enter Holy Week? The call is to keep your eyes on Jesus in faith. Why? Because he is the author. And the finisher of the salvation of those who trust in him. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we are thankful, O Lord, that you put these promises into the Psalter, into song format. For us to remember, we pray, O Lord, that because of the preaching of your word, ultimately because of your spirit, that you would drive these promises deeper into our hearts That you may give us joy and rejoicing as we look forward to seeing redemption unfold this week as we celebrate Holy Week. We ask this in Jesus' name.