Psalm forty seven, including the superscription, begins this way to the choirmaster, a psalm of the sons of Korah Clap your hands, all peoples, shout to God with loud songs of joy, for the Lord, the Most High, is to be feared, a great king over all the earth. He subdued peoples under us and nations under our feet. He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob, whom he loves, Selah. God has gone up with a shout. The Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praises to God. Sing praises. Sing praises to our King. Sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing praises with a psalm. God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. The princes of the peoples gather together as the people of the God of Abraham For the shields of the earth belong to God. He is highly exalted. And all God's people said. Amen. Or thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today. We are thankful again to be in your presence, and we are thankful, O Lord, for your word, which you've given to feed our souls. Lord Jesus, I think about what you said when you were fighting Satan in the wilderness when he was tempting you, when he went to tempt you by saying, If you really are the Son of God, make these stones bread. And your response, O Lord, from Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 3: Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Lord, feed our hearts and our souls tonight from your word, we ask. In Jesus' name, amen Well, as I dug into this psalm, I found out that this particular psalm is a late in later Jewish usage came to be associated with the New Year celebration. Which you might see listed on your calendars as Rosh Hashanah. And it got me wondering if I were to talk with you or have a conversation with you individually and ask you what was the most memorable New Year's Eve celebration that you remember, or events that you remember, I wonder what you would say. I'll share with you one of the most positive and heartwarming memories I have, and then probably one of the ones that I wish I could forget. The positive one was when I was just a kid, my parents would allow my brother and I to go over to my cousin Ben's house. uh for New Year's Eve. That was probably a good thing for my parents because they never like to stay up anyway, so they got to go to bed early and we got to spend time with my cousin. But I remember as a little kid, you know, we would always have to go to bed at like eight or nine o'clock, depending on how old we were getting. But that was the one night we were allowed to stay up really, really late as children and watch the ball. Come down. One of the worst things that ever happened to me on a New Year's uh was uh I crashed my car in 2019 and that was a tough year, and I remember totaling the car as I crashed it. Thinking to myself, happy New Year to me. You know, the good and the bad. I wonder what you would share if you were to ask about New Year's. But as we look at this psalm, which was a New Year's Psalm in the Jewish mindset, we see that from the perspective of the full revelation of God in Scripture, The main point here is that we praise the Lord Jesus Christ because he has conquered and he reigns as king on the throne. And again, just like we do in the morning, I went ahead and had the sermon idea printed there for you if you wanted to follow along. But I think it's a simple enough idea for just a few verses. We praise the Lord Jesus Christ because he hath conquered and he reigns as king on the throne. Let's unpack that first point in verses 1 through 4, praising the king who has conquered. And I want to begin by looking at the context of this conquest by highlighting the superscription and then what comes before and after. The superscription is very simple to the choirmaster tells you that this psalm was meant to be sung as worship in the temple. And a psalm of the sons of Korah If you know anything about the sons of Korah back in Numbers, the book of Numbers, these were their well, their ancestors were the ones who rebelled against Moses, and God dealt very severely with them. And yet in God's grace he raises up those he judges severely, he raises up their sons to offer praise to him. But what's the context of all of this psalm? Well, one of the things that you you may realize if you spend enough time in the Psalter is sometimes some of these psalms come in groups of threes. I'll give you an example. Psalm 22, if you read it, it begins with those memorable words you know, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And that's Psalm. The first part lays out a description of the crucifixion. The second part lays out the hope of the resurrection and singing of God's praises in the congregation of the saints And that's followed by Psalm 23. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, right? And then what is Psalm 24 crescendo into? a major praise at the ascension of the king. Lift up your heads, O gates, the king of glory is coming in. And so it's interesting. In those three psalms, you see this pattern of death, burial, resurrection, and ascension. Right? The work of Christ. Well, you see something very similar here when you look at the context of this psalm. I want to draw your attention to Psalm 46 and Psalm 48. You'll notice a progression of a similar theme in these three Psalms. And it's going to help us understand what's going on here in Psalm 47. In Psalm 46, it contains some of the most well-known verses of the Psalter. You can look at Psalm 46, 1. God is our refuge and our strength. A very present help in times of trouble. Right? How does Psalm 46 end? It ends by saying, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. And in between those two verses in Psalm 46, it describes, you know. Though the mountains fall into the sea, and though the earth be shaken, and so on and so forth. He uses cosmic language to describe the nations falling apart. In other words, the world of the Psalter, not just nationally, not just internationally, but even personally, his world is crumbling. And what is God saying? He's saying, be still and know that I'm God. In other words, he's going to bring judgment and desolations on the earth. And shatter the power of the nations. That's Psalm 46. But Psalm 48, after our Psalm, describes the wonders and the beauty of the city of Zion, the city of God. It gives us a picture of a city that we are called to set our hopes on because that is where we are going to one day end up in the presence of the Lord in the heavenly Jerusalem. It's another picture that corresponds to Revelation chapter 21, when the new Jerusalem comes down out of heaven like a bride adorned and prepared for her bridegroom. And then, but before we get there, we've got Psalm 47. And in the middle of those Psalms, we have a description of the conquest. Of the king and then the reign of the king. So put that together. You get Psalm 46 describes the world going to pots in rebellion against the Lord. which makes it difficult for God's people to live peaceably, and God needs to bring judgment. Psalm 47 describes the conquest of the Lord. in that judgment as he is a king. And then finally his ascension to the throne, where then he reigns over the kingdom. Followed by Psalm 48. Describing the city to which the Lord has ascended to and from which the Lord reigns. Now, with that larger context in mind of these Psalms in this Psalm tonight, Psalm 47. Let's turn more pointedly to look at the conquest that is laid before us in verses 1 through 4. That comes after our superscription. Verse 1, we see a call to rejoice over the conqueror. Now in English, verse 1 begins, clap your hands, all peoples. Shout to God with songs, with loud songs of joy. Now it's interesting, those there's two commands, and I I love when the Psalms do this, it just tells you right from the front end what you're supposed to do Right? You don't have to work through an argument and try and figure it out. It tells you what to do. Clap your hands and shout to God with joy. Why? Because of what we're going to see at the end of the psalm Not to spoil it, but the command for all peoples to do this tells us that n this is not just a psalm for Israel to worship to as one national group of people. This is a psalm for all people. No one is excluded. All nations are being called and beckoned to the celebration that applies to all of them. Why? Well look at verses 2 through 4. We see that there is a conquest on behalf of his people. I love this. Most kings in the ancient Near East were conquering other nations around them and bringing on the devastation of war to their neighbors. Why? For personal selfish ambition. That is what kings did in the ancient Near East. Assyrians, Babylonians, and so on and so forth. But this king is different. Verse 2 gives us the primary reason why we're clapping our hands and why we're shouting to God. It says, For the Lord most high is to be feared, a great king over all the earth. There's an obvious parallelism here between the title Most High and the term over all the earth. Again, to contrast this with some of the kings of the ancient Near East, if you read uh inscriptions that are written in Akkadian ascribing glory to Assyrian kings at the time, They were called kings who were most high. It was a term that these pagan kings would ascribe to themselves. And the Psalter ascribes it where it is properly due. Now calling God the king over all the earth was important because in the original context, uh other nations aside What we see here is the Davidic covenant comes to the fore in 2 Samuel 7 verses 12. through 16 because David as the king would be called the son of God himself in that Davidic covenant. And so when we're ascribing glory to the Most High, to the King over all the earth, what we're seeing in the original context there is the kingship in Israel. was a lifelike picture of God's kingship that would spread to all nations in its scope. Well, how did this happen? How did this begin? Well we see it in verse 3. Notice what he says. He subdued peoples under us and nations under our feet Notice that it doesn't say God subdued these peoples only to himself, although that's true. Notice the plural there. He did this for us. Well, when did that happen? Well, I'll give you two times in the history of the Old Testament that that happened. The first obviously would have been during the time of Joshua when Israel conquered the Canaanite nations in the land of promise. Now, a lot of people do wrestle with this today in our modern context. How could God tell one nation to go wipe out seven other nations? I mean, is that really fair? Is that right? Is that just? For God is the king to do that? Well, the answer biblically is yes, because this was a judgment of God on the sin of the Canaanites. Now, those of you who've been walking with me through Genesis since last year know that when after the flood When Ham, Noah's third son, unveiled the nakedness of his father, Noah cursed his son Canaan. We see that play out later in Abraham's time in Genesis 15, 6. God is promising to give Abraham and his descendants that land. that he's talking about being subdued here in the nations that are being subdued here. But Genesis 15, 6, God is essentially telling Abraham, but not yet. Not yet. Why? Because the sin of the Amorite is not yet complete. Amorite just being a catch-all term for all the Canaanites. It was not yet complete. It took place 400 years later when under Joshua they took the land. I think the other time you could say maybe there was a conquest where the peoples were brought under the feet of the Davidic king or right after David has the covenant made with him by God in 2 Samuel chapter 8 and then 9 and then 10. You see David go on this conquest of all these successive nations around Israel. In other words, God is in the process of establishing his people and the kingdom in the land. And verse 4 issues forth into that. It completes the first idea with the result of the conquest. He chose our heritage for us. In other words, our land, our inheritance, where we will live. The pride of Jacob, whom he loves. And by the way, pride there is not used in a bad sense, but notice what it says, the pride of Jacob, Jacob, whom he loves. Now this would have been at the end of the conquest by Joshua, but it would have also continued to the time of David when they were truly established and the kingdom was set. But what I want to point out to you is back in Genesis, in Deuteronomy chapter 9, God warns Israel before they go in and take the land that they were to be given the land not because they were more righteous than the Canaanites. Can you imagine that? They're about to go in the land and God warns them, don't think that I'm giving you this land, because you are more righteous than them. And then he spends the rest of the chapter pointing out all their failures in the wilderness just to humble them and remind them you guys are not all that. I'm doing this because of my grace. Rather, you guys are stiff-necked people, Israel. Why does he give them the land? Why does he establish the kingdom? Why does he go on conquest? Because God chose their fathers in his grace unconditionally, and he swore to give them that land. That's why verse 4 says that he loves Jacob. It's another way of saying it's pointing to his choice, his election of the patriarchs. And so the question we have to ask is, if we're going to ask, how does this point forward to Christ, how does Christ conquer as a king? Well, Christ has conquered our sin in the judgment of the cross. subduing us to himself and conquering all of his and our enemies. Some of you might some of you who might be hearing that thinking to yourself, wow, that's a crisp statement. Did you come up with that on your own? No. I really took it from the Westminster Short of Catechism 26. Understand, brothers and sisters, that Christ has conquered our sin in the judgment on the cross. The conquest begins not with conquering other people. It's not primarily, in our case, a conquest of politics of of wealth and military conquest. It is a conquest of sin. And by the way, when we look at the conquest of Joshua over the the Canaanite nations in the ancient times It actually pointed forward in one sense to a greater conquest over sin. Because that is ultimately what Israel was supposed to do when they conquered the Canaanites. It was not purely a military conquest. It was a conquest over sin. God was judging sin. It was an old covenant expression of God's judgment on sin. How did God judge sin in the new covenant? Well, we know that he did that in the cross. Romans 8. 3 says, when what the law was powerless to do. God did by sending his son in the likeness of human flesh and condemned sin in the flesh. That's the beginning of Christ's conquest, defeating sin to which we were held captive. But Christ also subdues all of his and our enemies. And that's the latter part of the confession's answer of how Christ executes the office of a king. He does so in restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. That's the second part of the conquest under Joshua that pointed forward to Christ. This is the tough thing that we don't often hear in churches today. There is a conquest of those who refuse to submit to the rule and the reign of Christ. By the way, this speaks to our hope as Christians because Christ is coming again. And the author of Hebrews explains to us, Christ will not come again to save Those from their sins. He did that in his first coming. He's coming in the second coming to establish his rule and his reign for those who have responded to the work of the cross. and the resurrection. So when we look at the second coming of Christ, this is why Paul writes in Romans 1620, listen to Paul this. The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. So what does this look like for today? Christ's conquest calls forth expressive worship. These are very profound truths about the work of God in Christ. What he has done in his first coming and what he will do in his second coming. How are we to respond to that? Are we to respond coldly? I think I would be remiss if I missed the opportunity to highlight the two imperatives of verse 1. Clap your hands and shout to God. Notice that those are entirely expressive forms of worship. Now, I don't know about you, you've probably heard this before, but in reformed churches and circles like we are, we're known for doing things decently and in good order. And quite frank, I'm getting a smile from Jared. I I am all for that. That's probably not a surprise to you. I am all for that. However, we're also stereotyped a different way as well, aren't we? The frozen, chosen. Have you heard that before? Historically, reformed people are not known always for being expressive in worship Now, as I was working through this psalm and thinking about this for tonight, I kind of wondered to myself, I wonder if some of that's cultural or just some of that is more kind of just personal temperament. It's probably some blend of both. But I want to highlight that the first two verbs are clap your hands and shout to God. And I want to encourage you this evening that there are times when it is entirely appropriate to clap your hands. uh to a worship song that we may be singing here at liberty or to raise your hands in the air when we're singing. That might be entirely appropriate sometimes. Right? And and to say amen. That is also expressive. By the way, I'm getting more of those lately and I just keep keep it coming, guys. Good uh good engagement here, right? There are times when it is more appropriate to shout out a hallelujah in church than to sit silent. Right. Now please don't hear me say I'm I'm not advocating that we jump up and dance in the aisles um during church. I did highlight, you know, good, decent order, right? But we can still be expressive. I had this conversation yesterday at a cookout that I was at with one of our members here. Uh I won't say who that was, but they had a lot of family and friends over and I got into a conversation with an older gentleman about this, how we're not always very expressive. And, you know, when do you really know when to say amen? uh or when to keep your mouth shut and just sit there. I you know, I I don't have a clear answer to that. Sometimes the spirit moves, but the the The conversation was like this guy said to me, I just wish my pastor would might give me like permission to maybe raise my hands or say amen. in church, right? And from the pulpit, I'm saying this to you as your pastor as a response to the two imperatives of this psalm in verse 1. If there is a moment to clap your hands and you feel it is appropriate and it's not going to distract others from worship, brothers or sister, by all means, praise the Lord with the voice that he has given you. Amen. Well that leads to our second point this evening in verses five through nine. Praise the King who reigns. We praise the King who reigns. He's not just the King who's conquered. Now he is reigning. Look at verse 5. We see the ascent of this king. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Wow. Again, he's using a generic term for God, not the divine name Yahweh. Why? Because this throne is not just over Israel. This is a throne over all the nations, all the languages, all the kingdoms, and all the peoples. By the way, notice the connection here and the parallelism between Verses 1 and verse 5. What did verse 1 say? I just highlighted it. Clap your hands. Shout to God. What does God do as he ascends to the throne? What does it say? It says it very clearly. God has gone up with a shout. Wow, okay. With the voice of shouting or rejoicing is what the Hebrew literally says. The Lord has gone up with the sound of a trumpet or the voice of a trumpet. Notice how expressive God is as he's ascending his throne, as he's celebrating his kingship with his people and his beloved. Here we have God Himself breaking the mold that we often create for ourselves when it says the Lord ascends with this sound of a trumpet, or again, more literally, the voice of a trumpet. The Lord is expressing In his victory, in his ascension. We can be expressive too, to a degree, right? Look at verses 6 and 7. It's not just the ascent of the king, the call to praise the king. Very clearly, we have a three-line progressive parallel statement. Now, I'm going to try to keep the technicalities to a minimum, but in Hebrew poetry, which you often see in the Psalms, There are often these what are called parallelisms or statements that parallel one another. And there's all kinds of parallel statements. Sometimes it just reiterates the same thing over and again for emphasis. Sometimes the parallelism furthers or develops an idea or a theme. And what we see here is something that develops further. We have three lines, not just two, in this parallelism, that drives the main point and the emphasis home. Let's take a look at verses six and seven. The first line is sing praises to God, sing praises. The second line, sing praises to our king, sing praises. The third line, for God is the king of all the earth, sing praises with a psalm. By the way, um if you have to pick a key word there, what would you say the key word is? Someone can shout it out. Sing praises. Yeah. Five times in two verses tells you it's really important, right? The sons of Korah repeat this five times. And what you need to understand is every single time it is in an imperatival command form. Notice how it develops. Notice how you sing praises to God in line one. Line two develops the theme even further. Well, who is God? God is our king. That's why we sing praises to him. He's the king who's conquered, he's now the king who reigns. Verse or line three, for God is king over all the earth. He's not just king in Israel, he's king over all nations. And by the way, I um let me just say, when you look at the historical context of this Old Testament psalm, as all the psalms are Old Testament , Think about the kingdom of Israel and the kingdom of Judah in that historical context. I mean, think of all the nations that surrounded them. I mean, they had Syria Uh they had Ammon, they had Moab, they had Edom, they had Egypt, they had the Philistines, later on they had the Assyrians, then they had the Babylonians, and then even further the Persians, and then the Greeks. and so on and so forth. And so you get the New Testament times and the Romans, right? All these nations around God's people historically, and what does it say? God is king over all the earth. In other words, this is true. God is king over all the nations, whether they acknowledge that truth or not. It doesn't change the reality that he's king. Right? We live in the United States. You could deny the reality that you have to pay your taxes all the day long. But guess what? At the end of the day, the United States government is in control and in charge, and somehow or another you're going to pay your taxes. Right? God is in authority over all these nations, whether they recognize that truth or not. And that leads to verses 8 and 9, the end of this psalm. The reign of the king over all nations. Kind of a natural segue, right? Verse 8. God reigns over all nations. God sits on his holy throne. Again, you need to keep in mind that the throne of David and his descendants in Israel and then later Judah re represent the very throne of God among his people. The king represents the Lord himself on the throne. But it's verse 9 that really is important for us to see. It says, the princes of the peoples gather together, gather as the people of the God of Abraham. For all the shields of the earth belong to God. He is highly exalted. What does that highlight for you? Conquest aside and some of the violent images that can bring to your mind, it highlights that the leaders of the nations will gather their peoples Together into the one people of God with Israel. You know, in Ephesians 2 In the book of Ephesians as a whole, one of the main themes is unity among God's people. And you've got to remember, in the New Testament time, the church is made up of Jew and Gentile, right? And in that first century church, the early church, it was very difficult to figure out how do we as Jews relate to those outside Gentiles coming in Or if you're an outside Gentile coming in, how do you relate to these strange Jewish people who have been you know having all these customs all this time? And Paul is talking about when he gets to Ephesians chapter 3, he's like, Look. The unity within the body of Christ of Jew and Gentile, where there once was a dividing wall of hostility, which he talks about in chapter 2. to, it's been done away with. But this this Gentile inclusion was a mystery before the time of Christ. But, brothers and sisters, I'll submit to you, just because it was a mystery in the Old Testament times does not mean it was unknown. Or does not mean that there was no trace of it in the Hebrew scriptures. We see it here. In verse 9, the princes of the peoples, peoples being the nations, gather as the people of the God of Abraham In other words, the Lord will indeed call out peoples from every tribe and nation and language and people to be his own. So again, as we come to the end here, how does Christ's present reign in heaven, at his Father's right hand, inform our hope as Christians Well, it's exactly that. Christ's ascension to reign at his Father's right hand looks forward to his return when his kingdom will be revealed in the new heavens and the new earth in the new Jerusalem. And so we just need to see how this is fulfilled. Christ ascended to his Father's right hand. That is the first fulfillment of this passage in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The New Testament is replete with these examples. Acts chapter 1, verses 9 through 11, Christ ascended into heaven. And by the way, the angels said, Why do you men of Galilee stand looking up into the heavens, into the clouds? Don't you realize that he who just ascended to you is going to come back and descend the same way he was taken up from you? Ephesians chapter 4, verses 8 through 10 highlights how Christ ascended on high, leading a host of captives and giving gifts to men. Hebrews chapter 1 verse 3 says that when Christ finished making purification for sins, there's that conquest, right? He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. And so we see that Jesus Christ reigns over all kingdoms and peoples. And now that he's seated on the throne, he reigns with authority. This is why Jesus said in Matthew. 2818, right before he ascended, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. By the way, do you know what he follows up that statement by saying? The Great Commission. By what authority do we as Christians who are focusing here at liberty on the idea of missions and evangelism and being gospel-centered in our own lives this year? How are we to go out and make disciples by the authority given to us by the Lord Jesus Christ? You've been given a mandate by a king. Why? Because he's reigning. Again, Paul says in Ephesians 1, 21 to 23, he emphasizes how Christ reigns over all things currently and will continue to do so, putting all things under his feet. until the last enemy is conquered. And that last enemy is what? Death. Death. So part of the application here Is that it is true, whether people acknowledge it or not, that Jesus Christ is Lord. And this will one day become evident. It will one day become manifest in the new heavens and the new earth. And so what do we do? What's the response? Sing praises to Christ. That's the response. Again, I'd be remiss if I ignored the five imperatival commands in verses six. We sing praises to Jesus Christ for the marvelous victory and the rule that belongs to Him. And that leads us right back to that big idea. We praise the Lord Jesus because he's conquered and because he reigns as king on the throne. Now we'll have we'll have a moment to respond to that in just a moment. Let's pray, and then Jared Dean will come up. Pastor Jared will lead us in the season of prayer before we sing our final hymn of response and we'll receive our benediction. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your Son Jesus. Lord, I think about all of the things that he endured for our salvation. He endured temptation at the hands of Satan immediately. Most of us have no idea in this room what that is like. He went to the cross. He was obedient to the point of death. Even when he's asking if this cup can pass from him, sweating drops of blood, he still went to the cross for us. Lord Jesus, you conquered sin. You are in the process of conquering all things. Not for the sake of violent conquest, but for the sake of reconciling all things to yourself in heaven and on earth. And we thank you, O Lord, that you have offered to us the covenant of peace through your own blood. That we might be in fellowship with you. So, Lord, as we come before you this evening, we ask and pray that you would take this psalm And that you would write your victory on our hearts, because that is the new covenant promise, that you will take your word, put it in our minds, and write it on our hearts We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.