Amen. Thank you, Fire. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to Exodus chapter 20? Once again, as we continue our study of the Ten Commandments. Let's read them once more. Exodus chapter twenty, beginning at verse one. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is in the earth beneath. Or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work. You, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor your father and mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servants, nor his female servants, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor 's. Let's pray. Father, we pray that our souls would tremble even as your people trembled. When they heard these words for the very first time. Father, we pray that your law might be written in our hearts. That your Holy Spirit indwelling us would make us so uncomfortable every time we we began to violate one of these commandments, that we would walk in your ways all our days. Now, Father, as we consider the seventh commandment this day, we pray for your Holy Spirit to move and work in hearts, accomplish eternal things within us. And Father, we pray that if there's someone here this day without Christ, someone without hope, someone without any certainty of his eternal state, We pray you'll draw that soul to saving faith this day. Do a mighty work of grace in that heart as you've done in many of our hearts here. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Dr. James Dobson wrote a touching account of the consequences of divorce. In a newsletter several years ago. He wrote, There are hundreds of single parents working at Focus on the Family, which gives us a personal connection to their hardship. One of them, whom I'll call Sharon, came to us at a low point in her life. Her husband abandoned her for another woman, leaving her with two small boys, a tiny rented apartment, and no child support. Her youngest son was so scarred for the love of his father that he would attach himself to men who reached out to her, spontaneously referring to them as Papa. He would cry when a designated father had to leave, breaking the heart of his mother. When Sharon heard I was writing about single parents this month, she sent me something she had written several years ago. These are her words As a divorced single mom, Christmas is a mixed bag of emotions. Joy, pain, facing the reality of the death of my dreams. Giving birth to new traditions, having my boys with me one Christmas and not the next, bracing myself for the fact that there are no presents under the tree for me. And wondering, will I have enough money to buy the boys a gift? And watching alone my boys' excitement as they race to discover what goodies they will get this year. I can't use the china from my marriage to set the Christmas dinner table. Just looking at it brings back cherished memories, causing excruciating pain. Setting the table for three instead of four is absolutely devastating. The empty chair is only a painful reminder that the head of our home doesn't live with us anymore. During the first Christmas on my own, I bought a withered excuse of a tree for a pittance instead of paying the utilities. As I took the lid off the box of ornaments, happy memories from the former life spilled out. Along with my tears. Just opening the box was exhausting emotionally. The children were delighted. As they decorated the tree, most of the dried needles fell to the floor. There were no presents to put under the barren tree. Cheerful, familiar Christmas tunes struck a painful chord. The togetherness of our family was gone forever. Around Thanksgiving, I'm always taken by surprise by something dark that invades my being. Memories of Christmas past collide with reality, and I slide down the slippery slope to the pit of depression. Surviving the holidays is hard. There is no special person to say to me, You are loved. It was in part to prevent such pain that God told his people, You shall not commit adultery. The basis of the commandment is marriage is ordained by God. Marriage is the gift of God And the Lord God said, It's not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place. And then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man he made into a woman, and he brought her to the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. In the Hebrew, she shall be called Isha because she was taken out of Ish. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Genesis 2 And just as marriage is the gift of God, even so marital relations are the gift of God. Then God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. Genesis 1. In Proverbs we read, Rejoice with the wife of your youth. As a loving deer and a graceful doe, let her breast satisfy you at all times, and always be enraptured with her love. For why should you, my son, be enraptured by an immoral woman and be embraced in the arms of a seductress? Marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. Hebrews 13, 4 One reason God established marriage was for the proper channeling of the natural physical desires that he gave men and women. You remember the Corinthians wrote to Paul for some advice concerning marriage during a time of persecution. They were wondering if they should continue to marry at a time when they were being torn away from their families and persecuted for their faith. Paul responded that he supposed that in light of the present distress, it would be good for a man to remain as he already was. Are you bound to a wife? Then do not seek to be loose. Are you loose from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But then he says, nevertheless, Because of sexual immorality, let each man have his own wife and let each woman have her own husband. Nevertheless, Because of sexual immorality, because that a shadow is always lurking over you, let each man have his own wife, let each woman have her own husband. Our culture has romanticized love and marriage to the point that marrying for the purpose the Scripture gives in 1 Corinthians, to avoid sexual immorality, is considered to be ignoble. Even Christians have so imbibed the spirit of the age that the idea of marrying for companionship, for mutual aid, and for the avoidance of sexual immorality, that idea is foreign to us. You may remember that segment from C. S. Lewis's Screwtape Letters, which has the demon screwtape writing to his nephew Wormwood on the subject of marriage. The enemy he speaks of, of course, is the Lord. Uncle Screwtate says, the enemy's demand on humans takes the form of a dilemma: either complete abstinence or unmitigated monogamy. Remaining married to one person. Ever since our father's first great victory, we have rendered the former complete abstinence. Very difficult for them. The latter, monogamy, for the last few centuries we've been closing up as a way of escape. We've done this through the poets and the novelists By persuading the humans that a curious and usually short-lived experience, which they call being in love, is the only respectable ground for marriage. That marriage can and ought to render this excitement permanent, and that a marriage which does not do so is no longer binding. In other words, the humans are to be encouraged to regard as the basis for marriage a highly colored and distorted version of something the enemy really promises as its result. Two advantages follow. In the first place, humans who have not the gift of continence can be deterred from seeking marriage as a solution because they do not find themselves in love. And thanks to us, the demons, the idea of marrying with any other motive seems to them low and cynical. Yes, he says, they think that They regard the intention of loyalty to a partnership for mutual help, for the preservation of chastity, for the transmission of life, as something lower than a storm of emotion. In the second place, any sexual infatuation whatsoever, so long as it intends marriage, will be regarded as love. And love will be held to excuse a man from all the guilt and to protect him from all the consequences of marrying a heathen, a fool, or a wanton. But more of this in my nest, your affectionate Uncle Scrutin. To put it plainly The idea that the only reason to marry, and the only reason to remain married if you are married is that you are, to use a Disney word, Twitter paid it. That you are infatuated, that you have uh goosebumps when a certain someone draws near, heart palpitations That idea did not come from our Creator. It is not the biblical view of marriage. Now, physical attraction and romantic love are components of biblical marriage, but our culture has exalted them above all else. God gave Eve to Adam for companionship, for mutual support, for the propagation of the race, and the proper channeling of those God-given desires. Feelings of affection, no doubt, developed between them, but such feelings were certainly not the foundation of their relationship. Their marriage was arranged. As were virtually all marriages we read about in Scripture. A marriage built solely on the shifting sand of feelings. Is going to be in danger when the severe storms come and the sand begins to shift Now I know I've sounded this trumpet before, but the church is one of the few places in our society where you will hear it. So it's a trumpet that needs repeated sounding. There are times in virtually every marriage when only one thing will cause it to survive. It's not romance. It's not physical attraction. It's not warm fuzzies or goosebumps. The thing that will sustain your marriage through the severe storms of life is commitment. Commitment. The commitment that you made to your spouse, your solemn vow made before witnesses that you would remain in sickness and in health for richer or poorer, for better or worse. And more importantly, your commitment that you made to your Creator on that day. This commitment is not affected by the passage of time. I think I've shared before that uh poem that uh James Dobson's father wrote to uh Dobson's mother on her fiftieth birthday. She was beginning to feel the ravages of the just beginning to feel it. uh the ravages of of getting older, not able to do all the things she was once able to do. And it was spring the spring of the year and Dobson's father wrote this poem. I think I remember it. The world is singing now that spring has come. I saw a robin in the morning sun among the pale green leaves and bursting buds. I heard his talk. But it is autumn where we walk. It's true for us the summer too is gone. Now whiplashed winds arise, and further on the ice and sleet and cold in grim assault to pierce us through. Does fall in springtime frighten you? Impotent shines the April sun so fair to melt the wisps of frost within your hair But I am with you. And hand in hand, we'll face the winner too. I am with you. And hand in hand we'll face the winter too. I share that poem with uh young couples. who are preparing for marriage. And I say, this is what you need to be shooting for. This kind of commitment, this is what's going to hold your marriage together. God makes it clear in his word that he hates divorce. What he has joined together, he does not want man to put asunder. Now, why does God condemn adultery and other forms of sexual relations outside of marriage? Because the sexual relationship is not just designed by God for pleasure. It's a picture of oneness, an expression of genuine love. a means of procreation. And it's a picture of the unity of Christ and his church. Ephesians 5. Paul says, I'm speaking of Christ and his church. It's a picture. The marital relationship is a picture of the relationship between Christ and his church Now, outside of marriage, it's not an expression of genuine sacrificial unconditional love because it's not really seeking what is best for the other. As true love does. It's not an expression of true oneness because without the commitment of marriage, there can't be a real joining of spirits in a biblical sense. And it's not intended as a means of procreation generally because there's usually no plan to care for a child. The very last thing that's desired is for someone to bear a child in those circumstances, generally. Now, it's not news to you that in our culture, the biblical view of marriage that I've just briefly summarized is not necessarily the view of the majority. The U. S. Census Bureau reported recently that single motherhood is on the rise in America of the 4. 1 million women who had given birth in 2011. 4. 1 million women who gave birth in 2011, American women, 36 % were unmarried. That's an increase from 31% in the year 2005. Among those aged 20 to 24 who gave birth in America in 2011, 62% were unmarried. Listen to that again. Among those aged 20 to 24, 62 percent were unmarried. Perhaps you heard or saw this week the results of a Wii TV and Associated Press poll of people under 50. Two in five unmarried women without children said they would consider having a child of their own without a partner. Forty-two percent. of unmarried women said they would consider having a child of their own without a partner. Now, it should not surprise us Or alarm us unnecessarily that when those who have not embraced Christ as Lord and Savior do not pay much regard to what he says about marriage. But it should surprise and alarm us when Christians do the same. George Barnov reported that two-thirds of Christians surveyed saw divorce as, quote, a reasonable solution to a problem marriage. Two-thirds of Christians surveyed said that they see divorce as a reasonable solution to a problem marriage, and nearly half of all Christians surveyed stated that the children produced in unhappy marriages should not serve to keep the family intact. It's sad for the children, but so be it, in other words. Barna concluded, although Christians believe that marriage is intrinsically an important institution, they are buckling under the social and economic pressures that have challenged marital relationships and childbearing obligations. Child rearing obligations. Over the years, surprisingly little research shows evidence that the lifestyles of born-again Christians differs from those of non-believers apart from involvement in religious activities. When I pastored in Maribel, Tennessee, I had a dry erase uh board mounted on a wall in my office, my tiny office. Someone left a question there one day. That I suppose Barna and Gallup and other pollsters have also wrestled with. The question that appeared in my office one day was: why do people who say they are Christians not act like it? Why do people who say they are Christians not act like it? Well, I think there are several factors. One is not all those who claim to be Christians have truly been converted. I have a two-part series on what I call synthetic Christianity that's been highlighted on sermon audio this past week. There are a lot of synthetic Christians. And secondly, some Christians are babes in the Word. They don't yet know what Christ has called them to. They don't yet know how Christ has called them to live. But thirdly, I believe one of the biggest factors is many Christians have been effectively neutralized by this world system. Many Christians have effectively been neutralized by this world system. By that I mean the constant bombardment from living in an alien culture. Has had the very effects intended by the Prince of the Power of the Air. Explicit images on billboards. in newspapers, in magazines, on television, in films, on computers, suggestive lyrics and songs, immodest apparel becoming more the rule than the exception. The constant assaults which this world system wages upon our minds. No one is more important in your world than you. Your happiness is for you the most important thing in the universe, says this world system. You have a need for sexual fulfillment. Your needs must be satisfied for you to be happy There's no compelling reason why those needs cannot be satisfied outside of marriage. Biblical principles of sexual morality are old-fashioned and outmoded. They're not applicable to our society. There's been a revolution, a sexual revolution. Nobody really follows those those old outmoded old-fashioned ideas anymore. The old things have passed away. Behold, old things have become new. What time is it in America? It's 6 o'clock. And the 6 o'clock party bus is making stops near you. Whatever you do, don't miss this bus. Everybody else is already on it. And by the way, it doesn't matter whether you're attracted to people of the opposite sex or people of the same sex. What matters is what makes you happy. There's nothing that trumps your personal happiness. There's no one, and certainly no one who supposedly revealed himself in a book thousands of years old. There's no one who could possibly take precedence over you and your own happiness today. That's what matters most. Your master, Lord Happiness, is quite clear on that point. He says, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of unhappiness. Out of the house of bondage, you shall have no other God before me. Under the steady onslaught of this world system controlled by the God of this age Which is encouraging behavior to which our sinful natures are already inclined Is it any wonder that slowly, subtly, our view of right and wrong is becoming hazy? The Lord God calls his people, be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Romans 12. Don't you know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? You 're a chosen generation. You're a royal priesthood. You're a holy nation. His own special people. That you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Apostle Peter Wrote to Christians, Beloved, I beg you, as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. You're just a sojourner here. You're just a pilgrim here. You've got to abstain from the fleshly lust at war against the soul. Remember, according to some research, Christians are not only as likely as non-believers to be tempted with sexual sin, we are as likely as non-believers to succumb to the temptation. Many Christians are not living as strangers and pilgrims. In fact, they're feeling quite at home here in this alien society. They see no reason to abstain from fleshly lusts. In Tennessee, I received a letter from a worker at a local crisis pregnancy center. She wrote, Sometimes I get so discouraged. I can't see that we're making any difference at all. The girls keep having sex and they keep getting pregnant and it's our Christian girls, so I get discouraged. Of the 48 clients of that center in a typical month, 36 of them said they were Christians Six of them said they were not. Two said they were unsure. Of the 36 who said they were Christians, 21 of them said they attended church regularly. The churches represented included Baptist, Church of God, Primitive Baptist, Methodist, Faith Center, Non-Denominational. All three of the area high schools were represented And the youngest client was 14 years old. Many professing Christians, instead of being transformed by the renewing of our minds through God's word , Are being conformed to this world. They're adopting the worldview of this age. And one of its principal tenets is: no truth is absolute. The late Alan Bloom wrote in his book, The Closing of the American Mind, over 25 Years Ago now. There's one thing a professor can be absolutely certain of. Almost every student entering the university believes, or says that he believes, that truth is relative. I'm sure I've cited these findings before. Josh McDowell, Bob Hostettler conducting a scientific survey of almost 4,000 young people, youth in evangelical church youth groups. They discovered that 57 % of our young people at the time couldn't even say that an objective standard of truth exists. Only 29% of them disagreed with the following statement. When it comes to matters of morals and ethics, truth means different things to different people. No one can be absolutely positive that they have the truth. Again, only 29 % of young people in evangelical churches disagreed with that statement. Now Those young people are now adults raising their own families. These statistics are probably at least 15 or 20 years old. These young people are now adults raising families. Many professing Christians no longer believe that there are basic moral and ethical truths that apply to everybody. They don't believe that there are truths that are applicable to all people at all times, in all circumstances, in all places. Now, what does all that have to do with the seventh commandment? Everything Because if if you swallowed this very basic belief of our culture, you already have that hook inside of you which will eventually bring about your destruction. Unless that hook can somehow be dislodged. When you hear what the Bible says about sexual purity, here's what you're thinking. Yeah, I agree, sex outside of marriage is usually wrong, unless, of course, two people really love each other. Or, yeah, sex outside of marriage is wrong, I get it, unless you're engaged to somebody. Or, yeah, I get it, sex outside of marriage, that's wrong, unless you're really committed to someone. Or it's wrong unless you're living with someone. But once you adopt the philosophy of this age, the one thing you will not say is Sex outside of marriage is wrong under all circumstances, at all times, in all places, among all people, because that's what God declares in His holy word If we adopt the philosophy of this age, anything God declares about the seventh commandment or any other commandment will have no more effect upon you. Then the effect your antiperspirant has upon your blood type. So as we bring this message, the first on the seventh commandment to a close, let me ask you. Do you believe God's word? Do you believe it to be true? Do you believe that it applies to you and to all others? Do you believe that God is our creator and he authoritatively gave us his word? That is living and powerful and sharper than a two-headed sword? Do you believe Jesus when he says heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away? Another way to put this is, have you fallen before the Lord Jesus Christ and acknowledged him as your Savior, as your master, as your Lord? As your king, the one in whom you believe, the one whose word you strive to obey. The one whose word trumps the worldview of movies and sitcoms and sociologists and psychologists and those with doctorates and those with billions of dollars and those with power You know, Corinth was a culture much like America today, and the Apostle Paul proclaimed there, We preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Now let's turn our thoughts to the great sacrifice that was paid For our violation of the seven commandments and all other such sins, all other commandments Let's turn our thoughts to the Lord Jesus Christ, who was stricken, smitten, and afflicted for us. Stand and sing with me, number 192.