Where a sin is forbidden, the contrary duty is commanded. I know it sounds a little confusing, but it's basically saying when a sin is prohibited, like do not murder, there is a an opposite command that we are to do. And if if one of the Ten Commandments has a duty that we're to do, there's an opposite sin that we are not to do. And the reason I mentioned that is because this commandment is really easy just to look at it and say, okay, do not murder and leave it at that. But there's a whole lot more to it, and that's why I wanted to mention this. And this brings us to the main point for this evening's sermon. You are called to not murder others, but you are called to preserve their lives because they are image-bearers of Christ. So you're called to not murder others, but to preserve their lives because they are image-bearers of Christ. So let's get into the first point here. Do not murder others. This sounds pretty simple. Um just don't murder people, easy enough. But we'll soon see that there's a whole lot more to it than just not murdering or killing someone. The Hebrew word that we see translated as murder here in the English Standard Version, or that that is Hebrew, that's obviously translated as here. Some of you may have a King James Version of the Bible and you'll probably see in there that it says kill, do not kill, instead of murder. The Hebrew word translated as murder here is translated the majority of times throughout the Old Testament with a connotation of illegal or unsanctioned or unlawful killing. In fact, it's used forty-six times in the Old Testament, and only four of those times is translated as kill or killed. The rest of the time it is translated as murder or some form of unlawful killing. The commentator Douglas Stewart points out that the translation of kill in the King James Version is a little deficient, and I do tend to agree with him. When we read the sixth commandment here, it is talking about unlawful, illegal, sinful killing. It is not prohibiting all killing whatsoever. And we'll get a little more in depth into that as the sermon goes on. So this begs the question, what exactly is murder? How would we define it? Does every killing of another human being always constitute murder? Are there any circumstances in which killing another is justified rather than a sin? These are critical questions that we have to address when we look at the six commandments. Now the foundation we have for prohibiting murder is the fact that man is created in the image of God Genesis 127 says, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. Created him. Male and female, he created them. And later on in Genesis 9, verse 6, we see that it says, Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image. So this is the foundation that we see be beneath the sixth commandment, this doctrine of the Imago Day or the image of God. Man is created in God's image, and because of that, man carries an inherent dignity. And because of that, you ought to show your fellow man the appropriate respect as an image-bearer of God. Now, how does the Bible go on to define murder? Throughout Exodus and Numbers, we see case law for each of the Ten Commandments. In Exodus 22, verse 2, there's an example of a burglar who breaks into a house and the homeowner kills him. This is one of the kind of case law examples that we see. It says that it is permissible for the homeowner to kill the intruder at night, but it is not permissible to kill him during the day. I know that sounds a little strange. But it's basically saying that because at nighttime, it's obviously low lake conditions, you may not be able to see if the man is armed or not. So it's permissible to use more force to prevent that person from coming in and doing whatever he's going to do. So it's permissible to kill him at night, but during the day you could see if he was unarmed or not, and then it would not be permissible to kill him in that circumstance. And therefore the homeowner would be guilty of murder. Numbers 35 is another example of this, another case law. This time it differentiates between murder, manslaughter, and accidental killing So there are many, many instances throughout the scripture of different circumstances surrounding killing. And even our civil magistrate defines it this way. If you were to look at Maryland Annotated Code CR2 -201, it defines first-degree murder as a deliberate, premeditated, and willful killing committed by lying in wait. That's what Maryland law defines first-degree murder as. So you can see from both the scriptures and the civil law that murder is killing someone with intent in an unlawful manner. But what about the heart? Obviously, our criminal law here in the state of Maryland and other states and other countries does not deal with the heart, but scripture does. Is it only actual physical murder that's a sin, or is there something deeper? Deuteronomy 1911 says, but if anyone hates his neighbor And lies in wait for him and attacks him and strikes him fatally so that he dies, he's then guilty of murder. Think about the first phrase there. If anyone hates his neighbor. The action of murder flowed out of that hate that they harbored in their heart. Likewise, you also have the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5-7. What does Jesus spend a large portion of the Sermon on the Mount dealing with? He's dealing with the heart. He's taking the Mosaic law and saying, hey, you guys are misunderstanding this. There's something deeper in the heart that you don't understand. He points out in Matthew 5, 21 to 22, that hating your brother makes you guilty of murder. So we see that hate lies at the root of murder or unlawful killing. Hate brews in the heart like a festering wound, growing and twisting until it comes out in physical action. Now this hate may not always show itself as actual murder, but it may come out in how you treat others around you. There are some people who are completely consumed by their hatred and anger towards others. All you have to do is watch the national news for five minutes to see that, right? 1 John 3. 15 even spells it out plainly. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. So hating someone is a violation of the sixth commandment. It is not enough to simply refrain from killing somebody. So here I'd like to challenge you and encourage you not to harbor ill will towards others in your heart. That's a lot easier said than done. When you harbor frustration and ill will towards others in your hearts, it festers and grows into hate. But how do you actively fight against that hate and harboring it in your heart? I would encourage you to pray. I know that sounds like the typical sort of Sunday school answer, but it really is true. Prayer is one of the ordinary means of grace, one of the things that God has given us to grow us and to sanctify us. When you pray, you are making a request of your king. You are aligning your hearts and desires toward those of Christ. You are kneeling in submission before God's throne. So I would encourage you to pray that God would soften your hearts towards others so that you do not harbor hate and sin. Now trust me, I I said this a minute ago, but I'll say it again. I know this is difficult, or it may even seem impossible to do that. I've been there, I understand that completely. But hate and animosity in your heart is not going to heal by itself. Only the Holy Spirit sanctifying you can heal that. So confess your sin to the Lord. Confess that you have hated your brother or sister. That you have acted angrily towards them. Confess to the Lord that you've hated your neighbor or that politician. Or your parents, or your old boss, or whoever it may be. Confess that sin to the Lord and ask him to sanctify you and to soften your heart towards that person. If this is something you feel convicted of or you're struggling with, I would encourage you to talk to me or Pastor Aaron or your shepherding elder. We would love to shepherd you through that process. Now that we've examined unjustified killing or murder, we need to circle back to an earlier question. Are there any circumstances in which killing someone is a justified killing rather than a sinful crime? There are an entire host of different scenarios and it it's much too vast to go into every single detail. People have debated this for thousands of years since Augustine. And I'll mention him again here in a minute. But there are two I want to examine very briefly here. Self-defense and killing in war. So if someone attacks you in order to kill you or cause severe bodily harm, you would be justified in killing that person in self-defense. Every single State of the Union uh observes that and follows that. That is law on almost every place on the planet. And scripture would back that up too. When you do that, you are preventing that person from committing a murder. So if someone pulls a gun on you or a knife and you kill them in self-defense, you are preventing that person from committing a murder against you. You would also be carrying out the natural consequences for that person attempting such a crime. Likewise, killing enemy in a justly fought war is permissible. Now you can question whether or not a war is justified. I won't get into that, but uh but Augustine speaks of that. He has an entire treatise on just something called just war theory. And again, that's something that is very, very convoluted and very complicated and difficult to understand, and people have debated that for thousands of years. So we won't deal with that very in-depth here this evening. But if you fight in the military in a justly fought war, then killing an enemy who has taken up arms against you is not sinful murder. It is justified. Matthew Henry even writes that the sixth commandment does not forbid killing in lawful war or in our own necessary defense. nor in the magistrate putting offenders to death. For these things tend to the preserving of life. So you see he deals with the death penalty as well. And that's the way this violence often works, by preserving life by way of self-defense or waging just war or the death penalty. Like I said, if you would like to read more on that, Augustine has a great work called The City of God, in particular chapter uh 19, section 7 deals with this um more in depth. So I would encourage you guys to read that if you have some time. The question remains in this first section of the sermon, though, why did God give us this commandment and how does it apply to you today? When you're talking about actual murder, it doesn't always seem like this is something that is very applicable to our day-in-and-day in, you know, day-in-and-day-out lives. But there's something very important here. He gave us the sixth commandment, one to restrain sin and death, and two, to protect mankind made in the image of God. God created man and woman in his own image. We talked about that a few moments ago. That's the foundation for this commandment. And God obviously does not wish his people to die, which is the reason for this. This commandment also has the goal of restraining sin and death. When you harbor hatred in your heart towards someone else, all you're doing is harming yourself. The thing I would like to leave you with in this first section of tonight's sermon is to not harbor hatred or animosity in your hearts toward others. Hatred leads to violence of speech and violence of action. I really want to encourage you if you are harboring hate or anger in your heart towards others tonight, go and be reconciled with your brother or sister. Do it as soon as you can. Repent of your sin to God and pray that God would enable you to walk in righteousness rather than in sin. Let's take a look at point two here, preserving the life of others. So now that we've examined the sin forbidden, what is the duty commanded? Nellike, I think I mentioned this at the beginning of the sermon, but this is something which is not typically discussed when reading or studying the Ten Commandments. If there's a sin forbidden, something you're not supposed to do, logic would dictate that the opposite is commanded to be done. So if the sin forbidden is the murder or unlawful killing of another, then the duty commanded would be the upholding and preserving of life. Now what does this mean? John Calvin writes in the Sixth Commandment, and he says, God not only forbids us to be murderers, but also prescribes that everyone should study faithfully to defend the life of his neighbor. So defending the life of your neighbor could look like a whole multitude of things. It could be actual physical defense, such as assisting someone and defending them when they're under attack. It could look like Defending a friend's honor when someone is gossiping about them. Defending their dignity when it's under assault. This is preserving the life and the honor and the dignity of your neighbor. John Calvin writes again on this when he says, We should not vex or oppress or be at enmity with anyone, and we should live only at peace with man, without exciting quarrels. But also we should aid as far as we can the miserable who are unjustly oppressed, and should endeavor to resist the wicked lest they injure men. So this saying you should uh strive to assist the oppressed and resist the wicked, but you should also strive to live at peace with others when you can. Proverbs 1218 says, there is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts, but the tongue of the wise brings healing. It's a saying that you should avoid to avoid provoking words, because provoking words or rash words or harsh words are like sword thrusts. That obviously causes injury or damage. So when you speak harshly to your spouse, you cause them damage. You cause them pain. When you speak in an angry manner to the waiter at a restaurant, you're causing them injury. When you yell at your kids angrily, or put them down, you're causing them pain. All of these things are not preserving the life of your neighbor, but are instead causing damage to the life of your neighbor. While also increasing the hate and anger you have harbored in your heart. Instead, treat people with respect because they are image-bearers of God. Treat your spouse like the amazing gifts they are to you from God. Pastor Aaron preached about that this morning. Treat that waiter at a restaurant like an image bearer of God who deserves respect. Treat your children like image bearers of God who have been entrusted to your care. Do not cause people injury by your careless or angry words. Psalm 82. 4. Psalm 82. 4 says, rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. This is a command to take care of people who need to be taken care of. Children, orphans, the elderly, the sick, prisoners, widows, etc. Do not neglect these people in their time of need. An excellent way in which you can do this is to assist the deacons in their work. There's a whole host of things they need help with. Remember that our deacons do not only work on the building and property, but they also help minister in practical ways like visitation, providing meals, sitting with people. Ask the deacons how you can help in those areas. They will gl gladly put you to work. You could also work or volunteer at a crisis pregnancy center, for example. Our church gives money through the missions committee to, I think it's Alpha Pregnancy Center here in Baltimore County. Places like that always need volunteers, constant volunteers. There are many, many ways in which you can help you. There are many, many ways in which you can help the oppressed and the downtrodden. brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling. But on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. So something else practical you can do here is when someone does evil to you or wrongs you, do not repay them in kind. When someone wrongs you, do not turn around and do something to them in anger. You are doing nothing more than increasing the anger in your heart and causing damage to that other person. Think about our Lord Jesus Christ. Did he revile those who hated him? Or did he patiently bear it? Think about Minneapolis. Think about Minneapolis uh about a month ago. Did you guys see the the video of City's church where the there was a group of protesters that came into the church during the middle of service and Started yelling and screaming and chanting things. If you haven't seen that video, go watch it. You can look it up on YouTube or on the internet. But uh when that happened during the middle of the church service, if you'll notice the pastor and the church members, they really did credit to Christ in the church, in my opinion. opinion. They were patient, they were calm, they were uh did nothing but try to love these folks. Try to engage them in conversation. They didn't get in fights with them. They weren't screaming and yelling at them. They weren't trying to shove them out of the church building. They tried to engage with them and it wouldn't it didn't work. They just left peacefully. I mean this behavior that those protesters were exhibiting, it was really an assault upon the Lord Jesus Christ and his kingdom. Now an a very unsuccessful assault. mind you, but still an assault nonetheless. When those congregants left just left peacefully or tried to engage with those folks, or when the pastor was being interviewed by the the one reporter, he stayed calm? They spoke the truth. The pastor even said at one point, he said, Jesus Christ is the only hope for our city. And he was right. Our brothers and sisters, our fellow believers in Minneapolis, did not repay evil for evil, but instead they remained peaceful and stood firm upon the gospel. I've seen firsthand the effects of murder and hate upon the world. Everyone here knows that. Over the last seventeen or so years I've been on more homicide and suicide scenes than I can really count. I've seen the pain that's really caused when someone is murdered or when someone kills themselves. The pain of those sins and crimes lasts for years. People often think it's taking the easy way out, but it is not. It lasts for years and years and years. I've seen what devastation is brought on by anger and hate. Children living in fear of their parents, wives living in fear of their husbands, people living in fear of their neighbors, entire communities scarred by violence. The sixth commandment here is a call to turn away from that. A call to turn away from unlawful and sinful violence. It is a call to turn away from holding on to anger and hate in your heart. But why should you do this? But why should you do this? All of this being said, why should you do it? Because the Lord Jesus Christ has given you a better way. The Lord has promised to pour out his spirit upon the church. to sanctify his people, to take away the sinful hearts of stone, and to give us righteous hearts of flesh. All of you know that. You know that passage in the Bible. But you are redeemed Christians who have been saved by the Lord Jesus Christ. He died and rose again to put an end to murder and hate. He died and rose again so that you are no longer enslaved to the sinful, hateful, murderous passions of your sin nature. Think about this. One day. But think about this. One day, brothers and sisters, this world and this creation will pass away. One day Christ will return in glory and usher in the new heavens and the new earth. And that's going to be a beautiful thing. And I'd like to leave you with the words of Revelation 21, verses 1 to 5. The Apostle John says this. For the first heaven and the first earth has passed had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Brothers and sisters and these. The times right now are kind of crazy, are they not? Seems like it's just volatile every time you turn on the news or the TV or just seeing this wild stuff that is happening in our world, in our country, in our state. But this is hope that we have. So in the middle of anger and hate and violence, this is the pillar of hope that you can hold on to, that one day God will return, or Christ will return, make all things new. And take away death and take away crying and mourning. That's hopeful, is it not? Amen.