Well, if you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open to Romans chapter 3 as we stand together for the reading of God's holy word. We're going to be following the passage that we looked at last week. Last week we looked at chapter 3, verses 9 through 20. This week we're going to be in verses 21 through 31. Beginning in verse 21, this is the word of the Lord. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. What then becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No. But by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. Or is God the God of the Jews only? Is he not the God of the Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are thankful, O Lord, for the message of the gospel which we see encapsulated in this passage. And so Lord, as we work through it this morning, Lord, I pray that you would open our hearts, open our minds to understand more of the glorious grace that you have given us and how you have chosen to work. in the redemption of sinners. Lord, for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, last week we began a five-part sermon series on working through the membership vows that we take here in the Presbyterian Church in America. And last week, as I mentioned before, we were in Romans chapter 3, verses 9 through 20, which focuses on summarizing the universality of sin. Both Jew and Gentile are under the dominion and the power and the presence of sin in their lives apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this week we want to follow that up looking at our second membership vow, which focuses on the person and the work of Christ as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners Now, just like we did last week, if you turn the page over on page six of your bulletin, you will see those five membership vows printed. And I want to draw your attention to the second one And it's the question, do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and Savior of sinners? And do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in the gospel? Now again, if you are a member here at Liberty Church, you answered yes to that question. But in order to unpack the meaning of this vow, I've chosen Romans 3, 21 to 31. to help explain the substance of what that vow is all about. And the main idea of our passage this morning in Romans 3 is this. We are made right before God by faith in the person and work of Jesus Christ, which is a message that applies to all people everywhere. equally. That's the idea. That's what Paul's getting across. And so there's two there's two points to this idea. And I want to break this down in verses 21 through 26. Looking at our first point, the means of justification before God. That's the first point he's getting across. I want to draw your attention to verses 21 and 22 once again. Notice he says, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Let's go ahead and stop there, because there is a complete idea there We see here in verse 21 the righteousness of God revealed by the law and the prophets. He does allude to that. And the question you might ask yourself is. How is the righteousness of God laid out or manifested in the law and the prophets? We have to understand that before we understand how it's revealed, apart from the law and the prophets. Well, in the law, if you know anything about the law of Moses, it is the standard of God's character, the standard of his righteousness. that is applied to sinful human beings. That's what the law is all about. It's taking the standard of God's character. And remember, we are made in his image. And as the Westminster Confession of Faith and Catechism say, we were created in his image, after his likeness, in holiness, in righteousness, with dominion over the creatures. And so because we are made in God's image, his character then becomes the standard by which we are called to live. Now because we are sold into slavery to sin, which we saw last week. earlier in this chapter, God's character and his righteousness needs to be applied to sinful humanity in a way that will draw them to see how they are called to live for his glory. And so the law is his character, his righteousness laid out. And if you remember what we talked about last week in verse 19, just two verses before this. Now whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. Remember the two purposes? So that every mouth may be stopped In other words, that kills our self-righteousness, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. In other words, all humanity, Jew and Gentile. made in the image of God, come under the purview of God's law, which is the revelation of his character for all people. Now we know that was that was revealed to Israel specifically at Mount Sinai, so he mentions here the prophets as well. The righteousness of God was revealed as well through the prophets. Well, who are the prophets? Well, I'm not going to name every single one of them. You can look through your table of contents throughout the Old Testament. But there's one thing that you might want to know about these prophets that they all have in common. They were like lawyers, so to speak. They were covenant prosecutors against God 's people. By the way, that's why they were really not so popular. Nobody really wants to have their sins thrown in their face, exposed for everyone to see, and then called to repentance But that's what the the prophets were. They took the law of Moses, and when they when God's people fell short of that through their sin, it was the prophets' job to take the law and to apply it to the sins of the people, exposing that sin and calling them to repentance, showing them where they missed the mark of living up to the standard of God's righteousness revealed in that law. That's what they were doing. But in the process of doing that, we know from 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 10 through 12, it was revealed to them they were not serving themselves only, but they were serving even us. How so? Because they pointed to the glory of Jesus Christ. They pointed to the sufferings of Christ. And the glories that came after that suffering. In other words, the death and the resurrection of Christ. But all that to say, the Apostle Paul does acknowledge here that the righteousness of God was revealed in the law And in the prophets, but notice what he says in verse 21. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Hmm, what's he pointing forward to there? Well, when he says now, he's pointing forward to there's a different means of revealing the righteousness of God, and that is the gospel. Jesus Christ. Which is why he follows up in verse 22. If your Bible's like mine in the ESV, it's got like a dash. showing that he's coming back to the original idea of how it was manifested apart from the law. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Now that's good news. That's really the centerpiece of the message of the gospel. And if you don't know, and it's okay if you don't, the word gospel simply means good news. Now, this is good news that the righteousness of God was manifested apart from the law, which he said last week, only serves to condemn us. The prophets cannot save us. So we need the righteousness of God revealed to us in a way that is good news, and that is through Jesus Christ. And notice what he says here. The means of receiving the righteousness of God is faith in Jesus Christ. And what that means there is that Jesus Christ himself , his person and his work is the very object of our faith. Notice that is very different than saying we Christians just have a blind faith. A blind faith is a faith that has no object. The Christian faith has the object set before it of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself So how does this work? Well, let's look at verses 23 through 26. We see the means of receiving the righteousness of Christ. How do we receive God's righteousness or Christ's righteousness to us? In other words, Martin Luther asked the question when he was wrestling with this several hundred years ago at the dawn of the Protestant Reformation. How is it possible that a sinner who deserves to be condemned because of his sin at the legal bar of God's justice, how is it possible that such a person can be declared righteous in God's sight? And that's what Paul is unpacking here for us this morning. Take a look at verses 23 through 24. Actually, let's go back to the end of verse 22. He says, For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Many of you probably remembered that, it's memorized that at some point in your life. The idea that no distinction between Jew or Gentile, all of them have sinned and fallen short of the standard of God's glory and righteousness. But look at verse 24. and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Jesus Christ. Let me go ahead and stop there. Notice that the righteousness of Christ as a redemption is a gift. And if it's a gift, it is not deserved. Why is it not deserved? Well, because we're sinners. He's already established that. And as sinners, what we really deserve By God's justice would be wrath and judgment and punishment for what we have done. And yet, notice what he says here, that the righteousness of God that is given to us as a redemption is a gift by grace. So this is where you see the grace of God. We receive what we don't deserve. Hmm. How? Well, through the redemption, as he says here, that comes through faith. Notice those words through the redemption. Anyone who's spent time, any length of time in any form of Christian church has heard that word redemption just thrown around. And we lose track of what that word really means and what it meant in its historical context. That word apologis in Greek That word we translate as redemption is a word that is used for buying the freedom of slaves. Think about that analogy for just a moment. I mean, when we hear slaves or slavery, there are all kinds of historical baggages. that we have in our minds. And sometimes those baggages do serve as a valid illustration for our spiritual condition apart from Christ. That is what he's talking about. We were sold under slavery to sin, unable to pay the ransom and free ourselves. It doesn't matter how you try to concoct a way of escape from that slavery, whether it's your own works, your own righteousness, you can't do it. There's a price that had to be paid. And so what he's saying here is the gift of God's grace, it's free, it's freely offered to us as human beings, but and it's free of charge to us. It was not free of charge to God. What did it cost? Well, it costs the blood of the Son But notice this idea of redemption. The righteousness of Christ is a gift of redemption. It is a gift of freedom from sin. Now Paul will get to this later in the book of Romans, but we are free from the power and dominion of sin. But this side of eternity, before the second coming of Christ, we are not free of the presence of sin in our lives. We're free of its power, but any of us, if we're honest, knows, we still have the presence of it in our lives that we wrestle with. So we see here the righteousness of Christ as a redemption. We also see in the first part of verse 25 the righteousness of Christ as a propitiation. Notice what the beginning of verse 25 says. So verse 24 ends pointing to Jesus Christ, verse 25, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received. By faith. Okay, let's go ahead and stop there. Hmm. Propitiation. By his blood. We've talked about this before in my time here. If you remember, the first book I preached through when I got here was 1 John in the New Testament. And if you remember 1 John 2, verses 1 and 2, John uses the same exact word, propitiation. Little children, I'm writing to you so that you do not sin. But if any of you does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. Notice what it goes on to say, who is the propitiation for our sin, and not only for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. He's making the same point that Paul's making here. When he talks about the whole world, Jew and Gentile alike, right? What does propitiation mean again? Well, it simply means the idea of turning away the wrath of God that was initially and originally directed at us. For our sin, Christ turns that wrath away from us. How does he do that? Notice what it says. Propitiation how? Or by what means? By his blood. In other words, notice what this points us to: the cross. We we sang the old rugged cross a few few minutes ago. It's one of my favorite hymns. And then the choir sang a lovely song. extolling what was accomplished at the cross. That's what this is pointing forward to. But we have to ask the question as we continue to unpack this. We've seen the righteousness of Christ given as a free gift, as a redemption. We see it as a propitiation, turning the wrath of God away from us? What does this have to do with God's holiness and his justice is the question. Well, you see the answer to that in these twin purposes behind God's righteousness at the end of verse 25 and 26. Take a look at that. Verse 25 continues. This was to show God's righteousness. Remember, this is referring to the cross. This is to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, in other words, at the in the first century there, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Notice those two purposes that are laid out there. The first is it's to show his righteousness because he passed over the former sins. In other words, Jew and Gentile alike, prior to Christ, God did not just pour out his wrath upon them. You can point to a whole lot of examples of that. I'll just give you one from the Old Testament and then I'll give you one from the new. In the Old Testament, think about what God said after the flood. Remember what happened in the flood? God saw that the earth was corrupt and filled with violence and he had to destroy it in an act of judgment upon all humanity. And after the flood, God makes a promise, knowing that sin is still in the human heart At the end of um Genesis 8, verses 20 through 22, he says, Well, because the e the thoughts of man's heart are evil only, continually. Which is the reason he decided to destroy the earth in the first place. He turns around in chapter 8 after the flood and he says, I will promise that to no longer destroy the earth with a flood because of the sin of man. What a picture of divine forbearance, right? The Apostle Paul highlights the same truth in Acts chapter 17 verse 30. You might remember the story. He's he's standing in Mars Hill in the area of Pagus and he's presenting the gospel of God's grace through faith in Jesus Christ. to the Stoic and Epicurean philosophers, the intelligentsia of the ancient world, in that that academic forum. And he says this in Acts chapter 17, verse 30. The times of ignorance God overlooked. It's the same idea right there. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. In other words, the Apostle Paul acknowledges that prior to Christ, God in a general sense overlooked sin. But Paul is saying here, as he did in Acts, the time is over. Something new has been done. God has manifested his righteousness. At the cross. Why? Well, the second purpose To show that he is the just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. It's the end of verse 26. The question is, how does the cross of Christ reveal that God is just? Well, many of us walk around and we have this, I'll just call it a myth or a false understanding in our minds that God just forgives sins and it's his job. He's God. That's what he does. Well, what Paul is saying here says otherwise. What he's saying here is when God reveals himself through the cross of Christ as being just, He puts Christ forward as the demonstration of the fulfillment of his justice, his righteousness, and his wrath against all sin. What's the point? A holy and just God has to respond to sin. How does he respond to sin? By judging it. And he did so on his own son by pouring out his wrath as the punishment for sins for his people. In other words, the cross reveals that God is just because he punishes sin and responds accordingly to it. But the other side of the coin, notice he's not just the just, but he also shows himself the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus Christ. And so the other question is, how does the cross of Christ. Reveal God as the justifier. Well, if if justice and righteousness is fulfilled against sin in the person of Christ in the cross as the demonstration of his justice poured out and fulfilled, then he can turn around and those for whom Christ died receive mercy. They become justified. In other words, they're declared righteous before God by faith in Jesus Christ. And so again, as we look at the application here, the question is how are sinners declared righteous before a just and holy God? Well to summarize all of this in a crisp statement of attempted application here. Because of the reality of universal sin, which we talked about last week. We are made righteous in God's sight only by faith. That's what Paul's getting across here. And don't miss that faith is also a gift of God's grace. And so I want you to think about this. Christ offers the redemption to us from the slavery of sin. As I've already said, this is the reality of humanity apart from Jesus Christ. Jesus acknowledged this In John chapter 8, verse 34, he said, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave of sin. By the way, that word everyone who practices sin in the original Greek is a participle implying that this is a habitual thing for people. Those who habitually live in sin Are slaves of sin. And yet, he does go on to say that he came that they may have life and have it abundantly through faith in him The free offer of the gospel this morning is that you can be freed from the power of sin in your life by coming to faith in Jesus Christ, who broke the power of sin at the cross. In other words, he offers to you a redemption that is free of charge for you, but which costed him dearly. The price, brothers and sisters, has been paid. But it's not just that, it's also the fact that Christ takes the wrath of God that we deserve at his cross. And again, this is the other reality of humanity apart from Christ. Most of us, again, we walk around treating people and relating to people as if they're in some moral ambiguity or ambiguous place. And that's not true. Because if you are not in Christ, you are under the curse of sin and you are under the wrath of God. And that is a terrible place to be. The author of Hebrews makes it clear when he says it is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. I know we don't often preach like this today in our churches, but you think of Jonathan Edwards and the sermon he preached. in 17, I believe it was 1741. Actually, I think it was July 8th, 1741. I don't know how many hundreds of years that is before my brother was born to the day, but it was. Sinners in the hands of an angry God. And maybe you heard the story that when he preached that, people started falling down, shrieking and crying out because of the realization that they had that apart from Christ. They had no hope that they were under the wrath and the curse of God and subject to that for all eternity. And yet the good news this morning Is that God gives us what we don't deserve at the cross? He offers to turn away his wrath against us when we look upon his son. With hearts and with the eyes of faith. But the call is for now And I love this. I love when when he says, going back to the beginning of verse 21, but now The righteousness of God has been revealed apart from the law. To use Paul's words from 1 Corinthians chapter 6, today is the day of salvation. The call is today, now to come to faith in Jesus Christ. And the application here propose presupposes a difficulty that we've already looked at. How can someone who is sinful and deserves God's wrath be given mercy? And the answer is at the cross. Put your thinking caps on for just a moment and follow me here. When you talk about justice, justice is getting what you deserve. And boy, there's a lot of talk about justice today, isn't there, in the social sphere? None of us should really want justice, because if we really got justice. It would mean our own condemnation. Getting justice is getting what you deserve. But mercy or grace is not getting what you deserve. And the question is, how can both of those be fulfilled? How? You point you point out any world religion out there, I don't care what it is, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism, Shintoism, Taoism. Or any secular moral philosophy that's out there that has been put forward all the way from Aristotle to the present in the halls of intelligentsia. None of them has an answer for how you can fulfill justice and mercy at the same time. You're either going to get justice and you're going to lack mercy, or you're going to have mercy at the expense of justice. Only the Christian worldview. Only at the foot of the cross do you see justice and mercy kiss. And come together at the feet of Jesus. Why? Because Jesus fulfills the justice that we deserve at his cross So that we might receive mercy. Oh, that you guys would understand this and rejoice in it. The call is to faith in Christ. You might be sitting here, and maybe you've come to Christ years ago. This message is still for you to rejoice in, to cling to. Maybe you're sitting here this morning. You have never really put your faith in Christ. The call is to come to Christ and receive mercy because of the justice that was fulfilled on your behalf in Christ. Christ. Come to Christ. And that leads to verses 27 through 31, our second point this morning, the implications of justification before God. In other words, what are the results? Well, I got three for you. Okay, I got three implications. And basically, just so you know how I got these implications, I'm pulling them out from the questions that Paul asks. You'll notice in this section there, there's a grouping of three different questions with answers that he gives. And those give us the implications. the reality, the aftermath of being righteous before God. Look at verses 27 through 28. We see the implications for boasting. Notice what the question there is. Verse 27. What then becomes of our boasting? Notice the answer. It is excluded. Let me stop there really quick. It is excluded. That's actually a very powerful word, I think, in the original Biblical Greek that this is written in. It's a compound word. There's a preposition and a verb that are put together. What's the preposition? The preposition is out or out from. The verb is to lock, to close, to shut. Let me just make a quick illustration out of that. Think about this. What might we boast in? for our own salvation. It is possible we might boast in our own righteousness. We might boast in our own good works. Well I've done this, therefore God should save me. Right? What has God done? He's taken all that content of boasting. He's thrown it in a closet. He's locked the door to use that verb. And he's thrown out the key. Your boasting in mine is excluded. It is locked out. And by the way, because he threw out the key. In my analogy. That door can't be opened. There's nothing for us to boast in when it comes to our own salvation And the passive tense shows that it's not us who excludes all this. God is the one who does this. Why? Look at the grand summary in verse 28. This is a tremendous statement of summary of the doctrine of justification. Verse 28. 4. In other words, he's explaining why this is the case. For we hold that no one is justified by faith, or we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Salvation from beginning to end is the work and the accomplishment of God, to the praise of his glory and his grace. What a perfect summary of the gospel that's freely offered to us. So there's implications for boasting There's implications in verse 29 through 30 for who can be justified before God. In other words, who is this intended for? Look at verse 29. Once again, the question. Verse 29. Or is God the God of Jews only? The follow-up question, the other side of that coin, is he not the God of Gentiles also? Now that's a very pertinent question. Because remember in the early church, if you're if you sat in our Sunday school class, which we're going through the book of Acts, you would know, actually we're still in this period. That it was not really evident or obvious to the Jewish believers in the early church at the beginning that, hey, maybe this is going to be for the Gentiles too. You know, you get to Acts chapter 8, and the gospel goes out to the Samaritans, and everyone's surprised. The Samaritans, whoa. They received the gospel. Acts chapter 10. The Gentiles received the gospel in the house of Cornelius, and they received the Spirit. And in chapter 11 when Peter is having to describe what he's done. The reason he's describing how the gospel and the spirit went out to the Gentiles is because the Jewish believers were like, wait a minute, you ate in the house of a Gentile? And Peter had to explain, look, I had this vision. And in the vision, God told me, don't call dirty or common what I have made clean. This is where Paul's getting this question at. This revolutionary idea that the gospel is for everyone, Jew and Gentile alike, and that's really what his answer is, right? You know, in verse 30. No, he's the God of the Gentiles also, not just of the Jews. Now what this does by implication is this makes the gospel universal with respect to who it is meant to go out to. With respect to who it's going to apply to. Not just Jew , Gentile as well. So we have implications for boasting. We have no grounds for boasting. The implications for who can be justified before God? Anyone, Jew or Gentile. It's universal there. The last one in verse 31 is the implications for the law and the Christian. And this one is a little sticky. Notice the question he asks in verse 31. Have we overthrown the law by faith? By the way, you can imagine why they might think that. Well, if we're saved by by grace through faith, so who cares about the law? Who cares about how you live? You come to faith in Christ, you get saved, you can go on with your life and do anything you want. Some people thought that. We call them anti-nomians. That's a technical term, which just means people who are anti-law. Paul's like, have we thrown out the law now that faith has come? Notice the answer. By no means, by the way, that's the strongest way to negate something. in Greek. By no means. In fact, on the contrary, we uphold the law. Now what makes this really sticky is Paul does not take the time here to explain what he means or how we uphold the law by our faith in Christ. So let me give you the best Guess it's not the best guess. I'm using scripture here, but I'll let you weigh what you think of this. But think about this. How does how can we explain the how we uphold the law by our faith in Christ? Well, if you go back to Genesis, uh not Genesis, Exodus chapter 20, you know that God revealed the law through tablets of stone, right? And there was a big deal made that the law needed to not just be on tablets of stone, but in Deuteronomy 6, God commands his people, write this law on your hearts, on the tablet of your heart. But there's a problem, because in Deuteronomy 36, God says that there's going to come a time where he will circumcise the hearts of his people. In other words, they had hard hearts. They couldn't do it themselves. They couldn't change their own heart. And so there's really a problem for getting the law into the heart, and it's the problem of the heart. We fast forward several centuries of God's people having the law on tablets of stone, unable to fulfill it, constantly falling into idolatry. And sin and breaking that covenant. And you get to Jeremiah, and Jeremiah makes a new covenant promise. In Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34. I'm going to make a new covenant with the house of Israel, not like the one I made with their fathers when they came out of Egypt. And remember what that covenant was. the law on tablets of stone. But what's he going to do? I'm going to take my law and I'm going to write it on their hearts. God is going to do this. The parallel to that in Ezekiel 36, 25 to 27, God promises to give his people a new spirit. He's going to pour out his spirit on the people. When he redeems them. He's going to take out the heart of stone, in other words, the sinful heart, and give them a heart of flesh. In other words, one that is soft and can have the word of God written on it. Think about in the ancient world what that imagery might have looked like. I mean, they oftentimes wrote on clay tablets. In other words, the heart of flesh is soft. So that like a clay tablet, it can write in and take the imprint of God's law on the heart. And it's that new heart that God gives, he says in Ezekiel, and I will cause them as a result to walk in my law. Think about how that works. You get a new heart. The law is written on your heart when you come to faith in Christ. And with that new heart, with the law written on your heart, you have new desires. And with new desires, those new desires affect the way you live. And so when we come to faith in Christ, we get that new heart. The law is written on our heart. We're given the Spirit and the ability. To live contrary to the power of sin. It changes the way we live. And what do we do? We uphold the law because we live the law out that is written on our hearts. That's the best I can do. How's that? So, what are, by way of application, what are the implications for the gospel doctrine of justification? by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. What are those implications for us today? Well, the three immediate implications Are there our boasting is excluded, the offer of grace is universal, and our lives through faith established the law Now, I'm not going to elaborate on the idea of our boasting is excluded. I I actually talked about that at length last week when I talked about how our self-righteousness is done away with. And so for the sake of time, I want to focus on the last two. Justification by grace through faith is universal. Now the implication impacts the way we think about evangelism and missions. Now when I say it's universal, please don't misunderstand me. I am not saying that everyone, everywhere at all times is automatically going to be saved. That's not what I mean. That would be universalism, and that is contrary to the gospel of Jesus Christ. What I mean Is that the gospel is meant to be offered freely to all people, regardless of where they come from, regardless of what color they are, regardless of what their culture is, regardless of their economic status and so on and so forth. That's what that means. Now just think about where we live. We live at the crosshairs of two very different communities between Randallstown and Eldersburg-Sykesville. And yet the gospel applies to all, doesn't it? Applies to everybody. By the way, as a parenthetical note, um I got to sit in for a little while until I got a pressing phone call on the Missions Committee meeting this week. And you know, I I've never been part of a church that gives so much of its budget to local and foreign missions, and I just want to say, um, liberty, let's keep doing that. And as time goes on, as resources allow Let's give more. Let's be involved in more. Because there is a world of people out there that don't know Jesus. And as I said earlier, they're under the wrath and the curse of God, many of them because they've never heard the gospel. And you skip forward to chapter 10, how will they hear unless someone is sent, right? And that's what we're called to do. What this should produce in us, the fact that the gospel is universal for any and everyone in this world to be offered to them. It should produce in us a heart for the lost around us that do not know Christ. Why? Because they have the same fundamental problem we have, a sinful nature. And because we all have the same problem, we all have the same solution. And so let's remember, Liberty, that the gospel is for all And maybe, dare I say, especially for those who are different than us. But the other thing is, the other implication here as we seek to apply this is that justification by grace through faith establishes the law for Christian living. Now John Calvin, I'm not going to go into all the details of this, he deduced from Scripture three uses of the law, and I want to focus on the third one. this morning. His third use of the law is that the law becomes the guide for Christian living or the picture for what a Christian living is all about. For instance, it's still sinful for us today to worship idols, whether material or otherwise. Like you shall have no the gods before me, right? It's still sinful to murder. You shall not murder. It's still sinful to steal. You shall not steal. It's still sinful to commit adultery. You shall not commit adultery. And here's the application I want to drive home. Here's the point I want to drive home for you. Our lives should correspond to the substance of what God's Word says. in the moral law as the evidence that we are saved and that God has done a mighty work in our lives Now notice it doesn't mean we do these good works in order to earn God's favor. We do these good works because we have earned God's favor in Christ. We live in a day and age where there is moral relativism that is rampant. What's right for you may be right for you, but it's not right for me. How dare you tell me that I'm in sin. But brothers and sisters, our lives are intended to correspond to an objective standard. And that objective standard is God's law and his character. And so, no, we don't throw out the law. We live it out because of what Christ has done for us. And it really leads us back to our main idea, doesn't it? We are made right before God, first and foremost, by faith in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. And secondly, which is a message that applies to all people everywhere. Let's not forget that the way we carry ourselves. . . is oftentimes the gateway to sharing the gospel with those around us. Let's keep that in mind this week. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we have all in this room who have taken these membership vows, we have we have affirmed, O Lord, that we believe in you, Jesus, as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners like us. And Lord, we have all acknowledged that we receive and rest upon you alone for salvation, as you are offered in the gospel. Lord, my prayer this morning is that there be none here that walk out of these doors, not having put their trust in you, but that all would trust you for their salvation. And Lord, we do ask that you would continue to equip us to be useful in your hands for sharing this precious gospel That though all are sinners, they might be saved through faith in Christ. That you would create in us, Lord, a heart and a passion for the lost. Around us. Lord, we ask these things, even as we remember the responsibility of our membership vows this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.