Amen. Thank you, Choir. Uh before I forget, uh just yesterday morning, very early in the morning, uh can you Nito and Nikki had the joy of welcoming into the world uh baby Gabrielle. And uh so she joins uh little Chloe and uh Caleb with a K as a child of uh Knito and Nikki Cunningham, who are normally sitting right over here. We have people who have usurped their normal role. We're going to dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs as we ask you to open your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of Mark, chapter eleven. We are uh continuing our study through the Gospel of Mark, and we are now at this wonderful event of Christ's entrance to Jerusalem. Mark chapter 11. Now let's read the first 11 verses Now, when they drew near Jerusalem to Bethagi and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, He sent two of his disciples, and he said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and as soon as you have entered it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has sat. Loose it and bring it And if anyone says to you, why are you doing this, say, the Lord has need of it. And immediately he will send it here. So they went their way and found the colt tied by the door outside on the street, and they loosed it. But some of those who stood there said to them, What are you doing loosing the colt? And they spoke to them just as Jesus had commanded, and so they let them go Then they brought the coal to Jesus and threw their clothes on it, and he sat on it. And many spread their clothes on the road, and others cut down leafy branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then those who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the kingdom of our Father David. that comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And Jesus went into the temple Went into Jerusalem and into the temple. So when he had looked around at all things, as the hour was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. Now, because, as you know, this glorious entrance into Jerusalem is recorded for us in each gospel. I want to read a bit of what Matthew tells us of this event. Matthew 21, verse 8. And a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitudes who went before and those who followed out cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest And when he had come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? So the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. And here's the way Luke describes it, at least a segment of it, from Luke 19, verse 37. Then as he was now drawing near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees called to him from the crowd, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. But he answered and said to them, I tell you that if these should keep silent, the stones would immediately cry out And here's the way John describes the scene in chapter 12. Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there in Bethany And they came not only for Jesus' sake, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. But the chief priests plotted to put Lazarus to death also. Because on account of him, many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. The next day a great multitude that had come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him and cried out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel. And then Jesus, when he had found the young donkey, sat on it. As it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples didn't understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him. and that they had done these things to him. Therefore the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness. For this reason the people also met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, You see that you are accomplishing nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. May God bless this portion. Of his words, these portions of his word. Let's pray. Father, speak to us now through your holy word. Remove from us anything that would hinder its power in each of our hearts. We pray for believers that will be strengthened. We pray, Lord, if there are those here outside of Christ, that this might be the day of salvation for them. We ask it in Christ's powerful name. Amen. I want you to imagine that you were one of the thousands who had actually heard Jesus teach, or one of the many who had been healed by him. Imagine that you had come to embrace him as the promised Messiah, the one of whom the Father says in Psalm 2, Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. Ask of me and I will give thee the heathen for thine inheritance And the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. And thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Psalm forty-five. And the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion. Rule thou in the midst of thine enemies. Psalm 110 And suppose you had come to ascribe this passage to the Messiah, the Lord will judge the ends of the earth, he will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. 1 Samuel 2. And suppose you were familiar, you had heard this prophecy from Isaiah, that government shall be upon his shoulder, his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever. And imagine that for years you and your people have languished under the Roman yoke, forced to serve these idolatrous occupiers of your nation. And finally, the one that you and your ancestors have awaited for so long has arrived. The one who calls himself the Son of Man. And you've heard the scriptures from Daniel. I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him, and there was given him dominion. and glory and a kingdom that all people, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. His kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. What joy you would have to witness Jesus entering the city of Jerusalem. To see the rightful king of Israel assuming his throne. Imagine the joy and perhaps the feelings of vindication experienced by the apostles as well. This was a day they had longed to see. Jesus of Nazareth, the one for whom they had forsaken all that they held dear, the man who was loved by the common people but despised by the religious hierarchy, was entering the glorious city. Now he had entered many times before, on foot, surrounded by his small band of twelve, unnoticed by the masses, but today he enters as a conquering general. Whereas the triumphant king, he entered as Israel's Messiah, and the adoring crowds embraced him with an outpouring of pent-up emotion. And with great expectations. The true king is entering his city. David's heir is assuming his rightful place. And notice the people involved here. Luke calls them a multitude. John describes them as a great multitude. Matthew calls them a very great multitude. They had come from all the region of Judea. They had come from many towns of Galilee to the north. And presumably from other countries to which the Jews had been dispersed, arriving in Jerusalem for the Passover feast Many of these people, perhaps most of them, were not inhabitants of Jerusalem. Many of them were also believers in Jesus Christ. Here's how Luke describes it. As he was now drawing near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works which they had seen. The whole multitude of the disciples. Disciples weren't just the twelve. Disciples were all those who believed in Jesus, all those who were welcoming him as their king. There was a great groundswell of popular opinion which had been building for three years. Every time Jesus taught, every miracle he performed had no doubt impacted not just the eyewitnesses. But they're neighbors, they're friends, they're extended family. You think a blind man would go home and not tell his family what had happened to him? Of course they would see it right away. You think someone who had been lame would not tell all his friends, everybody, what Jesus had done for him, healing him And so there was a great groundswell of opinion. These were disciples, followers of Jesus. They believed him to be the promised Messiah, the anointed one. And they went out to welcome him into David's city as the king who would reign there. The king whose reign would never end. Now notice what they did. Luke says they spread their clothes in the road. They prepared a makeshift carpet for him, in other words John points out that they took branches of palm trees in hand as they went out to meet him. The palm tree branch was viewed as an emblem of victory. The Roman writer and statesman Cicero called a man who had won many prizes a man of many palms. A man of many palms. They cried, Hosannah! That's a Hebrew word meaning O save or save now. It's taken from Psalm 118, verse 25. O save or save now. Hosanna to the king of Israel, save us! Save us now, King of Israel. They quoted further from Psalm 118: Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. This was a messianic Psalm. They recognized it too be applied to the Messiah. And it was also a Passover psalm. It was a psalm that was to be sung at the Passover. They evidently knew who Jesus was. They had witnessed his works, they had heard his teaching, they believed him to be the Messiah, and they weren't ashamed to own him as their Lord and King. Certainly they knew their actions would not endear them to the chief priests and the scribes. I want you to notice their excitement. Spurgeon , great Baptist preacher, C. A. Spurgeon, said. What enthusiasm there was in the crowd that day when the city rang. They waved palm branches in triumph and they cast them in the roadway that the Savior might ride over them. The shouts were loud and long. The day was full of gladness to the many. Ah, he says, and it's a mark of Christ's presence when the church becomes enthusiastic. We sometimes hear complaints about revivals being too exciting. Well, perhaps the censure is deserved, he said, but I would like to see a little of the fault. This age does not generally sin in the direction of being too excited concerning divine things. We have erred so long on the other side that perhaps a little excess in the direction of fervor might not be the worst of all calamities At any rate, I would not fear to try it, he said. Doubtless our Lord's presence, like the rising of the sun, scatters heat as well as light. On all sides. Oh, to be scorched by that sun, to be parts with that heat. Blessed would they be Who should be guilty of too great a love for him, convicted of too consuming a zeal for his glory? I would gladly die of that heavenly malady. We don't need to fear a little exuberance in the worship of our Lord. Amen? People awake out there As I've noted before, uh it's hard for some who are worshipping in our church and they've come from uh other churches where uh during the preaching of the word, there's a lot of interaction. But uh don't be too hard on this flock, as I've said before. I've had people say to me, uh as you were preaching, Pastor, I was praising in my heart. I wanted to cry out amen. Praise the Lord. The problem is you never pause long enough to let me chime in. All right, I pause there. But train your pastor to preach with rhythm Train your pastor to preach with song. Train your pastor the pregnant pause. And you'll find even in a Presbyterian church tongues will be loosed. But that ain't gonna happen. It's that old dog new trick dilemma. I want you to notice that the multitude of the disciples who greeted Jesus that day Could not give him the royal reception that he deserved. They couldn't give him the music, the speeches, the greetings from the governor and the high priest. But they did what they could. They spread their garments at his feet. They waved branches of palms. They cried out with shouts of joy. You can't give him all the glory that he's due. But you can give them all the glory that you can. You can't preach to thousands, but you can read a chapter at the supper table. You can't teach God's words to a national audience, perhaps, what you can teach a class of children. No, you can't give Christ all the glory that he's due, but you can give him all the glory that you can. I've shared before the testimony of the late seminary professor and author Howard Hendricks. He said he was raised in a broken home in Philadelphia, had no Christian influence in his home. But some believers started a church near his home and a man went to the pastor there and asked if he could teach a Sunday school class. The pastor said, well. We have no classes that need a teacher right now, but go out and round up some kids, and you can teach as many as you gather. The man gathered thirteen kids, Hendrick said. Nine of them were from broken homes. Howard Hendricks was one of those nine. He said, I heard him say years later, of those thirteen kids. Thirteen are now in full-time vocational Christian service. Isn't that something? You uh maybe you can't give Christ all the glory he's due, but you can give him all the glory that you can. Note the people that honored Jesus that day were the common people. These were the common people. Calvin wrote he is attended by a large retinue, but of what sort of people? Of those who had assemble from the neighboring villages. Sounds of loud and joyful welcome are heard, but from whom? From the very poorest From those who belong to the despised multitude. He had two things to do at the same time, to exhibit some proof of his kingdom and to show that it doesn't resemble earthly kingdoms. It does not consist of the fading riches of this world. These were the servants, the bricklayers, the uh the butchers, the potters, the seamstresses, the farmers, the fishermen. They were by and large not the heads of state, not wealthy landowners, not the lawyers and religious leaders. These were the common people, many of them from Galilee. They'd come to Jerusalem for the Passover feast. I suspect in their midst there were not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble And indeed, the great movements which have shaken the church and the world have been movements of the common people. I like what Spurgeon said. In the old days of persecution and of burning. Who were the men that played the man most nobly at the stake? Here and there a bishop and a noble did so, but the rank and file of the heroes were from the poor or the middle class. Wherever the gospel has been mainly upheld by the great ones of the earth, it has had little success. Take, for instance, Spain and Italy. The converts of the Reformation there nearly all belong to the higher ranks. and before long its doctrines became extinct. But it lived among German peasants and British artisans. The valiant of Israel still come from the loom, from the smithy, from the plough and the bench Wherever the gospel entrenches itself among the common people, the devil himself cannot destroy it. It's like a lion in its own forest, and none can drive it forth. It was the common people who embraced Christ. That reminds me of an anecdote from the life of Lincoln. It was cited by Doris Kearns Goodwin, one of his biographers. She said that uh John Hay, Lincoln's secretary, recounted that in December of 63, 1863, of course, Lincoln described to him a dream that he had. He was at a party, he said, and he overheard one of the guests say of him. He's a very common-looking man. He's a very common-looking man. And in his dream, Lincoln responded, as he probably never did when he was awake. He said, the Lord prefers common-looking people. That is the reason he made so many of them. What was it that brought this impromptu demonstration of honor and affection to Jesus? Well, as I said, he'd been ministering for three years, day after day, week after week, month after month, he had taught the people. Heal the sick, cast out demons. That's enough to account for this adulation. But the crowning act of his ministry that so electrified his followers and so incensed his opponents. Was that very public resurrection of a man who had been dead for four days? And this was all the talk of Jerusalem. Bethany was just a few miles away. This was all the talk. Of Jerusalem. Therefore the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness. For this reason the people also met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. John twelve And such was the influence of Lazarus that the chief priest plotted to put him to death. Lazarus was such an embarrassment to them. Every time somebody laid eyes upon Lazarus. It was a testimony to Christ's power to raise from the dead. So the Pharisees were plotting to kill Lazarus. I suppose what prevented them from doing it was the realization that they had no assurance that Lazarus would stay dead. And the only thing more embarrassing to them than a resurrected Lazarus would be a twice resurrected Lazarus. So it's easy to see why there was such excitement among the people as Jesus rode into a city. The raising of Lazarus was the apex of the three years of miracles. It was the exclamation point, punctuating a ministry of marvels. Giving sight to the blind, sound to the deaf, uh health to the lepers, deliverance to the possessed, feeding thousands with a bit of bread and a few fish, stilling a storm with his word, walking on the Sea of Galilee, etc. And remember of the Approximately thousand days that Jesus ministered, right? Three years, we only know snippets. We have windows into a small number of those days. For example, about half of John's Gospel focuses on that week between Palm Sunday and the resurrection That's why John said there are many other things which Jesus did, which if they were written one by one, I suppose that even the world itself should not contain the books that should be written. We're only telling you a couple of the day he healed this blind man, the day he raised this person from the dead. Many other things Jesus did. Christ's three years of wonders had raised that excitement level of the people to a fever pitch. They were receiving and embracing him as their king, and they didn't care who knew it. The Pharisees tried to silence them. The people paid no heed. The governor wouldn't be happy with all the commotion. They didn't care. The Messiah was entering Jerusalem, presumably to assume his rightful throne and establish his kingdom as the prophets foretold, and neither Pontius Pilate nor Herod, Agrippa, nor Caesar himself could withstand the might of the Lord's anointed. The people knew that. This was the day the people of Israel had longed for over many generations. It's no surprise that the people received Jesus this way. The surprise is that Jesus accepted their adulation, right? That's the more difficult question. Why did Jesus accept it? After all, he had formerly avoided all public honor When the disciples saw him transfigured on the mount, his face and clothes illuminated as he spoke with Moses and Elijah and as God spoke from heaven, this is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. What did Jesus say to his disciples? Don't tell anybody what you've seen until the Son of Man is risen. In Matthew 16, we read that Jesus charged his disciples at that point to tell no man that he was the Christ. Remember, that's when Peter fell down before him and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He said, I don't want you to tell anyone this. But on this day, the man of many toms rides in triumph into his city. The people are crying out, save us! Save us now. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna to the son of David. And the Pharisees tell Jesus to rebuke his disciples. He refuses. He says, I tell you, if these should hold their peace The stones would immediately cry out. In other words, I am the king of Israel. I am the promised Messiah. And this is my entrance into my city. Why did he receive this adulation? Because the hour had come. There's no more need to hide it. There's no more need to hold down the opposition. He had accomplished all he had uh come to accomplish. A few more days of teaching, that would be The hour had come. And secondly, because he is king, and Jerusalem is his city, and the earth is his planet, and this is his universe. He had already shown himself to be a prophet. He's about to show himself to be the great high priest. And on this triumphant ride, he acknowledges himself as the mighty king who would sit upon David's throne. Nathaniel said to him, You are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel, John 1. 49. The angel Gabriel said to Mary, The Lord God will give him This child who is to be born of you, the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. Even Jesus' instructions to his disciples for acquiring the donkey for his entrance suggested royalty. If anyone asks you why you're loosing the coat, you simply say the Lord has need of it. Max Lacato writes, the language Jesus used is the language of a royal levy. It was an ancient law which required the citizen to render to his king any item of service he or one of his emissaries might request. In making such a request, Jesus is claiming to be king. He's speaking as one in authority. He's stating that as king he has rights to any possessions of his subjects. Why did Jesus accept this adulation? Because he's the victor. And this was the victor 's parade. Christ would be the victor over death and the grave. He would spoil principalities and powers. Oh death, where is thy saint? Oh grave, where is thy victory? Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Note the disciples didn't realize it at the time, but later they would reflect upon this scene and realize it was the fulfillment of a prophecy of Zechariah written some five centuries before. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and having salvation. Lowly and riding on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey. Zechariah 9. 9 Now, we may ask those who reject the Bible to explain to us how Zechariah could know Jesus was going to do this and write about it 500 years before it happened. Now, a cynic might suggest, well, Jesus just staged this entrance in order to appear to fulfill prophecy. All right then. Did he also stage his birth in Bethlehem Micah 5, 2. Thou Bethlehem, though thou be little amongst the thousands of Judah, get out of thee, shall he come forth unto me who is to be ruler in Israel, whose going forth have been from old, from everlasting? Did he stage? To appear to be the Messiah? Did he stage his birth in Bethlehem? Did he stage the giving of sight to the blind to fulfill those prophecies? Hearing to the deaf? How did he go about staging his resurrection? That's a tough one. Why the public procession? Bishop J. C. Ryle suggests another reason. He came to Jerusalem to die, and he desired that all Jerusalem should know it. He drew the attention of rulers and priests and elders and scribes and Greeks and Romans to himself. He knew that the most wonderful event that ever happened in this world was about to take place. The eternal Son of God was about to suffer in the stead, in the place, of sinful men. The great sacrifice for sin was about to be offered up. The great Passover lamb was about to be slain. The great atonement for a world sin about to be made. He therefore ordered it so that his death was eminently a public death. He overruled things in such a way that the eyes of all Jerusalem were fixed upon him. And when he died, he died before many witnesses. And you'll notice that Christ's enemies were confounded that day. Look, the world has gone after him. You see that we prevail nothing. All our plans, all our schemes. Now look what's happened. They had put down this strange sect by threatening excommunication to anyone who would have the audacity to proclaim Jesus as the Messiah. Remember the blind man healed in John chapter 9. He was cast away, he was cast out, he was put out of the synagogue eventually , evidently With their threats and their penalties, they thought would be sufficient to silence the truth. They assumed that all people would cower before them. Oh, whatever you say, religious authority. As if all men were as themselves motivated by self-interest alone, which is the classic mistake of all tyrants. You see how we prevail nothing. And so it was then and so it always will be when the powerful think they can intimidate true believers into submission. You come to me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin, said young David to Goliath of Gath. But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts. The God of the armies of Israel whom you have defied. When the communists came to power in China in the nineteen fifties wrote Pastor Jeffrey Arnold, all missionaries were expelled, and it was estimated there were perhaps a million, just one million weak Chinese Christians. There was a great concern that the church in China would be wiped out, and indeed large-scale persecution broke out. Thirty years later, in the nineteen eighties, the doors to China started to open and Christians were finally able to observe what had happened to them. the Chinese church during the 25 years that the borders were closed. Observers were surprised to discover the church was alive and well with somewhere between 30 and 100 million Chinese Christians. The church had grown from one million to somewhere between 30 and 100 million Chinese Christians. Imagine the church multiplied at least 30 times with few Bibles, a limited number of trained pastors, and no church buildings. This was the witness of God's people that brought others to faith in Christ. I want you to notice quickly, even the children glorified Christ that day. The children cried out saying, Hosanna to the Son of David. You don't have to be an adult to bring to bring glory to God. You don't have to be an adult to glorify the Lord. Even the children cried out, making the chief priests and scribes very angry. They weren't afraid to praise Jesus. They weren't weren't ashamed to give him glory. And boys and girls, boys and girls, I want your attention. Boys and girls, put down the crayons. How can you glorify the Lord? How can you glorify the Lord? You can glorify the Lord by praising Him. You can glorify the Lord by praying to Him You can glorify the Lord by obeying him. You can glorify the Lord by not crying when your pastor is trying to preach. You can glorify the Lord. You can glorify the Lord this When your mother calls you While you're reading or playing a game, you can glorify the Lord by going to her right away. If a friend encourages you to do something that you know is wrong, you can glorify the Lord by refusing to do it for Jesus' sake. You can glorify the Lord by keeping your room clean, even without being asked. You can glorify the Lord by helping with chores with a cheerful attitude. You can glorify the Lord by telling a friend about Jesus, how he lived the perfect life, how he died as our substitute, how he was raised from the dead, how he lives today, and how by faith in him all our sins can be forgiven. forgiven. You can glorify the Lord by inviting your friends to come to Sunday school or church or youth group or pioneer girls or boys' brigade to learn about Jesus. You can glorify the Lord by visiting a nursing home with your mom or dad and encouraging those that you meet there. You can glorify God by thanking him for his goodness to you and being truly grateful in your heart for all that he's done. You may say, kids, oh boy, it would have been neat if I could have been there when Jesus entered Jerusalem. I'd love to have been there waving palm branches. Remember, Jesus said, if you've done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you have done it unto me. You can serve Jesus today, right now. Don't imagine that the Lord is unaware of anything that you do. He's not. He sees it as clearly as he saw the children waving palm branches as he enter Jerusalem. When you serve the Lord today, the Lord sees it and he's blessed by it. And let me speak directly to some of our older youth for a moment. When I read this passage, I wonder if some of you may be setting your sights a bit too low. As you compare yourself to the typical young person in our culture, you may say, well, I'm not like many of them. I'm not involved in drugs, drunkenness, sexual immorality. My music is not as bad as their music. I don't curse at my parents the way I hear some of them doing. My clothes are not as revealing. I'm not as cruel to other kids. with my tongue, as some of my friends are, well that's good. Followers of Christ should not engage in such things, and you are in those areas not dishonoring Christ. You were not, in other words, throwing stones at him. But are you throwing any palm branches at his feet? You're not blaspheming him, that's good. But are you shouting his praise? You're not dishonoring your parents and your Lord by your speech and your actions, but are you honoring them? You're not an evil influence on your friends. That's good. But are you a godly influence on them? The people who went out to welcome Jesus to Jerusalem weren't ashamed to be known as his disciples. How about you? Do your friends even know that you're a believer in Christ? Several years ago, one of our young people illustrated it this way. She said, if you picture the world as a swimming pool, a lot of Christians are just sitting on the side of the pool, immersing only their toes. Not getting involved in the world, but having little impact. Others dive in and are dissolved like a packet of splenda or equal. The trick, she said, is to dive into the pool, but remain distinct from it, and be a witness in it, to not be dissolved or absorbed by the world, but to influence the world for Christ And along similar lines, let me remind you, young people, that we are called by God to not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. He makes it crystal clear Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, 2 Corinthians 6. It's one thing to have unbelieving friends and to endeavor to reach them with the good news of Christ. It's quite another thing to consciously disobey the Lord by forming an unequal yoke with one of them through marriage. And of course, dating has been known to lead to marriage. Which is why we discourage young people from dating unbelievers, because of where it can lead. And listen, nothing you can do in this life, and I'm speaking as one who'd been married for over 40 years now. Nothing you can do in this life, no decision you can make as a believer will more profoundly affect your life than your obedience or disobedience in this area. God's counsel is for your good as well as his glory. Are you giving Christ glory by obeying his word? Jesus said, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word. John 14. Now a closing word to believers. When the people heard Jesus was coming, they they were prepared, they prepared themselves to meet him. They took palm branches, they cut things off the trees, they took the clothes off their back, they spread them in the way. Let me remind you, he is coming. He's coming again. And you will be there to witness that entrance, whether you're coming with him or whether you're here when he comes. Are you prepared to meet him? This same Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Be ready, the scripture says. How are you going to greet your king, Christian? How are you going to greet your king if he returns in your lifetime? Will he find you neck deep in your career with your wife and children starve for attention and time? Will he find you nursing some secret sin that you haven't confessed? And dealt with? Will he find you sitting at home feeling sorry for yourself while mothers of preschoolers would love to have a helping hand and nursing home residents would love to have a visit? Will he find you hoarding the money that he intended for you to use for his kingdom? Or will he find you joyfully serving your Lord with the gifts that he's given you? Closing word to uh unbelievers here. You know, the gospel is pictured even in this passage. First of all, the stench of sin. We see it in the envy and hatred of the religious leaders. They envied Jesus. They didn't get all this adulation. And they hated him. And they plotted to kill him. And they even plotted to kill a man whose only crime was being raised from the dead. By this prophet of Nazareth. And here we are, almost 2,000 years later, and the stench of sin is every bit as strong now as it was then. One wonders how anyone can spend five minutes reading the daily news or watching the television news Or a five minutes reflecting on his own heart without acknowledging the depravity of man. And that's a problem, because God is a pure eyes than a behold evil, he cannot look upon iniquity. We got the gospel here. We got the stench of sin. That's why Jesus said, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. But this passage also pictures the sacrifice of Christ. He rides into Jerusalem, apparently as a king to conquer, but actually as a lamb to be slaughtered. If we have the chronology correct, this was the very first day of of the week. It was the first day of the week, but it Would have been the tenth day of the month because the Passover lamb was to be slain on the fourteenth day of the month. Right Exodus twelve, on the tenth day of the month they shall take to them every man a lamb, without blemish, a male of the first year. You shall keep it until the fourteenth day, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. Jesus, the Lamb of God, enters Jerusalem on this day when the Lamb was to be set aside for the Passover. Separated from the flock. to be killed a few days later. The sinless will die for the guilty, so the guilty may go free. So we see here the stench of sin. We see here the sacrifice of Christ. And then we see here the great way of salvation. Faith, God's means of salvation. We see it in the cries of the people: save us, save us now. Blessed is the King of Israel. The way of salvation is to believe that Jesus is the King of kings and Lord of lords. To believe that he is God with us, Emmanuel. To transfer your trust to him. The way of salvation is to recognize that this stench of sin is in my heart. Jesus was the one who came to give a sacrifice, to give himself as a sacrifice, the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. And the good news of the gospel is if I repent of my sin, if I see it as vile and disgusting, and I turn from it and I lay hold upon Jesus Christ by faith, all my sins will be forgiven. I'll receive eternal life. I'll be with God in heaven, not because of anything I've done, because of his sacrifice, because of what he did for me Listen, if you're here today and you've never come to him that way, I urge you to do that now. God be merciful to me as sinner. You pray that same prayer that the thief on the cross prayed. Lord, remember me when you come and you Lord, I believe that you're the Son of God. He says to the other thieves, Well, you and I deserve to be here. This man has done nothing worthy of death. You come to him in simple faith. And God says, Oh, your sins will be forgiven. You'll have everlasting life. Jesus said, He who believes in me has everlasting life. Oh, that someone here today might meet his king this very day That you might cry out, King Jesus, enter your city. Be seated on the throne of my life. Purchase with your blood. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we do pray for those who may be here outside of Christ. They have somehow thought they were worthy of eternal life. They have thought that somehow the good things that they have done are sufficient. Lord, I pray that you'll bring them to their knees. Draw souls to yourself. Please, Father, you can do this. And Lord, those of us who are yours, Lord, I pray for your power to be at work in us, convicting us of our sin. And Lord, sending us forth with your good news, proclaiming it upon the housetops, salvation through Jesus Christ alone. In his precious name we pray. Amen.