Amen. Thank you, Claire. If you have your Bible with you, if you'd turn, please, to Psalm 24 this morning. And as we do, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. That's a time for uh God's word to be explained to them on a level they can understand a little better. And as you turn to Psalm 24, uh let me welcome Jim and Nancy Helm back with us They're here in the front here. Nice to have you back. You've been on the points west. You but uh you're in Mexico, old Mexico, New Mexico, was that Arizona. Okay I knew it was out there somewhere. Uh Psalm twenty-four. The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the waters. Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who may stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, nor sworn deceitfully. He shall receive blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is Jacob, the generation of those who seek him, who seek your face Lift up your heads, O you gates, and be lifted up, you everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O you gates, lift up your everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. Amen. Let's pray. You are the King of glory, O Lord of hosts, and we now pause and ask your help as we proclaim your word, as we Attempt to hear it and be attentive. Remind us that this is an act of worship. Help us to do it with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. Well, it will uh come as no surprise to some of you that at a time when our church leadership has been forced to make some substantial cuts in our budget Our pastor has decided to resurrect a sermon on stewardship. But my reasons are not primarily pragmatic. In other words, I'm not preaching on stewardship primarily in the hope that our offerings will improve, and certainly not in my own interest. Liberty has been very generous to me through the the years, over ten years now. since the Lord brought Donna and myself here. In fact I'm compensated even more handsomely than uh than the handsome pastors here. My reasons are more pastoral than pragmatic. Budget needs suggest that we may need some teaching on stewardship Just as drunkenness or obesity in the flock would suggest the need for some teaching on self-control, or a rash of speeding tickets in the flock would suggest the need for some teaching on obeying the God ordained civil authorities that He's placed over us. So let me remind you, first of all That the Lord is very clear in his word about his sovereign ownership of all things. The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness. The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness. He says, the silver is mine and the gold is mine. Haggai chapter 2 verse 8. Every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills. I know all the birds of the mountains and the wild beasts of the field are mine, he says. If I were hungry, I would not tell you. The world is mine and all its fullness. Psalm 50. In other words, because it's all his, he doesn't need our permission to use any of it as he pleases, nor does he need our assistance. The Apostle Paul explained to the Athenians, you remember they had established an altar with this inscription. They had all sorts of gods and goddesses, but they also had, just to cover their bases, an altar with this inscription to the unknown God. In case we're missing anybody. And Paul said to them, The one whom you worship without knowing him, I proclaim to you God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor does he worship with men's hands as though he needed anything, since he gives to all life. And breath and all things. He gives to all life, breath, and all things. Since it is all his, he has the right to distribute it as he wills. It's all his. He has the right to distribute it as he wills. Before the Lord brought the children of Israel into the promised land, he warned them, through his servant Moses: The Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs. that flow out of valleys and hills, a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing. When you've eaten and are full, beware that you do not forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments, his judgments, and his statutes that I command you today. Lest when you have eaten are and are full, and have built beautiful houses and dwell in them, and when your silver and your gold are multiplied, your heart is lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God. Then you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gained me this wealth. You shall remember. The Lord your God. For it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers. Deuteronomy 18. It is he who gives you the power to get well. Do you think, Christian, that it is different with you because you're several thousand years removed from these words? God said to Solomon, I will give you riches and wealth and honor, such as none of the kings have had who were before you, nor shall any after you have the like. 2 Chronicles 1. 12. So God's sovereign ownership of all things is evidenced by Scripture, and God's sovereign ownership of all things, secondly, is evidenced by reason. It's only reasonable that all the world's wealth should be God's because it all comes from Him. What do we have that we did not receive? All the raw materials are his. Where did this come from? Where did that come from? All the raw materials are his. Even man-made alloys are made with God-made elements. It's only reasonable because clearly all things that we have are on loan from God and we'll revert to Him one day. If Joe gives Bob something that Bob is ultimately going to have to return to Joe, to whom does it truly belong? Joe says, Bob, this is yours until I want it back. Well, it's still Joe's. All you've been given by God will ultimately revert to him again. Think about this. If the earth is the Lord's and all the fullness of it, all the silver and the gold is his, all land, all the beasts of the field, then whose vehicle brought you to church today? Whose money is that in your bank account? Whose house are you living in? Whose clothes are you wearing? You think the earth is the Lord's and all its fullness except what belongs to you? Except what you say belongs to you. Now, what are the implications of this simple truth that all wealth is God's, and he distributes it as he sees fit for his own purposes? Well, for one thing, if it's all his and he allows us the temporary use of a portion of it, uh a portion of what is his, then it's clear that he has a right to ask for the return of his property any time he wishes. Last year, Liberty members Bob and Dee Jones sold their house in New Windsor and moved into an apartment as their uh lovely new home in Tawnytown was being constructed. Now, suppose they had a freezer in their old home that they intended to bring to their new home in Tawnytown, but it was too big for them to bring into their little temporary apartment. So they brought it to our house and asked us to keep it in our basement for them, granting us the use of it until their new home was completed. Now, although Donna and I had the temporary use of the freezer, It belonged to Bob and D, and they had the right to ask for it to be returned at any time of their choosing. But while we're on the subject, Bob and D, did you have to keep all the steaks and the ribs that we had stored in the in that imaginary freezer? Well, in the same way, the Lord has the right to request that we return to him anything he has given us. Any time that he chooses for reasons sufficient to him. That's why Jesus could say to the rich young ruler, sell all that you have and distribute it to the poor. This young man came to Jesus and said, Lord, how can I receive eternal life? Good master. What is it that I have to do? And uh and Jesus was trying to teach him a lesson, because he said, Well, have you kept the law? And he said, Oh yeah, I've kept them all. I said, oh, really? Well then let me ask you this. Go sell all that you have, give it to the poor, and then come, take up your cross, follow me. And he couldn't, because he loved his possessions. This young man called his possessions his, but they didn't really belong to him. They were on loan from his creator and his sustainer, the one who says the earth is Now, I suspect that most of you, perhaps all of you, can agree with this in principle. It's all God. Amen? He can ask for it back anytime he wants. Amen? Now come on. I'm not getting anything from over here. Hmm. I'm gonna have to center my attention on this group over here. So, yeah, we can all agree with that in principle. If the Lord came to me tonight and said, or today, and said to me, uh, uh, sell everything you have and trust me to take care of you. uh I would do it as he clothes the lilies of the field, as he feeds the birds of the air. I trust I would do it in a heartbeat. And I'm sure you would say the same thing. Well, that's great. Well, suppose he asks you to give him half of what you own and trust him to prov provide for you on the the half that remains. Could you trust him for that? He said, Well wait well I could trust him to provide for me if I gave him everything back, then I suppose I could trust him if I gave him back half Amen. I could do that. I could trust him for the 50%. That's great. Suppose he asks you to return to him 25% and trust him to meet your needs with the 75% that remains. Could you trust him for that? Well, yeah, I could trust him if I could trust him to take it all and still provide for me. And I could trust him to take half and still provide for me, then I could trust him to provide for me if he took a quarter of that, but I don't like where this is going, Pastor. Well then, if you can trust him to provide for you if you return to him everything And you could trust him to provide for you if you return to him a quarter of what he gave you. Could you not trust him to provide for you if you returned to him 10% of what he gave you? Do you suppose that the Lord who says He takes care of the flowers of the field and the birds of the air, the Lord who says, I love you with an everlasting love, the Lord who says even the very hairs of your head are numbered The Lord who says, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. The Lord who says, Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth, for you are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. The Lord who says he owns the cattle on a thousand hills, the Lord who says all the silver and the gold is mine Do you suppose that this sovereign, majestic, all-seeing, all-knowing Creator and Redeemer cannot provide for your needs if you return to him one-tenth of what he gives to you? And that is in fact what God called his children to do. The third book of the Bible, the Lord says, And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord's. It is holy to the Lord. And concerning the tithe of the herd of the flock, or whatever passes under the rod, the tenth one shall be holy to the Lord. These are the commandments which the Lord commanded Moses for the children of Israel on Mount Sinai. Leviticus 27. That the Lord expected his redeemed people to take seriously his command that they return to him at least a tenth of what he gives to them. manifesting that they trust him enough to believe he can bless them and provide for them on what remains, is made abundantly clear from God's rebuke of his people in the very last book of the Old Testament. Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed me. But you say, in what way have we robbed you In tithes and offerings. You are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me, even this whole nation The Lord said. Bring all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be food in my house, and try me now in this. Test me, in other words. says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such a blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke the devourer for your sake, so that he will not destroy the fruit of the ground, nor shall the vine fail to bear fruit for you in the field, says the Lord of hosts. And all nations will call you blessed. For you will be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. Now, if you're sitting there thinking, yeah, I get that. I know it says that in the Old Testament. But, Pastor, can you prove to me that the Lord still asks the tithe of his redeemed people in the new covenant, as he did in the old. Can you prove to me, Pastor, that the Lord still asks that tithe of his redeemed people in the New Covenant, in the New Testament, as he did in the old? Well, I would respond to you. You're asking the wrong question. Search your heart and see if your question is not springing from a heart of covetousness. Let me suggest some better questions you should be asking. Here's one. Have I not been redeemed from bondage to sin as the Old Testament saints were redeemed from Egypt? Can I not trust the Lord as much as they could? Do I not live in an abundant land, enjoying incredible prosperity, in a world where according to the World Bank Half the population lives on less than two dollars a day? Do we not, as New Testament believers, have churches and pastors to provide for, even as the Old Testament saints provided for the temple and the Levites? Does not the scripture say the laborer is worthy of his hire? And they who preach the gospel should live of the gospel? Do we not have a much larger task as a New Testament church than the task that the Old Testament saints at least accepted? To go into all the world with this good news. Are we not under that command to evangelize the entire globe And the scripture says, How shall they preach unless they are sent? Romans 10. And I would ask you to consider this question. Is it not evidence of a heart of unbelief and a love of this world? that instead of joyfully giving above and beyond the giving of Old Testament believers, instead I should be looking for a loophole. Do I really want to gather with believers through the ages one day? And we will. We'll all be there soon. If you're a believer in Christ, you and I will be there soon. So I want to have to gather with believers from all the ages and have to explain to them why, although I was materially blessed above the wildest dreams of most of the people who ever lived. I would not return to God even a tenth of what he gave me. They're going to say to me, your house had how many rooms? You mean you had a room for every child, and then you had a room for you and your wife, and then you had another room where you could sit down and watch uh uh entertainment from a magic box And then you had this big big box that would keep your food cold day and night. And you had some machine that would wash your clothes. You had water inside the house. And then you had a vehicle you could get in and you could you could move around in it, you could drive places. And you had nurses and doctors that you could go to to to care for you when you're sick. And in your basement you had an imaginary freezer full of ribs and steak. One day I'm gonna have to I'm gonna have to gather with all the saints. And think about it, in the whole scheme of things in in amongst all the people who have lived on this planet, we are among the the upper echewans. And and you wouldn't give even a tenth of what you receive back to the Lord? Somebody's gonna ask me that one day. Can you explain that to me? If I refuse to do that, can you explain that to me? Did you love the things of this world so much? Did you love the things of God so little? R. C. Sproul wrote in Tabletalk magazine a few years ago, recently I read an article that gave an astonishing statistic that I find difficult to believe. It declared that of all of the people in America who identify themselves as evangelical Christians, only 4% of them return a tithe to God. If that statistic is accurate, it means that 96% of professing evangelical Christians regularly, systematically, habitually, and impenitently rob God of what belongs to him. It also means that 96 % of us are, for this reason, exposing ourselves to a divine curse upon our lives. Whether this percentage is accurate, one thing is certain. It is clear that the overwhelming majority of professing evangelical Christians do not tithe. This immediately raises the question why? How is it possible that somebody who has given his life to Christ can withhold their financial gifts from him? I've heard many excuses or explanations for this. The most common is the assertion that the tithe is part of the Old Testament law that has passed away with the coming of the New Testament. This statement is made routinely in spite of the complete lack of New Testament evidence for it, he writes. Nowhere in the New Testament does it teach us that the principle of the tithe has been abrogated. The New Testament does teach us, however, that the New Covenant is Superior to the old covenant. It's a covenant that gives more blessings to us than the old covenant did. It's a covenant that, with its manifold blessings, imposes greater responsibilities. than the Old Testament if. If anything, the structure of the New Covenant requires a greater commitment to financial stewardship before God than that which was required in the Old Covenant. That is to say, the starting point of Christian giving is the tithe. The tithe is not an ideal that only a few people reach, but rather it should be the base minimum from which we progress. Now you may respond, Yeah, yeah, but I don't like this business of the tithes. It just sounds too legalistic for me. I think we should just give freely uh as the spirit leads. That way we'll be giving over and above the ten uh percent. PCA pastor Don Graham wrote about a godly man in his church who s told him that very thing. I believe in spontaneous, you know, generous I don't like this whole tithe business. Well about six months later, this man came back to Pastor Graham to say, uh, Don, I I have a confession to make. I've been running a little test on myself and I flunked From the time I first spoke to you, I began keeping a careful record of how much I was giving while I continued to give in the same old generous way. To my amazement, I discovered I was giving much less than a tithe. I realize now that I must begin tithing in order to give enough to the Lord, and then I'll give an offering, besides, just to be sure that it's open-hearted giving Which is more honoring to your Creator, do you think? To return to him the first fruits of all that he gives you? Or to uh tip him from time to time, as you would a waiter when you're satisfied. with his service. Americans are so attached to their possessions, so resistant to the idea that anyone should have the audacity to poke his nose in their finances That even though the Word of God talks a great deal about money and the proper use of it, half of all Christians surveyed don't think that money and material possessions should be discussed in church at all. According to the Lutheran Brotherhood. And some of you may be thinking, yeah, well, uh absolutely right. If I knew he was going to talk about money, I'd have found another place to uh worship this morning. But as John Piper put it, money and possessions are a big part of life. And therefore God intends them to be a big part of worship. So the way we worship with our money and with our possessions is to get them and use them and lose them in a way that shows how much we treasure Jesus and not money. Jesus said, you cannot love me and mammon too. As he put it, you cannot love God and mammon. Consider the benefits that would accrue if Christians would understand and embrace the truth that all that we have is God's. Suppose every believer began by trusting God enough to return to him a tenth of all that he received from him. Imagine what that would do for God's work around the world. Suppose Christian giving doubled or tripled or quadrupled. What would happen? Missionaries would be quickly supported and sent forth. Seminaries and Bible colleges would be established and staffed. Expanded. Medical works and orphanages and pregnancy centers and homeless shelters and job training centers and food banks and community outreaches would be fully funded. Ministries would be multiplied. Now you probably think, well, you know, w what I do or don't do, that doesn't have much bearing upon the whole world. My self-centeredness isn't having much of a negative impact upon Christ's kingdom. But you multiply your actions by those of millions of others. And the results can be devastating. So suppose that instead of 4% of Christians tithing, 100% of us did. Imagine. Now I'm not the mass guy, but I think that's like 25 times. You math people, you can tell me. Imagine if if the giving to the Lord's work increased by twenty-five times. How quickly could uh uh the world be reached with the gospel? The task of world evangelization has not been completed. Why? Well, among other reasons, writes uh Wayne Watts in his book Book, The Gift of Giving, Massive quantities of God's funds have been misappropriated by his children. Today we continue to see to spend God's money on ourselves. If we each gave joyfully and abundantly to God's work, it would prosper dramatically, and God would be even more glorified. Concerning the liberal giving of the Corinthians, the Apostle Paul said, this not only supplies the needs of the saints, and that's a good thing, but also it's abounding through many thanksgivings to God. In other words, as these saints, the poor saints in Jerusalem, receive your abundant giving, more glory is going to God. While they glorify God for the obedience of your confession to the gospel of Christ and for your liberal sharing with them and with all men. And then, of course, what else would happen? Well, the giver would himself be blessed, as many of you know. The giver would himself be blessed. This I say, he who sows or plants, sparingly shall reap sparingly, and he who sows or plants bountifully will also reap bountifully. So let each one give as he purposes in his heart. Not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver, and God is able to make all grace abound toward you. 2 Corinthians 9. God is able to make all grace. Think about that. God is able to make all grace abound towards you. Well, I guess he is. He's God. There are benefits to you when you sow bountifully. The Lord Jesus said it is more blessed to give than to receive. Acts 20 35. There's a great blessing to the faith of each believer when he or she realizes that God is faithful to provide when that member returns the first fruits to the Lord, even more so. than when that believer attempts to hold on to all he has. In other words, God can make the 90% go further than the 100% that I clutch and hold on to. Furthermore, there's a joy in knowing that you're giving liberally to Christ. And there's a peace in knowing that all that you have belongs to God. You may remember the story of the of the farmer who uh came to the realization that his phone was ringing and as he No, that the farmer who came to the realization as he read scripture that his farm really belonged to God. He's reading scripture, realizing, wait a minute this is God, it's God's farm. Is that a is that for me? This sound it sounds important. The farmer came to a realization as he read scripture that his farm actually belonged to God. If if in fact, as the Lord says, the earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof. And that he was just the caretaker of it. So he said to his friends, uh I just got rid of my farm. And they said uh too he said this to one particular friend, and the friend said, uh he The friend didn't say anything. He says, I just got rid of my farm. I gave it to the one who owned it. Now I don't have to worry about the farm. My only concern is how to operate it as efficiently as possible. Well then uh if you heard the story, a swarm of grasshoppers came to his neighbor's place and devoured all the grass, and then came to the farmer's place and ate everything. And the neighbor said, I'll bet this changes your mind about God owning your farm. I see the hoppers ate all his stuff too. And the farmer said, Doesn't change my mind at all. God owns the farm and he owns the grasshoppers So if he wants to pasture his grasshoppers on my on his farm, it's all right with me. In other words, Christian, consider the peace it will give you when you acknowledge it's his job. It's his business. It's his car. It's his home. It's his equity. It's his money that's in the bank. I'm just a steward. And what the master chooses to do with it is his business. And uh a couple other things before we close. Your faithful giving here will bring the appreciation of those you meet in glory who were helped by you here. We need to remember that. Jesus said, make friends for yourselves by unrighteous mammon, that's money, that when you fail, they may receive you into an everlasting home. Luke 16 It's just unrighteous money. It doesn't have no righteousness. But you make friends by using it, by investing it in the kingdom of God. You're making friends That you don't even know that you'll meet one day. And they say, you know, you supported that missionary and that missionary brought the gospel to me. You supported that pastor, and that pastor preached the gospel, and I came to faith in Jesus Christ through that. Or th or through or that ministry that you were supporting, that ministry really came to my aid at a time of great need. And there are people who are coming to the Lord all over the world through the faithful giving of God's people, and God's people don't even know it. But they will know it one day. And then there are intangible rewards awaiting those who give joyfully If you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, Jesus said, who will commit to your trust the true riches? Luke 16, 11 So I suspect there will be many receiving honor and glory who were not necessarily great uh prayers or great uh preachers or great evangelists or or great as teachers or or uh Christian leaders, but they were great givers. Now Jesus sat opposite the treasury, and he saw how people put money into the treasury, and many who were rich put in much. Then one poor widow came and threw in two lepta, two mites. the small little copper coins worth uh they estimate a fraction of a penny today. So he called his disciples to himself and he said to them, Assuredly I say to you that This poor widow has put in more than all those who have given to the treasure. For they put in out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all that she had, her whole livelihood. Now the Bible doesn't tell us, but do you suppose this woman, this widow, was forsaken by God? You suppose that she went home and there was no food and nothing and no income, no provisions for her? Of course not. So how about you? Have you resigned to your master's control in every other area of your life but this one? Is this the one you're clinging on to? Are you the steward or the master? When did you last give abundantly to a brother or sister in need? Do you uh tense up uh every time that offering plate comes by? Are you uncomfortable to hear a message like this? God says the love of money is the root of all manner of evil. All manner of evil. It can be the root of murder, it's the root of covetous, it's the root of lust, it's the root of all s all sorts of evil theft, of course. If Jesus were the church treasurer, would your offering be the same? Jesus said, watch out, be on your guard against all kinds of greed, for a man's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. Now one more thing. Maybe you can't trust God with your money because you've not yet trusted Him with something of infinitely more value, your soul. If you'll recognize yourself as a sinner, you can start with covetousness, and you can work backwards through the Ten Commandments and see all the ways you've violated God's law But covetousness certainly every single one of us, I I would suspect, has fallen into that sin. If you'll confess those sins to God, God, I I get it. I'm covetous, I'm I'm I'm I'm angry, uh I'm uh vengeful, I'm unkind, I'm ungrateful. Look at your life, examine your life, examine your heart. Recognize those sins for what they are. Recognize that God's a holy God. Yes, He loves you. Yes, He made you. Yes, He cares about you, but He's holy, He's just and He must punish sin God is light and in him is no darkness at all, the Bible says. He is a purer eyes than to behold evil. He cannot look upon iniquity. It's his nature to punish sin. It must be punished. That sin must be paid for. I can't stand before God one day as a sinner And expect him to just slap me on the wrist and say, well, that's okay, Russ. You're going to come to heaven with me anyway. The sin must be paid for. God is too holy for that. But his love is so great that he provided a substitute. No mere man could do it. He sent his own son from heaven. Jesus came here, lived the perfect life, did what we couldn't do. Perfectly kept his father's law every single day of his life. Loved God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. Loved his neighbor as himself. Never lied, never coveted, never stole, never dishonored God. But then he went to the cross, not because he deserved to die, but because he was our substitute. He was the lamb who was going to be slain for us. He was the Passover lamb. He said, in effect, Father punish me and let them go free. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. That's what he did. He gave his life for his sheep Who are his sheep? Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. They know me and they follow me. You're one of the sheep if you repent of your sins and you lay hold upon Christ. That's how you know. You can come to him today. God forgive me. I see my heart. I know it. You know it. But I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life and died upon the cross. And I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart. Give me eternal life. Give me this new life the Bible talks about. I want to be with you in heaven. I want to know that you're in my life now. I want to know that when I pray, you hear me and you love me, you care about me. I want to be one of your children. I want to be adopted into your family. Save me, Lord. You come to Him that way, you pray that prayer, mean that in your heart. God promises all your sins will be forgiven. Jesus said, he who believes in me, has trusts in me, rests in me, has everlasting life. I am the resurrection and the life. Let's pray. Lord, you told us in your word, what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Lord, you know how much we are attracted to the things of this world. The lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, the pride of life. Lord, I pray that you'll forgive us for these adulterous hearts. Lord, may we seek first the kingdom of God and your righteousness. Trusting you that all these other things, everything we need, will be added unto us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.