You have your Bibles. Go ahead and take them and let's open to First Corinthians chapter seven verses one through five. And I would invite you to stand. If you are physically able in honor of the reading of God's Word. If you need the Pew Bible, that's on page 1135. First Corinthians chapter seven verses one through five Now, concerning the matters about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman, but because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband. For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does Likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Do not deprive one another except perhaps by agreement for a limited time. That you may devote yourselves to prayer, but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time by praying and asking for God to illumine our hearts as to his word. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you once again. We are thankful, O Lord, as we said earlier, for this calling to be in your presence this morning morning to pour out our hearts, our prayers, our petitions, but also the songs of our praises. To you. And Lord, as we come now to sit at your feet before you to hear from your word, Lord, this is no less a part of the worship that we offer. the giving of our attention to your word than any other part like singing. So we pray, Lord, that you would give us hearts that pay diligent attention To your word and what it has for us this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our passage begins very clearly in verse 1, now concerning the matters about which you wrote. It is interesting. Paul has decided to deal primarily, first and foremost, with the issues that he saw the Corinthians were having. We've talked about several issues already, issues of discipline, issues of division, issues of pride that plagued the Corinthian church. But what we find here when he says this, now concerning the matters about which he wrote, we find that they actually wrote him a letter with certain questions or things that they wanted him to advise them on And so as we transition from dealing with the issues that Paul wanted to deal with up front, he now tackles the issues that the church had written to him about. And in fact, this is the first issue that he deals with, and I think it forms a good transition from what we saw last week at the end of chapter 6. In fact, our first point here deals with the idea that sexual intimacy within marriage is a powerful deterrent. to rampant immorality by each spouse giving and receiving intimacy from one another, except where both agree to abstain for a spiritual purpose. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning or you're not accustomed to how we print our bulletins, you can see that idea printed for you on page five. That is the idea that we want to unpack this morning, and it really boils down to two kind of sub-points. And the first in verses one and two that I want to highlight this morning is the principle of intimacy within marriage, the principle of intimacy within marriage. We see in verse 1 the general principle laid out. Once again, now concerning the matters about which you wrote This is the idea. It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman. Now there's two ways you can take that one verse, as I found out. I took it one way and then by the end of studying it I realized maybe I wasn't as clear as I should be in my thinking. Men like John Calvin, on the one hand, will look at this and interpret it as Paul's statement to the Corinthians that he wishes for them to apply. So the way Calvin read this In the 16th century, when he says, Paul writes, it is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman. He's taking that as a statement of truth that he's going to then nuance but apply. And you know, when you look at further in the chapter, particularly verse seven, you seem to in the Paul seems to indicate he has uh a very favorable view of singleness and therefore abstinence. Now while I think that it's possible to interpret the passage that way, it lends itself to some problems. Namely, a problem in Genesis chapter 2, verse 18, when God Himself says, it is not good for a man to be alone. Now it would almost seem that there might be a little bit of a surface level contradiction there. And Calvin in his commentary goes to great lengths to dispel this this um controversy, this contradiction I think there's a better way to interpret this that I think dispels some of those apparent contradictions and gets right to the point of what Paul is dealing with here. When Paul says, as a statement, it is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman, what I think he's doing, and I'm not alone in this, many commentaries I read take this view. He's laying out a maxim or this basically putting into statement a question that the Corinthians themselves were asking him about. Now if you remember last week in chapter six, there were several quote-unquote maxims that Paul had dealt with, like all things are lawful for me. But not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by anything. Or the other maxim, hey, you know, food for the the stomach and the stomach for food These were maxims they were taking and then applying in an absolute sense. I think that's what's going on here in chapter seven. I think that it this is something that the Corinthians were laying out to Paul, hey, this is the statement. It is good for a man not to have relations with a woman. Paul, what do you think about that counsel? What do you think about that point of view? I think that's what's really going on here. And I think it's important to understand that the context in which the Corinthians are living in historically and culturally plays into seeing it that way. Remember I said last week, and it applies again this week, they're living in a context that is really um enamored with and and uh saturated with Greek philosophical thinking. Again, this idea that there is a dualism. Things that are immaterial, spiritual, are good and righteous and pure and and things that are physical or material. including our bodies, are wicked and sinful and dirty and so on and so forth. And we saw last week how on the one hand that could lead to this mindset that, well then it doesn't matter what we do in the body Because the body's going to be destroyed anyway when we die. So who cares? Have at it. Well, there's another logical conclusion you could make from that principle or that kind of dichotomy, and it's It's the idea that, well, even in marriage, people should abstain from relations with one another because that's temp um tainted with the flesh and the physical body and so on and so forth. So Paul, if we're living on principle here, doesn't it make sense that we should abstain even within marriage? That's kind of I think what Paul is dealing with here uh as he's working this out. Once again, they're making the same mistake that we saw them make last week by taking an app a principle that on the surface sounds good and sounds spiritual and they're applying it or asking about applying it in an absolute sense. Now again, if you grant their principle, you can understand why that would seem to make sense to them. This is the question they're asking him about, and he gives in verse 2 a rebuttal to the principle. Look at verse 2 It shows the exception to that statement by saying, but, well you can say, on the contrary, because of the temptation to sexual immorality, Each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. Once again, these statements sound good and spiritual on the surface. But Paul is saying, look, the realities of life and the world that God has created us to live in mean that we have to nuance some of these things, even if we grant them. And this is the nuance. Look, temptation is a real thing. is what he's getting at. Therefore, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. No again, I think in verses six through nine it does show that Paul does think highly of singleness. He thinks highly of things like abstinence. Whether that be people who have never married before, or whether people who have become widows or widowers, he thinks very highly of those states and stages of life. But Paul also realizes that this kind of abstinence, a calling to abstinence, is not something that most people are prepared to live through. Jesus understood that. Remember after he talked about divorce in Matthew chapter 19? His disciples come to him and they literally say, Well Lord, if this is the way it really is with a man and his wife, well, it's just better not to marry in the first place. And Jesus does not correct them and say, oh, you who do not understand the scriptures in Genesis 2. He doesn't say that at all. He actually affirms what the disciples are saying by saying, yes, but not everyone can receive that. Some are made eunuchs. Some are made eunuchs. You know, they're born that way. Some are made that way by men, and some make themselves eunuchs. And I think when he's saying that he's talking about some um choose a life of singleness and chastity for the sake of the kingdom. I don't think he's talking about making yourself literally a eunuch there But Paul understands, as Jesus did, that it is very difficult, if not impossible, for some to continue to pursue righteousness and godliness and holiness and the kingdom in a single life of abstinence. And so there's there's some very practical and yet theological pastoral counsel that Paul is giving in this particular passage. For instance, we see his reason here is rooted in fallen human nature. He's being very realistic here, not idealistic. If the statement or question from verse 1 were an absolute principle, we would have to have a problem here in Scripture. Because as I've said The Old Testament in Genesis 2. 18 already said that God it is not good for a man to be alone. Those were the words out of God's own mouth. And so I want you to think about this for just a moment. That is different from Paul's counsel here. Why? Because when God uttered that statement, it is not good for a man to be alone, the fall had not already had not yet happened. God is speaking of the man before he was plagued with a sinful nature. In other words, marriage is not some kind of concession that God gives because the fall happened. It's not a result of the fall. Marriage is a pre-fall institution, a pre-fall covenant. However, We have to understand despite that fact, after the fall of mankind into sin in Genesis three, marriage certainly becomes A valuable resource for people to fight against temptation. And Paul understands that. I believe as a single man himself. Paul understands the difficulty of that and he does he will point to the fact that celibacy and as for most people is not really going to work. They're not going to be able to do that. and pursue holiness all at the same time. Even if the spirit is willing, the flesh is what? Weak. Right? And so he gives us his counsel here. And his counsel includes not just dealing with the reality of sin that we all have in our flesh, his counsel also includes a command. And one thing I want to point out to you this morning, when Paul writes, each man should have his own wife, and each woman her own husband, in English, the way that that's translated and worded, it almost sounds permissive. It's like Paul is giving his permission by way of concession to people for people to get married because of how strong the temptation to immorality can be. But I want to submit to you something. And there's no Greek. The wording is a whole lot stronger than just okay, I'm giving you permission to do this if you really can't hack being single. It's actually in the original language, it's got more of a command nuance to it. That's why I'm saying his counsel comes with a command. And so the underlying reason of temptation and immorality that all kinds of people face, both men and women alike, brings forth the command then to get married. What Paul is essentially saying here is if you cannot remain sexually pure in your singleness and you do not have the strength to consistently crucify the flesh with its passions and desires, as Paul says in Galatians 5. , 24, then you need to get married. Stop messing around is what he's saying. Get married. Why? Because this is God's built into creation solution. to finding help in dealing with the temptation of the flesh. And so I want you to see just by way of application here. That this is really pertinent today because of the celebration of immorality in our own society, because of the weakness of the flesh that every single one of us deals with. I don't care what anyone says. Because God has provided an outlet to deal with both the world and the flesh. And he's provided that outlet in the beauty of marriage. I think that's important for us to see. And I don't think I have to say a whole lot about the lack of self-control in our own day. Just like the context of the Corinthians, we're living in a time where promiscuity is rampant. It is so difficult for people to practice abstinence and purity in their lives. With the proliferation of internet pornography, with the proliferation of hookup culture that pervades our society. Now, unlike the Corinthians, perhaps, maybe this is my nativity or just my ignorance, but I'm not aware of any movement uh that would argue on principle that marital intimacy should be abstained from altogether, although I suppose I could be surprised with what's out there. But I think we can all agree in this room today that in our day and age, I don't know that we would characterize our time and our age as people who are self-controlled. And that that that uh I would say applies to a whole host of things that people deal with. In fact, I think what's really interesting to see is the statistics reveal more and more that people are waiting longer and longer to get married and have children. They're putting it off for a whole host of reasons. They of like, well I need to have my career in order. I need to have enough money. Um I'm just not ready going out and having fun yet. I mean you can the list can go on and on. And these trends are influencing people in the church. But what I believe Paul is doing here is in light of the realistic nature of sin and the realistic nature of temptation, I believe what Paul is doing in this passage is presenting a positive picture of marriage to these Corinthians, and it's a picture that is fully consistent with the picture of marriage from Genesis 2 all the way to the book of Revelation when we see the wedding supper of the Lamb. And I think as Christians we need to have that positive view of marriage in all of its dimensions. That it is generally not good for a man or a woman to be alone, regardless of what the statistics are telling us in the world around us today. And that leads to our second sub-point here as we unpack our idea in verses 3 through 5 that um the responsibilities of intimacy within marriage. We looked at the principle. Now we're looking at the responsibilities. And I'm going to look at verses three and four. We see the responsibility of conjugal rights. Now what Paul's going to do between verses three through five. 3 and 4, he's going to give us some positive counsel. Verse 5, he's going to give us a warning, although it's not entirely negative, but it's a little more negative. The positive first, verses three and four. The responsibility that I'm saying is complementary. Inverse 3. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the husband the wife to her husband. Now notice notice how that's complementary there when we talk about these quote unquote rites. First we see the complementary character of marital relations as giving. Notice that verb there that Paul uses. When we think of responsibility in marriage, we have to notice that he uses the word, you know, the husband should give to his wife. By the way, that frames the entire discussion and outlook and attitude that Christians are to have of marital intimacy. It is something that is given, not taken. We need to note that very clearly That word that he uses to give could mean to pay back or to pay one's dues. The present tense of the command tells us that this is something that should be ongoing, regular in marriage. Unless of course there's some kind of medical issue that would prohibit it. We're talking about the normal State of things. But the idea of giving, again, different than taking. Our bodies, what Paul is saying here, are to be gifts to our spouse within the covenant of marriage. And as gifts they are to be given away to our spouses, in this case, through intimacy. I remember years ago I read a book by Josh McDowell that was written I I I don't remember the date. It was probably in the mid eighties sometime. So some of the statistics are outdated, but it's a book called Why Wait? What you need to know about the teen sexuality crisis. Again, in the 80s. Um And Josh McDowell makes an interesting illustration here as he talks about this principle of giving. And he said, you know, your body And this this applies to single people as well. Your body is like a savings account that is only to be spent on your spouse. And so he was making the argument in that book that a any time a younger person who's not married or and single has sexual intercourse outside of marriage So we call it premarital sex. He said, what it's doing is it's like taking it's like dipping into this savings account and making withdrawals before you've reached the age of accountability where you can legally do that in the savings account. No, I remember working in banking and I remember how youth accounts worked, you know. They always had the custodian on there and the kid could not make the withdrawal without the parent present there. to allow them to do it? Well, that's like what marriage is. You come of age and you can start making withdrawals on the account. That's what Paul is saying here. But if that were not enough, Paul characterizes our marital responsibilities in other ways. And before I get to that, I want to just illustrate this to you from the life of Christ, believe it or not. Because really, when we look at Scripture, who is the bride of Christ? The church. What has Christ promised to inherit? We go back to Psalm 2. The nations. Do you remember when Jesus was being tempted by Satan? Do you remember the one temptation where he showed him all the kingdoms of the world in that moment and all of their glory? And he says All these nations have been given to me. If you just fall down, Jesus, and worship me, I'll give you all these kingdoms and all their glory. God, I can't imagine how tempting that must have been for Jesus. I mean Satan wouldn't have tempted him that way if it wasn't tempting But think about what Jesus had in mind, most likely, as he went through that temptation. Well, wait a minute. I'm promised these things anyway But what's the principle? What do I have to do to get these things from my father rather than receiving them from Satan? Well, I've got to go to the cross. I've got to be put to death first. I've got to rise from the dead, ascend to glory, uh, and then I I'm gonna wait some time in this case it's been two thousand years ago and counting. And then I will receive my bride. And I will receive the glory of the nations. Isn't it interesting? Satan offers him the glory of the nations. And yet those nations were fallen, they were unredeemed, which by the way is not that's a passing glory, isn't it? Nations rise and fall, kingdoms come and go. But if you get to uh Revelation 19, we see the marriage supper of the Lamb. Chapter 20, we see the judgment, and then chapter 21, you see the bride coming down. out of heaven, like a bride, uh the city coming down out of heaven like a bride adorned for her bridegroom. And then the end of chapter 21 talks about the nations bringing their glory to Christ. What's the principle and what's the connection to what Paul is saying here? Why am I saying that? Because Paul is saying that when it comes to marital intimacy, it is something that a husband gives to his wife, not takes. and it is something that a wife gives to her husband and not takes. That giving implies that there is a death to self first before you receive this good thing. Notice what Jesus did. Death to self first. He didn't just take the glory from the nations. But at the end of the day, when the new heavens and the new earth come and Jesus is consummated with his bride, what happens? The nations Bring and give the glory to their to Christ. So we see a complementary character here of marital relations as giving. But we also see The complimentary character of a debt that is owed. Notice the word translated in the ESV as conjugal rights. In verse 3. That word oftentimes in other places in scripture means debt, your due, your paying your due, your obligation. Well the way the ESV translates it is entirely appropriate because we are talking about relations between a man and a woman, a husband and a wife. But the important thing that I'm highlighting is that these rights are complementary. The debt is complementary. Each spouse owes equally the one to the other. Why is that? Well verse 4 gives us the answer. So we don't just see responsibility as complimentary. We see responsibility as an expression of authority in verse 4. Now this is really challenging, I think, for most people. Verse 4. The wife does not have authority over her own body. Say that today in the public square. You'll be crucified. She does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. You know what I think the key word there is? Right in the middle. Likewise. There's your complementary nature there. And yet it is a complementary relationship that is based on an expression of authority that requires responsibility. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 19 and 20, which we saw last week, we heard that our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, individually. And that was because we have been bought with a price, which was the cross, and there therefore we are not our own. Whether single or married, my body does not belong to myself. My body belongs to Christ. I was bought with a price. That includes my body, but also includes my heart and my soul, right? I'm not my own. Paul adds a nuance to this. He adds another layer to this, if you will, that if you are married You not only belong ultimately to God, but you belong more immediately in this world to your spouse. And therefore you are really not your own if you are married. On two counts there. And if because you belong to your spouse, that word belonging Kind of has a sense of ownership and possession. Just like we talked about in our call to worship, you are a people for God's own what? Possession? Because of that, there is an obligation that you owe to your spouse in the body. Let me try and illustrate this as best as I can. In Song of Solomon chapter 5, verse 1, it uses poetic language to describe the bride or the woman in the The song, as a garden, and the husband has come to enjoy the fruits of his garden Now I'm not gonna get into all the different ways that Song of Solomon is is understood, um and there's some interesting things that people divide the book differently, but I tend to think chapter five is likely where the wedding part happens in in in the song between the couple. And in chapter five, verse one, it uses that imagery. Um the the man is coming to his garden to enjoy the fruits and the spices thereof. I want to use that imagery. Let's use that to get at what Paul means when he talks about the debt that spouses owe in verse 3 and the ownership of one another the spouses enjoy in verse 4. Think of it like this. Your marriage and your spouse are like a garden. And like any garden, it takes work if it's going to grow the things you want it to grow. And there's different kinds of gardens. You have flower gardens where you plant flowers and what is the point? Well the point is for physical beauty and and and aesthetic attractiveness, but it's also to enjoy the scents that come in. I remember in in my house that I had in Illinois, there was this beautiful lilac bush right outside of my um dining room window and I Man, I loved when that thing was in bloom in the morning on my day off and I'd be doing my quiet time. I would open that window and just the scent of the lilac taking over the the dining room while I read my Bible. Right. But there's those kind of gardens. You have gardens where you grow fruits and vegetables so that you can, you know, your tongue and your palate can enjoy. uh the taste of the food that comes out of the ground. But what's the point of the garden? You have to work for it. But if you're going to own the garden and you're going to put in the work, you better believe that you have a right to enjoy the fruits thereof. That's the idea, I think, that is going on here. Marital intimacy is like that. That's what Paul is saying. But it comes with responsibility. And I would argue that It is the nature of this responsibility that makes marital intimacy within marriage all the more superior of a pleasure than trying to steal it or take it from someone outside of the covenant of marriage. I think this is the positive counsel that Paul's giving to offset temptation to sexual morality. This is what God's design is, not this other thing over here that they're tempted by. And then in verse five, he kind of gives an another shade of counsel here that's Gonna have a little more negative flavor to it. I say negative only because it begins with a negative command. There is something positive here But look at verse 5. It's not just the responsibility to one another. There's a responsibility of not robbing from one another. It's it's saying the same thing, but on the other side of the coin, right? What does he say in verse 5? Do not deprive one another except perhaps by agreement for a limited time. That you may devote yourselves to prayer, but then come together again so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. Notice here. Notice here, the responsibility is expressed again in commands. Do not deprive one another. Now I want to get the full sense of that. To translate it that way is certainly legitimate, okay? But it's interesting to know that the word for deprived here is the same word if you go back to chapter 6, verses 7 and 8. And I would just have you look at that for just a second. Paul was talking about lawsuits against believers. He says to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? That word defrauded is the same word he uses here for uh deprived. But you yourselves wrong and defraud even your own brothers. He said that about lawsuits. What does it mean to defraud somebody? It means to take something from them, to rob them of something that they have a legitimate right to because of ownership. That's what defraud means. And what Paul is saying here, given the context, of each spouse's body belonging to the other and they're owing a debt or an obligation to one another. It means that when one spouse deprives the other of their conjugal marital rights, They are essentially robbing their covenant partner of something that belongs to them. That's what it means. However, you might ask, is that universal? Is there ever a time when abstinence is healthy or good or sanctioned? The answer is yeah. Look at what he continues to say. There is an occasional responsibility of abstinence. He says in that particular passage, don't deprive one another except Perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer, but then come together again so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. He does give room for abstinence within marriage. But he does so only perhaps by agreement for a limited time. I love that word agreement there in the original Greek. It's where we get our term in English, symphony. No, I know it it's not the same thing as a symphony with instruments, but one of the interesting things I was listening to when the choir was up here singing was uh and they always do a good job of this. Um Those of you who inquire always do a good job of this. Um and I'm usually sitting back here. I can't imagine how much better it sounds, you know, where you're projecting. But um the way you harmonize together. The way you sing the different parts together. You know, a choir is like a symphony where there are different parts, but when you put them all together and one part rises to meet the other part in harmony, that's what a symphony is, right? And that's why I you just love watching music directors when they're flailing to me they're flailing their arms. They're they're actually doing something real, right There is a rhyme and a reason to this. But when they're flailing their arms and you know the percussion section is a little low when they're going like that and then the you know the the violins and the cellos are like up you know it's like They're trying to get them to each play their part, but then they all balance out and they all harmonize to make a beautiful melody. That's the idea going on here. When you're going to abstain, make sure that there is agreement between the husband and the wife. Their views must come together that yes, This is the right thing to do for this time. Why? Notice the purpose that is given. Devoting yourselves to prayer. Why would spouses give up physical intimacy with one another? Well, according to Paul, to exchange it temporarily for spiritual intimacy with the Lord. That's what makes sense. You're not essentially losing intimacy. You're putting off one into one means of intimacy for a different means of intimacy. For a purpose. Now, it's like a time of fasting. Paul is not clear in this passage what a couple might be praying for. So I I'm not going to be dogmatic and say anything about that, but think about it. When we fast for food, for instance, we forego physical nourishment in order to rely more profoundly on God's spiritual nourishment by his word and by his spirit. It's the same principle here. There are times when a couple may forego physical intimacy in order to have a more profound season of intimacy with God in Christ for something that that couple may be seeking from the Lord. From the Lord. Why would you do that? Why would you do that? John Piper has a quote. He said, There are things in your heart that That marriage will never touch or never satisfy. And I think those of you who are married know that that's true. Even if you wouldn't say it out loud to your spouse. There's truth to that. Devoting yourself to prayer. But notice. Only for a limited time. Because the that gives way to the command, come back together after the allotted time. Again, why? There's another purpose here. The purpose of not giving Satan a platform for temptation. so that you might not be tempted. There comes a point where a lack of intimacy within a marriage will inevitably lead to tensions. Between the couple lead to temptation from Satan. I remember when I was in Bible college, my one of my New Testament professors talking about this passage. Told us about a friend of his that he had. Of course he left the names out to protect the guilty, but he said that he had a friend who would only engage in intercourse with his wife about once, maybe twice a year Because in his mind he felt like he was more spiritually pure without physical intimacy with his spouse. And he said it drove this guy's wife up the wall. And created all kinds of temptation, and I would imagine maybe even bitterness on her part. The same happens in reverse with wives withholding from their husbands. And Paul's counsel here is that either way, under normal circumstances, this is not appropriate. And it can lead to temptation, to sin, and other problems if couples are not careful. Now, I'm going to be up front. I really believe that the counsel that Paul gives here is very straightforward. I don't know how much I need to say about specifically what he said uh in terms of application. However, what I do want to do is I want to take a step back. And I want to ask the question, how does the nature of responsibility in marriage challenge how we might understand the ways husbands and wives relate to one another? I want to look more globally at how husbands and wives respond to and relate to one another because then that affects the way you apply what Paul is saying specifically in these verses. And my my application summary point is this. The nature of responsibility with respect to marital intimacy reveals a complementarianism that needs to function like a symphony. How about that? Where am I going with this? Well, I think this challenge is how we understand a complementarian view of roles between a husband and wife. And I think that that's important given the context that we're in in a confessional, conservative, evangelical, Bible-believing church. Again, I'm grabbing onto that word symphony that Paul translates here as agreement because it forms the imagery that we need to be after in our marriages. Now if I were to break down the two ways that we talk about um the roles between men and women, it would be egalitarianism and complementarianism, right? And then there's all these iterations in each one, and I'm not going to speak to all the iterations because we just don't need to spend all the time on that. Let's just be broad. Egalitarianism basically understands that because men and women have equal value, That equal value then extends to equality in the roles that each play in marriage with respect to authority and responsibility. It's oftentimes applied in the home, in church, and in society as a whole. Okay? Complimentarianism, on the other hand, teaches that men and women, yes, are equal in value and dignity. That's how they were created. Male and female. Both the image of God, right? But they have distinct roles that complement one another in the home and in the church. Why am I why why am I going here? Why am I saying this? Because while I believe that the Bible espouses a r uh complementarian rule um view of roles between a husband and wife where the husband is the head of the household. I think there are some unhealthy ways that this can be expressed in conservative circles like ours. And this passage, I think, adds a little bit of a corrective nuance to that discussion. William Baker says in his commentary on this relative to the patriarchal views of marriage that were prevalent in his day, Paul's comment comments mark his view as fairly radical in elevating the status of wives. That's interesting. He goes on to say this in his commentary. Again, the surprising aspect of Paul's argument is the mutuality described and especially the husband's obligation to the wife, which he names first. kind of interesting. This reinforces the idea that Paul was cutting against the grain of the views of marriage that were prominent in both Greek and and Jewish cultures, namely that the husband was in charge of his wife in all ways, including sexually, but that he had few, if any, obligations to his wife, unless it was to give her children. So we need to understand here the the the counsel that Paul is giving in this passage was unique in his day and it should be unique in our day. From the culture around us. Now you might be hearing that and you might be wondering as you're thinking what um about what I'm saying is that well wait a minute, Pastor Aaron, doesn't this actually then flatten the level of authority and end up functionally as egalitarianism in marriage, isn't that what you're trying to say? No. No. I'll tell you why. I'll lean into someone else. John Calvin gives a very helpful nuance of this in his commentary. He writes this, but it may be asked why the apostle here puts them on a level instead of requiring from the wife obedience and subjection. Interesting question. Calvin goes on. I answer that it was not his intention to treat all of their duties, but simply of the mutual obligation as to the marriage bed. In other things, therefore, husbands and wife's differ, both as to duty and as to authority, but in this respect the condition of both is alike, as to the maintaining of conjugal. What Paul shows us in our passage by way of application is that intimacy is the one area of married life in which there is a mutual submission. between husbands and wives and it is it is a submission which each spouse defers to the other. There's the giving component, not the take What this means is that husbands as can sometimes happen in complementarian context Husbands have no room to trample and dominate their wives. As sometimes may happen. I think verse five again is pretty straightforward. I'm not gonna say much about it here. Next week, it's really interesting. We'll we'll we'll look at in the next several verses. Paul's counsel to those who are single and widows or widowers. Because he's got some important counsel of encouragement for them too. But here he's speaking to married couples and families that way. And our point again this week is very simple. Sexual intimacy within marriage is a powerful deterrent to rampant sexual morality. By each spouse giving and receiving intimacy from one another, except when both agree to abstain for a spiritual purpose of seeking the Lord together. Let's pray. Father, we understand these things can be hard to hear sometimes.