Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for your holy word. Please help us now as we meditate upon it. Guide us by your Spirit. And I pray especially, Father, if there be anyone here this day who is still outside of Christ, who has no hope, who has no real certainty of what will become of him or her after death. Oh Father, how we pray that just as you had mercy upon us and opened our eyes and gave us saving faith while we were sinners, far from you. We ask that you'll do the same for them. Bring that man or that woman to true saving faith. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. We move now in our study of the Ten Commandments to the second table of the law The first four commandments describe our duty toward God. The last six commandments describe our duty toward man, or more accurately, our duty toward God as it relates to man. The second tablet of the law begins with this relationship that is foundational to society It begins with a relationship that is foundational to society. This is, of course, one of the first commandments that we learn as children But we don't always get it right. When asked by a Sunday school teacher to write the Fifth Commandment, one child wrote, Honor thy pirates Must have been going through the pirate stage, you know. He's just read Peter Pan. Another one wrote, uh humor thy father and thy mother, which is probably a good thing to do But it's not exactly what the commandment says. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God has given you. That's the way it's given to us in Exodus chapter twenty. We just read from Deuteronomy where Moses repeats the commandments before the the entrance into the promised land. The Hebrew word for honor, uh kabbod, is derived from a word that means something heavy So the word that was that came to be used for honor was derived from something that meant something heavy. So you might say to honor your parents is to give weight to them, to recognize that they're in a place of importance To recognize that they're in a place of reverence. How do we honor our father and mother? Well, we just asked the children this. By showing respect in their presence. You honor your father and mother by showing respect in their presence. An incident recorded for us in the first book of Kings gives us a good example of this principle. King Solomon had recently ascended to the throne of his late father, King David, and Solomon's mother, uh Bathsheba, went to King Solomon at the request of her stepson Adonijah. And the king, we read, rose up to meet her, and bowed down to her, and sat down on his throne, and had a throne set for the king's mother. So she sat at his right hand And then she said, I desire one small petition of you. Do not refuse me. And the king said to her, Ask it, my mother, for I will not refuse you. Now, what I want you to notice is, of course, he he rose up, he bowed down, he had a throne set for her, he spoke respectfully to her. What a far cry from the way some children interact with their parents. But parents should expect and require respect from their children Pastor's wife Johnny Ortland wrote, There were four kids in my family when I was growing up, two boys and two girls. My little sister must have been three or four years old when she decided that she had had enough of this having to obey mommy stuff I remember mom reining her in on something one night at dinner, and Patty, the little one, declaring with all the defiance that she could muster, Well then, I just won't love you anymore. My five-year-old mind, she writes, had never witnessed so brash a statement. And I felt sure my little sis had scored a big one on softening mom 's resolve. How's she gonna get out of that one? Because I knew even then how very much mom adored us kids. But mom 's response was one I'll never forget. It shaped the whole tenor of our home life and she enforced it through the years. She stood up to her full five feet four inch frame Looked little Patty straight in the eye and said, You do not have to love me, but you must respect me. Now do as I said The discussion was ended. She goes on to say, if children learn respect in their homes, uh then they will be able to respect other people in authority. When I was teaching, uh teaching in the public schools, I never found the child to be disrespectful to me. and to other school authorities if his mother required respect at home. If children honor their parents, they will honor their teachers, their church leaders, their community leaders, all of society benefits. So honor your father and mother by showing respect in their presence. That would include not talking back, not murmuring or complaining, which is something God warns us against. Murmuring and complaining. About the rules or about what they're asking you to do. Secondly, we honor our father and mother by speaking well of them. We read of the virtuous woman described in Proverbs 31: Her children rise up and call her blessed. You might remember the story of the busy mother who was regretting one day that she could do so little Christian work. She said, I'll have only a life of housework to show at last. She was lamenting to a friend. Her young daughter overheard her and exclaimed , All we children will stand up and tell all you've done for us, everything I shouldn't suppose that they'd want anything better than good mothers up in heaven. We honor our parents by speaking well of them. We honor our father and mother by covering their faults. We read in Genesis, Noah began to be a farmer, and he planted a vineyard. And then he drank of the wine and was drunk, and he became uncovered in his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. But Shem and Jacob took a garment, laid it on both of their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father's nakedness. So Ham comes to them, Hey, Shaman Japheth, the old man, he's drunk as a skunk in the tent, you've got to see this. He's as bare as uh I don't know, a bear. Uh come see come see this. It's it's a it's a riot But they refused to uh to even look upon their father that way and they covered his covered his uh nakedness and in in a in a sense his drunkenness. And so uh kids, your parents are gonna fail. They will sin. At times they'll lose their temper, at times they may even swear or uh or lie to you. You know, parents are uh fallen creatures. But the child who honors his parents will not broadcast their sins. Fourth, we honor father and mother by being obedient to them. One of the first ones the kids remembered this morning, by being obedient to them. What does God expect of children? How can children please God? Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Colossians 3:20. It's well pleasing to the Lord when we obey them. It's good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth. Lamentations 3. 27. It's good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth, to learn obedience, to learn obedience to our parents, so we may develop patterns of obedience to all legitimate authority. How many men and women are behind bars today who didn't learn this principle of obedience in their youth? They didn't bear the yoke in their youth, so they must bear the yoke as adults. Augustine said, if anyone fails to honor his parents, is there anyone he will spare? Fails to honor his parents. Is there anyone he will spare? Our obedience should be immediate. Our obedience, boys and girls and young people, our obedience should be immediate. I made haste and delayed not to keep thy commandments, Psalm 119, verse 60. Son, I asked you several minutes ago to take out the garbage. I said I will. I don't want you to say I will, I want you to take the garbage out. Delayed obedience is not full obedience. This obedience should not only be uh immediate, but it should be complete. You remember the incident of when King Saul was commanded in 1 Samuel 15 to utterly destroy the Amalekites, the people and the livestock. But he chose to spare the best of the sheep and the oxen. Saul said to Samuel, the prophet, I have performed the commandment of the Lord. Samuel said to him, Well, what then is this bleeding of sheep in my ears, and the lowing of oxen which I hear? Why did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Saul defended himself and shifted the blame a little bit. Well the the people took of the plunder, the sheep and the oxen, the best of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice to the Lord your God in Gilgal And Samuel responded with the familiar words to us, I trust, has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to heed is better than the fat of rams, for rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Rebellion, he says, is as the sin of witchcraft. It's heinous, it's horrendous in the sight of a holy God. And stubbornness, well, that's like iniquity and idolatry. In other words, partial obedience is disobedience. So, young people, if your father or mother gives you a responsibility and you fulfill it only partially, you have disobeyed. And God calls that disobedience rebellion. And rebellion, he says, is as the sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. So obedience should be instant Obedience should be complete, and obedience should be ungrudging, that is, in in other words, with the right attitude Boys and girls, when your parents ask you to do something, not only should you do it right away, and not only should you do it completely, but you should do it with the right attitude, with the right spirit. True biblical obedience. Instantly, completely, ungrudgingly. Nick and Nanny use this little memory device, maybe some of you use it with your kids. True biblical obedience, they tell their kids, means right away, all the way, and with a good attitude. Right away, all the way, with a good attitude. Now, uh kids you may say, well, I know I'm sometimes disrespectful to my parents. Sometimes I disobey, but I'm not as bad as many other kids I know. Well, I wouldn't take much comfort in that Apostle Paul wrote, In the last days, perilous times will come. Men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money Boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving Slanderers without self-control, brutal, despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasure, rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying its power. And from such people turn away. If your disobedience and disrespect don't seem so bad to you, maybe it's because you're living in the midst of a Selfish, money-loving, boasting, proud, blasphemous, disobedient, unthankful, unholy generation. You honor your parents by telling the truth It's been almost two decades now since Christian apologist apologist Josh McGowell surveyed almost 4,000 young people. Ages eleven to eighteen, as reported in the Focus on the Family magazine. But I don't suppose things are much improved today. 86 % of those young people said they had made a commitment to Christ. 80% of them said they attended an evangelical church weekly. And two-thirds of them said they had lied to their parents or to another adult within the previous three months. Two-thirds. You honor your parents by telling the truth. Better to face the music with the truth than compound the sin with a lie. And then you honor your parents by heeding their counsel and their wisdom. By giving heed to their counsel and their wisdom. My son, hear the instruction of thy father, forsake not the law of thy mother. Proverbs 1-8. Eli's sons were called sons of Belial, who hearken not to the voice of their father. A wise son, on the other hand, hears his father's instruction, Proverbs 13:1. Now, young people think about this. You were designed in the providence of God, you were designed to be much like your parents, your biological parents. Many of their weaknesses may be mirrored in you, right? Many of their weaknesses, as well as their strengths, may be mirrored in you. So you would be wise to listen to their counsel And avoid some of their mistakes. They've already been around in this, what is it, we're taking a course around the sun? They've been around that course for many years now. And uh you'd be wise to listen to their counsel. And then you honor your parents by expressing and demonstrating love and appreciation to them. The Apostle Paul said the last days would be characterized Not only by disobedience to parents, but by unthankfulness. Unthankfulness. I mentioned, I think it was last year at Mother's Day, I mentioned that the late D. James Kennedy wrote in one of his books when he and his wife Anne took their daughter Jennifer on a tour of the nation's capital, they hopped in a taxi at the end of a long day. And their daughter Jennifer, I don't know how old she was at that time, but their daughter Jennifer said Thank you, Mommy and Daddy, for taking me to the Space Museum and the Lincoln Memorial and the White House, and thank you for the nice lunch. At that point, wrote Dr. Kennedy, the taxi driver turned around and stared in amazement. I hope he was at a red light or something, didn't he? He said uh In all the years I've been driving a cab, I imagine he taught something like that. In all the years I've been driving a cab, I've never before heard a child thank his parents for one thing In all the years he's been driving a cab, never before heard a child thank his parents for one thing. Many of you young people may one day have children of your own. And you'll gain a better understanding of the sacrifices involved in motherhood and fatherhood. But for some of you, it will be too late to thank your mom or dad because their work here will be done. You know it'd be great if we set aside a day, you know, for moms, maybe a day for Nick, I want you to get on that uh see if we can come up with something. An annual time to remind us, to thank our parents. We honor our parents by supporting them in old age. According to one public opinion poll, barely half of the American public believe that it is the children's responsibility to look after their parents in old age. And half of the population, 45 years old and older, said they didn't think their children would care for them in their old age. 38% of hospitals responding to a survey reported, quote, as many as eight elderly patients dumped on their emergency wards every week. Can you imagine? Seminary professor Michael Horton wrote, The years of practical experience, the knowledge of past events, the wisdom for dealing with problems they face before us. have given the elderly the role of the wise one or the sage in most cultures, but in our self-centered, individualistic, now oriented culture We can leave our debts from the past in a nursing home and our debts for the future to our children, but for now it's Miller time. In Mark 7, Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for rejecting the commandments of God and giving precedence to their traditions. They were teaching, you'll remember that if your parents were in need and you took the money that you would otherwise have used to assist them in their time of need, and you gave that to the Lord's work You gave it to the temple, let's say, you were no longer under any obligation to support your parents. That's what the Pharisees were teaching. You are thereby, Jesus said, making the word of God of no effect. Through your tradition, which you have handed down. Isn't it something with tradition? It tends to assume a higher and higher place in our minds. Well, we've always done it that way. In other words, Jesus said, Your traditions have taken precedence over God's commands. It's clear commands. Honor your father and your mother. Ancient Roman author and naturalist Pliny , known as Pliny the Elder, wrote of what he called the law of the storks. The law of the storks. He described how the young storks would bring food to the old storks. When the old storks were unable to fly. I haven't seen any survey results, but I suspect modern storks can't be bothered anymore with that. Now let's think about for a moment the reasons why we should honor our father and mother. Well, first of all, as the kids said this morning, it's our duty before God. It's our duty before God. Our Creator has commanded it. And that should be sufficient for us. It's a matter of obedience. But secondly, it's pleasing to God. Children obey your parents, this is well pleasing to the Lord. And then think about this: God has given solemn warnings to those who do not honor their parents. The eye that mocks his father scorns obedience to his mother. The ravens of the valley will pluck it out. The young eagles will eat it. Proverbs 30, verse 17. That's a rather graphic way of saying it's not going to go well with you. Cursed be he who dishonors his father and mother. Deuteronomy twenty-seven sixteen Now think about it. The seriousness with which the Lord views the sin of dishonoring one's parents should be clear to us from the fact that in the civil laws that God gave to Israel When Israel was a theocracy and their laws were handed down by God Himself. In the civil laws, God gave to Israel the cursing of one's parents, the striking of a parent Or the rebellion, the general rebellion against the parents' authority, were capital offenses. Capital offenses. As an aside, it's noteworthy that there was no need for a prison system in a nation where the rebellious, along with all murderers, kidnappers, and other violent offenders, were executed. And where thieves were not warehoused at the public's expense, the public's expense, but were required to work and repay those from whom they stole. Now, if you imagine that in such a culture executions must have been frequent occurrences, remember, think about it, if all those in a society uh uh know that certain actions Will most certainly be punished with death, they will be strongly motivated to avoid those actions. That's just the way we're made. We should honor our parents because in most cases they deserve our love and affection and honor for all they have done for us. Yes, of course there may be exceptions to that, parents who don't fulfill their role as parents. But uh in uh generally, and certainly in uh in Christian churches, we can expect that uh children have good cause to be thankful for their parents. who love them and and care for them. He may have heard of the little boy who was expressing concern about his parents. He told how his dad worked hard to provide for all his needs, his mother slaved around the house cleaning up after him, took care of him when he was sick. And when he was asked what are what are you worried about, he he said, Well, I I'm afraid they might escape. There's at least one other reason that we should honor our parents, and that is that it seems that the nation whose children honor their parents will be blessed. The nation will be blessed. That your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving to you. Now that was true for Israel, certainly. We have reason to hope that it would also be true for other nations as well. Because there's a there's a principle there of of obedience to authority and how that uh improves the conditions of a whole nation, a whole land So we're to honor our father and mother. How? By showing them respect, by speaking well of them, by covering their faults, by obeying them right away, all the way with the right attitude. By being thankful or I'm sorry, truthful with them, by heeding their counsel, by expressing and appreciation, by expressing and demonstrating love and appreciation to them And then by supporting them in their old age. Now, why are we to do this? Because God commands it, first of all. Because it pleases him. Because he solemnly warned us not to dishonor them And because our parents deserve our love and affection and honor, and because there's a blessing upon the land in which children honor their parents. Now , If we're to honor our Father on earth, how much more are we to honor our Father in heaven? Malachi 1:6, God addresses Israel. A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am the Father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my reverence? We honor our Father in heaven by showing him respect, speaking well of him, by obeying him right away, all the way, with the right attitude. By being truthful with him, by expressing and demonstrating love and appreciation to him, by honoring the Son All men should honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He that honors not the Son honors not the Father who sent him. John 5 :23. The first step in honoring the Son is recognizing him as the one who lived a perfect life and then went to the cross and endured his Father's wrath in our place. The Lord Jesus said, you cannot honor the Father unless you honor the Son. And the first step in honoring the Son is to recognize Him as the one who came to live a perfect life in your place. And then went to the cross and died a substitutionary death. I was reading this week, uh, I can't exactly remember where I was reading it, but a uh a committee of a mainline denomination uh was uh looking at hymns to include in their next compilation of hymns. And they were considering the hymn uh in Christ alone, which is one of the ones that we sing here quite quite regularly. Uh Stuart Town and Keith Getty wrote it. But there's a a line in the Psalm that this committee wanted to change. The line is, Till on the cross as Jesus died, the wrath of God was satisfied. Remember, till on the cross as Jesus died, the wrath of God was satisfied. Well they didn't like that. The committee uh wanted to change it to something like this. Till on the cross as Jesus died, the love of God was magnified. You know what, let's make it more positive. You don't want to talk about brass of God. And uh they said they didn't want to perpetuate the idea that Christ's death was some sort of a substitutionary sacrifice intended intended to satisfy divine wrath. Well, uh I was interested to see that the hymns composers stuck to their guns and refused to permit the lyrics to be changed. So the committee voted not to include that hymn in their compilation. The reason we sing that Christ's death was a substitutionary sacrifice is because Christ's death was a substitutionary sacrifice God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The Son of Man has come to give his life a ransom for many. To seek and to save that which was lost, and to give his life a ransom. You know what a ransom is, you purchase somebody back. He bore our sins in his own body upon that tree. Behold, the Lamb of God, John the Baptist said. Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. He's the Lamb of God, the Passover Lamb. The innocent Lamb who would be slain for the sinners. Listen, the way to honor the Father, the first step in honoring God, the one who made you, the one who put you here, the one who gives you breath The one who gives you food, the one who sustains your life, preserves your life, the first step in honoring the Father is to honor the Son. And to honor the Son, you must come to Him as a sinner and recognize your sin and repent of it and lay hold upon Him by faith and say, Lord Jesus, I believe that you lived that sinless life. I believe that you rose again from the dead, that you died upon the cross and rose again from the dead. I believe that you live today, that you're going to come back one day. Lord, I want you as my Savior. Come into my heart. Forgive my sin. I see it. I see it as vile and repulsive. And I turn from that and I lay hold upon you. You come to Christ that way. You rest in Him completely, not proud and puffed up, proud of what you've done, proud of what you've accomplished, proud of all the commandments you've kept. But as a little child, you come to him empty-handed. Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. You come to him that way. And he says, All your sins will be forgiven. You'll receive this precious gift of everlasting life. And then you'll be able to truly honor the Father because you honor the Son. Let's pray. Father, I I do pray, we do pray, once again that if there be someone here this day still outside of Christ , Someone still without hope that you would do a mighty work of grace. Lord, give that soul no rest until he or she finds his rest in you. Draw him or her to you As you've done for us. Breathe upon those dry bones that they might live. Take away that stony heart. Give a heart of flesh. We ask it in Christ's glorious name. Amen.