East Madden are uh leading them this month, I believe. Gospel of Mark, chapter eight It's been a while since we've been in March, so uh let's pick it up in verse twenty-seven. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered John the Baptist. But some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and three days and after three days rise again. He spoke this word openly, and then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, He rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. When he had called the people to himself, with his disciples also, he said to them, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. And he said to them, Assuredly I say to you that there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, we we do ask for that blessing. We pray that your Holy Spirit will take your living, powerful word. and uh apply it to hearts. Jesus said, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. Anoint them with your spirit in each of our hearts. We ask the hearts of children, young people, and adults this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. It was the best of times. It was the worst of times. It was the age of wisdom. It was the age of foolishness. It was the epoch of belief. It was the epoch of incredulity. It was the season of light. It was the season of darkness. It was the spring of hope. It was the winter of despair. Those famous opening lines to A Tale of Two Cities could also describe the interaction between Jesus and his disciples in our scripture reading this morning. As you know, they were walking from the Sea of Galilee north to Caesarea Philippi. About twenty-five miles was the journey And along the way, because the disciples had some opportunity to interact with one another without all the crowds pressing in on them and demanding things of them. No doubt they talked together of all that they had experienced with the Lord Jesus thus far. All they had seen and heard. The miracles they had seen and performed, healing all manner of diseases. uh healing the blind, the deaf, lepers, casting out demons, even raising a a twelve-year-old girl from the dead, Jairus' daughter. It seems to have been a critical juncture for them as they transitioned from believing Jesus to be a mighty prophet sent by God to being something much more. On the road, he asked his disciples, engaging them in conversation on this very topic, who do men say that I am? Well, they answered John the Baptist. That's the current opinion. That's the prevailing opinion. You were John the Baptist. The people thought he was John, who had, of course, been beheaded at the instigation of Herod's wife. who was bitter against him because he rebuked Herod for marrying uh his brother Philip's wife. And so uh so they believed that he was John risen from the dead. Now there were of course some obvious similarities, right? Between the Lord Jesus and John. They both preached repentance. They both talked much about the kingdom of God. They both preached out in the wilderness, and multitudes of the people came to them. They were itinerant preachers with no fixed residence. They were not embraced by the religious leaders, but by the common people They both manifested the power of God, of course, in their preaching and teaching, Jesus because he was God in the flesh, and John because he was filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. And there may even have been some physical resemblance. They were only six months apart in age. Their mothers were cousins. So the idea was that uh the idea that many people had was that the Lord Jesus was simply John risen from the dead. Even Herod, of course, got wind of that and felt that. His conscience began to smite him. But the idea that Jesus was John risen from the dead wasn't the only view of Christ among the people. Some say you're Elijah. Now why would they say that? Well the very closing words of the Old Testament say that Elijah, the great prophet of God, who never experienced death, you remember, but was carried to heaven in a whirlwind. uh would be sent by the Lord before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. It says at the very end of the of the Old Testament that before the the the dreadful day of the Lord, before that great and dreadful day of the Lord, before the Lord comes, Elijah will come. And there were Israelites who believed that the prophet from Galilee was Elijah. Others thought him to be some other prophet, Jeremiah, maybe Daniel, Isaiah, Ezekiel, or some new prophet. But they did not see him as the Messiah, and that's the big point here. Matthew Henry points out that it's probable that the people would have recognized and acknowledged Jesus as the Messiah. After all, he was doing the things that they were expecting the Messiah to do, if it were not for the fact that, quote, they had been possessed by their teachers with a notion that the Messiah must be a temporal prince, appearing in external pomp and power. They had to categorize Jesus, this Nazarene preacher, somehow, and from what they had been taught about the Messiah, that category just didn't seem to fit. And so Jesus asked his disciples, but who do you say that I am? And Peter, evidently speaking for the group, said, You, you are the Christ, you were the anointed one, you were the Messiah. And Matthew, who was of course present at the time, said Peter added these words, the Son of the Living God. You were the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Clearly, had Jesus been only a prophet of God, or simply a servant of God, and not in fact a Messiah, How would he have responded to these words? You are the son of the living God. Well, he would have immediately corrected Peter. No, no, no, Peter, don't go there. And he would have corrected the other apostles who were present if they were thinking along these lines. No, no, no, you have it all wrong. I am merely, as John was, a voice in the wilderness. I merely point forward to the the eventual coming of this promised one The blessed one. I'm not worthy to stoop down and unloose his shoe latchet. He, the true Messiah, must increase, but I must decrease. That's precisely how the Lord Jesus would have responded had He not been, in fact, the Messiah. But of course he didn't say anything of the sort, did he? He said, Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. My Father in heaven has revealed to you that I'm not merely a prophet, and I'm not John risen from the dead, but I'm the anointed one, I'm the Messiah, I'm the one who was foretold. uh in the very earliest pages of God's word. He then uh strictly warned his disciples not to go spreading everywhere that he was in fact the Messiah. Now why? Why wouldn't he tell thou, now that you know, go tell everybody that you know. Well, uh, we don't have to wonder about that. We don't need to imagine what the jealous religious leaders of Israel would do if they became if it became widely believed that Jesus was the Messiah. We don't have to imagine, because we know what happened when Jesus entered Jerusalem that final week, and the people, the the disciples, the multitude of the disciples who'd come down from Galilee, many of them having witnessed his miracles, Many of them believing in him as the Messiah now see him coming in in power and glory, entering the city, and they fall down before him, they pull branches off trees, they cry out, Hosanna, save now, save us now, Hosanna to the Son of David. They were expecting him to come and sit upon the throne and reign. This was what they were looking for, what they were waiting for for so long. And the Pharisees said to Jesus, the scribes and Pharisees, Tell your disciples to stop saying those things. And he said, I tell you, if these should hold their peace, the strong shall immediately should immediately cry out. In other words, there was no longer time to keep it under wraps. This is no time to be reticent. And as soon as it was out, and Jesus was accepting that acclamation as the Messiah. That's when uh uh the mechanations of the scribes and Pharisees really went into full gear. And they they had him uh killed before the week was out. So there was a reason why Jesus told his disciples to not to tell everybody at that point. He was ready for his disciples to know who he was. But he had much more to do and much more to teach before he wanted everyone else to know about it and before the cross. So he strictly warned his disciples not to tell anyone that their master was, in fact, the long-awaited Messiah. Now, try to put yourself in the place of one of these disciples. You have finally gotten over that that huge hurdle and you have embraced this carpenter from Nazareth, whom none of the religious leaders seem to recognize as as anyone special, and you embraced him as the Messiah, as the king. Despite all your preconceptions of the Messiah as a mighty reigning monarch, you believe this poor, itinerant working man from the tiny village of Nazareth, a village not even mentioned in all of the Old Testament, A man who was not embraced by the religious leaders was in fact God's promised Messiah. But now that Peter has declared it and Jesus has confirmed it, what would you expect to happen? Okay, he's the Messiah. What do you think might happen? Well, I would be thinking, well, it's not enough that we know him to be the Messiah. Somewhere along the line, he's going to no doubt reveal himself to the entire nation as the Messiah. Okay, he wants us to keep quiet about it now, but when the timing is right, he's going to assume the throne of David. He'll go up to Jerusalem along with the thousands who've seen him perform miracles, and the many who've been actually healed by him, and the multitudes who've heard him teach. And there will be a general acclamation of him, and the religious leaders will have to acknowledge him. And Jesus will be taken to Herod's palace by that throng. And the one who ordered the head of John the Baptist put upon a silver charger, well, he will have to bow his head one way or another to the one whose path John prepared. Jesus will sit upon his throne and all those Old Testament prophecies will come to fruition and Jehovah will make Christ's enemies his footstool and of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end upon the throne of David. to order it and to establish it in justice henceforth and forever. If I were one of the twelve, I would think, man, what a day that will be And my eyes may yet behold it if I live long enough. I can't wait to see the faces of those cursed Roman occupiers when they see the Messiah's wrath kindled but a little I want to be there when they hightail it out of Jerusalem. And then, verse 31. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and after three days rise again. What? No sooner had the disciples gotten their heads wrapped around the fact that the this Nazarene was indeed the promised son of David, the anointed one of God who would reign forever, the one Moses said was greater than he. Then they're asked to believe that he's going to face suffering and rejection and ultimately death. One minute he agrees he's the promised Messiah, the next minute he's talking about being rejected and killed. Well, what are we supposed to believe? Somebody needs to talk to him. Peter, you! Verse 32. He spoke this word openly. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him Uh at least Peter, you know, uh took him aside. Lord, look, I don't want to embarrass you in front of the guys, but let me explain a little something here. Uh y you're the Messiah. This is not gonna happen to you Matthew says his exact words were, far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. Not you. Perhaps he meant that this is not the destiny of the Son of God. You must reign. You must conquer. Or perhaps he meant, no one's gonna harm you, Lord, if we're here and we have anything to say about it. You remember how in the Garden of Gethsemane, as Jesus was being arrested, Peter defended him with a sword. Apparently tried to lop off somebody's head. He must have ducked and he cut off his ear. Jesus healed that man. uh this uh servant uh of the high priest, Malchus. So maybe that's all Peter's saying. It's not gonna happen to you. We'll we'll make sure it doesn't happen to you Whatever was in Peter's mind when he took that misguided course, it's always a misguided course of rebuking his Lord, Jesus recognized it as a temptation from the enemy. Look at verse 33. But when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, he, Jesus, rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. Jesus took the unusual step of addressing Peter, who had attempted to abruptly put a halt to any talk of suffering and death awaiting Jesus. as if Peter were Satan. Jesus took the unusual step of addressing Peter as if he were Satan. Now, think about it. What Peter was suggesting, that such suffering, rejection, and death was the last thing that should ever come upon so glorious a being as Christ. was on the surface absolutely true. Rejection, suffering, and death were most definitely not befitting the majesty of the Son of God, right? Far be it from you, Lord, that this should happen to you. We common sinners may deserve such an end: rejection, persecution, suffering, death, but not you. And we must remember that being rejected by his own people and betrayed by his own disciples, betrayed by one disciple in particular, and forsaken by the others. uh to be beaten, to be mocked, tortured, and then forsaken by his father, who turned his face away from him and allowed him to die alone and forsaken. That was not something Jesus himself looked forward to. It was not something he wanted to hasten. Remember the night before it all took place, he prayed, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Is there any other way, Lord? Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. So I don't doubt that something in him resonated to Peter's words here Peter says to, no, no, no, no, this shall not happen to you, Lord. And the Lord Jesus recognized that immediately as a temptation. That's what made these words so dangerous, so devilish. And that I think is what drew forth this strong response from Jesus. He saw in Peter's words what Peter surely didn't see himself. A temptation that has satanic power. And so Jesus said to Peter, you are not mindful of the things of God, but of the things of men. Peter, you're you're not thinking of the things of God. There's a larger purpose here. Peter was looking at the Messiah from the perspective of men, and from men's perspective, it was outrageous to think that the Son of God, the King of Glory would endure rejection, suffering, and death. But then Jesus had still another bombshell to drop This was going to be a memorable day for the disciples, I'm sure, because it was the day, first of all, when they acknowledged publicly that Jesus was in fact the long-awaited Messiah. Secondly, coming hard upon that, the day that Jesus told them, yeah, but the Messiah is going to suffer many things, be rejected by the religious leaders, and be killed. And then thirdly, this is the day he told them that they must be willing to follow him to the place of execution. Look at verse 34. When he had called the people to himself, with his disciples also, he said to them, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. Now you'll notice something we might we might tend to skip over here. It says he called the people, that is apparently the larger group of disciples. It may have been the hangers on, you know, there's the twelve that are always with Jesus and then and then there were others who just wanted to follow him wherever he went. He's taking a twenty-five-mile journey up to Caesarea Philippi and there are other people, other disciples. The larger group that are coming along, maybe a little bit further behind. And he calls them all together because he wants them all to hear this, because they're all following him. And then he gives them these tough words. Now, think about the twelve. It was hard enough for them to declare, despite the fact that he wasn't what they expected. what they had been led to expect of the Messiah, it was hard for them to declare that he was the Messiah. Then he told them he wouldn't be claiming the throne, but he would endure suffering, rejection, and death. Now he says, whoever desires to come after him will have to deny himself, take up his cross, and follow him. Now, as far as we know from Mark's gospel, this is the very first time Jesus said anything about any cross. It's as if he wanted to wait until they embraced him as the Messiah before he revealed to them what they didn't perceive the Messiah would have to endure. So now he says, you're going to have to be willing to take up your cross and follow me. Now, the Jews were all too familiar with this barbaric way the Romans punished the most vile offenders. It was an execution designed to be both prolonged and extremely painful. the public nature of which was intended to discourage all onlookers from ever attempting a similar crime. You can imagine if if if today we crucify someone who robbed a bank, for example, and everybody in the town walked by and saw this man uh that would tend to discourage me from uh the temptation , following the temptation, to uh walk into Bank of America with a a pistol of some sort So one aspect of the public nature of the crucifixion, however, was the practice of requiring that the convicted man actually carry to the appointed place of execution one of the beams on which he was to be crucified. It was, of course, an act of public humiliation, and you can only imagine the scorn that would be heaped upon this robber or murderer or whoever who was carrying that beam through the streets. People would scorn him and mock him and perhaps throw things at him. Jesus was saying in unmistakably graphic terms, if you want to be a follower of mine , You must experience self-denial and you must be prepared to die. If you choose not to do this, if you desire instead to save your life, To preserve it at all costs. If you believe your life here is so precious to you that it must be saved at all costs, then you're going to lose it. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it Anglican Bishop John Hooper was martyred by Mary I, Queen of England, England and Ireland. She was the only daughter of Henry VIII and his first wife, Catherine of Aragon. Mary became known as Bloody Mary for her execution of believers. Hooper, the night before his martyrdom, said this, Life is sweet. And death is bitter. But eternal death is more bitter. And eternal life is more sweet. That's nice. Life is sweet. Death is bitter. But eternal death is more bitter. And eternal life is more sweet Jim El Jim Elliott, who was killed with fellow uh missionaries attempting to evangelize the what we now that we now call them the Huaroni people of Ecuador put it this way in his journal, he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. He's no fool who gives what he cannot keep, his life, here, to gain what he cannot lose. Eternal life Jesus said, if you desire to save your life, you'll lose it. But if you lose your life for his sake and for the sake of the gospel, the good news of Christ, you'll save it. This may of course involve martyrdom, but for true believers, first of all, it's a daily walk. Bishop J. C. Ryle put it this way. All who accept this great salvation must prove the reality of their faith by carrying the cross after Christ. They must not think to enter heaven without trouble, pain, suffering, and conflict on earth. They must be content to take up the cross of doctrine and the cross of practice, the cross of having a faith which the world despises. Cross of doctrine, and the cross of living a life which the world ridicules, cross of practice. They ridicule it as too strict and too and righteous. They must be willing to crucify the flesh, to mortify the deeds of the body, to fight daily with the devil, to come out from this world and to lose their lives, if needful, for Christ's sake and the gospels. If we will not carry the cross, we shall never wear the crown. C. S. Lewis put it this way: give up yourself, and you will find your real self. Lose your life and you will save it. Submit to death, the death of your ambitions and favorite wishes, every day, with every fiber of your being. And you will find eternal life. Keep back nothing. Nothing that you have not given away will be really yours Nothing in you that has not died will ever be raised from the dead. Look for yourself, and you will find in the long run only hatred, loneliness, despair, rage, ruin, and decay. But look for Christ And you will find him, and with him, everything else thrown in. Jesus expresses that same truth in another striking way in verse 36. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? Suppose you had at your disposal all the wealth of this world, all the prestige, all the uh adulation of all the people. What is all that, Jesus says, in comparison to your eternal soul? What would a man give in exchange for his soul No amount of money would be too high a price to pay to redeem our soul if we were under someone else's control. Pay any ransom. You think of I think it was it was said of Elizabeth, Queen Elizabeth, as she died, that she cried out, millions of money for an inch of time. She had plenty of money. She had all the money that anyone could imagine. But she couldn't extend her life an inch of time. What would a man give in exchange for his soul? No amount of money would be too high a price to pay. No ransom would be too high. And then Jesus makes another of those astounding claims that no mere man in his right mind would ever think of make of making. Verse 38. For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man, also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. Jesus says he's going to come back to this earth in the glory of his father, bringing with him the holy angels, and he says that when he does, He'll be ashamed of all who were ashamed of him and of his words in this adulterous and sinful generation. So think about this. He says, I'm going to suffer many things I'm going to be rejected by the religious leaders and killed. And if you want to come after me, you must deny yourself and take up your cross and follow me. If you want to save your life, you're going to lose it. But if you lose your life for my sake, and the gospel's sake, you're going to save it. And there's nothing in this world worth more than your soul. And if you're ashamed of me, when I return, I'm going to be, when I return, I'm going to be ashamed of you. A few minutes before the disciples had embraced Jesus as the promised Messiah. They had concluded he was the anointed one, the Son of God who was going to reign on David's throne. And if I had been among them, I would already have been looking forward to being one of the favored ones in the king's court. You know, I've hitched my wagon to the right uh star. I got in on the ground floor of the right startup. I uh I I put my money on the long shot in the race, and now the long shot's going to win big. He is in fact the Messiah. All the religious leaders were wrong about him. It was the best of times. And then suddenly it was the worst of times. The good news is I'm the Messiah. The bad news is I'm not at all what you thought. I'm going to suffer, I'm going to be rejected and die. And if you want to be my follower, you can expect much of the same. The good news is God loves you and He has a wonderful plan for your life. The bad news is that plan includes taking up your cross and following Jesus in self-denial, into persecution, perhaps rejection, betrayal, suffering, and death Now I pointed out before that no one who was trying to draw a large following would speak this way, right? No politician would be elected. If he promised self-denial, persecution, rejection, suffering, and perhaps death. Vote for me. Sir, uh I'm sorry, uh all our polling so far indicates that emphasis on self-denial, suffering, rejection, possible death for those who vote for you. That's something of a non-starter Sir, that message is getting a negative response among single women, married women with children, single men, all married men, in all age brackets, and we're getting killed in the polls. But our focus groups seem very responsive when we offer to provide them with a lifetime supply of bread and fish. So the takeaway for you, sir, for your stump speech is less suffering and more fish. More bread, less dead. After they heard what was in store, it's remarkable that none of the disciples slipped away that night never to return You remember on another occasion when the followers of Jesus, there was another occasion when the followers of Jesus did begin to walk away because of his hard sayings. Jesus asked his disciples, Will you also go away? Do you also want to go away? And Simon Peter answered him that time too, and he said, Lord, to whom shall we go? To whom shall we go? For thou hast the words of eternal life. Yeah, what you're saying is hard. And what what we may face is hard. But to whom shall we go? Now a few things to note before we close You may have noticed I didn't mention the resurrection, although Jesus did, verse 31. He did say he would be killed, but he and he He also said after three days he will rise again. I didn't mention the resurrection, though Jesus did. I skipped over it because I I don't think this the disciples noticed it. I think they sort of skipped over it. Jesus said he would be killed and after three days rise again But I think all they focused on was that he would be killed. And that's why Peter rebuked him. And even after his crucifixion, even though this is not the only time he talked to them about rising from the grave They seemed to have no recollection of those numerous times he spoke of that. , And his enemies on this matter had better recall than his friends. But of course, Jesus did rise on the third day to the astonishment of his disciples, and if he had not, there would be no Christian church today. And the discouraged and defeated band of followers would have returned to their homes. Sadder men, but wiser. And then notice we we we mention this momentarily, but notice Christ's astounding claim about himself. At least it would be astounding to us if we hadn't already seen it so often in the Gospels. He says he's going to come back to earth in the glory of his Father. He's going to bring with him holy angels. And when he does, he's going to be ashamed of those who are ashamed of him. And of his words in this adulterous and sinful generation. Can you imagine? Can you imagine any other man or woman making such a claim? You know, imagine the Queen of England addressing the Houses of Parliament and declaring, If you are ashamed of me and of my words, I will be ashamed of you when I come in the glory of my Father with the holy angels. Can you imagine such a thing? Uh what would happen? Oh the uh her spokesperson, the Queen was hospitalized today after what appears to have been, according to an aide to the royal family, a a psycho traumatic event. Brought on by extreme exhaustion. The royal family covets your prayers for Her Majesty as she recovers and begs your forgiveness and your understanding for her ill-advised words. That's precisely how we would respond if any mere man or woman made such a claim. I'm going to return, and when I do, I'm going to come with my father and the holy angels. And if you were ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, I will be ashamed of you when I return. John Scott writes, some years ago I received a letter from a young man that I knew slightly. He said, I have just made a great discovery. Almighty God had two sons. Jesus Christ was the first. I am the second. I glanced at the address at the top of his letter. He was writing from a well-known mental hospital. Why do we not ascribe Christ's claims to madness? Because his character supports his claims His character supports his claims. It's been well said, his character was more wonderful than the greatest miracle. His character was more wonderful than the greatest miracle. Jesus said to Peter, my third point here, Jesus said to Peter, get behind me, Satan. And if your mind works at all like mine, this may get you wondering. Just how much did Satan know about this impending transaction at Calvary? Satan is powerful, but he's not omniscient. He doesn't know all things. He's cunning, but he doesn't see the end from the beginning. He doesn't seem to know exactly what God has planned, although he knows there's judgment awaiting him and his minions. The demons recognized Jesus as the Son of God, but they didn't seem to know exactly what he was doing in first century Palestine. We know thee, who thou art, the Holy One of God. Have you come to torment us before the time? What are you doing here? What do you have in mind? You see You're not playing fair. We're not through afflicting mankind. Have you come to destroy us before the time? They have some idea of something coming. Satan certainly knew that God was up to something for his son to come into this world. He knew that the pre-existent eternal Son of God had taken upon himself human flesh. He knew God had something up his sleeve, and he was intent on disrupting it. He may well have realized that it had something to do with all those prophecies of the suffering Messiah. If Jesus' strong rebuke of Peter means that Satan was in fact behind Peter's protest or rebuke of Jesus. It may have simply been Satan's means of getting some more information. Something was afoot. He wasn't exactly sure what. Whatever it was, he wanted to disrupt it. Oh, is that what's going to happen? No, Lord, this will not happen. But then this may raise a question in your mind. Did Satan want Jesus to go to Calvary or not? Well we know the scripture says it was the devil who put it in the heart of Judas to betray the Lord. John 13, 2. And this is where it gets a little confusing. The devil put it in the heart of Judas to betray the Lord. Why would he do that? Well Certainly, it was not because he foresaw that Jesus by dying would actually redeem multitudes. Satan wasn't interested in that. He had his own devilish motivations. You remember Joseph's brothers delivering him into slavery out of jealousy and hatred meant it for evil. They didn't foresee that Joseph would be an instrument in God's hands to save countless souls. countless lives in in in material ways. And Satan could not foresee that the death of the Son of God, which he meant for evil, would be the means used by God to deliver billions from death and judgment. Again, it's just his hatred, hatred of God, hatred of God's son, and finding a way. You know, what what could be more devilish than getting one of his own disciples To forsake him and deny him and betray him. I think enticing Judas to betray the Lord, Satan was just attempting to disrupt God's plans. Satan could have could not have envisioned that it was a part of God's plan all along. C. S. Lewis in the Chronicles of Narnia made this point. Of course, the white witch was acting according to her own wicked purposes when she enticed Edmund to betray his siblings, an act which ultimately led to Aslan 's dying in Edmund's place. The white witch had no idea that this would ultimately lead to her defeat and Aslan 's victory. And then, of course, the most obvious application from this passage for us is Have I taken up his cross? Have you taken up the cross of Christ? Have you fallen before him and cried out, Lord, be merciful to me? I know I've broken your laws. God forgive me. I've I've sinned against you. I I I see my anger, my hatred, my lust, my pride. my uh lack of forgiveness, my lack of gratefulness. I see it all. I see it's there. God forgive me. God save me. God deliver me from this body of death. Have you cried out to the Lord for mercy? Have you said, Lord, forgive me and give me this eternal life. the Bible talks about. Have you been brought into his family? And if so, then do you recognize that you've been called to take up your cross and to follow him? To deny yourself To embrace him, to follow him, to speak of him before your co-workers, before your teachers, before your friends, to uh To receive mocking, perhaps, persecution, even for some death. Have you said to him, Lord, I will endure all for your sake? I'm willing to take up my cross And follow you. Have you come to him humbly as a child would come? Lord, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to your cross I cling Are you willing to take up your cross and follow him? Let's pray. Oh Lord, uh it must have been hard for those disciples to understand all these things. We have time to meditate upon them and to read all that Jesus said that was recorded for us. And uh it was all coming to them very quickly. And uh it's a great uh uh challenge that Jesus put before them. And it's a great challenge He puts before us. Father, I I pray that if there are some here that that think uh Uh putting faith in Jesus is a simple matter that requires no thought, that requires uh uh nothing other than uh getting our ticket to heaven and putting it in our wallet and forgetting about it. Lord I pray they might understand. That's not what Jesus asked of us. He says, if you were willing to come to me, you must be willing to take up your cross and follow me. If we would save our lives, we'll lose them. But if we're willing to lose our lives for his sake, we'll find them. Please, Father, use your word in hearts. May we think about these things, meditate upon them, may your spirit apply them to each and every one of us. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.