This is the reading of God's holy word. Pay careful attention this morning. Beginning in verse ten. To the married, I give this charge. Not I, but the Lord. The wife should not separate from her husband. But if she does, she should remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband, and the husband should not divorce his wife. To the rest I say, I, not the Lord. That if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife. And the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean. But as it is, they are holy. But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases, the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace. For how do you know , wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save? Save your wife. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated Let's begin our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you and we thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you for his clarity. Lord, we also know that this particular passage deals with a very tender and sensitive topic among even among your people And so, Lord, we pray that you would give us eyes to see, ears to hear this morning, minds to understand, and hearts, O Lord, that gladly and joyfully receive your word. And the word you have for us. We also pray, Lord, that you would use this time for us to examine ourselves in preparation for coming to the table of the Lord's Supper this morning. Well, last time we were in this particular book, in this particular chapter, we were looking at verses six through nine, which which looked at two things. It looked at singleness And it looked at widowhood in the body of Christ. I once heard it said that when a spouse passes away The pain that is experienced by the spouse that is left behind is a clean pain. That's an interesting way to put that. When one loses a spouse, it is pain, but it is Divorce, however, I've heard is what has been termed as messy pain. I find it interesting that Paul goes from talking about one type of separation , particularly in verses eight and nine, the separation of widowhood. to another type of separation, namely the separation of divorce. I believe that thematic hinge from one type of separation to another is probably what was on Paul's mind and why he went to discuss what he's gonna discuss with us this morning. But even in discussing something as as dark and painful and messy as divorce Paul does so looking at it with the lens of the hope of the gospel. And our main idea this morning is this. That the gospel calls Christians to stay married as a reflection of God's faithfulness and blessing in Christ towards us while allowing divorce. for spiritually mixed marriages in the case of abandonment. Now if you're visiting with us this morning or you're new to us, you'll see that that sermon idea printed on the bottom of page four uh at the end of our liturgy. But that is what we want to unpack this morning. And then there's two kind of main points to this. Our first main point in verses 10 through 11 is Christian spouses and divorce. Christian spouses and divorce. And we see in verses ten and eleven that there is a principle that Paul lays out, and I'm calling it the principle of no divorce. Look at verse ten. Verse 10 begins to the married. I give this charge, and then in the ESV it puts this in brackets, not I, but the Lord. To the unmarried I give this charge. Not I, but the Lord. The wife should not separate from her husband. That's where our passage begins this morning. And it's an interesting place to begin. I want to begin with the statement, Not I, but the Lord. Paul, when he says that, is pointing back to the instruction that Jesus Christ himself gave on marriage and divorce when he spoke in Matthew chapter 5, verse thirty-one and thirty-two nineteen and Matthew nineteen chapters uh chapter nineteen verses one through twelve He talks about this also in Mark and Luke, but let's just let's just give the Matthew passages because I think those are sufficient. Jesus had some very definitive statements to say. about marriage and about divorce. And he said that to the Pharisees in a conversation he had. And I want to unpack for you really quick and in brief what Jesus had to say in the context of his own day, in his own audience. Because what Jesus had to say in his context, Paul takes that and he presses that on his own context, which is a little different, and we'll we'll talk about that. in just a second with the Corinthian believers. But notice the strong statement that Paul uses here. The strength of Paul's statement Mirrors the strength and definitiveness of what Jesus says to his own audience. I give this charge. What makes that so strong is you could really legitimately translate that verb from the original Greek to English as I give this order. And let's face it, nobody likes to be talked to like that uh in our day and age. I order you to fill in the blank You're more likely to balk at that. But that's the strength of what Paul is saying here. I give you this charge. I give you these orders. And he has to speak that way because what he says here can be independently verified Not just in what he says, but also in what Jesus said. And the Corinthians can go back to what became the New Testament scriptures and Matthew and Mark and even Luke, and they can verify that what Paul is saying is what Jesus said. And I want to look at this principle of no divorce. in both the Jewish and the Greco-Roman context. The Jewish context is whom Jesus was speaking to, and the Greco-Roman context is what Paul is speaking to. Let's let's Look at this in a Jewish context in Jesus' own day. Now I mentioned just a second ago Matthew chapter 19, verses 1 to 12. That's that's records this discussion that Jesus had with the Pharisees who came to him, and if you remember in Matthew 19, 3, they ask him a question. And and Matthew makes it very clear, as well as Mark does as well, that they asked him this to test him. They had an agenda in asking this. They asked him in Matthew 19, 3, isn't it Lawful or permissible, you could translate that. For a man to divorce his wife, and then Matthew adds this phrase, for any reason at all? In other words, notice the open-ended nature of that question. They're asking this to test Jesus Now why are they asking this? Well, because in Deuteronomy chapter twenty-four, verses one through four, Moses lays out the parameters and the legislation that is meant to govern how divorce should happen if it's gonna happen. And there's a few things in that passage that there was uh subject to debate among the Jews And if you go back and you read Deuteronomy 24, verses 1 through 4, it kind of lays out this scenario. If a man takes a wife, And then in the course of time, he she does not find grace in his sight, which is an interesting phrase. Because he finds some indecency in her, then let him write her a certificate of divorce and send her away. Now the debate among the Jews centered on that phrase, some indecency in her. And if you look at the Old Testament, you have to acknowledge that, okay, there's some ambiguity as to what does that what does that mean? And the the Jews debated that. There was two schools of thought. There was a conservative school of thought to this, and there was a liberal school of thought to this. The conservative group was far smaller than the liberal group in Jesus' own day. But here's what it comes down to. The conservative group was arguing that when when Moses writes this phrase, some indecency in her, the indecency is related to her committing adultery against her husband. That would be the indecency. So infidelity. He finds out she's been unfaithful and he then divorces her. That was the conservative consensus on this. The liberal consensus, on the other hand, went uh much broader, gave a much broader interpretation, including whether maybe she burns your toast or your soup. Imagine that. You come home from work, you've had a tired day of working out in the fields, uh doing whatever you did in that agrarian culture out, you know, out of the house, and you come home and You're expecting your wife to make you a nice scrumptious dinner and she turns out to burn the soup. Something as trivial as that This l liberal group would argue, would be grounds for a husband divorcing his wife. And they're trying to trap Jesus and get him into this like this, you know, two-party system discussion. on this one issue and we we know what Jesus said. He goes back not to Deuteronomy to clear up what Moses meant. He just goes right back to creation. He just circumvents the whole thing, gets right to the heart of the issue, and if you remember what he said He says his argument is not that Moses commanded divorce, as they were kind of phrasing it and framing the debate. Moses commanded this. Jesus is like, you didn't command He permitted it. Why? Matthew 19, 8. Because of the hardness of your heart Boy. Boy. That's uh getting right to the heart of the issue, no pun intended. Now when you go back to Matthew chapter 5, verses 31 and 32, you do see that Jesus gives some kind of ground, a legitimate ground, for divorce. Now in in Matthew nineteen he doesn't jump into the fray of their little pharisaical debate, but you get the whole context of his ministry in Matthew chapter five. Jesus does say, Look, anyone who who divorces his wife and marries another, except for the reason of infidelity, then commits adultery. So Jesus gives this one ground of divorce that if one spouse commits adultery against the other, that spouse who committed adultery by their very act has broken the covenant and therefore has at least initiated the proceedings of divorce. And Jesus essentially says that that is a legitimate reason for divorce. Now what's really interesting here is it only permits them to divorce, it doesn't automatically mean that they have to divorce. I think we'd be going too far if we said that just because infidelity happened in a marriage that automatically means that spouses should get divorced. The scriptures don't say that. But it means that it is permitted. Jesus is getting here to the heart of the issue when he highlights you know, a divorce for any other reason than adultery would be hardness of heart. Adultery happens in mar some marriages because one uh partner has a hardness of heart issue But what's really fascinating here is when Jesus is giving this instruction, and I want you to really narrow in on this observation, because it's so important to how we're going to apply this passage. In a moment. Who is Jesus speaking to? Jesus is speaking to Jewish people who, at least under the old covenant, were all members of the covenant community. So to put that in New Covenant language, he's talking in the context of believers who are in covenant relationship with God. So when we look at verses 10 and 11, the way it's applied, the way Paul applies it, he's talking to Christian spouses. Both partners are believers. And when he lays out this principle from the Lord Jesus of no divorce , this is presupposing that both spouses are Christians. And I would go even further to say he is presupposing that adultery has not happened. When he tells the wife not to separate from the husband, in verse ten, and when he tells the husband, he shall not leave his wife, in verse eleven. The assumption is that there's been no adultery that has occurred. Therefore, do not divorce. Now listen that's looking at things from the the Jewish context in in the Greco -Roman context, it's similar in that divorce was just as common among the pagan Gentiles as it was among the Greeks, but their culture was a little different. Because in the Jewish context, a woman could not initiate divorce proceedings against her husband. She was not allowed to do that. in the Jewish context. But listen to this description by the Lutheran commentator R. C. H. Lensky. He helps us understand the cultural context of the Greco-Roman world because it's a little different. He writes this, Roman state law and custom, of which the Gentile Christian would think, granted either party the right to m take the initiative and dissolving the marriage. Let me stop the quote there. Either a man or a woman could initiate divorce, either the man, the husband or the wife in the Gentile context. He goes on to say this. In addition, this is really interesting, it made distinctions between marriages themselves. Well what does Lensky mean? He writes, Marriages between slaves had no legal standing and thus no permanence whatever. And there were not a few slaves in the congregation at Corinth, as we see in chapter 7, verse 21. Marriage between a freedman, that is one released from slavery. And a slave had low standing. In general, he writes, during this period of Roman history, the permanency of marriage unions was exceedingly uncertain. The effect of the Lord's commands command on the complete permanency of Christian marriage may thus be estimated. In other words, whether you're looking at the Jewish context and Jesus basically saying, no, marriage is a permanent thing, or you're talking about the Greco-Roman context, One, we can very safely see from history that divorce was rampant and common. We can see that the Instruction on the permanence of marriage was counter-cultural either way, and we can see that it probably came as a shock to those who heard it. I mean even in the Jewish context, think about Jesus' disciples and their response in Matthew verses uh chapter nineteen verses ten through twelve. They basically said, Well Lord, if this is the way it is between a man and his wife, it's just better not to marry at all. Even among Jesus' disciples, that kind of permanence of marriage view and how the its impact on how divorce is to be seen among believers. Man, that was quite a shock to the system. That they experienced. And so Paul take basically takes Jesus' high view of marriage that he expounds in one Jewish context and he applies it even to the Corinthians. However, the question remains, what about if hardness of heart prevails, even in Christian marriages? What does Paul say in applying Jesus' standard for marriage when he looks at the possibility of divorce? Well we see in verse eleven there's a condition of violating the principle of no divorce. Look what he says in verse 11. But if she does separate from her husband, she should remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband And the husband should not divorce his wife. So by the way, this no-divorce principle applies both ways to both the husband and the wife. But notice the condition there That's really fascinating. It's like an if-then scenario. If she does leave, then Well, what happens if she separates from her husband? Notice how Paul explains this. That if-then scenario highlights that this is a present general condition. That's the technical grammatical term for the conditional statement that he uses. What it means is that this is a scenario This wife separating from her husband. This was a likely scenario that that probably happened quite often in the Corinthian church. And when you go back to verse 1, of chapter seven, and you see that they wrote Paul a letter with a bunch of questions. This was probably one of the things they were asking Paul about specifically, which is why he writes it the way he does. And what's interesting is we are not in this case told why she's separated from the husband. We are only told in this conditional statement that she did. What if she did? What do you do? Well, there's only two options he leaves open for Christians who choose to leave for any other reason than divorce. There's only two options. Number one. So verse eleven. First, she should remain unmarried. Notice the strength of that position. Or that option. It does not leave open as an option the recourse to remarriage to somebody else. It doesn't. The assumption, again, is that adultery was not the cause of divorce. For whatever reason, we're not told, she just no longer wanted to be married to this man. And if she doesn't have biblical grounds for for divorce because of infidelity on her believing husband's part, then she does not have grounds for divorce. What is the only way to explain this? She acted out of hardness of heart. The problem is her heart. By the way, the same thing would apply if a man just chooses to leave his wife. Hardness of heart. If adultery is not there. And were she to remarry, she would be committing adultery according to Jesus in Matthew 5, uh 31 to 32. Why? Because in the Lord's eyes, her marriage to her husband was still binding. Paul gets at this in Romans chapter 7, verses 2 and 3. For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives. But if her husband dies, she's released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, She is free from that law. And if she marries another man, she is not an adulteress. In other words, if she becomes a widow and remarries, she's not an adulteress. She's free to do that. But notice that that language there at the beginning of Romans 7, 2. For if a married woman, for a married woman is bound by law to her husband. That word is gonna come up again. But remember the Samaritan woman in John 4? Jesus said something very similar to her. She said he said she apparently had five husbands. She was living with a sixth man. And what does Jesus say? That man is not your husband. You may be living with him. You may have gone through the marriage ceremony. He's not your husband. You're not really married to him. You're living in adultery. So that's the first option. Remain unmarried. And by the way, let me parenthetically just say, this is really interesting. There's really no stigma attached if she remains unmarried in the local church. If she divorces, uh th this is probably contrary to what you would expect. It says nothing about putting her under church discipline. It says nothing about stigma. If she divorces, she's just to remain unmarried. Second option. Verse 11. Or else be reconciled to her husband. That's the only other alternative for two believers who are divorced for any other reason than adultery. I think we have to acknowledge here. Paul is laying out general principles. Okay? I said from the beginning, divorce is kind of a messy pain. It's messy, it's painful, it's not convenient for anyone. really at the end of the day. So I just want to say the application of these principles require a tremendous amount of wisdom and discernment to the specifics of the case. I think we need to acknowledge that. I think that's what makes this a little sensitive sometimes is you have this general principle, but it takes church leadership a tremendous amount of wisdom to figure out how to apply Now the question we have to ask right now is well what can we make what what can we make out here by way of application? Here's my my application principle here. Because we live in a world which divor in which divorce is rampant. In common, the gospel calls us as believers to value our marriages so highly that we are willing to fight for the stability and preservation of our marriages. I think that's the principle that comes out of this by way of application. We're called to have a high view of marriage and we're called to really fight to preserve those stability of those marriages as we live the Christian life. And I'm just going to highlight two points about this in application. We're called to have a high view of marriage in a context in which divorce is easy. In our our own context today, it reflects the Jewish context in a lot of ways. It reflects the Greco-Roman context in a lot of ways in which Jesus and Paul were living and ministering. Um and yet I want us to think about this. Even despite that where they were living in a day and age where divorce was not uncommon and marriage was not necessarily seen as permanent, we live in the same kind Kind of kind of context. of I mean no one stands at the altar and is giving their vows and thinking, I wonder how long this is gonna last. Most people aren't like that, but but deep down, we have a cultural context in which marriage is not always seen as permanent. Like the Gentile context, both men and women can and do initiate divorces today. Like the Jewish context of Jesus' day, where the Pharisees thought a man could divorce his wife for any reason whatsoever. We live in a day of easy divorce. where people can can divorce over anything as unspecific as this. Irreconciliable differences. Have you heard that before? I have. And aside from grounds of of of adultery, what Jesus calls this is uh a hardness of heart. And boy, I think that that is an apt description of many in our day and age, maybe even some of you here. Hardness of heart in how you see marriage, how you treat your spouse. You know, this passage, I think we have to say, aside from the difficulty and and the it is hard to hear about your hardness of heart, I do believe this passage was originally intended by Paul to encourage A strong view of marriage as something worth fighting to preserve among us as believers. And I want to just look at secondly the how the gospel impacts the issue of marriage and divorce among believers. I want to explore how the gospel impacts the counsel that Paul gives us to reconcile with divorced spouses for any uh if if we've uh if we've uh divorced for any other reason than adultery. I think that's important for us to look at. Why? Because if you look at the big picture of Scripture, how does Scripture, both Old and New Testament, how does it describe God's relationship the relationship between God and his people. God in Israel, Christ in the church. How is that described? It's described as a marriage relationship. What's really interesting is that Jeremiah chapter 3 verse 8 says that God gave his people a certificate of divorce when he sent them into exile from the land. By the way, for any of us who are tempted to think that there should be a some kind of social stigma or judgment in our view against those who have been divorced in the church, this should rebuke you. Why? Why? Because divorce is not the unpardonable sin, number one. And number two, I think you can make the case from the language of Scripture itself that God knows what it's like Himself to be divorced. From his people. Jeremiah 38. Jeremiah 3 8. God gave gives them a certificate of divorce. He sends them into exile. In other words, they divorce, they separate, he they move out of the house. is what happened. And the reason was because the people had committed adultery Physically? Physically? Well yeah, but what Jeremiah's getting at is spiritually. When the people went after all these gods, like like Baal and Asherah and whatever gods of the land they were worshiping, they were committing spiritual adultery against their husband, the Lord, in whom they were in covenant with. And because they broke the covenant, God gives them a certificate of divorce, sends them out. And yet even for the And yet, even under those circumstances, the prophet covenants looks forward to a time when God's people would return to him and there would be what? Reconciliation. Isn't that interesting? You see this pattern of two Christian spouses who get divorced. Coming back together. You see it modeled for you in how God relates to his people. And you see that fulfilled when he sends his son Jesus from heaven to earth born in the flesh to go to the cross and take the sins of his sinful adulterous bride. Why? So that he might take her back to himself. This is, by the way, why I read Hosea chapter 3, verses 1 through 5 as our Old Testament reading. What a lovely picture. And so if if you're here this morning and and you've contempl you're contemplating divorce, or you are divorced and you have been divorced. From a Christian's house, let me encourage you with one thing. The pain, as messy as it is, the Lord Himself understands what it's like to go through what you're going through. And I hope that that brings you comfort this morning. I hope that in the power of the gospel that that would be balm to your soul and the wounds that you have experienced going through that kind of painful experience. That it's not the unforgivable sin. That there's always grace to be found. But this general principle In context, we have to understand applies to two believing spouses. Now the question becomes what do you do in contexts where one spouse is a believer and the other is not? That's our second point this morning. In verses 12 through 16, we see what I'm calling as my second point, mixed marriages and divorce. And we see in verses twelve and thirteen the principle of staying in a mixed marriage. Now I want to be clear, when I'm talking about a mixed marriage, I'm not talking about like mixed social class or economic class. I I'm not talking about like race or ethnicity, you know. Um I'm talking about spiritually mixed marriages. A believer and an unbeliever are married together. And this happens. Would have been common in the Greco Roman world of the day. So where does this council come from from. Look at verses 12 and 13. Now this is the exact opposite of what he just said in verse 10. The beginning of verse 12 says, To the rest I say, and then the ESV puts this in brackets. I, comma, not the Lord. Let's stop there for just a second. Where does this this counsel come from when he gives this principle that he's going to in a minute of staying in a mixed marriage? Well, Paul grounds what he said before in Jesus' words. Here he says that the following is his teaching and not the Lord's. What does that mean? Does that mean that is any less authoritative? Than Jesus is teaching? Well the answer to that is no. Um He says what he's saying because what he's about to tell the Corinthians and what he's telling them to do in their situation, he's dealing with a situation among them that Jesus never dealt with with the Jews in his day. Remember, like I said, everybody in Jesus' context as a Jewish person is considered part of the covenant community. But Paul does say in verse forty of our chapter, at the end of this very chapter, he ends by saying, And I think I too have the Spirit of God. And so we understand that while Paul teaches something here that Jesus did not address situationally, his word is no less authoritative because he is speaking as one who is inspired with the Spirit of God which comes from Christ. And what we find here in verses 12 and 13 is Jesus, or excuse me, Paul essentially takes the same principle that Jesus lays out, and he applies the fundamentally same principle to a different situation. And that's what we want to look at here. Look at verses 12 and 13. He lays this principle out as conditional circumstances. By the way, he advises both husbands and wives the same exact way. He begins with the husband in verse twelve and then looks at the wife in verse thirteen, but he says the same thing. Let's take verse twelve as our kind of sample verse here. If any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. He says the same thing in verse 13 of the wife. And I just want to make a few observations so that we can apply this as pointedly and precisely as we can. First thing. The first thing is a true to fact conditional statement. Once again. And once again That is a technical grammatical term that means that in Corinth there were people who were married who were believers who are married to an unbelieving spouse. That was probably more common than we would think in Corinth. And I want to give a caveat to clarify what Paul is not saying. Paul is not giving permission to believers to go into enter into a marriage with people that they know are unbelievers before they get married. Christians are not biblically permitted to marry an unbeliever. Second Corinthians six fourteen. Do not be yoked together with unbelievers. So then what is he talking about? Well he is speaking about situations in which two people were unbelievers when they got married. And then s afterwards, somewhere within the course of their marriage, one spouse hears one or both hears the gospel, and one spouse becomes a Christian while the other does not No that's a pretty understandable situation. And it 's a good idea. And it can create Some tension. Which leads to my second observation. The unbelieving spouse here consents to live with the believing spouse. By the way, that is not a foregone conclusion in the Greco-Roman world. It's just not. I mean sometimes when one spouse is a strong Christian and the other is not, tension can arise in a marriage as one spouse wants to live one way and the other wants to live a different way. I remember in my last church, um there was a woman in my church who was in this very situation. She'd been married to a man uh well since she was young and she became a believer after they got married. And one of the things she told me one time about that brought brought some tension in their marriage was um whether or not she could tithe. She felt very strongly about tithing, and her husband didn't want to give his hard-earned money to a church he didn't support, and that caused some tension. Right? One wants to live one way, another wants to live another way. And Paul here lays out the condition though. But what about if this happens? One believing and one unbelieving spouse? And the unbeliever says, okay, I'm going to agree to live. I want to live with my believing spouse. I don't want to just leave him or her because they became a Christian. Okay, well then what do you do? Well, third, look at the counsel here. The principle then is not to divorce an unbelieving spouse. Now, for those of us today, this is this mindset may be hard to understand. I mean to us, we would think, well, duh, you don't just like divorce s your spouse because they became a Christian if you're not. But again, that was not a foregone conclusion in the Remember, think of the context they're in, which is very different than ours. Two things. One, if you're looking at the Old Testament, you can look at passages like the book of Ezra at the end of the book. You could look at the book of Nehemiah at the end of that book. You can look at the prophet Malachi um as he deals with this in chapter two, but when you had spiritually mixed marriages and God's people were marrying all these pagans from around around the nations around them, what was the counsel? You need to get rid of this this false spouse. Because they're gonna spiritually pollute you. That was the idea. In the old covenant. The new covenant is very different. You don't. Just get rid of your unbelieving spouse. And also think about the Greco-Roman milieu, Greek philosophy, like if they believe that they are now spiritually born again, they're spiritually pure. We saw it in chapter six. They're in spiritual union with Christ and God. And that union is more fundamental than the union of the flesh. uh through sexual intercourse, then they might be tempted to reason, well, my spouse, who's not a believer, is not in union with Christ. my primary union and therefore I need to divorce my unbelieving spouse that is impure and probably tainting me so that I can either live a single life and be pure or marry a believer and be pure. That could have been the mindset. Again, we don't think that way, but we need to understand what they're going through. If we're going to apply this correctly, Paul says, don't divorce your unbelieving spouse. Why not? Well, this is kind of where the gospel begins to come and shine through. Look at verses fourteen and sixteen. We find the reason for staying in a marriage. Two reasons. Verse 14, the reason of setting apart the family to the Lord. Whereas verse 14 says, For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of the wife. The unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean. But as it is, they are holy. Now we have to understand what Paul means here when he says that you know one spouse is made holy by the other or the children are holy. Let's understand that this does not automatically mean that they are saved. Being holy is not the same thing as being saved. Well then what does it mean? Well again, in the Old Testament context, let's just take Leviticus for instance, the book that everybody kind of falls asleep reading through or loses track in their Bible reading plan. When they get to Leviticus, they fall out. There's a lot of important And one of the things Leviticus talks about in the laws of cleanliness is that when when someone or something that is holy and clean and set apart to God comes into contact with something that is defiled, the thing in the old covenant, the thing that is defiled then defiles the thing that is clean. That's the idea. That's the idea. That kind of contact. Um and and and and it goes that way. When something is unclean, it has the power to make something clean or holy, unholy or unclean. But Paul flips that on his head. That was under the law. And again, in the old covenant, God's people were not to marry foreign pagans because those foreign pagans would spiritually make them and their children unclean. And unholy. But the new covenant is the opposite. And this is where grace upon grace prevails in Christ. The blood of Christ cleanses to the uttermost. And therefore, when a believer who is set apart as holy to the Lord in Christ and is united to Christ, Chapter 6 verse 17. Is married to an unbeliever, that kind of contact and relationship then has the power to make the unbeliever and the children that issue forth from that marriage as set apart To the Lord as well. The Lord. The Lord. What that means practically is that the Lord Blesses the unbelieving members of the household, often with temporal blessing, for the sake of the believer who is in union with Christ. And again, we don't this doesn't mean automatically salvation. But there are benefits that a believer brings to an unbeliev uh to an unbelieving spouse as they build a household together. God doesn't deal with them for the sake of the unbeliever, he deals with them for the sake of the believer. and who's united to his son. That leads to the second reason. So the first reason is one, a believing spouse has the power in Christ in the Spirit to be a blessing to his unbelieving spouse. And children. But secondly, verse 16. For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife? Now I want to be clear here, the repetition of that question, or how do you know? How do you know? It tells you that from a human perspective You cannot be certain. However, there is the possibility, again, from a human perspective There's a possibility that the sustained witness of a believing spouse might eventually lead to the salvation of the unbelieving spouse. Such things do happen. Remember the church I grew up in, there was a a woman named Carol who was married to a man named Larry, and Carol was already She was probably already in her 60s or 70s when I was a kid. Um, but she had been married all this time and her husband Larry was never a believer. And um at some point in my twenties, they're both passed away now, but at some point in my twenties, um she had passed away. And about a year before she passed away, she died of cancer. Uh and her husband was faithful to her, even as an unbeliever, and he walked with her through that until she died. But it was watching her go through that process of of Of dying of cancer for a year, that he came to know the Lord. Brothers and sisters, forty years of prayer was answered at the end of her life I think he died just a few years after her, but what a testimony. A believing spouse. Being the instrument in God's hands. Salvation to the unbelieving spouse. That leads to the question though. Is there ever a point where divorce is permitted? In a spiritually mixed marriage. Yeah. Look at verse 15. There is an exception for divorce from a spiritually mixed marriage. Verse 15, but if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases, the brother or sister is not enslaved. By the way, that's the same language as being bound that we saw in Romans 7-2. And he ends by saying, God has called you to peace. Here's the thing I want you to see by way of application. The believing spouse is never to initiate divorce. It is the unbeliever who does this. And if it happens, as hard as it is, what does Paul say? Let it happen. Let it happen. Let them leave. They're not bound. They're not bound. His or her leaving breaks the covenant of marriage, freeing that believing spouse. What are we to do with this by way of application? Christians in spiritually mixed marriages are to remain faithful to an unbelieving spouse as a gospel testimony to them. Except in cases where the unbelieving spouse abandons them. That's the principle. And I want to look at the sad reality of divorce here before I end on a more high note. I always try to do that. You know 'cause this is heavy stuff. The sad reality of divorce. Look, with our encouragement this morning comes a warning and a reality check. And I want to just say this. This may cross some people, even in the church, the wrong way, but I think that this is the faithful reading and application of Scripture. We live in a therapeutic culture. Unlike any other culture before us A therapeutic culture care stretches the idea of abandonment in a subjective way, which in my humble opinion goes far beyond what Paul meant to uh communicate when he wrote this book. passage. What do I mean? We've applied this in more modern times to include things like emotional abandonment Have you heard this? This might come under the rubric of irreconcilable differences. But we've ex we've we we've really stretched this concept of abandonment, among other things, and applied it with heartbreaking results. And notice what it does practically. When you do that, it gives someone an emotional blank check to claim that their when their spouse is not meeting their emotional felt needs that that is all the proof that they need to say my spouse has abandoned me. It's not what Paul is saying And I want to be very clear about this. When Paul talks about this, we have to understand that the concession this this concessional reason re reason for divorce only applies when an unbelieving spouse initiates this divorce by physically leaving Physically abandoning. Why do I say that? Well, again, a careful reading of this passage. You go back to chapter uh verses twelve and thirteen. Paul's talking about Why do we stay? Why do we stay? Well, if the unbelieving spouse agrees to live with. In other words, there's a physical presence. They want to physically be with that person and live with them physically in close proximity in terms of geography. That implies that on the flip side, the abandonment implicitly means that the unbeliever physically, geographically I think that's the right word. Leaves and walks out. They are no longer willing to be physically present and live with the believer under the same roof. We have to understand this because it saddens me to say that there are ministers that have Allowed and even pushed for divorces in evangelical churches By stretching that concept of abandonment, much to the destruction of a marriage and a family, which then causes all kinds of pain We have to understand this sets a higher value on spiritually mixed marriages than we would often ascribe to them, even in our circles. But brothers and sisters, there are times when an unbelieving spouse chooses to walk out. And in our in our case, when that happens, it is our job as the church to enfold that believing brother or sister, to embrace them who've been left behind. And to be sensitive to where they're at emotionally and spiritually. And we must make them understand In some way that we love them, that they have not sinned, that there's no stigma over them We are to be the agents of bringing what Paul says in verse fifteen peace to pain. And that takes work. From those of us who are in relationships as brothers and sisters to those who may have been left behind by an unbelieving spouse. Well let's end on the high note, looking at the gospel witness even in a spiritually mixed marriage. This is kind of the same principle as as two believing spouses. And the reason we stay in in a marriage with believing spouses. By the way, this is a situation that happens to many spiritually mixed marriages. Many Christians. Maybe some of you here are in a spiritually mixed marriage, a believing spouse and an unbelieving spouse. One, there's no shame in that whatsoever. The tone and this and tenor of this passage is meant to encourage you. And the encouragement is that God can and often does still bless your family. The encouragement comes in that God still sets your family as apart uh apart as holy because of your faith in Jesus. The encouragement comes in that there is still hope that the Lord may use you to bring salvation to your spouse. Why? Because in staying with an unbelieving spouse, by being a blessing to our unbelieving spouses, by witnessing to them, we live out God's covenant faithfulness in his holding out the hope of eternal life and forgiveness of sins to a lost and often obstinate people. By you not giving up on your unbelieving spouse, it is a picture of a God who refused to give up on us refuses to give up on his people in their sin by sending his son to pay the penalty for their sins, going to the cross, rising from the dead, so that he might take them and us to himself. Your faithfulness is a powerful gospel witness. And I hope that that encourages you this morning if you're in this situation. And it brings us right back to the main idea, doesn't it? The gospel calls Christians to stay married as a reflection of God's faithfulness and blessing in Christ towards us. While allowing for divorce, for spiritually mixed marriages, in the case of abandonment, let's look to God's covenant faithfulness of us. And let's strengthen our covenant faithfulness with our spouses, whatever station we find ourselves in. Let's pray.