If you have your Bibles, let's take them and stand together as we turn. To 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 6 to 13 this morning. If you need the pew Bible, that is on page 1133. First Corinthians chapter four verses six to thirteen. I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers. That you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? And if then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Already you have all you want. Already you have become rich. Without us you have become kings. And would that you did reign so that we might share the rule with you. For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become the spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute. To the present hour we hunger and thirst. We are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless. And we labor working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless. When persecuted, we endure. When slandered, we entreat. We have become and are still like the scum of the world. The refuse of all things. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with prayer Our Heavenly Father, we pray, O Lord, that you would give us the proper frame of heart and mind. To engage your word, to hear it, to think about it, to meditate upon it, and to receive it, O Lord. We pray that you would take your word, write it on our hearts, Lord, that we might be transformed. Oh Lord, and that being transformed we may have new desires, new affections, new dispositions and attitudes that we might live out of. and from. Lord, we ask that you would be glorified this morning in your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I realized reading a whole chapter earlier on in 2 Chronicles, chapter 26. Is a bit long and some of you may think it's a bit bit much, but it made an interesting point. That when you have a king who by all outward appearances having a very long and prosperous reign for the most part, being very wealthy, being very successful in all of his endeavors, being successful on the battlefield. I mean King Uzziah had it all. And it's really no wonder that he became prideful. What is it about that issue, pride? I mean, we see that issue come up over and over and over again in the scriptures. We see in Deuteronomy warnings of God to his people that when you go into the land and you succeed and you become prosperous. And powerful, make sure that you do not forget the Lord your God, lest your heart be puffed up and you say, It is by my own ingenious and might that I have gotten all these things. Or think of King Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel chapter 4. Him walking around on the roof of his palace, which was most likely the highest place in the city, looking down on on all this and saying, I have gotten and built this beautiful city of Babylon by my power and majesty. only for God to humble him and make him crawl on all fours for what we think is probably seven years acting like an animal before his reason returned to him. What is it about these kind of examples of pride that just keep coming up over and over and over again? I think it's because every one of us in one way, shape, or form tends to struggle with pride deep down in our hearts. Some of us it's more obvious, some of us it's not less obvious. But the main point this morning in our short passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 verses 6 through 13 Is this that the gospel challenges our pride in highlighting grace for all that we've received? And it reveals what it means to bear the cross of Christ in real life. If you're visiting with us or you're new to Liberty and this is the first time, you'll notice invert on page five I had that typed out there for you. Sermon idea. It's it's again this. The gospel challenges our pride in highlighting grace for all that we've received, and it reveals what it means to bear the cross of Christ in real life. Let's begin our first point. There's two points to this. The the way this breaks down is into two sections naturally. And the first is in verses six to seven we see our first point, the grace to challenge pride. Look at me again at verse 6. You see the purpose in the challenge. Paul states, I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers. That you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. The question that comes up when he says, um, I have applied these things to myself and Apollosis, what are these things that he's referring to? What does that mean? Well, if you go back to verse 1 of our chapter here in chapter 4, he says, this is how one should regard us. As servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. We were in that passage last week. I won't explain all of it, but but Paul is answering that question there is like, well, how should you The Corinthians regard us like me as Paul, Apollo, Cephas, everyone that's labored among you. And he he He chooses very humble descriptors, right? Servants and stewards. That's it. That's all we are in the church, he says. And so when he picks up that idea here in verse 6, he says, I've applied these things, this humility, this very lowest of the low descriptors to myself and Apollos for your benefit. In other words, what he's saying is we've already applied it to us. Now you guys need to understand as the Corinthian church how this applies to you and how this benefits you. He turns it around, he applies it to them because they certainly as a church have a problem with pride and thinking too highly. Now again, this is not an issue that is new to us. We've seen this already with the Corinthians But let's look at the purposes or the results that Paul is after as he applies the same principle to them. Notice what he says here, the purpose of submitting to the scriptures. The first thing he says there is that you may learn by us, or by our example, not to go beyond what is written. The first thing is, I don't want you to go beyond what is written. No , what does he mean by that? What is it that he's talking about that is is written? Now, commentators have a wide variety of opinions on what they think this could be a reference to in terms of what is written. I'm just for the sake of time going to tell you what I think and you can weigh it yourself. I think what makes most sense to me is that he's likely referring to Jeremiah 2924 which he quoted back at the end of chapter one. You'll notice at the end of chapter one, particularly verse 31, he says, So that as it is written, let no one bo let the one who boasts boast in the Lord Now, number one, that is written because he's quoting from the Old Testament scriptures, but it is something that is very specific that is written that applies to the issue that he's dealing with But before he mentioned boasting. Don't boast, but if you're going to boast, boast in the Lord. Now he's talking about pride, which obviously leads to boasting. And he's saying, by our example By taking these very humble titles of servant and steward back in chapter 4 verse 1, we're hoping that by this example you might learn not to go beyond what is written. In other words, if you're going to boast Boast in the Lord. By the way, boasting in the Lord really means requires a lot of humility, doesn't it? Because it requires that you think lowly of yourself. And you think highly of God. And so, saints, he's saying, don't go beyond what is written. And that leads to the second purpose. At the end of verse 6, the second thing he says is that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against the other. Now, that is what they were doing essentially as they claimed to follow Paul or Apollos or Cephas. They're boasting in the flesh. They're becoming puffed up as they follow one leader against another, and I'm inclined to think that it wasn't just Paul or Apollos or even Cephas. I think that this attitude and this behavior probably was being perpetuated following other people and boasting in them in the body. The commentator John Calvin, 16th century reformer, whom Peter was talking about in Sunday school this morning. Thank you, Peter, for setting me up here, says this about this passage. Now, this whole reasoning depends on the order which the Lord has appointed in his church. That the members of Christ's body may be united together. That every one of them may rest satisfied with his own place, his own rank, his own office, and his own honor If one member is desirous to quit his place, that he may leap over into the place of another and invade his office, what will become of the entire body? Let us know then that the Lord has so placed us in the church and has in such a manner assigned to everyone his own station. That being under the one hand, we may be mutually helpful to one another. That's one of the reasons I chose to read the story of Usiah. Not only is it a a illustration of pride and self-exaltation, but it makes the point that Calvin is arguing very clearly. In the Old Testament, the kings were not allowed to go into the temple and offer the sacrifices that were at the altar of the Lord. That was for the priests. And likewise the priests were not allowed to sit on the throne of the king. That was for the son of David. And yet, what did Usah do? In his pride, he walked into that temple and presumed in his pride to do what only the priest could do. It disrupted the way that God had ordained that his people be constituted. And that's what Paul is dealing with here. When he says that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. It is so easy, I mean he says back in chapter 1 that they were lacking no spiritual gift It seems, from what we can tell by the context of this whole book at large, that the Corinthian church really seemed to excel in spiritual gifts. And in that kind of a context, it's easy for them to despise one another because of the gifts that were evident among them Which Paul's already mentioned. And and the problem then is that they're not willing to submit to the scriptures and which calls them to humility because they're puffed up each arguing that each person deserves more honor and prestige than they were actually receiving. Have you ever known people like that in the church? They might be very gifted. They might appear on the outward sense of things to be very successful. And yet very prideful and sometimes resentful when they don't seem to get the honor or the prestige that they think that they deserve. And Paul challenges them in this. And let's be honest, we all struggle with that to some degree or another. But notice how he challenges this in verse 7. The challenge he uses, points to and rests on grace. Not the thing you might expect. He continues to explain his point further, saying, For who sees anything different in you? This is really just a series of questions. Who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Now, each of these questions really, I mean, they're they're pretty rhetorical for the most part, but they seem to assume some kind of negative answer if you're paying attention here But despite that, despite them being rhetorical, it might it might be helpful helpful for us this morning to just maybe take a step back and look very briefly at each of them and see what we can glean out of this. The first one he asks us, who sees anything different in you? The short answer is that no one sees anything different in them. They think they're all special, but Paul is saying you're really not all that in a bag of chips, is what he's saying. Why? Because they too are under grace. And while they all have different spiritual gifts, like the apostles, they're all working towards one end and one goal, and that goal is the glory of Jesus Christ among them. So, really, what is different among you? You have the same sinful nature as everybody else. You're saved the same way as everybody else. It's grace. So who sees anything different in you? Nobody. Secondly, what do you have that you did not receive? Again, the short answer is that all that they have received comes from someone else. There's nothing that comes from them directly. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 30 for just a second. You see something very interesting. He talks about, he says, and because of him, him is the Father, God the Father, you are in Christ Jesus. who became to us, and remember these things, wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption? What do you have that you did not receive? Did you have wisdom that you didn't receive No. We've seen all throughout this letter that any wisdom that they have, particularly in chapter two, must come from God through whose Through his Holy Spirit, who opens the eyes and enlightens the mind to understand spiritual things. Do they have a righteousness of their own? No, they had to receive the righteousness of Christ given to them by faith. Do they have a redemption of all their own? No, they could not pay the price for their own sin. Christ had to do that. Do they have their own sanctification by their own power? In other words, are they set apart as holy by themselves? No. Again, everything that they have, every spiritual benefit that they have that comes from the gospel, not a single one comes from them. but from the Lord. What's the point? The point is salvation itself is from the Lord. Not to mention, on top of that, the spiritual gifts that they do have. that apparently are very abundant in their midst. All come from the Lord. What do you have that you have not received? The answer is nothing. They've received everything. And notice the last thing he says. He states a point and then draws a question out of it. If then you have received it Why do you boast as if you did not receive it? See, the way that Paul phrases that in the original language, he is assuming that it is true that they have received everything that they they've got. And because of that, the question then, well then why do you act like you didn't receive it? Why do you act like it belongs to you and and it's somehow your righteousness or genius that has produced these results? And the question then challenges the attitude that they have towards Paul and towards his associates in relationship to themselves. I'm going to rely on Calvin again here, who comments saying this. This is a confirmation of the preceding statement. For that man, for that man cannot on good ground extol himself. Who has no superiority over others? For what greater vanity is there than that of boasting without any ground for it? Now there is no man that has anything of excellency from himself. And then this is a strong statement that ends his quote. Therefore, the man that extols himself is a fool and an idiot. I they spoke a little more straightforward back then, didn't they? Uh than we're often comfortable with today. But those are strong words. A man who has to extol himself You can be sure, really doesn't have the qualities that he's seeking to extol and get others to believe that he has. Because if he really had those things, he wouldn't need to talk himself up and compare himself to other people. So it leads us to ask the heart-penetrating question for application. What should the grace that comes through the gospel look like in our lives today as we relate to one another in the local church? I think the idea is this, the gospel brings us to have to deal with our pride in light of what the scriptures reveal about the grace we have all received in Christ. The gospel calls us to deal squarely with our pride in the light of grace. And so we see that grace means that we all that we have is a gift. Grace is the primary killer of pride. Now, like the Corinthians, some of us this morning really do struggle with pride and being puffed up with ourselves. Some of us go beyond the scriptures that are written, and we boast not in the Lord, but we boast in ourselves. And what it is that we what is it that we boast in? Well, all kinds of things. our spiritual gifts, our talents that seem on the surface to set us apart from un uh other people. We often look at other people and have you ever thought this before? Don't nod one way or the other, but I think you'd probably nod yes Have you have you ever like looked at someone in church and the way they serve and you think if only I was in that person's position or if only I got the opportunity to do that, I could do so much better than they are doing right now. Or maybe we look down on someone else believing ourselves to be better at something than the person sitting next to us. Maybe someone else is being recognized for something that God has used them to accomplish and and people are praising the Lord and it's easy to look at them and get jealous and be like, I should be getting that praise. Because maybe you did something very similar, but nobody really noticed. God's grace reminds us this morning that all the benefits that we receive by faith in Christ are the result of His grace, which means that we cannot earn them. Our wisdom, our righteousness, our sanctification, our redemption, all these spiritual gifts that we do use to be a blessing to those around us are all gifts. And I just want to add, arguing from the greater to the lesser here, if this is true of leaders in the church It is also true of those who are not leaders. And this Should tell us that since we all have the same problem, we're all saved in the same manner, we all are sanctified through the same mess We have the same struggles in life. None of us should pridefully exalt ourselves over anyone else in the body of Christ. You know, a a a a perfect example of that is Galatians 6 1. Brothers, if any one of you is caught in a trespass, by the way, that it's the context is like church discipline. If anyone is caught in a trespass Those of you who are more spiritual ought to restore such a one. But there's a warning. But looking to himself, lest you fall over the same issue. Right? It's even in the worst of situations when no one wants to do church discipline as an example, you know, you're to do it in such a humble way, realizing that ultimately you're not better than someone else. You could struggle with the same thing. If you struggle this morning with pride, Then I believe the three questions that we find in verse 7 function as a call to repent From seeing ourselves as different from others or better than others, maybe to repent from boasting, even if that boasting is only in our own heart. And believe me, there are times when you would never know that somebody's boasting on the outside, but it might be happening in the heart. God sees the heart. And it leads to our second point this morning. Actually, before I do that, let me just say none of us has arrived. It's so easy, isn't it? You can walk with Christ for a long time. You can see the Lord produce wonderful victories in in terms of our sanctification. Wow, five years ago I used to struggle with this, and I don't struggle with that anymore. Praise the Lord. And then you can get very prideful and think, well, I've arrived. I'm above that temptation. No, you're not. And that's what Paul is getting at overall here, because all of this comes down into the context of division within the body. I mean, that is what he's been talking about. When we think highly too highly of ourselves, because we wrestle with pride, it again tears apart the fabric of the body of Christ. Now let's jump to our second point in verses 8 through 13, the cross and the shape of our expectations. Okay, if we're not if we're called to be humble. We're called not to be puffed up. Well then what should our expectations be? Well we see here in verses eight and ten. I'm gonna by the way, this section, I'm gonna kind of break up the verses. I'm not gonna go like You know, one verse after another. I'm going to kind of put them together thematically. The first thing we see here is the hyperbole of the Corinthians exalt self-exaltation in verses 8 to 10. Or 8 and 10, excuse me. And I don't know about you, but I didn't read it this way from the beginning, but it's easy to, if you're not careful, to miss the fact that what Paul is doing in these verses, he's being very sarcastic. Now again, most of us in a 21st century American Western context, you know, sarcasm is bad because you might commit the unpardonable sin of maybe hurting someone's feelings. Paul doesn't do that here. He's gonna get sarcastic. So put your thick skins on. Let's take a look at these verses together. And by the way, if you don't know what hyperbole is, it just simply means you're speaking in such an exalted, exaggerated way to make a point. Okay. Verse 8. We see the hyperbole in the Corinthian spiritual state. This is what he says. I'm going to read it kind of exaggeratedly just to make the point. He says, already, you have all you want. Already you've become rich. Oh, without us, you've become kings. Would that you did reign, so that we might share the rule with you See, the exaggeration here shows that the Corinthians see themselves as not needing anything spiritually. Again, they think that they're wise. They think they've got it all together. They think that they are the model church. I had a conversation a few years ago with a pastor who had left a church in Chicago that I knew of. And That that church had obviously was looking for a new pastor and was talking to the former pastor who had gone on to do something else. uh ministry wise, take another call and remember him saying, I think one of the hardest things that this church is gonna have to wrestle with as they they look for a new pastor is they just think too highly of themselves. He's like I'm not gonna tell you the names, but I'm gonna tell I could tell you some of the names of the people that they sent their church profile to because you would know these people. They have national platforms. and they think that their church is attractive to someone of that stature. That's the idea that the Corinthians have here. They see themselves as being more than they really are. They see themselves even as ruling as kings on earth with Christ. Now, to be sure, the Apostle Paul does say to the Ephesians. Doesn't he in chapter 2? That you have been seated in the heavenly places with Christ They seem to have taken that to a whole new level. It's like this overrealized eschatology, only they probably didn't know those terms. They think that they're further along spiritually than they are. And the hyperbole in all of this is seen very clearly when we remember what Paul told them in chapter 3. Verse 1, if you want to take a look at that, he says, but brothers, I could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. Boy, no one who thinks that they're really wise or smart or intelligent really wants to be told that they have the maturity and intelligence of an infant. That's kind of insulting. And yet, they are duped into thinking that they are more than they are. And by saying that he wished that they did reign, so he'd reign as well, Paul is essentially mocking them to make his point very clearly, you are not what you think that you are. But that's not all. There's hyperbole in verse 10 that demonstrates the contrast between the Corinthians and Paul. And when I say contrast, it's a perceived contrast. Again, the sarcasm is just dripping off the walls. We are fools for Christ's sake, we being the apostles. But you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute. Now he's contrasting their view of themselves with their views of him and Apollos and other leaders who have labored among them. They see themselves as wise and strong and honorable. But do you remember what he said to them in chapter 1, verse 26? He basically takes the same things he's saying here, and back then back there he said that that's not what they are. He says this. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Not many powerful or strong. Not many were of noble birth or honorable. And he reminds them of their self-proclaimed exalted state here. And this is contrasted with their attitude about Paul, thinking that Paul and his associates were fools. They were weak. They were disreputable. They didn't look like the leaders that they would expect. Put in today's terminology. You know, you would look at someone and judge their leadership capability by, man, how assertive is this person? How type A personality are they But the way that the world defines leadership, you go and read the qualifications for things like elders and deacons and 1 Timothy 3 or Titus 1 or even 1 Peter 5, you don't see anything that seems to resemble what the world today looks for in a strong leader. They will complain about this. And excuse me, Paul will have to deal with this later on again in 2 Corinthians chapters 10-12. He almost has to defend his ministry because he was not what they expected or what they wanted in a leader. Huh. Very interesting. And this way of thinking was causing divisions among them. You would think that by putting him down, Paul would rush to his own defense. And justify himself? Oh, but you guys don't understand. I actually am wise. I am an apostle. schooled at the feet of Gamaliel, the the chief of rabbis in Jerusalem, world-renowned. You know, he he doesn't do that Rather, what you see in verses 9 and then 11 through 13 is the reality of the apostles' humiliation. Now, while there is perhaps some hyperbole in this, there's also a lot of truth in it. Notice what he does here. He doesn't defend himself. He goes on to Humble himself in detail. Look at verse nine. We see the humiliation through what I'm calling death He says, For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become the spectacle to the world. to angels and to men. In other words, what he's saying is our very lives, our very experiences among you, our very character. All of this is meant to to be like an exhibit of the gospel. In fact, the word spectacle there in the original Greek is going to sound familiar to you. Theatron, it's where we get our English word theater from. What do you do when you go to a theater? You watch people performing on stage and they are the spectacle of your attention. They're taking on the role. They're living the experience, albeit for fake, on the stage. And Paul is saying, look, we have like become these people on a stage. Right in front of you, and notice what these people are seeing on the stage. We are like men sentenced to death Yeah, that's not the leader you expect to find among the apostles. John Piper was once preached a biographical sermon on Charles Haddon Spurgeon, the Prince of Preachers in the Victorian Age. And he was talking about Spurgeon's health issues, particularly his gout. And he's talking about how it got so severe, Spurgeon was kind of recounting in his autobiography an incident where he had some some visitors over and he He the gout was so bad he had to excuse himself, which he probably did very painfully walking to his office. He threw himself on the floor on his knees and pleaded with tears, Lord, I am your child Deliver me from this pain. And Piper made the comment, nobody thinks of the mighty Spurgeon, weeping like a baby. Maybe. Not the not exactly the leader you would expect. Paul is kind of illustrating this here. We are like men sentenced to death. The humiliation that they experienced in their suffering for the sake of the gospel was so that they might see sinners saved from God's wrath and God's judgment as they went about preaching from city to city And it's a living exhibition or exhibit of the gospel because this exactly mirrors what the Lord Jesus Christ did. I want you to think about this for just a moment. Jesus was rejected and despised by those he was sent to save. He was not the Messiah the Jews expected. And so also Paul and the apostles here seem to be dealing with rejection from the Corinthian church. Jesus was judged unjustly and condemned. Paul dealt with that last week when he's saying, don't judge before the time. Right in verse 5? Because it'll be the Lord who brings the secret things in darkness and the hearts of men to light. And yet, Jesus was judged unjustly and condemned, and so were the apostles. Jesus suffered for the salvation of people from every tribe and nation and people and language, and that's exactly what Paul did. Again, you you read um 2 Corinthians 10 through 12, and Paul talks about a lot of experiences of his suffering, beatings and being shipwrecked and At one point he was stoned to death and uh stoned and then left for dead outside of a city, hiding. Suffering. He was put on display as a man who was in fact sentenced to death. And that display was before the world, angels, and men to behold. Paul is correcting the Corinthians' attitude here. He's not really doing it by defending himself in the traditional way. He's just stating the facts. They believe that Christ, that life and faith in Christ should lead to glory and renown and recognition in the here and now. And Paul's saying that is not the pattern. Of Jesus Himself. That's not the pattern of the gospel. Paul is trying to drive home the point that true gospel living is very difficult. It is hard, and sometimes it is unrecognized by the world and even by people in the church. And so he gets in verses 11 through 13, the present humiliation of the apostles, of all the apostles, is then described. He's already kind of stated it in verse 9 and in big picture. Now he gets to the nitty-gritty in verses 11 through 13. I kind of broke this down into four categories. The first is they he mentions they hunger, they thirst. They're being poorly dressed. The Greek word there really means walking around naked. Probably some hyperbole there, but to make a point, they don't have a lot, they're not rich. Being buffeted, if you don't know what buffeted means, it just means that you experience violence against you and being homeless I mean, again, let's just draw the parallel between Jesus in the gospel and the experience of the apostles. Jesus clearly experienced violence on the cross, especially. But even in this world, Jesus did not even claim to have a home. You realize that? Despite the fact that Matthew 4. 13 says that he had a house in Capernaum. Jesus will say later on in Matthew 8. 20, the foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. So that's the first thing. The second kind of grouping, Paul states that they they're laboring and working with their own hands, and we do know from other parts of Scripture, Paul was a tent maker. He oftentimes, though not always, would go into a city and spend time working a full-time job during the day and ministering at night until the ministry grew so much that he had to give his full-time Clearly that's what he did in Corinth, because he's telling them. Third, he says that when they were reviled, they blessed. When they were persecuted, they endured. When they were slandered, they entreated others. Boy, that again sounds a lot like Jesus' experience. What is Peter saying? 1 Peter 2, 22 and 23? He, being Jesus, committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he didn't revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. Boy, if that wasn't hard enough in terms of an experience, the fourth thing he says really kind of Tops it off. He states, we have become and still are like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things. Those are very colorful terms. When I say colorful, I don't mean like profane. I just mean those are very descriptive. Let me illustrate that Really quick, the word for scum that he uses here could be illustrated as like maybe water that's left over when you wash dishes by hand. Now most of you probably have dishwashers now, so but I I didn't grow up with a dishwasher. I had to wash the dishes by hand and and take my turn in the kitchen as a kid. Some of you know what it's like. You know, you start off with the water, it's hot, it's piping hot, there might be soap in there, but it's largely clear and you throw the dishes in and you start washing and by the end it's lukewarm, it's it's really, you know, murky and and dark and and there's all kinds of like food boogers that come off from All the dishes. It's disgusting. And what do you what it what kind what good is that kind of water for? It's only good to drain it and get rid of it. You can't do anything else with it. That's the idea behind that word scum in the original Greek. And and the word he uses for refuse here, obviously you think of to refuse something or throw it out. Again, it's pretty gross. It's like wiping something slimy off of a hard surface or scraping something hard and crusty off of a hard surface. And that slime and that crust, you w what do you do with it? You throw it away, you get rid of it. It's gross. Either way, you look at it, what Paul is saying here is that they, as the apostles, are like the things that are most rejected. They're not what the world looks for. And so again, how does Paul's example highlight the cross that shapes our expectations today? Well, Paul in the Apostles' example of humiliation illustrates Jesus' death on the cross in order to give us new life Which shapes what we should expect the Christian life to realistically be like in this world. This is where the rubber of the Christian faith meets the road of real life. It is so easy to have false and unrealistic expectations of what the Christian life should be We often have a view much like the Corinthians. We may not call it in everyday terms overrealized eschatology, but it's really the same thing. Many of us today live and seem to entertain the expectation that we should live in glory in this present world. We expect to be accepted as Christians and to have a cultural clout that comes with being Christian. You know, when you you go to the South and you meet new people in social settings, you know, you get a few questions that are very common, like, well, what's your name? Where are you from? When they hear your accents different. Where are you from? What do you do for a living? But there's also another question that often comes up, where do you go to church? We're living in a day and age where that kind of question is becoming less and less common even in places like the South in our country. We're living in a time where Christianity does not carry the same kind of cultural clout and capital as it once did. In fact, it's having the opposite effect. And when it has the opposite effect, it has has the result of really testing the resolve of your faith Are you going to stand with Christ and stand on the truth of his word, to use Paul's words in our first point? Are you going to not go beyond what is written for the sake of staying faithful? Or are you going to capitulate? to fit in and want to be accepted in a world that couldn't accept and couldn't get on with the holiest man that ever lived That's something we all have to wrestle with. Dr. James White, the director of Alpha and Omega Ministries, it's an apologetic ministry in Phoenix, Arizona. um says often in his podcast, he talks about how one of the problems in higher Christian education even Christian education is that why is it that Christian intellectuals seem to want to appease the world and have just to have a seat at the table? Why are they afraid to bear the reproach of Christ before a world that is lost and dying and needs a clear witness? Is what he's getting at. It's easy for us to look at some of the things that are happening even politically and socially in our world and On the one hand, you might be tempted to think, well, if things are going so bad, it's going to pots. On the other hand, you might be seeing some positive things and be like, oh, maybe, maybe we Christians are going to get a brighter future in this Country. Maybe things are going to get better. But again, brothers and sisters, the hyperbole that Paul uses in this passage should be a warning to us. When we think that we are satisfied. And we have all of our needs attended to. Beware of your spiritual needs. When we think that we've become rich, let's look at the poverty of our situation and the fact that we need something that only Jesus Christ can offer. When we think that we might actually become kings, and I'm using that hyper in hyperbole, we think that we're going to retake the world. We do believe that the gospel is going to one day be victorious. There's no doubt about it. But we also need to understand those things will happen in ways we don't expect. And it usually will happen when we go through very difficult times as believers. And so how does the gospel shape our expectations? Paul's description of their suffering for the sake of the Corinthians, reflecting the suffering of Christ for the sake of the salvation of the world, is something that should shape our expectations for ourselves in this world. And our expectations can only be shaped by the gospel when our pride and self-exaltation is humbled, as we saw in our first point. Do you remember what Jesus said is the paradigm of discipleship? Mark 8. 34 If anyone desires to follow me, let him deny himself daily, let him take up his cross, and let him follow me. That's the sum and substance of what Paul is getting at here. Let us cling to the hope that we have in Christ, despite our outward circumstances of sickness. Illness, suffering , loss in this world, things that don't seem to go the way that we would want them to go We still cling to hope. And we continue to look to Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of our salvation. When we look at Hebrews chapter 2, verse 17 and 18, therefore he, being Christ, had to be made like his brothers in every respect. so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. As we struggle with our own pride, brothers and sisters, let's look to the cross, which is the source of our grace. As we struggle in this life with unmet expectations, with pain that we might be feeling, let us look again to Jesus and understand. He knows exactly what it is we're going through. And let's rest in him, knowing that he is a merciful, merciful Savior. That brings us to the main point again, doesn't it? The gospel challenges our pride in highlighting the grace for everything that we've received. And it reveals what it means to bear the cross faithfully in this world. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you, and as your word so powerfully demonstrates, Lord, every one of us deals with pride. Help us to crucify that at the foot of the cross. Help us to humble ourselves, knowing that we need your righteousness, we need your wisdom, we need your redemption, and we need you to sanctify us, Lord. This doesn't come from us. And help us to cling tenaciously to the cross as we bear our cross each day this week Lord, help us to find strength in Jesus Christ, especially when, Lord, we deal with loss and unmet expectations And as we have questions, real questions from real life that we don't always see the answer to right away, help us, O Lord, to cling to the cross And to know that you are merciful, Lord Jesus, because you went to that cross, you meet us where we're at. And you comfort us and you strengthen us. And Lord, it's in that that we carry forward. Help us this week, we ask in Jesus' name