There's Ten Commandments, there's two facets for each commandment. It is not simply a prohibition. There is also a duty that you are commanded, a converse duty you are commanded. To perform. So this understanding of the Ten Commandments is pretty critical when you study them. There's much more of the Ten Commandments than simple prohibitions. And this brings us to the main point for tonight's sermon. Do not steal from others, but instead be good stewards, because everything you have is from God. I'll read that again. Do not steal from others, but instead be good stewards, because everything you have is from God. So let's look at the first point this evening. Do not steal from others. Now this commandment sounds pretty straightforward, right? Just do not But we have to ask other questions here, like what is stealing or theft? What constitutes those law, those law-breaking crimes. Or you could also ask the question, what is the heart behind, the heart issue behind theft? So let's take a look a look at the first question here. What is feeling or theft. If you were to look at the Maryland annotated code, CR7 -104A says this about theft. A person may not willfully or knowingly obtain or exert unauthorized control over property if the person won intends to deprive the owner of the property. 2. Willfully or knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in a manner that deprives the owner of the property. Or three, uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing the use of the concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner of the property. property. I know it sounds like a handful or a mouthful rather. So when you look at Maryland law, there is a requirement of intent and deprivation of the property from another person. Now the scripture deals with theft in numerous places also. Obviously here in the Eighth Commandment it establishes theft as a crime, but we also see it in verses like Ephesians 2 428. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share. with anyone in need. That verse is obviously saying that theft is dishonest work or labor. Theft is the dishonest or unlawful taking of the property, belongings, or money of another person or of another entity. Now this applies to the property of people. as well as to the property of businesses or of society in general. Now when you read the criminal law in most states, you'll rarely read any kind of biblical foundation. for these laws. It's in it's implied in the law, but you'll never read that as the actual foundation. And that's the ironic part is that our criminal law has a biblical foundation here in the scripture. So what other kind of biblical foundation do we have for laws against theft? We see Proverbs 19:14 says that house and wealth are inherited from fathers. So even the fact that we have a commandment that says we cannot steal implies that property belongs to people. There is an idea in the Bible that people own property. Property. Ultimately, all things in the world are owned by God, but individuals also own and possess property. So when you steal something, you are sinning against another person and you are sinning against God. Ultimately every possession, everything you have is from God, ultimately. James 1. 17 says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from God. From above, coming down from the Father of Lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. God has ordered creation so that things are possessed by individuals, businesses and society. , The commentator Douglas Stewart writes, stealing threatens the social order and causes pain to others by undermining the ability to possess with sure access things that are useful and needful. The food theft the food thief makes others go hungry The work animal thief interrupts farming. The kidnapper tears apart a family. The clothing thief makes another suffer from the sun or the cold. So when you steal something, it is an assault upon God's sovereign ordering of civil society. It is an assault upon God's plan for society. It is a selfish taking of something which is not his intended for you. Obviously everyone here knows I'm a police officer full-time, so I deal with theft almost every single Single day. Theft from businesses like Home Depot or Walmart in Oak City. Theft from people, like when their vehicle or belongings are stolen. I remember one time I was on patrol in Columbia near the mall, this is 2019, I think it was. Um I spoke with a loss prevention officer at Macy's in the Columbia Mall, and they told me that year, in 2019 , their individual store, that one location had lost $1. 2 million in stolen merchandise. And that's just one store. One store in the mall. So imagine what the total lost revenue from the rest of the businesses at the Columbia Mall or even the rest of the businesses in Howard County. would be. The Maryland Retailers Alliance estimates that Maryland business has lost $1. 4 billion in 2025. through retail theft and another $1. 5 billion through return fraud bringing the total retail sales loss to an estimated $2. 9 billion million dollars just last year. And that's just in Maryland. Never mind the other forty-nine states of the Union. So all that loss because of that, the state of Maryland lost an estimated hundred and one hundred and seventy $76 million in tax revenue because of that theft and return fraud. So think of the impact of all that money. That's employers losing money, employees losing wages and work hours. Less employees hired, higher prices for customers, for all of you, and less money for the government, the civil magistrate, to use for our benefit. So let's look briefly at a few case studies on theft that we find in the scripture as well. In Exodus 22, we see a few case studies about theft. Exodus 22, 1 says, if a man steals an ox or a sheep and kills it or sells it, he shall repay five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. And then a few verses later in Exodus 22, 5, it says, if a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over, so another's property to be grazed over by their cattle, or lets his beast loose, And it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best in his own field and in his own vineyard. There's several other case studies in Exodus 22. and in other places in scripture, but they all carry this sense of property ownership by the victim and restitution by the offender. Because property has been given to a person from God, and that person owns it, then the offender who seals it owes restitution to the owner. What you really think about it. When you really think about it, stealing is a is a pretty heinous crime. I think most most times we tend to think, oh, it's just a property crime. It's just the person's property or money. It's not that big of a deal. It can be replaced. And yes, it can be replaced. But if you think about what stealing really is, it's someone looking at the belongings of another person and And thinking, I want that. That person has it, I want it. I'm going to take it from them. I'm going to deprive them of it because I want it so badly. I should have that, and the other person should not. And when you really think about it, the hard issue here is stealing is really a discontentment with God's provision for your life. It's not just the taking of a piece of property. And this brings us to answer that question, what is the heart issue behind theft? Jesus says in Matthew 15, 19, for out of the heart come evil Evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. Theft is, at its root, an issue of the heart. It is the physical action born out of jealousy, envy. Coveting and the desire for the belongings of another. All theft begins deep down in the heart. Have you ever seen another person's belongings and thought how bad maybe you want them? Have you ever seen someone's house or car or the vacations they go on? That you see on social media and thought, man, I wish I could have that. What is the root beneath that desire and jealousy? It really is. It really is a dissatisfaction with the things that got God has provided for you in this life. It is a distrust of God. If you were truly satisfied with what God had given you, would you ever desire and long for what others have? I'll be honest here, I've often struggled with longing for success or money or recognition. That's been a lifelong struggle of mine. Now I would venture to say that most of us in this room have struggled that at some point in our life. But we have to remember who are we to question what God Ecclesiastes 7, 13 to 14 says this. Consider the work of God. Who can make straight what he has made crippled? In the day of prosperity, be joyful. And in the day of adversity, consider. God has made the one as well as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be after him. God has providentially given you exactly what he deemed necessary for you to have at this moment. in your life. Exactly what you have right now. I know that is not always easy to hear or think about. I spent years of my police career seeking after promotions, specialty assignments. I wanted to be a narcotics investigator, be on a street crimes unit. I was not able to obtain any of it. But I was also not trusting in God's provision for my life. Instead I was trying to fashion my life, mold it and my career into what I wanted rather than submitting myself to God's provision. So, by way of application on this first point here, I would urge you this evening to seek contentment with God's provision for your life. Now I know that is a lot easier said than done. Your life may be much more humble than you wish it could be. You may have a lot less money, less free time, less responsibility at work. You might have a car breaking down every other week, or less respect. So how do you go about seeking this contentment with God's provision? for you. I read earlier from James 1. 17, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation of shape. I would encourage you to think and dwell on these good gifts and blessings in your life. It's a good practice to take notice of the good things in your life which God has given you. As you begin to make a more conscious effort to notice these blessings in your life, thank God for them. Spend time praying and thanking God for these blessings which He has given to you. When you do this, it'll cultivate appreciation and thankfulness. in your heart. The Holy Spirit will grow that in your heart. As this appreciation and thankfulness to God is cultivated, you will learn to better love God, His covenant promises, and His Word. So do not steal from others or desire or covet the things that they have. Instead, remember that God has providentially given you everything you need. need in your life. If you do not have it right now, then God has decided you do not need it. Be thankful to God for the good things and blessings in your life and spend time and prayer about those things rather than on the things you do not have. So let's take a look at the second point here. Be good stewards. Of what you do have. We just finished looking at the sin forbidden in the eighth commandment. Now we'll take a look at the duty commanded. Now this section will be a little bit more practical than the first section here, but. I think it is very important. Westminster Short of Catechism 141 lists a whole host of duties required in the Eighth Commandment. I want to take a look at just a few of them. Here in the second section. One of the duties listed in the catechism, shorter Catechism 141, is giving and lending freely according to our abilities and the necessities of others. The theme of generosity with your time and money and belongings is one which is woven throughout all of Scripture. Luke 6, 30-31 says, Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods, do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so. to them. Likewise, Leviticus 25, 35 to 38 says, if your brother becomes poor and cannot maintain himself with you, You shall support him as though he were a stranger in a sojourner, and he shall live with you. Take no interest from him or profit, but fear your God, that your brother may live beside you. You shall not lend him your money at interest. nor give him your food for profit. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God. Just like God freed his people from slavery in Egypt and gave them the promised land of Canaan, so also God has freed you from the slavery. Of sin and death, and given you the promised land of eternal life in the new heavens and the new earth. Remember that the things you own have been given to you by God. So Be generous with those things because ultimately they don't belong to you. You could tithe to the church, you could donate money to other forms of ministry, you could volunteer your church time to help the deacons with the jobs they have. You could help minister to folks here at church. You could help your friends and family with money or time or work when they need it. There's a whole multitude of things you can do to be generous here. Another duty we see in Westminster larger catechism, or shorter catechism rather, 141 is to endeavor by all just and lawful means to procure, preserve, and further the wealth and outward estate of others as well as our own. This means that you should work hard both for pay and for personal success, both for yourself and for others. Now obviously that may sound a little contradictory to what I was saying in the first section. So do not make money and success an idol, but it's not a sin to seek financial Success with your work. That is not sinful. If you make it an idol and the only thing that's important in your life, that is sinful. But if you work, you ought to work hard at the at that location where God has placed you. So you can provide for yourself and for your family. The Apostle Paul tells us in Colossians 3, 23 and 23. 24, whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men. Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. So when you work hard at your vocation or whatever task in front of you have in front of you, you are ultimately working for the Lord because He has called you to When you work to improve the livelihood and the state of others, you are working selflessly for others people. And you were also working to bring glory to God. The Apostle Paul also tells us in 2 Thessalonians 3. ten to twelve. For even when we were with you, we would give you this command. If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busy by Now, such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. So brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you to not only work hard for others, but also work hard for yourself, to earn your keep, so to speak. Lastly, I would encourage you to be frugal with what you have and to be good stewards of what you have. Taking care of your belongings and property is a sign of your thankfulness and gratitude towards the giver of those blessings. Proverbs 2120 says, precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it. A wise man saves what he has and does not waste it, but a foolish man wastes what he has and does not save it Examples of good stewardship include taking care and maintenance of your property, ensuring it remains clean and in good working order, not wasting the food and money and resources Now what is the reason behind this stewardship or being frugal at what you have. Once again, just as has been running through this entire sermon, is the reason is because God has created everything and given you everything which you have. Remember Psalm 24, 1-2, which says, The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the sea. and established it upon the rivers. Remember that everything in the world has been created by God and has been given to people as human He has willed it. So brothers and sisters, I want to leave you with encouragement to be content with what you have. God is a covenant God who promises and gives blessings to his people. Because of this, you should steward well those blessings. Do not steal from others. Do not envy others and what they have, because God has not decided to give you those things. I also want to encourage you to think and pray on the blessings and good things which God has given to you. Pray that God will make you more and more content. And that the Holy Spirit will sanctify you in this area. Amen.