Amen. Thank you, Chap. All creatures of our God and King, lift up your voice. Let us sing. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 14? And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the we ones for wonders of worship downstairs with Dave and Joyella Stafford. And I saw uh Larry Jordana here. Where's Larry? Larry in the back there? Is Donna with you? There she is. Well would you two stand? Would you peep people stand? Are you both there? There they are back from Australia. Must feel weird. Everything toxic turvy, everything. I'm sorry? You're up over now. Did you bring back uh any uh uh koalas or anything like that? Wait. No. No qu uh Charlie, you're not allowed. How about a did you find a uh a peacock spider in your suitcase when you came back? You see uh re weird looking spider, bring it in. One of the kids, one of the half away w who's who came oh it was it was uh uh uh it it was uh it wasn't Annalise. It was Cosette. Is that right uh said said said to me, uh uh, uh I l I saw a spider, I saw a peacock spider. And I said, Well you did? And well on she went online, right? Went on Internet, is that right? So uh so they're paying attention to the to the messages. Gospel of Mark chapter fourteen. Let's begin at verse fifty-two. And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. But Peter followed him at a distance right into the courtyard of the high priest, and he sat with the servants and warmed himself at the fire. Now the chief priests and all the council sought testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. For many bore false witness against him, but their testimonies did not agree. Then some rose up and bore false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands. But even then did their testimony, even then , but not even then did their testimony agree. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What is it these men testify against you? But he kept silent and answered nothing. Again, the high priest asked him, saying to him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Jesus said, I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we have of witnesses? You've heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. Then some began to spit on him and to blindfold him and to beat him and to say to him, Prophesy! And the officers struck him with the palms of their hands. Now, as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came. And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you are saying. And he went out on the porch, and a rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him again and began to say to those who stood by, This is one of them. But he denied it again. And a little later, those who stood by said to Peter again, Surely you are one of them, for you're a Galilean, and your speech shows it. Then he began to curse and swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak. A second time the rooster crowed. And then Peter called to mind the word that Jesus had said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And when he thought about it, he wept. May God bless this portion of His holy word. Let's pray. Father, we do ask your blessing upon your word. We pray it will take root in our hearts. We pray that now as we consider it carefully that your Holy Spirit will guide us and teach us We pray for every believer here, Father. May we be built up. May we be edified. May we be reminded of these truths. And we pray for those who may be here outside of Christ, still dead in sins, without hope. Lord, open their eyes. May this be the day of salvation for them. Draw them to Jesus even today. We ask it in his glorious name. Amen. It's not uncommon for a trial that captures the interests of a great many people. To be hyped as the trial of the century. Some of the trials that were described that way, at least by Americans, in the twentieth century include the trial of the accused assassin of President William McKinley, 1901, the Sacco-Vanzetti murder trial, 1920-27, the Leopold and Loeb trial of 1924 , the Scopes trial of 1925, the Lindbergh Kidnapping Trial of 1935, the Nuremberg trials, 1945-46 , The Adolf Eichmann trial of nineteen sixty one, I think I can still vaguely remember that one. The O. J. Simpson trial of 1995. But all these trials pale in comparison to what can truly be called the trial of the centuries. The trial of Jesus of Nazareth, a trial that lasted not weeks or months or years, but only a portion of one horrible night. Although it could rightly be called, I think, the trial of the centuries, one might argue that in truth it should not be called the trial at all. But we we would call it today a kangaroo court Uh the term describes a j judicial assembly that blatantly disregards all standards of law and justice, or one that intentionally disregards the court's legal or ethical obligations, a kangaroo court. It's believed that that term, by the way, arose either from the court leaping to judgment, as a kangaroo would leap. Or uh or else uh from the court being in someone's pocket or pouch, like a kangaroo's pouch. The trial of Jesus was a travesty of justice. And it was tragically ironic as well. Bishop J. C. Ryle points out, we see the heads of the Jewish nation combining together to kill their own Messiah. And judging him who will one day come in glory to judge them and all mankind. Look at verse 55. Now, the chief priests and all the council sought testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. Now, you will notice something odd right away. Those sitting in judgment of Christ were seeking testimony against him to put him to death. In other words, before the trial began, the sentencing phase had ended. They knew that he was going to be condemned to death. In fact, before the trial began, the verdict was already in. The verdict was guilty. All that was lacking was a suitable crime of which to accuse the defendant and a couple of witnesses who could offer reliable testimony that the crime had in fact been committed. Now, as you know, generally before arresting a defendant and determining his guilt or innocence and then determining his sentence if guilty It is customary to have a crime in view. But remember, the Sanhedrin had determined for their own sakes and for what they perceived to be the good of their nation to have Jesus put to death. Mark chapter 14, verse 1. They'd already determined that. So they were just going through the motions of a trial, having already arrived at a verdict and already determined the sentence. R. C. Sprohl describes these proceedings as a witch hunt. It is the only recorded instance, he notes, of a Jewish trial taking place at night, which was illegal. Jewish law also stated that no trial could take place on a Sabbath day, or on a feast day, or on the eve of one. And a capital case required two witnesses. And in the event of a guilty verdict, the Sanhedrin was supposed to meet again the following day to confirm the judgment. It's a serious matter, condemning someone to death, they were to meet the next day and confirm the judgment of the previous day. So the entire proceeding violated their own rules of law. This was a sham trial, you might say, but even a sham trial has to reach a verdict. And to reach a verdict, there has to be a charge. So the religious leaders were in a bit of a pickle, as they had no charge. So the scripture says they sought testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. Now this must have been somewhat frustrating for these seventy men summoned from their beds in the middle of the night. Verse 56. For many bore false witness against him, but their testimonies did not agree. Many bore false witness against him. I heard him say that he could cast out demons only because he's in league with Satan. He does it by Satan's power. Well, on what occasion did you hear that? Well, he was in Nazareth. It was last winter. He was just outside the synagogue and he was speaking with one of his followers. I overheard him. Did anyone else hear him say that? No one other than the follower of Jesus, I suppose. All right, thank you, brother. Please wait outside. We'll call you if we need you. Who's next? Well, we have here Simeon of Cana I was at the site of what people called a miracle that the prophet performed. There was a wedding in my town, and that foolish host had run out of wine. And there were large water pots there filled with water, and I saw Jesus, it looked like he put something into the water. And then it might have been some sort of herb, I don't know. And the people then declared that it had become wine, but I tasted it, and if it was wine, it was bad wine, and I think he's a fraud. All right, that's fine. You wait outside, and if we need you, we'll call you Many bore false witness against him, but their testimonies did not agree. They couldn't find two witnesses who both accused Jesus of the same thing at the same time. They couldn't find two whose testimonies agreed. Look at verse 57. Then some rose up and bore false witnesses against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple made with hands. and within three days I will build another made without hands. Hmm. Now this one might work. Destroying the great temple the temple Herod had expanded, surely that's a crime worthy of death This witness has some potential. When and where did you hear this? Well, it was the month Kishri. It was near the end of the month, and he was in Galilee by the lake as he was teaching. All right, wait outside. We may call you. We have others willing to testify to the same charge. Bring them in. When and where did you hear the Nazarenes say he would destroy the temple? Temple of Jerusalem, they had in mind, and uh build it in three days. Well it was it was at Jerusalem, in the outer court of the temple. It was last Passover. Look at verse 59. But even then did their testimony. But not even then did their testimony agree. But not even then Did their testimony agree? You can imagine the sort of witnesses the Sanhedrin might have been able to pull together on short notice in the middle of the night. Uh Acts 17. In Acts 17, Luke describes certain lewd fellows of the baser sort that were gathered together. to help form a mob to uh do away with Paul and Silas, that was the goal. Certain lewd fellows of the baser sort is the way the King James Version puts it. Come with me. There's a denarius waiting for you if you'll just testify against the Nazarene. And if your testimony is decisive, we'll double your fee. Somehow the Sanhedrin gathered together these false witnesses. Many came, many bore witness And he some said they heard him say he would destroy the temple and build it in three days, but even then did their testimony not agree. Now this must have become increasingly annoying as the night wore on. We don't know how long all this took. All these uh it's many bore witness, so we have many people testifying, false witness, false witness, false witness. And the false witnesses did not agree with one another. And so it's getting later and later. And finally the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What is it these men testify against you? Help us out here, Jesus. We know you're guilty. Just tell us what your crime was so we can all go back to bed. Have you no answer to these various charges? In effect, the high priest is asking, how do you respond to this false testimony that doesn't even agree with itself with the previous false testimony? that we have all received tonight. Is there no kernel of truth here? Defend yourself. Obviously trying to get Jesus to incriminate himself by saying something here. But he kept silent, verse 61. Fulfilling at that moment Isaiah 53, verse 7, he was led as a lamb to the slaughter, yet he opened not his mouth. Well, the high priest took one more desperate stab at inducing the defendant to incriminate himself. He said to him in front of them all, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Just tell us, are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Verse 61. You see, that was, of course, the heart of the matter. This Jesus, Yeshua, Joshua, son of Joseph of Nazareth, a carpenter from an insignificant town. Was talking and acting as if he was the Messiah, the anointed one, the promised Son of God, the one who would be a greater prophet than Moses, a greater king than David. The one who was described by Isaiah as wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace The one of whom Micah said his going forth were from of old, from everlasting. Now perhaps you're wondering why did the high priest use the words the son of the blessed? Why not just say the son of God? Well, this is one of those terms the Jews would use for God, for God's name, so as not to utter his holy name of Jehovah or Yahweh. It's known as a circumlocution, right? You're kind of circumvnavigating the the word you would otherwise use. And notice Jesus did did something similar when he referred to, you will see me coming at the at the right hand of the power, uh at the right hand of the power instead of right hand of God. Well, it's clear that's what he meant. Are you the Christ? Are you the Messiah? The Son of the Blessed? We're hearing all this testimony. Just tell us. Now, before we consider Christ's answer, imagine or picture for a moment the figure that Jesus must have made before them that night. Here he stood before this august body, an itinerant preacher, with no fixed residence One who would have often slept out in the elements, one who we know earlier that night was wrestling in prayer on the ground in the Garden of Gethsemane. crying out to his father and perspiring so profusely that his sweat fell to the ground as if it were drops of blood, here he is uh uh drawn from the garden, under guard, and standing in front of all of these important men. He wore no fine robes, he had no trappings of wealth. What a contrast this Jesus must have made, this King of the Jews. must have made with uh say a pontius pilate the governor or Herod the king or the high priest Caiaphas or presumably any of the important men who were gathered there that night. Jesus probably looked no more like a personage of majesty And glory than a homeless man that you might pass on the street on on uh Charles Street in Baltimore Are you the Christ? Are you? Are you the Christ? The Messiah? The Son of the Blessed? Verse 62, Jesus said, I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. This was the climax toward which his previous three years of teaching and preaching had been leading. Thus far, all Jesus had said about himself, certainly in the presence of his foes, had been somewhat veiled, cloaked in parables, or subject to various interpretations, but not this time. Are you the Christ? Are you the Messiah? The Son of the Blessed, the Son of God? I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. I am the Christ, I am the Messiah, I am the Son of the Blessed, and not only that, you men accusing me, you men sitting in judgment of me. Will see me coming with the clouds of heaven. This is not the last time you will see me in a trial, but it will be your trial. Hearing this response, most, if not all, of these teachers of God's Word would immediately hearken back to the words of the prophet Daniel. I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him, and then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed. Daniel seven, thirteen and fourteen. Are you the Christ? I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Look at verse 63. Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we have of witnesses? You've heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. This was about as clear as language could make it. I am the Christ, and I will one day sit in judgment. of you. We don't need any more witnesses. We've all heard him. For someone to declare himself to be the Messiah, the Son of God, the one who pre-existed all created things The one who is before all things, and in him all things consist, that's clearly blasphemy, a crime worthy of death. Unless, of course, the claim was true. A possibility that it seems the Sanhedrin had not considered. And how did these honored men of Israel, how did these teachers of the nation, the nation's best and brightest, Most esteemed, most respected elders, rabbis, teachers How do they respond to the news that their long-awaited Messiah, the one the people of Israel had prayed for for generations and generations? The one who would bruise the serpent's head, David's Lord, yet David's son? How do they respond to the news that he was standing in front of them? And some began to spit on him, and to blindfold him, and to beat him, and to say to him, Prophesy! And the officers struck him with the palms of their hands. John Calvin describes this scene here, a frightful and hideous spectacle is placed before our eyes. For nowhere else than at Jerusalem was there at that time either a temple of God or lawful worship or the faith of a church. In other words, this is it. This is the best of the best. These are God's chosen people. This is Israel. This is Jerusalem. These are the leaders. These are the religious leaders. The high priest, according Calvin again, the high priest was a figure of the only mediator between God and men. Those who sat along with him in the council represented the whole church of God. Yet all of them unite in conspiring to extinguish the only hope of salvation. How do the esteemed representatives of the nation of Israel respond when Jesus stood before them and declared himself to be their long-awaited, long-prayed for Messiah? They mocked him? They struck him. They beat him, they spat upon him. I gave my back to those who struck me, and my cheeks to those who plucked out the beard. I did not hide my face from shame and spitting. Isaiah 50, verse 6. The stone which was sent from the quarry did not seem to fit, so the builders rejected it. Psalm 118, verse 22. Now Jesus, you remember, had just prophesied. What had he prophesied? He had just prophesied that the time would come when these men would see him in majesty and glory at the right hand of the Father coming with the clouds of heaven. So you are a prophet then. They blindfolded him. They beat him with their hands, fists, and said, Prophesy to us, Christ. Who is it who struck you? His eyes were covered. Who is it? Who am I? Prophesy. They mocked him. Matthew 26, 68. Who is the one who struck you? Now, what are some truths we can take with us from this horrendous trial? This horrendous passage portion of God's holy word. Well, first of all, think about this. When the high priest cried out in desperation, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? He wasn't seeking truth. He was simply trying to find a pretext to sentence Jesus to death. The verdict was already in, as we said, the sentence had already been determined. The chief priest and the whole body had already decided That they wanted for their own reasons, Jesus put to death. They weren't really interested in considering the evidence This reminds me of the confession of English author and philosopher Aldous Huxley, a confession I've uh quoted before because of the insight it gives us into the minds of some. He was the 20th century author of Brave New World. And interestingly, to to place him in your in your in a time frame in your mind, he died on the very same day that C. S. Lewis died And John F. Kennedy died, that was November twenty-second, nineteen sixty-three. So Aldous Huxley said this For myself, as no doubt for many of my contemporaries, the philosophy of meaninglessness was essentially an instrument of liberation. The liberation we desired was simultaneously a liberation from a certain political and economic system, and liberation from a certain system of morality. We objected to the morality because it interfered with our sexual freedom. We objected to the political and economic system because it was unjust. The supporters of these systems claim that in some way they embody the meaning, a Christian meaning, they insisted, of the world. There was one admirably simple method of confusing these people and at the same time justifying ourselves in our political and erotic revolt. We could deny that the world had any meaning whatsoever. I had motives for not wanting the world to have a meaning, consequently, I assumed that it had none. And I was able, without any difficulty, to find satisfying reasons for this assumption. Most ignorance is vincible ignorance, not invincible, but vincible ignorance. We don't know because we don't want to know. It is our will that decides how and upon what subjects we shall use our intelligence. Those who detect no meaning in the world generally do so, he said. Because for one reason or another, it suits their books that the world should be meaningless How many who reject or suppress the evidence for the existence of a Creator, as well as the claims of Jesus Christ, do so not because they've considered those claims and that evidence and found it to be wanting, but because for one reason or another it suits their books that the world should be meaningless. I wonder, could that be the case with you? Could that be the case with you? Secondly, the leaders of Israel after this night, think about it, could never say that Jesus failed to make it clear that he was their Messiah. Well, well we didn't know. I it came out of Nazareth, uh but we thought Bethlehem was the place for Etc. etc. He declared it openly before the highest Jewish tribunal, the representatives of the nation, The men who were considered to be holy, just, impartial, the supreme court of the land. He stood before them and he said, I am the Messiah. Tell us once and for all. Tell us once and for all, I am the Christ, he said. It's as you say. And not only that, I will come one day in the clouds of heaven and judge those who judge me now. Thirdly, we see in the Sanhedrin a clear demonstration of what can happen when you attempt to be moral and upright and godly Without regeneration. Whatever we may say about the chief priests and elders, it cannot be denied that these were men who knew God's word. I suppose that any one of them could recite from memory more passages of Scripture than any one of us. Their problem was not a lack of knowledge. Their great need was not knowledge, it was genuine spirituality. What they were missing was new life. The new birth. Remember, Jesus said to one of these men, one of the leaders of Israel, Nicodemus, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? That which is born of the flesh is flesh, Jesus said. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, You must be born again. The wind blows where it pleases, and you hear the sound of it, but you can't tell where it's coming from or where it's going. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit. You're a teacher of Israel, and you don't understand these things. These men had morality to a degree. They had the law of God. What they didn't have was the new birth. The rulers of Israel had plenty of knowledge. But they were stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, Stephen said later. Ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye Acts eight fifty-one. So here in the trial of Christ, that veneer of piety I guess this is veneer here. Or is this solid oak? Does anybody know? Solid oak. Well forget that then But uh you know, uh uh that's certainly the desk I have at home. Yeah the little veneer. And if you if you rub it off, then you see what's underneath. And just plywood or whatever, press wood So here the veneer of piety was worn away, and their hypocrisy and their self-interest and their envy and their evil showed through. But morality, think about it, morality without Jesus Christ is not always so obvious. Over fifty years ago, Dr. Donald Gray Barnhouse of Tenth Press in Philadelphia Set forth in a sermon what might happen if Satan took over a town. You remember this? It's quite good. He said, all the bars would be closed. If Satan took over a town, now I guess I'm supposed to ask you first to imagine in your own mind what it would be like if Satan took over a town, right? uh prostitution and pornography and murders and and corrupt police officers and and everybody hating everybody and everybody uh nobody obeying laws, etc. Now here's what he said. All the bars would be closed if Satan took over a town. Pornography would be banished. The clean streets would be filled with smiling neighbors There would be no swearing, no crime. The obedient children would say yes, sir, and yes, ma'am. And on Sundays, everyone would go to a church, a church where Christ is not preached. You see it? Morality without Jesus Christ. We talked about a little bit in that church history class this morning. Morality without Jesus Christ. You see, the end result of morality without Jesus is the same as the end result of immorality without Jesus. It's death. Now, we might prefer to live in a in a town that has morality without Jesus than in a town that has immorality without Without Jesus Jesus. be better for us, better for our kids, etc. better for the influences they get at school, on television. But the end result is death Now, some closing words to believers here. First of all, think about this. Many were willing to bear false witness against Jesus. Many were willing to slander him. Many were willing to say all manner of evil against him falsely. If many were willing to speak evil of the one who never sinned, the only one who never sinned. Then don't be surprised if slander, falsehood, innuendo, rumor, and gossip are spoken about you, Christian. Don't be surprised if they're spoken about you. Jesus said, Remember the word that I said to you: a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. John 15, verse 20. So when it happens, you don't say, oh no, what is this? Why could how could I be treated this way? Why would God allow this to happen to me? It happened to Jesus. He was slandered, he was beaten, he was mocked. He was ultimately put to death. And a servant, and that's us, not greater than his master, him. And a final word here to those who have not yet repented and laid hold upon Jesus Christ. What Jesus said to the Sanhedrin is true of you as well. You will see him sitting at the right hand of God, coming with the clouds of heaven. You will see him sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, whether good or bad. 2 Corinthians 5. 10 And in that day, just like the religious leaders of Israel, you will not be able to say, Well, it wasn't made clear to me. I didn't know that Jesus was the Messiah. The Lord Jesus might well respond, you heard, did you not, that my father declared at my baptism, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear him. You knew that the Holy Scripture declared, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. You knew that I declared before Abraham was I am. You knew that I said, I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. You knew that You heard that the woman of Samaria said to me, I know the Messiah is coming, and when he comes, he will tell us all things. And you knew that I said to her, I who speak unto thee, am He. You knew that I said, I am the light of the world. You knew that I said, I am the Alpha and the Omega. I in the door, by bee, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. You know that I said that I am the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. Most assuredly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he shall never see death. You knew that I declared, most assuredly I say to you, verily, verily, Amen, Amen, truly, truly. He who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life. Shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life And you know that I not only declared myself to be the Son of God, but I manifested myself to be the Son of God. By giving sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf and legs to the lame and casting out demons and healing all manner of sickness and raising people from the dead. You heard it, you knew it And you knew that the Father declared me to be his son with power by the resurrection from the dead. You knew it. You heard it. You were there. I know. I was there too. You rejected me not because of insufficient evidence. You rejected me because you loved darkness rather than light, because your deeds were evil. That's why you rejected me. You chose the pleasures of sin for a season rather than the joys of heaven for all eternity. Jesus will say, I take no pleasure in this, but this is my Father's world, and the soul who sins must die. The wages of sin is death. I would have paid that debt for you, but you trampled my sacrifice under your feet. Depart from me to the place reserved for you. There, in that place, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. But friend, it's not too late. It's not too late. You're still alive. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the acceptable time. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Cry out to Him today, Lord have mercy upon me. Lord, forgive me, Lord save me. I believe that you are the sinless Son of God, that you lived that perfect life, that you died upon the cross, that you rose again from the dead. That you live today in heaven, that you're going to come back in glory one day. God have mercy on my soul. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Make me that new creation that your Bible speaks of. Regenerate me, Lord. Give me a new heart. Take away these blind eyes and give me sight. Take away this heart of stone, give me a heart of flesh. Breathe upon these dry bones that they might live. Cry out to Him. No man knows what a day may bring forth. Don't wait till tomorrow. Don't wait till next Lord's day. God may call you home today. God be merciful to me, a sinner. If you haven't said that to him, say it to him now. Mean it in your heart. God declares all your sins will be forgiven. You'll have eternal life. You'll be adopted into his family. You'll be his forever. And ever. And ever. Praise team's going to come. They're going to lead us in our closing hymn. Do that now if you would. And as they come and get ready for our closing hymn , I 'm going to pray for you. You can remain seated for now. And if you haven't yet put your faith in Jesus Christ, won't you do it right now? If God's speaking to your heart, don't put it off. Come to Him now. Let's pray Lord, what a horrible night this was when the Lord Jesus Christ was dragged from that Garden of Gethsemane and forced to answer false charges. When he was forced to declare in the presence of the August Sanhedrin That he was indeed their Messiah. And their response was to beat him, to mock him , to blindfold him. Lord, we know that that is the state of our sinful hearts And had we been there outside of Christ, we no doubt would have done the same. But Lord, I pray specifically for those who might be here today who have never yet cried out to you, God be merciful to me as sinner. May they do that even now. Lord, I've broken your laws. I know it. I don't love you with all my heart and soul and mind and strength. I certainly don't love my neighbor as myself. Lord, forgive me and save me. Save me for Jesus' sake, not because of anything I've done, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to your mercy you save us. Save me today, Father. Please have mercy on my soul. If you'll pray that to God, God will hear that and answer that prayer. In Christ's name. Amen. Please stand, we'll sing, Arise, my soul, arise. It's printed in your bulletin.