Amen. Thank you, Linda. If you have your Bible, would you turn please to uh Proverbs chapter 7? And as you do, we'll dismiss the little ones for Wonders of Worship downstairs. There is a Wonders of Worship program this morning and throughout the month. Proverbs chapter 7. And also as you turn there, maybe I should mention that we're blessed to have some visitors with us this morning, missionaries to Nepal. And uh would you maybe you could stand there on the on the f in the front row, on the front row and and just so if you'd like to talk to them later, uh talk about their work, uh it'd be a wonderful opportunity now that they're with us today, friends of Joffs Joff and Lynn Smith. I believe. Proverbs chapter seven. My son, keep my words and treasure my commands within you. Keep my commands and live, and my law as the apple of your eye. Bind them on your fingers, write them on the tablet of your heart. Say to wisdom, You are my sister. And call understanding your nearest kin, that they may keep you from the immoral woman, from the seductress who flatters with her words. For at the window of my house I looked through my lattice, and saw among the simple. I perceived among the youths a young man devoid of understanding, passing along the street near her corner, and he took the path to her house In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night. And there a woman met him with the attire of a harlot and a crafty heart She was loud and rebellious. Her feet would not stay at home. At times she was outside, at times in the open square, lurking at every corner. And so she caught him and kissed him with an impudent face. She said to him, I have peace offerings with me. Today I have paid my vows. So I came out to meet you diligently to seek your face, and I have found you I have spread my bed with tapestry, colored coverings of Egyptian linen. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. Come, let us take our fill of love until morning. Let us delight ourselves with love. For my husband is not at home. He has gone on a long journey. He has taken a bag of money with him, and he will come home on the appointed day. With her enticing speech, she caused him to yield. With her flattering lips, she seduced him Immediately he went after her, as an ox goes to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks, till an arrow struck his liver, as a bird hastens to the snare He did not know it would cost his life. Now, therefore, listen to me, my children. Pay attention to the words of my mouth. Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways. Do not stray into her paths, for she has cast down many wounded, and all who were slain by her were strong men. Her house is the way to hell, descending to the chambers of death. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired, inerrant word. Let's pray. Father, now once again we acknowledge our utter dependence upon you. Lord, take these words from your word and apply them to hearts and accomplish eternal things. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. If there is one commandment that has believers swimming upstream against the fierce currents of our culture, It is commandment seven, you shall not commit adultery. Particularly when we consider that like the other commandments, it has a deeper, broader application than that which may first. be perceived. As the shorter catechism puts it, the seventh commandment forbids all unchaste thoughts, words, and actions. All unchaste thoughts, words, and actions. And the seventh commandment requires the preservation of our own and our neighbors' chastity in heart, speech, and behavior It requires the preservation of our own and of our neighbors' chastity in heart, speech, and behavior. Now that is easy to say. But quite difficult to do in a sex-crazed society such as ours. And it is particularly difficult for young people Who tend to be more immersed in the cultural milieu and more readily carried along in the stream of popular culture. So while we're considering the seventh commandment, it would seem to me to be a good time to think again About some foundational truths, truths that will help all of us to remain pure in an impure culture. And this morning I want to make particular application to our young people. Last week we were reminded that it is of little use to talk to the younger generation about the importance of the seventh commandment, or any other commandment for that matter, the importance of maintaining sexual purity in this case. If they've adopted the prevailing worldview of this age, that all truth is relative, all ethics situational If there's no such thing as absolute truth, something that is true for all people at all times, a young person will reason like this. Okay, granted, a sexual relationship should normally be reserved for marriage. I get that. That's probably best for society. But there are exceptions. For example, when two people are truly in love. Or when they plan to marry. Now we're not speaking theoretically here. According to the survey of youth in evangelical churches that we cited last week, almost 60% of our young people cannot even say that they believe an objective standard of truth exists. That was the percentage of Christian youth surveyed who said they agreed with the following statement. There is no such thing as absolute truth. People may define truth in contradictory ways and still be correct. According to the Barna Research Group, 66% of Americans agree with that statement. But it is shocking that almost the same number of youth in our evangelical churches have adopted the same world view. The Christian apologist Josh McDowell writes, This view has been expressed to me over and over by parents and young people alike. Who refer to a certain behavior and say, well, I feel it's wrong for me, but people have to decide for themselves whether it is wrong for them. I can't push my beliefs on others. Well, of course, we're not to set up our own personal standards of right and wrong and expect other people to abide by them, as the Pharisees did. But we are conveying to our children, or the question I meant that as a question, are we conveying to our children, and do we fully believe ourselves that God has standards that apply to everyone everywhere? standards of right and wrong that are universally valid. With so many of our youth, even in evangelical churches, believing that there are no absolutes, it shouldn't surprise us that Forty-six percent of our youth say they will be more likely to have sex outside of marriage if they are in love with the other person. Let me say that again. Forty-six percent of our evangelical youth surveyed say they're more likely to have sex outside of marriage if they are in love with the other person. Now, if you'll think about that for a moment If we have a Lord, and He has in fact spoken and forbidden a particular sin, whether it's theft or murder or sex outside of marriage. Why should how we feel about another person have any bearing on whether we choose to obey our Lord? Josh McDowell analyzed the findings. He said this, in the minds of our young people, love is definitely the greatest determining factor in the decision to engage in sex. It is a greater determinant than whether they intend to marry the person. It is a greater determinant than if they could be sure a pregnancy would not result. It is a greater determinant than whether they could be sure that a parent would not find out. Greater even than if they felt their parents wouldn't object to them having sex. In the minds of our youth Love makes sex right What most of our young people surveyed do not believe is what God declares most emphatically, the sexual relationship is to be reserved, preserved, For marriage by all people in all places at all times. And most certainly that holds true for believers. Flee, sexual immorality. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? You're not your own, it's not your body. It's God's, He gave it. For you were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. 1 Corinthians 6. Therefore, be imitators of God as dear children and walk in love as Christ also has loved us and given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness Let it not even be named among you as is fitting for saints. Let it not even be named among you. Let it be so rare. It doesn't even come up. He wouldn't even consider it. Colossians 3. 5. Put to death whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality and impurity. 1 Thessalonians 4. It is God's will that you should avoid sexual immorality. Can't be much more clear. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3, it is God's will that you should avoid sexual immorality. In other words, God says quite clearly that the sexual relationship is sanctified by marriage. Marriage is honorable among all and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. Our culture says quite clearly, the sexual relationship is sanctified by love. God says it's sanctified by marriage. The culture says it's sanctified by love. Young people receive the Lord's message on the subject relatively infrequently. Perhaps from their church once in a while, from their parents, from their Christian school, if they're blessed to attend a Christian school, from their parents, if they're homeschooled, perhaps. But they received the message of this world system, motivated by the God of this age, the enemy of all righteousness, perhaps dozens of times a day Through popular music, through sitcoms, through magazines that target youth, advertisements, films, websites, friends who may be sexually active. Think about how influential such a daily bombardment can be upon a young, impressionable mind. Christian apologist Robbie Zacharias wrote, Through technology, the whole world has now become the media's parish. Talk show hosts are the prophets, actors and musicians, the priests, and any script will do for the scriptures as long as moral constraints are removed. Sitting before a well-lit box is all the cultic performance needs, and each person can enthrone his or her own self as divine. Truth has been relegated to subjectivity, beauty has been subjugated to the beholder, and as millions are idiotized night after night, A global commune has been constructed with the arts enjoying a totalitarian rule. To be sure, the arts have always had and should have a role in the imagination and entertainment of a society. What is so unique in our society, though, is the all-pervasive influence of the arts even upon matters of transcending importance, in effect, desacralizing everything and programming our very beings. And of course, the message being conveyed by the Prince of the Power of the Air is not a complete message, and it's not a true message. Make Dow pointed out, for example, that think about it, think about this for a moment. Of all the television and film characters who have engaged in casual sex, you know, think of James Bond. who has a different girl, sometimes several, uh, in one film, and then um others in in the next in his next adventure, how many of them have contracted chlamydia or HPV or one of the other fifty-seven sexually transmitted diseases, some of which are at epidemic levels in the states TV and film characters seldom suffer the consequences of their own immorality. McDowell concludes, if we're going to give our children a fighting chance in this culture, they have to understand what he calls the test of truth. I got a ruler here. It says it's 12 inches long, not surprisingly. But uh Although it claims to be 12 inches, if you wanted to be sure that it is in fact 12 inches, you could refer to the International Bureau of Weights and Measures In other words, you could compare this ruler with the original. Well, that's what our young people need. They need to be convinced that A standard exists for settling claims about moral knowledge. McGowell says, a standard for right and wrong. To determine moral truth, we must ask, how does it compare to the original? How does it compare to the original? In other words, young people need to be convinced that sexual intimacy is to be reserved for marriage, not just because mom and dad say so. And not just because there's a risk of disease and emotional trauma and unexpected pregnancy. Sexual intimacy is to be reserved for marriage because our creator The ultimate source of all truth has declared in his word that sexual intimacy is to be reserved for marriage. Amen? Our God is a God of truth, and without iniquity, just and right is He. Now think about this, parents. It may be enough for seasoned Christians, and we have many of them here, to simply say to them, the Bible says so. Because the Spirit bears witness with our Spirit that we're the sons of God. And the truth of Scripture is for the strong and unshakable bedrock of faith. But it's normal for your child as he transfers all that he's learned at your knee from the category of things my parents taught me. To the category of things I am fully persuaded of myself, to wonder how we can be sure that the Bible is completely trustworthy I know my parents told me it was. I know my Bible teacher said it was. I know the pastor seems to think it is. How do I know it is? Why does it carry any more authority than the Quran or the Book of Mormon? If he doesn't ask that question himself, he will surely be asked it by others. Robbie Zacharias, who defends the Christian faith on university campuses, wrote this. Many frustrated young people have expressed, all I hear my parents or preachers saying is that the Bible says this is so, and therefore it is so, and that is the only answer necessary to give. What they do not realize, the young man passionately pleaded, is that when I begin my answer in school or in the university with the Bible says, my answer is immediately dismissed as irrelevant. And in some instances I'm torn to bits. I often remind them that the same type of authority referencing is given by irreligious persons who also provide no defense for why their source has served as canonical for them. Be it the philosopher or the movie star. Both starting points, undefended, are open to question What I'm saying is this, your children need to know about fulfilled prophecy. They need to know the historicity of Christ. They need to know about the witness of archaeology to the truth of Scripture. They need to know the overwhelming evidence of the resurrection. They need to know about the transforming power of the gospel throughout history. You should lead them through a study of a book like Evidence that demands a verdict. So they have some solid understanding. Of why we believe the Bible to be the inspired, inerrant Word of God. And they need to be able to reason this way: Jesus is either the Son of God, as he said. And as those faithful eyewitnesses proclaim, or he was a madman who had delusions of grandeur, the greatest delusions of grandeur anyone ever had. Or he was a wicked man who purposely deceived his followers. And your children need to face squarely the consequences of denying the truth of Scripture and denying the existence of a sovereign creator. Your children need to face squarely the consequences of denying the truth of the scriptures and denying the existence of a sovereign creator. Let's follow that thought down the road a bit. If in fact all we are is dust in the wind, if there's no inherent difference between us and the animal kingdom, if we're only the random byproducts of time and slime , If life somehow appeared without a pre-existent creator, and if the process was from the goo to the zoo to you , Then the most reasonable philosophy is. The most reasonable philosophy is to squeeze as much pleasure out of life as we can without regard to others They have value only insofar as they have value to us. And the quaint concepts of morality and ethics have no bearing upon us. It shouldn't surprise us that young people who don't believe in absolute truth are, according to research, three times more likely to use illegal drugs, two times more likely to get drunk, six times more likely to attempt suicide. Than those who believe the truth is absolute. They're also two times more likely to be angry with life, to lack purpose, to physically hurt someone, than one who believes in absolute truth, according to the statistics. In the uh the book I mentioned uh earlier. What you believe affects how you live. Remember uh Auschwitz survivor Victor Frankl's chilling words. The gas chambers of Auschwitz were the ultimate consequence of the theory that man is nothing but the product of heredity and environment, or as the Nazis like to say, of blood and soil. Hitler said, I freed Germany from the stupid and degrading fallacies of conscience and morality. I freed Germany from the stupid and degrading fallacies of conscience and morality. Joseph Stalin was once a seminary student, but he embraced the God is dead philosophy, and as you know, he eventually masterminded the elimination of millions of his own people. His life, however, was perfectly consistent with his worldview. If there is no God, if we are merely beings who evolve by random means out of some primordial soup Then a human life has no intrinsic value. And furthermore, we have no grounds on which to argue that Stalin's actions were wrong In fact, if there's no God, the whole concept of right and wrong is meaningless. As Russian novelist Dostoevsky put it, without God, everything is justifiable. Without God, everything is justifiable. Dottie McDowell, you know, the wife of Christian apologist Josh McDowell, was in China a few years ago, and she was assigned a loyal Communist Party member as a guide. She asked her guide about the student protests in Tiananmen Square. The communist guide frankly admitted, after much prodding, that many people had died in the 1989 uprising. Don't you think that was wrong? Dottie McDowell asked. No. So what if a few thousand people die? We have hundreds of millions of people. What's the big deal? If there's no God and no absolute truth and no unchanging standard of right and wrong, then we have no basis by which to argue that the slaughter of unarmed protesters is wrong It may be wrong in our culture, but the communists can argue it's not wrong in our culture. Of course, not all those who deny God's existence will adopt an immoral lifestyle Or developed a calloused view of mankind and a disregard for human life, but that is the natural result of their worldview. And if they're honest, they will acknowledge that they have no grounds upon which to declare that genocide or any other horrendous act is wrong. Ultimately, there's only one being whose existence makes life meaningful. Ultimately, there's only one being whose existence makes life meaningful. One being who can declare to Hitler and Stalin and their ilk that they're monsters and not supermen. He's the being they resisted. He's the one to whom they will give account in the day of judgment. Journalist Malcolm Muggeridge spent some time with Svetlana Stalin, Joseph Stalin's daughter, while they were working on a BBC production of her father's life. Mugharidge told Rabbi Zacharias the following account of a conversation that he had with Svetlana. She said, as her father lay dying, plagued with terrifying hallucinations. He suddenly sat halfway up in bed, clenched his fist toward the heavens, and fell back upon his pillow dead. God is the one being, the one being who could with authority declare Stalin to be evil And he is the one being whom Stalin evidently defied with his dying breath. What I'm saying is, we must be fully persuaded ourselves, and we must convey to our young people that God's word is absolutely true. And that it is our standard for faith and practice. If we would help our young people to resist the siren call of sexual immorality in this culture, we have to help them to embrace God's word as truth. And give them the tools to answer the arguments they will confront in a secular culture. We have to help them, help arm them So they can cast down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bring every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. 2 Corinthians 10 But not only that, they also need to see how much these truths matter to us. Somebody uh click that uh air conditioner off back there so I don't have to doesn't rival me The Lutheran Church, get this now, the Lutheran Church, Missouri Synod, asked Search Institute, a respected youth organization, to study youth and adults to discover what qualities of congregational life nurture their faith. Now this is a conservative uh uh denomination, the Lutheran Church, Missouri Synod. They studied youth to discover what qualities of congregational life nurture their faith What they found was four family practices are particularly important in helping young people grow in faith, both in home, both in childhood and in adolescence. Here they are. Talking about faith with your mother, talking about faith with your father, having family devotions and prayer, doing family projects to help other people. Talking about the faith with your father, talking about the faith with your mother, having family devotions and prayer, doing family projects to help other people. What they found that was so shocking was that fewer than one-third of youth report that any of the above activities happen often either in their past or present. Fewer than one-third of youth report that any of those activities happen often, either in their past or present, and adults are even less likely to remember these experiences in their childhood and adolescence. If you want to help your child stand when the temptations and the storms come, he or she needs to see that these things are real to you. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up. Deuteronomy 6. Listen, if God's word doesn't seem to be of importance in your life, why should it be important in his? He's going to reason. The most surefire way to turn your child away from the faith is hypocrisy. You talk spiritually, but you live carnally. You act holy in public, but unholy in private. You're willing to sell out your convictions to the highest bidder. R. C. Stroll tells the story of a boy raised in a small town in Germany. His father was very strict in requiring his children to observe all the Jewish rites and traditions. Then the family moved to another town where almost everyone in the town was Lutheran, and where non-Lutherans would find it very hard to succeed. So one day the boy's father sat the family down and said they were converting to the Lutheran church. The boy was aghast. What about everything you taught us about tradition and heritage? Was it all just words? You're willing to sell it all out simply to get a few more customers in your shop? This was not a religious conversion, you understand. He just wanted to get more customers in the shop. We're going to be Lutherans now. Well, some years later that boy, Karl Marx developed a completely materialistic concept of history, and along with Friedrich Engels, he wrote in the Communist Manifesto that religion was nothing more than the opiate of the people. Well, I hope the point is obvious. Parental hypocrisy tends to drive young people from the faith of their parents. Now, you may be thinking We've gotten somewhat far afield from the seventh commandment. Well, in one sense that's true. But in another sense, everything we've considered this morning is foundational to the seventh commandment and every other commandment Neither you nor your children will be able to swim against the current of this world system, and you will be very unlikely to avoid sexual immorality yourself. Unless you are thoroughly convinced that God exists, that He's revealed Himself in His Holy Word, and that this word is true. But listen, even if your child becomes convinced intellectually that God has spoken, that his word is true and living and powerful, and that his word commands us to flee sexual immorality, he will not be empowered to do it. Apart from the indwelling of the Holy Spirit of God. Amen? So the most important thing, the all important thing, the issue of greatest moment In the life of your child, your grandchild, in your life, in my life. In the life of every man, woman, and child on the earth. Is this? Have you repented of your sins and trusted in Jesus Christ alone as your Lord and Savior? Have you recognized that you've broken his holy law? Have you fallen down before him? Have you cried out to him, God, be merciful to me, a sinner? God, I see it. I violate your laws. I've violated that one. I've violated the sixth commandment. I've murdered in my heart. I've been angry with other people. I have taken your name in vain. I haven't kept your day holy. I haven't honored my father and my mother. God, I'm a sinner, I see it But I believe that Jesus Christ left the glory above, came to the sinful earth, lived the perfect life, and then went to the cross and died. Not because of his sins. He died as a substitute for my sin, a substitute for me. God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. That's the critical thing. That's the most important thing. Jesus said, what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What I'm saying is parents, grandparents, you need to be fervently praying that God will graciously, supernaturally Do a work of mighty grace and power in that child, in that grandchild's heart. Only God can regenerate. Only God can make alive. Only God can breathe upon the dry bones that they might live. You hath He quickened, made alive, you who were dead in trespasses and sins. When it comes to living lives that please the Lord, it's love for Christ, the assurance of his love for you. His presence in you, Christ in you, the hope of glory. That's going to make the difference. That's going to give you the power to resist temptation. Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God, Paul said? Don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodovites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you were washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Let's pray. Father, you know our hearts You know our lusts. You know, Father, that many of us, most of us perhaps here Have violated this commandment in our thoughts, in our words, in our actions, perhaps all of us in some way. God, we we don't look down upon those who commit these acts. We recognize that there before the grace of God go we. If we can think of it in our hearts, we could do it in our actions. We thank you for preserving us from some of the most horrendous uh demonstrations of this sin, but we see that sin in our hearts and we acknowledge it. God have mercy on us. Lord Forgive us. Help us to live in such a way that we'll honor you. Keep us, those of us who are husbands, keep us from dishonoring you and dragging your name in the dust. by violating that sacred oath that we've taken, those sacred promises we made before you, before witnesses. Oh God, preserve our marriages. Deepen our love for each other, for you. And also deepen our love for the lost and our concern for Them. Lord, I pray if there be anyone here outside of Christ this day, draw that soul through your spirit to true saving faith. We ask in his glorious name. Amen.