Would ask that you stand, please, as we read a uh a really challenging passage, uh one that um I don't think I've ever actually preached on before, although I may have preached to Joshua way back in the dark each. But let's please remain standing as I read Joshua 14, 6 through 15. Then the children of Judah came to Joshua and Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jehuna the Kennesite said to him, You know the word which the Lord said to Moses, the man of God, concerning you and me and Kadesh Bardea? I was forty years old when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Karnesh Bardea to spy out the land. And I brought back word to him as it was in my heart. Nevertheless, my brethren who were with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed. The Lord my God. So Moses swore on that day, saying, Surely the land where your foot has trodden shall be your inheritance. and your children's forever, because you have wholly followed the Lord my God. And now, behold, the Lord has kept me alive, as he said, these forty-five years ever since the Lord spoke this word to Moses while Israel wandered in the wilderness. And now here I am this day, eighty-five years old. And yet I am as strong as the day on which that uh that Moses sent me. Just as my strength was then, so now is my strength for war, both for going out and for coming in Now therefore, give me this mountain of which the Lord spoke in that day, for you heard in that day how the Anakim were there, and that the cities were great and fortified It may be that the Lord will be with me, and I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said And Joshua blessed him and gave Hebron to Caleb, the son of Japuna, as an inheritance. Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jephunah, the Kenizite to this day, because he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel. And the name of Hebron formerly was Kirjath Arabah Araba was the greatest man from among the Anakim Then the land had rest from war. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The title of today's sermon is The Lord Blesses. the faithful. Please be seated. Now we might be a bit at loose ends today We might come into this sanctuary asking, what in the world is God doing? Life often brings disappointments in the pathways that we walk. And more often than we actually like to think about it, it sometimes involves conflict. And we can raise questions in our mind. We might ask, when we're facing with these difficult situations, why? Well, uh just last week I had a week off. I went and heard a sermon at my old church. The pastor there gave an illustration, which I find fits into this sermon, but it's not mine, it's his, so I'm not plagiarizing here. I told you as it is. But Jesse's illustration was that one night in his neighborhood, an elderly person's home, a widow caught fire. And she didn't recognize it, but he smelled the burning smoke and he went running outside to see what was going on, saw the planes, and told Is the kids called 911. Well he went and banged on the door to make sure that the woman was out of there and she did come out And as he stood there with his arm around her watching the fire burn to her house before the uh firetrucks got there, he said, she asked him , Why is this happening to me? And Jesse at that time, I don't think had started actually being the pastor at Seven Run Church. I think he was still being a mentor he was still in the mentor role, mentee role And so he looked at her and he said, I haven't got a clue. I think he's progressed a little in his ability to pastor since then But in one sense, that's the truth of it. Often when God is doing something that affects us deeply, we simply don't know why he is doing it at the moment. We might be asking why our hope for a new pastor has been disappointed this week. In doing so, we might ask, why us? Often when God is doing something that affects us like that, it breaks it causes us to do that. And like Jesse, when asked that question, I'll have to respond to you. I don't have a clue Now, I don't know why. In this specific instance, it's working out this way. But there is a general answer that is true. And what the general answer is that in this, as in all situations where we have things that we are facing that are difficult for us to face, what God is saying Is that we are to live by faith and not by sight. Faith is only proven to be faith When it is put to the test. And that test can be difficult, it can be disappointing, and occasionally it can be dangerous. And we see that in the example of Caleb here before us today in this passage, and also as I'll be referring to other passages of which this passage is the culmination. And what I hope for us to see in this passage today is this. Caleb is presented to us as an example of faith, saving faith. And we see that faith requires obedience in the face of trials. As we trust in God and wait for his promises to be fulfilled. Caleb is presented to us as an example of faith, saving faith. And we see that faith requires obedience in the face of trials as we trust in God and wait for his promises to be fulfilled. Now, before we look at the particular teaching of this particular passage, I'd like to think about this. This is a history thing that we're reading today, a passage in history. In my previous sermons to you from both Revelation and from Ephesians, it's a different style of literature. So we have We have something here today which we should view as historical narrative. And I would challenge you first before we go to it in order to help us understand how to read it is why does God devote so much time to historical narratives in his scripture, so much of his scripture? The largest percentage of the Bible is very definitely given over to historical narrative. Even in the New Testament, with the Gospels and with the Acts and all of that, we have historical narratives. Now, it's not history in the way modern people think about history. It is historical narrative. And what that means is these sections are true events. Absolutely. These things happen. And they are given to us though, not as history in which a detailed account of everything that's going on during a historical period is looked at by historians and they go through and they glean out this and they come up with conclusions. about all the stuff, why things went on. Rather, what we see in scripture and historical narratives is a series of stories, each of which may be detailed but may not be But they all fit together to form a continuous developing story. Small stories that form a larger story Most of the ones in Scripture are high-level overviews. We know quite a bit about Ruth, for example, Ruth and Boaz. We know a good deal about them. But there are many of the kings. We don't have a clue what went on during the period of time that they served, you know. He came in, he became king. Thirty years later, he was dominated he was assassinated. That's about it, you know. So we have lots of things in there, but not details in a lot of the other ways. So if we understand that scriptures uh historical narratives and if they form a story, then the story becomes a basis in which we seek to understand what passage is teaching us. And what we see here is that the overarching story is how God is using history. And he in history he is interacting with his creation, and he's guiding its providential development in time. And particularly, he is bringing about in this world, in his creation, a people that he will gather together through the work of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thus, every event in Scripture is there for a purpose. Each one has a meaning beyond the bare historical events they record. Jesus taught that Jesus was teaching his disciples on the road to Damascus, the road to Emmaus, after he raised from the dead. And he taught them saying things from the Old Testament, all the things in the Old Testament that he said spoke of him including that starting with Moses. And our passage for today is in that section that starts with Moses after the Pentateuch. So they he was teaching them the things that history taught of himself. In the light of that overview, pedantic as it may sound to you I would ask us to now look at that, at this passage in the light of that. What does this passage teach us about Christ and his kingdom? And that's what I hope we are able to do today. First, we must see the story of Caleb teaching us to trust God and his promises. As he is indeed guiding providence, guiding history in order to bring about his people unto himself through Jesus Christ. These verses that we read today are not the whole story of Caleb. They are actually the fulfillment of it. Caleb's story starts back in Numbers 13 and 14. And there we saw how Israel, newly delivered out of Egypt, having crossed the Red Sea and journeyed to Sinai and then at last come up. to stand on the very borders of the promised land. And they look out and they saw that it really was what was promised. It was a beautiful land and it was flowing with milk and honey. And there they saw it as the land that had been promised to Abraham, their forefather. And though Abraham had journeyed in that land, he did not possess it. So 400 years had to go by before the Israelites were brought out. And so now, at the fulfillment of that time, God had arranged history in such a way that they stood there on the very edge of the promised land, and they were to go in and take it. Now, after all those centuries, here it was. They had been miraculously delivered through the Red Sea. They had gone through various trials. They had already understood what it meant to be. You know, guided by God's hand, and there he was out in front of them as they walked through the day. They had all of that testimony of God's presence with them. And now they had to act on that. They had to obey God and they had to trust in his promises. We all know that didn't happen. Moses being a good leader, a good military leader, says, okay, I don't know where we should best start our attacks, so I'm going to send out twelve people, one from each of the tribes. You guys go out there and you spy out the land and tell us where it's the best place to go. And Caleb and Joshua were among those. And they went out. And when they came back, ten of them were quaking in their boots We can't take this land. It's beautiful and it certainly is abounding in goodness, but we can't take it because these guys are going to fight for it. Uh duh, yeah. Yes, they are gonna fight it. That was always expected. But why can't we take well it's because they're big and they're ugly and they're ferocious and they are dwelling in great fortified cities and and look at us, we're just a bunch of nomads crossing out of Israel. They will crush us out crossing out of Egypt. They will crush us like grapes. Now Joshua and Caleb both, but Caleb in particular, said nonsense. God has sent us here. He will empower us, and he will sow weakness and discord among our enemies. We must trust God and His promises. Now what's really important here is that at that time when Caleb and Joshua stood up to say that The people didn't just go, oh yeah, let's trust God. They reacted angrily. They picked up stones and were gonna stone Joshua and Caleb. They were gonna kill them. Moses interceded for his people, and so God gave him a a uh a second chance. And during all of that time, Joshua and Caleb stuck to their guns. Now, as we look at Numbers 14 here today, as we look In Numbers 14, we see that God singles out Caleb in particular. And he says, because he has set a different spirit in him And has followed me fully, I will bring him into the land where he went, and his descendants shall inherit it. God looked down on this instance, and there's Joshua and Caleb. Notice not Moses. Moses is not going to go into the promised land. But now he looks at Joshua and Caleb. And he says, because you have stood up against me, against your own people, and in the face of overwhelming odds against the truth of what you're saying coming true. And brothers, our young men, you are going to inherit. And Caleb, you're gonna inherit every bit of the land. in which you spied out and walked in it. Now that passage sets the tone for what we see today. You see, God made a promise to Caleb And we must see here another aspect of what the historical narratives teach. Because the promise that God made to Caleb was like the promise he made to Abraham before him. God is a God who makes promises to his people, both as individuals and as a congregation, and that's the binding theme, if you will, in the historical narratives God defines faith then as trusting in him as one who keeps his promises, loving him, but also trusting him to do what he said he was going to do. Abraham did this, and it was counted to him as righteousness. For this very land, Abraham walked this very land, and it was not given to him. But God said it was going to be given to him and his seed forever. Abraham believed him, and it was counted to him for righteousness. Caleb did this. And in our passage, we see him receiving what was promised. So Caleb's life from the time of Moses down to this passage serves to teach us something. It teaches us how a life of faith works out. And as we will see, it's not always easy, but that's because it's the test. It is the test which proves the faith. And being faithful in the face of a test is also how we prove the power of God in it. Not a single event. Okay, thank you. That's a beg for him. Well, brothers and sisters, think of that. The test is the proof of our faith, yea, and amen. But if we're obedient in it, it also proves the power of God in it. That's what we should see for ourselves today. Let's look at these verses in particular. And first we see that faith is given to us in very specific terms. Caleb's faith is called out as wholly following the Lord our God, or words to that effect. Holy following is there in specifically. Now that's holy as as in W H O L L Y or complete, not holy in the sense of holy, holy, holy. But that's what these things, uh what it says here. Three times in this passage, verses eight, nine, and fourteen. Caleb is defined as described as having wholly followed the Lord. Now that should get our attention. When the Lord ties a passage together, With repeated phrases like that, you could think he would want us to notice it. And that's exactly why it's there. Now why do you think that Caleb is the described as having followed the Lord? Take up holy shortly. But let's think about it as following the Lord first. Caleb and uh had journeyed with the Israelites before they came back to this land. In other words, when they were kicked out and that whole generation that they were walking with perished in the wilderness before they came back to take the land. Caleb had been there walking through all of those trials. When people were dying off, the left and right of him, the people that he was with when they came out of Egypt. When manna was coming from heaven, and when there was all of those things where Moses himself was tried by these people, and he was ready to give them up because they were such a burden to him. Caleb was there. He was going through all of those trials. So he had seen where Jesus, where God. His promises to the people who quaked at the idea of going in had come true. He saw that all of the previous generation died in the wilderness. And so Caleb then went through, and as they commenced their war in the uh Israel under the leadership of Joshua in the Promised Land, He had to go out there and he had to fight. He was a fighter. He was head of the tribe of Judah. And so Caleb's life was a journey. It had many trials, many joys. He saw many victories. Well, brothers and sisters, he saw some pretty disastrous defeats also. He saw the Israelites when they were fired up for their job and ready to go, and they were out there leading the charge and the walls of Jericho came tumbling down. But he also saw it when they were ready to quit. He faced men in combat, and he killed many. In all of this, through each and every hill and valley of his journey, Caleb saw himself and his people in terms of following the Lord. It was the Lord that was leading them day by day into each of the things that they faced, both the conflicts, the victories, and the defeats. God was there. He was not absent. And Caleb was following his God through the events of every day. He was not absent. He was there in front of him. And so Caleb understood his life. As I hope, brothers and sisters, each of you, me too, understand ours That we are following where the Lord leads us in the historical narrative that is the story of our lives. Scripture didn't finish God's work in his historical narrative. It just finishes that which he recorded for us to learn from. But the book of Acts was the beginning of the historical narrative of the church, and it doesn't end. It just stops. Because the church continues from the point where Paul is sitting in a Roman cell. And brothers and sisters, we are the continuation of that church. We are a continuation of the story. That our brother Caleb was a part of. And so the idea is to understand our life. as following the Lord, both as a church and as individuals, and in doing so to prove our faith and proving God in our faith as we see Him guiding us through the hills and valleys preserving us as he does with Caleb. Caleb stands up there and says, hey, I'm over 80 years old and I'm strong as an ox. I ain't eighty and I ain't string as strong as an ox. And he was And stop and think about it, brothers and sisters. Here he was, proof of God's power. And that's what we should see. That God, faith in God, following the Lord. not only causes us to see his hand at work, but see how he preserves us and blesses us in it. Now, second, Caleb wholly followed the Lord. Now, what should we get from that? What we should get from that is that this thing called faith is a whole person thing. It's all of us. It's not a part of us. It's our the whole inshallah. Our life is given over to following our God. Now, I suppose you might think, well, okay, that means that I need to come to church every Sunday. Well, no. You should come to church every Sunday. But that's not what this is talking about. This is talking about coming to church every Sunday and serving God every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. Did I miss any days? So all right. That's what this is called about. And not just a little bit, but wholly committed to the idea that God is my Lord is going ahead of me. And my job as I am going is to see his will and to follow him in whatever his will is calling me to do. And hold nothing back. Nothing back. Caleb held nothing back. He put his life on the line. Brothers and sisters, he put the life of his family on the line. Canaanites were not nice folk. And if they came in and took care of household, I'm not even going to describe the kind of things they did to it, did to the people. This was nasty. And it required a great deal of courage, not only for the head of household, but for those underneath him. The whole family is at risk. And I would submit to you that the nature of faith today is in exactly that same way. We have to be wholly committed to the Lord our God. And that means that we've got to put it all on the line, even when there are forces out there who have already demonstrated to us that there can be adverse consequences. Consequences if we do it. Caleb had God's promises, the promise of land and a family to possess it. Notice here that in this The promise that God had given him, he said, hey, your children are going to possess this land also. Now, can't we see clearly how this parallels the promise made to Abraham? The land was given to him and his seed forever. Brothers and sisters, can we not see this promise being to us also? Are we not, as I've already said, included in this story the Bible is teaching this historical narrative? Are we not, each one of us like Caleb, living out our own story? And as a congregation like Israel, are we not following out God's story for us? And most importantly, can we not see that as an individual and a corporate story? That in our individual lives as well as our life as a church, that God is ahead of us and we are following Him And that we are to give ourselves wholly to that task. Well, has it God made great and wonderful promises to us also? Did Jesus himself not say, I will be with you to the very end? Did he not say that the promises that he made to us through his servant Paul, that they are to us and to our children? And did he not say that one of these days we will inherit the promised land also? That we shall live with him in the new heaven and the new earth. And that we, like Caleb, will see this inheritance with our very own eyes. Has he not said that? Now if we despise those promises, that says more about us than it does the promises Because these are great and wonderful promises. The answer has God made these promises to us is, of course, yea and amen. All the promises of God are yea and amen in the Lord Jesus Christ. And brothers and sisters, all I have to do is ask you here. Do you believe it? Do you believe it? Some conviction, please. Do you believe? We must. We must not be like those folks in that congregation standing around Joshua and Caleb. And despise what the truth is. We must individually and as a church show forth our faith We must wholly follow our Lord Jesus Christ, and we must wholly trust him and his promises no matter what lies ahead. There are challenges yet for Liberty Church to face I don't think anybody here thinks that as being something new. Brothers and sisters, it's the very nature of a life of faith to have challenges presented to us. And we will, as a congregation, face others. And that brings us to the second main and last main point of this passage I want us to talk about. Look at the closing sentence in this passage. Then the land had rest from war. We knew, of course, that this was not true for Israel and the rest of the historical narrative of which Israel's history was a part. Because it was filled with warfare and famines and sin and discord. But in this passage, God gave Israel a taste of peace And that's the point this makes to us. The life of faith, of which we have been speaking in this passage. Is such that when God 's people give themselves over wholly to it, it is the pathway of peace. God 's people will become instruments of peace in this world when they wholly follow the Lord Jesus. They can and they must be a light on a hill, a light on a stand, a city on a hill. Not that the world will see that all the time, but it will be there. And then for those who have eyes in the world to see it, they'll see that that is the only way which true peace can be attained. The prophet asked, can calamity come on a city and God not cause it? God is sovereign over all things in this world. We looked in the revelation given to John and we saw that in Spage, that it is God who is bringing about discord and anger and even wars in the world around us, and they are all about us. And in that same revelation, he taught us that like Joshua and Caleb, our duty is to go into all of the land before us and fight the powers that are in it. We are called to a spiritual battle. Our instruments are not swords and horses and chariots. Our weapons are spiritual, and their power is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is Jesus Christ who brings the victory, even as it was Jesus Christ who brought victory in the days of Joshua and Caleb. And it is Jesus who will bring the victory in us. We must be wholly committed to following. Remember that picture in the revelation of him riding on his white horse with a sword coming out of his mouth, you know, slaying people left and right. We are called to warfare into the promised land every bit as much as the people of God in the Old Testament were. That's part of the themes of it. We are to take the land, the spiritual land. So we must strengthen our weak knees, and we must bind up our wounds. And we must see that this is not a battle that we fight as individuals alone. We must see that we are part of God's army. We are a corporate unit in it, and we must fight as Joshua and Caleb did in company with our brothers. They didn't have sisters, but we have sisters now. So we have to give ourselves over to that We must see that each of us is living out our own story, and we must respect each other's story. We must learn from each other. We must delight in understanding how God is working in each other's lives. Why? Because that builds us into unity. And it equips us then to stand together against whatever may come forward. As we know each other better, our love will grow more fully And then we will see how the promises of God are indeed yea and amen, because we will become a community of compassion and love, unlike any other. worldly secular group in the world. Jesus said the world will know us by the way we love one for one another. As Paul says in Colossians, that love that we have for each other will be the bond of perfection. And he says in Ephesians, it will be the bond of peace. Brothers and sisters, can you see it? Can you see Liberty Church? Can you see the vision? That the faith of Caleb and the words of Jesus and the words of Paul impart to us. We in our community here can be at rest. We can be at peace as the people of God. And that witness of peace , Will be our strength as we face the world. Because that witness of peace offers to the world the only hope they can ever have. of finding peace in a world that seems to be coming across coming apart at the themes. In conclusion, simply this. Brothers and sisters, this week we have faced disappointment So be it. God is not absent. God has not rejected us, nor has he rejected our brother Bill Hill He has made it clear that this is just one more challenge along our way, along as part of our story. But we must see it for what it is. It is a challenge to us to show our faith. We must guard against disappointment, turning into resentment and despair. We must in faith renew our enthusiasm. We need zeal. We need energy. It's pretty hard for her. You know, because I remember what it's like when I get out of bed in the morning. Energy and zeal are not real high on what I'm displaying So we have got to have built into our life those things which cause us to renew our energy and zeal. We'll talk more about that as we go forward from today. But we must realize That Christ has created us as his church. And he has given us great promises as his people. And we must trust that he will sustain us as we follow him and trust his promises. And when the pastor that he has in mind for us is finally cleared of whatever obstacles is in his way to come to us , And he comes, we will recognize him as God's pastor for God's people. And brothers and sisters, I can assure you, I love this church. I love what God's doing in it. But your best days are ahead of you. And your new pastor, when he comes, will bring you into them. The reward of obedience in faith, of wholly following our God. Is seeing his promises come true. And the story of Caleb shows that that was true for him, and it will be true for us. Let's pray. All right, Lord and God, I thank you for this day. I thank you for the teaching of this passage and for what you did in and through Caleb in those days. Grant, our Lord and God, that we may take these words to heart, and that our joy will be complete as we see that your power is complete in us. Grant, Lord God, that we have our weak knees strengthened and our hearts enlivened with zeal. Grant, Lord God, that we see that this is an obstacle, though disappointing, yet in the long run encouraging, because it is your will, and therefore your will is for the good of your church and the good of your servant Bill Hill. And so therefore what we're seeing is your goodwill working out. Grant us, Lord and God, to be encouraged with that. You have not forgotten us. You have protected us. So our Lord and God, thank you for that. And ask, I ask, Lord and God, for us as your people, that you strengthen us to the hope that lies within us. Give us over to wholly following our God, no matter what lies in our immediate future. I ask this in the name of our blessed Savior.