Today, but there are times that I will um mix two drinks and for me it's usually some kind of fruit juice and water, mainly to make my fruit juice lasts a little longer, but also to you know maybe take the edge off a little bit because sometimes it's strong. Well when I put the water in first, you know, it's clear up to However I feel it. But then when I put the juice in, the juice changes the color of the water. Why? Because what the juice does, the juice adulterates. You see that word? And so what I'm trying to say by using this analogy is within the covenant of marriage, you have like the glass. And between the two partners in that relationship, that is like the clear water, right? Though the water is supposed to be in that glass. But when we talk about adultery, one spouse uh committing immorality with the spouse of another or outside of their marriage. What it does is it adulterates what's inside the cup. It mixes it so that there is an impure element that is introduced. That's the idea. And since the principle that begins with marriage vows and marriage violations extends also to uh situations outside of marriage proper. We need to understand the whole commandment comes as a violation of the covenant. So that leads to the application question. How does this context apply to the way that we see and express sexuality as God's people today? Well, we're to see that our sexuality is one, a gift from the Lord, it is to be used in a way that puts his covenant faithfulness on display to a watching world that sees no response. So we the way that we use our sexuality says a lot about how we view God. Don't miss that. Like if you're someone who takes notes, that that's something to really pay attention to. We need to understand that when we use our sexuality in a way that keeps and upholds this command We're making a statement and a proclamation about the God that we profess to be in relationship with. For example, when believing spouses are faithful to one another in this area of their marriage and lives, Every time they come together, they're making a proclamation to the world. They're making a proclamation, more importantly, I would say, to one another as married people about the faithfulness of God to his bride and his beloved with whom he is in covenant with. And by the way, for spouses, that should be really encouraging. It's meant to be edifying and uplifting and life-giving and nurturing of that relationship. But when a believing spouse steps outside of their marriage and engages in uh immorality with somebody other than their spouse What they're doing likewise is making a proclamation to the world, again, making a proclamation to the person that they're engaged with that activity in who 's not their spouse, they're making a proclamation to their spouse who they are cheating on that God is not a covenant keeping God. Now this is really interesting and there 's an implication to that. You do not have to be a Christian To understand that being cheated on and being uh having your partner be unfaithful to you is a painful experience. Why is it painful? Have you ever wondered that? I mean if people truly believe in things like naturalistic Darwinian evolution, and this this there's really are no restraints on how we use our sexuality. Then why is it that even unbelievers who are living in this uh immorality, why is it that they experience pain? By the way, that pain could be physical. I mean you could get an STD. But I I guess I'm thinking more like spiritual or emotional or psychological pain. You know, the pain of betrayal is still very s very strong, even if you Why is that? It's because all people are made in the image of God. And that activity is meant to be an activity that is rooted and expressed within the boundaries of a covenant. It's meant to express covenantal realities uh that are tied to who God is and how he relates to his people. And so when you uh violate those restraints, what happens is you make that Declaration about God. You lie about who God is. And even an unbeliever made in the image of God understands how painful it is when the God in whose image they are created is violated through so someone's activity directed at them. That's the potency behind this commandment. The breaking of the covenant with one spouse is inconsistent with the character of God who keeps his covenant with his bride, or, you could say, his beloved. And I don't think it's too far to say, especially as believers. The force of this commandment is in the fact that our actions, whether faithful or not, Demonstrate where our hearts really are at in relation to God. When we commit adultery, it is a fundamental act rooted in unbelief in the covenant God of the Bible, who is revealed in the person of the Lord Jesus. When we are faithful to our covenant spouses, it is a fundamental act that is rooted in belief In the covenant God of the Bible, who is revealed in Jesus Christ. But the extent of the command is not just outward and physical, is it? It even goes further than that, and that the intention of of the law is meant to lay uh open and expose where our hearts really are This is why Jesus, when he talks about the seventh commandment in the the um I was gonna say the Olivet Discourse, but it's the Sermon on the Mount, um in Matthew chapter five, uh verses twenty-seven to thirty. Jesus says this. You have heard that it was said, You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away from you. For it is better to lose one of your members that your whole Body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than let your whole body go into hell Again, the idea is that lust is the root that bears the fruit of adultery. The one is intrinsically related to and leads to the other. And so we need to understand, brothers and sisters, adultery is a matter of the heart first. First, long before it becomes an issue of the body or a physical expression. And so let's End to the soil of our hearts as we think about this commandment. Where do our affections lie? And let me illustrate this before moving on to the second point, which is Much shorter than the first point. Do you remember Joseph? I referenced Joseph earlier, didn't I, this morning? Um I've been thinking about Joseph. But remember when Joseph was in Potiphar's house? I mean can you imagine a being kind of like given all this authority in someone's house and this man has a beautiful wife and like day after day after day after day after day Day after day after day. This woman is just nagging you and wearing you down and trying to seduce you. Do you remember what Joseph finally Says to her, it boils down to this. How can I sin against God and my master In doing this thing. And he refuses to do it. Why? Because of who he is in relationship to God. Because of his estimation of God and God's glory. Glory in the way he uses his sexuality. May we think the same way as we think not just of the physical side of things, but even in where our desires are at this evening. No, I am admittedly jumping outside of Exodus to make this point, and I'm not going to read the long passage I'm referring to, but you You can look it up on your own. It is Deuteronomy chapter 22, verses thirteen, all the way through chapter twenty-three, verse fourteen. I've said this before and I I'll probably end up saying it Again. Um Deuteronomy chapter five references the Ten Commandments again, and then chapters six through twenty-six of that book lay out what are effectively case laws of each of the Ten commandments and to show this is how you apply this in the land that the Lord your God is giving you to take. And so in that section I referenced Deuteronomy 22, 13 through 23 That's where you find the case laws that apply the seventh commandment, you shall not commit adultery. And I think it's really interesting that God kind of speaks of A few things very broadly here. He does speak in that section about adultery and what what sexual morality looks like. He he talks about things that range from scenarios of a man marrying a woman that he thought was a virgin only to find out that she was not, or a man who was sleeping with his neighbor's wife, or or sleeping with the betrothed of another man, or even sleeping with an unbetrothed young woman. And all the scenarios are a little different. You can read that on your own. But the penalty for most of them, not all, usually boils down to this death. The death penalty, usually by Stoning. No, I'm not here advocating that we should take people out and stone them like they did in the old covenant. Um, you know, Christ has died for sinners and uh repentance and faith and restoration are possible, but the bottom line in all of that is that these case laws give a warning against illicit sexual activity. That leads to death. And what I think we can pull from that is the idea that when we step out of uh covenant faithfulness to our spouses It leads to um existentially death in very different ways. There's certain parts of our social life that are put to death. There are certain things spiritually within us that seem to But I think we can also state the matter very positively. I think the positive statement of that is it presents an incredibly high view of marriage among God's people and the need to preserve the marriage covenant among God's people is And we see that in the in the book of uh Hebrews, don't we? In Hebrews chapter 13. He talks about, you know, make sure that you keep the marriage bed pure. Where does he get that from? From a high view that's rooted in the Old Testament of marriage. And we are we are called to pursue wholiness Holiness. That's the point of all this. It has to do with holiness among God's people. The focus of being in the assembly of the congregation or within the camp in the Old Testament all indicate that the keeping of the seventh commandment is not only an individual responsibility. Please don't miss that. The world will lie to you. The world will tell you. It doesn't matter what you do in the privacy of your own bedroom. Au contraire. Scriptures are very clear. It also affects the whole congregation. How many churches, brothers and sisters, Have been absolutely racked and ravaged by a minister or an elder or some kind of leader who had clout in that community who was unfaithful to his wife and a scandal broke out. How many people's trust was violated because of what he did in the privacy of a bedroom or wherever he committed adultery? These are not just private affairs. The pursuit of holiness in this area affects the whole congregation. And all of God's people are to pursue holiness in the area of their sexuality. I'm just going to add, whether single or married. So what does this command positively call us to do? Well, it calls us to value our sexuality in a positive light and to preserve and protect the holiness of it. Think about this. Preserving and protecting what the world cheapens. What does the Westminster Catechism say? Um seventy-one. The seventh commandment requires the preservation of our own and our neighbors' chastity in heart, in speech, and in behavior. That's a high calling. You see, the world cheapens the value and the meaning of our sexuality. It cheapens it by limiting it to merely the physical, or maybe even go a little further and say Maybe even the emotional. And to be sure it contains those things, but it's much more. And the promotion of a high view of marriage should be part and parcel of how we as Christians talk about sexual relations with one another. It's not dirty in God's economy. And how often do people look at Christians like us and think we're prudes because we put Well, why do you think we put restrictions on it, brothers and sisters? Because it's valuable. It's precious. It is something to be safeguarded and treasured. And so we promote a high view of this and a high view of marriage. And I want to end by saying this. I think this is particularly Pertinent holiness for those who are single. Where do single people fall in this? I'm single As the one preaching this message. For those of you who are still young and or single, I want you to listen carefully. There's still relevance for all of you. you in this too. I want you to think of your body as in your heart as a savings account. And sexual encounters are making withdrawals on your body, not to mention your heart. And so if you're still single, you can still violate the the marriage covenant of your own future. And the future of the person that you are engaged with. Because every premarital encounter with someone uh it amounts to you giving to them to someone else what belongs only and rightfully to you. to your future spouse. And you're taking something from the other person that rightfully belongs to their future spouse. And it comes right back to covenant, doesn't it? And I think that that's a very apt uh illustration of how God wants us to see Our bodies, our hearts, everything about us is like a savings account, treasured up, not to be given away willy-nilly from someone whose name is not on the account. You go to a bank and try to if I went to the bank and I tried to pull money out of an account that my name is not legally on, the teller is going to tell me, Sir, you can't do that. You're not on the account. Well there's no teller in this case, and so we have to we are accountable to the Lord, but I want you to think of this, because maybe you're here this this evening and you have failed in this particular commandment. Thankfully, here's the good news the ad adultery is not the unforgivable sin in the new If you have failed in this respect in your life, as many do in the church, you do not have to be bound to the stigma and the stain of adultery all your life. This isn't like the book The Scarlet Letter where you have to walk around with a scarlet letter A on on your uh you know, your shirt or your sweater or whatever article of clothing you have on your upper body to say to everyone else, whoa, that's an adulterer. Watch out. We don't do that. In the gospel. And I want to encourage you to look at the woman caught in adultery in John chapter 8, verses 2 through 11. Jesus had grace for her. She was caught in the very act. I I've always wondered, well, where in the world was the man she was caught with? What a double standard. Jesus had grace for her. He can have grace for you too. Come to him, seek forgiveness by repenting of previous adultery, and hear him say to you: Neither do I condemn you. Go. From now on, sin no more. Brings us right back to the main idea, doesn't it? God forbids adulterous uses of our sexuality and he commands holiness to be expressed in marriage alone