Ephesians four. As we move forward in our study of God's Word of this letter in the book of Ephesians. Oh, my goodness. It's in the bulletin. Yeah, yes. It's in the bulletin. Um but my sermon isn't, and I'm missing part of it. You may be thankful of that. I heard that. Okay. I thought oh here it is You're not that also All right, let's hear God's word as we continue on in our study of Ephesians. Paul writes, I therefore the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long suffering , bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. But to each one of us, grace has been given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Pray with me. Father God, Lord, we praise you and we thank you for your word, which tells us how we can have eternal life and which unites us as one, as your people. We pray, Lord, that you would open up our eyes and that you would open up our hearts and our ears to your word today Fill us with your spirit. We ask this in your precious name, the name of our Savior. Amen. Well, we've been looking at this study in Paul, and we reached today a turning point in Paul's letter to the Ephesians. In the first three chapters, Paul has given us his laser-like attention to all the superabundant, rich blessings that we have in Christ Jesus. the blessings that we possess in our relationship with Christ. And it's as if he wants to impress upon us, to imprint upon our hearts, the indelible truth of all the countless, boundless riches that we have in our union with Christ, so that we have our identity, who we are in Christ, And so that we know how much we are loved by Christ, we have our identity in Christ firmly cemented within our souls. Now having laid that important foundation in the first three chapters of Ephesians, Paul begins in chapter 4 To tell the Ephesians how they are to express what they possess in Christ Because, beloved, we cannot divorce the working out of the gospel in the last chapters of Ephesians. from the supernatural spiritual realities which empower us to live out the gospel, which Paul talks about in the first three chapters. So to put it simply Paul moves from doctrine in chapters 1 through 3 to the doing of the doctrine in chapters 4 through 6. He shifts from who we are in Christ to how we are to live for Christ in the remainder of this letter. And that sea change happens right there in verse one, where he says, I Paul A prisoner of the Lord beseech you, or in other words, to strongly urge you to what? To walk worthy of the calling with which you have been called. Now notice what he says. He says, I, Paul, a prisoner of the Lord. Now we may wonder why he says that. Because it might seem a bit redundant. After all, he's already mentioned it at the beginning of chapter 3, where he says, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for you Gentiles. We can imagine the Ephesians hearing this for the first time, saying, Paul, we already know you're a prisoner. Why are you mentioning this again to us? Well, Paul is being very intentional here. He's being very purposeful in mentioning his imprisonment again. It's as if he is saying, you know, beloved, I wear the chains of a prisoner, but these are not the chains of Rome. These are the chains of Christ. I wear these chains for Christ. These chains are for Christ because I am completely sold out to him. I am bound to him in love, so I follow where he leads me in my calling as an apostle. And in following my particular call upon my life as an apostle to the Gentiles, it has led me to be a prisoner under house arrest in Rome. But you know what, Ephesians? It might look bad, but really it's all good. Because even though I am bound to a guard, 24-7 , The gospel is not bound. No, its freely goes out while I am yet in chains. My imprisonment has actually served to advance the gospel as these guards spread the good news that I've been sharing with them every day. And it's gone out throughout the whole palace, the whole palace, at the very heart of the Roman Empire. So I am living so my my imprisonment has actually served to advance the gospel and in living out the implications of my call, which on the surface look dire It's really beneficial. But what about you, Ephesians? Are you willing to live out the ramifications of your calling? You see, Ephesians, I'm not living out some kind of living in some kind of ivory tower removed from the realities of living out the gospel. No I have street cred. I'm a prisoner for Christ. And I'm not telling you something that I myself am not willing to do in following my call. So Ephesians, are you willing to lit out the consequences of Christ's calling on your life? despite the cost and the difficulties that may arise from following him. You can see that I'm willing. What about you? Well, what is this calling that Paul exhorts them to walk in it in a worthy manner? Well, we don't have to guess. Paul makes it clear right there in verse 3, where he says the Ephesians are to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now let's consider that for a moment. Of all the things that Paul could ask them to do that he could stress about their calling as believers in Christ. Why does he stress their unity? Well, it's because they had exhibited something that was absolutely extraordinary. It was revolutionary, something that had not been seen in their culture before. It was a unity that could only be born through the supernatural working of Christ's Spirit working within them. And it was a unity that was so amazing that it testified to the transforming power of the gospel which makes all things new. And Paul alludes to the nature of this unity right in verse 1. And he does so with one simple word. Therefore, therefore, he says, you are called to work in a manner, to walk in a manner worthy of your calling, or to put it another way, for this reason, beloved. you are called to walk in unity. The therefore, in verse 1, points us back to the previous chapters. in which Paul describes the unity that the Ephesians possess intrinsically, the unity that they are now called to express in their lives. So let's consider briefly what went before the therefore in order to grasp the nature of this unity, which was so important for the Ephesians to live out. In particular, we have chapter 2. Paul reminds the Gentile believers of all the unsearchable riches that they have in Christ. And Paul says, you Gentiles were once far off, but now you've been brought near to God. Unlike the Jews, you had no covenantal relationship with God. You Gentiles were like weeds ready to be plucked out and destroyed, but instead, now You have been engrafted into the beautiful plant of God's kingdom. And in God's kingdom. Are you Gentiles, second-class citizens, regulated to live on the other side of the tracks? No, absolutely not. No, you live in the palace with our Heavenly Father, and you have all the same privileges that the believing Jews have as God's sons and daughters. You are now God 's chosen people, just like the Jews were chosen centuries before. So now, you Ephesians, Paul goes on, he says that there is this connection between you and the Jews. There is a unity that you have with your fellow Jewish believers. You are so cemented together with your fellow Jewish believers that you are like stones in a temple, fitted together along with the Jewish disciples of Christ. You are so knitted together as to be one holy temple, being built up in whom the Holy Spirit of God dwells So this was just amazing. The Jews and Gentiles, who were once enemies, who hated and despised one another, have been brought together as one. united as one through the supernatural union with Christ so that now they could link arms together. And recite together Psalm 133. 1. Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. The Lord had reconciled these two factious groups into one new society. A new humanity under the banner of Christ who unites them through his spirit And this work was so amazing, it was so astounding that it could only happen through the power of the gospel. And so therefore maintaining their unity was vital to the witness of the gospel. So it's no wonder that Paul here stresses or urges them to endeavor to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Because the unity that they experienced and the unity that they evidenced spoke volumes about the validity of the gospel that they professed. We get a sense of how strong Paul's exhortation is when we consider what the word endeavor conveys. The word endeavor conveys a sense of urgency to strive with all effort It is in the present participle, which means continuous action. So Paul is making a passionate plea. for them to diligently seek the unity that they already have through the Spirit of Christ. And he needs to stress their need for unity because so much could just utterly tear it apart. These old racial hostilities that had been put to death, they were always there. There was always the potential that they could spring up again. to wound the unity of the church and to mar their witness for Christ. Now it's interesting that we see in verse 3 a kind of paradox. There's a paradox there. Do you see it in verse 3? That they are to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit. The unity of the Spirit. Well, isn't God's Spirit always unified? How can the Holy Spirit be divided? He can't be divided. And yet Paul urges the Ephesians to maintain a unity that is inherently unbreakable. How can that be? Well, we know that our unity as believers can never be broken. All we who are trusting in Christ have his Spirit indwelling within us. And that, beloved, can never change. And since we all share in the same spirit, we are always then connected to one another in our union with Christ. So there, beloved, is no escape. We are stuck with one another for all eternity And just like you can't choose your relatives, you can't choose whom God has chosen to be in his family. And his kingdom, his kingdom is made up of all kinds of people, from diverse backgrounds, from different races and cultures and interests, educational levels. People with whom we personally might not have any natural affinity with, but to whom we are supernaturally connected through our relationship with Christ for all eternity. Because the blessed tie that binds can never be broken And yet we all know how well that if you spend any time in a particular church, there is always the opportunity for that intrinsic unity to be disrupted. And if we don't strive to maintain the unity that we possess in Christ, then we can let bitterness or rancor win the day and divide us as a people. So while our intrinsic unity always remains, the expression of it can become stained. We can liken it to a fractured family, to fractured family relationships in which there is always this bond of blood. and heritage between family members, but that's as far as it goes. They may have nothing to do with each other But their estrangement doesn't take away the fact that they are naturally connected to one another as a family. And just like you can't change your DNA that connects you together as a family, you cannot break the unity of God's Spirit who unites us. And Paul wants to impress upon the Ephesians the unity that they have together, and he does so by reminding them of the essential spiritual realities that superglue us together as God 's people. He magnifies what unites us in verses 4 through 6. And we see in those verses that the essential realities that unite us as believers dwarf any differences that we may have that could divide us. And Paul highlights our oneness by repeating the word one seven times. In verse 4, he says that we are what? One body, referring to the reality that we as individuals are part of one whole body of Christ. In 1 Corinthians 12, 12, Paul writes, for just as one just as the body is one and has many members, And all the members of the body, though many are one body, so it is with Christ. So just as the thigh bone is connected to the knee bone, which is connected to Whatever else, bone, I don't know, I'm not that kind of doctor. We are connected together as one in Christ with Christ as our head. And just as a human body is enlivened by our spirit, so we too, as part of Christ's body, have his same spirit enlivening us. empowering us both individually and corporately as his body. So we are not only one in body , but we must also be one in spirit to have his holy spirit. For just like a body without a soul is a dead body, So a church without Christ's Spirit is a dead church. So we share together in one body and one spirit. We also share in one hope. The hope of glory that awaits us of the eternal glory that we have in Christ. And that hope is grounded in one faith, in which we believe together in one Lord, Jesus Christ, who is the author and finisher of our faith and the giver of our hope. Of eternal glory. And furthermore, we have one baptism, the sacrament That unites us, that initiates us into the community of faith in which we are identified as belonging to Christ. And being united with Christ, we have one Heavenly Father. Christ's Father is our Father as we are united to Christ Which makes us what? His children. So we are all brothers and sisters, blessed by a heavenly Father who watches over us, who dwells within us, and who works through us. Amen. So Paul says over and over again, we are one One, one, one. Paul stresses what unites us, which is far greater than anything that can possibly divide us. And yet we see here that in our unity there is also diversity. Or to put it another way, our unity does not mean uniformity We all possess the same spirit, but we are not all the same. We see this in verse 7. That there is a difference in the bestowing of gifts and graces where Paul says, but to each one of us, grace has been given according to the nature of Christ's gift. And then later on in the letter, Paul expands on these differences in verse 11, where he says that the Lord has given some to be apostles, some prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. For what? For the equipping of saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. And so there needs to be diversity within a body. Think about what it would be like if there were no diversity in the parts of a body. It would cease to be a body. It would look very weird, wouldn't it? Paul points this out in 1 Corinthians 12, 17. If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? And if the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them as he chose. If all were a single member, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, yet one body. Well, there's not only a difference in gifts, but as we have seen, the body of Christ is an international community. made up of Jew and Gentile, a multi-ethnic, multi-racial community where we see that the bride of Christ is multi-hued. Well, the unity that we have is not only inclusive, but it's also exclusive. Christianity makes some very exclusive claims. Despite the bumper stickers that you might read on the road or the sentiments that you might hear. All roads do not lead to God. For as we see in this passage, there is one God, and as these verses make clear, the true God is Triune. That he is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, three persons in one. Now the God of the Muslim faith, Allah, He's not a triune God. And the triumph God of Scripture is personal. He is in relationship to himself, three persons in one. And yet, what does the Buddhist or the Hindu believe in? But a kind of impersonal nirvana where we kind of get absorbed into the life force. for all eternity, if we're good enough. And Scripture makes clear that it is only through the grace of our triune God that we can find eternal life. There is no other way. Now, this only makes sense to you If you have indeed experienced the life-transforming power of our triune God This can only be real to you if the Holy Spirit has changed your heart and has made your heart of stone, which was against God, into a heart of flesh. so that you come alive to the truth of the gospel, that Christ paid all of the judgment for your sin And that his resurrection demonstrated that he is indeed the Messiah, and that as the risen Christ, he has ascended into heaven. and where he reigns with God the Father, who chose you to be in his kingdom before the foundation of the world. And these essential truths, these are the essential truths that unite us as one. This experience that we've had of God's grace in our lives, it connects us as one people. And even though Christ's body may seem divided by all these different denominations, all those All those who have staked their eternal destiny on what the Lord has done, who trust in Him alone for their salvation, they are united as one. Whether they are Baptists or Presbyterians or Methodists or whatever, they are part of the universal church. And all those who hold to these essential tenets of the faith, in whom God's Spirit dwells, they are his people. Whether they live in Baltimore or Belfast or Bermuda. Even though today it might feel like we're in Bermuda without the beautiful ocean. We are one body. And what Paul exhorts us to maintain then is the unity that we intrinsically possess. He tells us that we need to keep that unity. And in verse 2, Paul lists certain character qualities which help maintain the unity of the body. And we see that these qualities are so counter-cultural. They are so counterintuitive because they go against the grain of our human nature. They seek it to so seeking to emulate them, it only makes sense to do it if you're in Christ. The first one that Paul mentions is lowliness or humility Now we lose the cultural significance of this for Paul to call Gentiles to humility was completely countercultural. Because humility was a quality that was derided by the Greeks, who viewed lowliness as weakness. To be humble implied servitude. And for the Gentile, there was nothing more undesirable than to be a lowly servant. But you know something? Not much has changed in 2,000 years. Today , humility can be viewed as being weak. as being a pushover, as being the object for derision. And the opposite, self-glory, is all the rage. Where we get pumped up and puffed up when we get a thousand likes on Facebook. And yet, what was our Savior? What was our Savior like who is the perfect man? He was humble and lowly in heart, as he says in Matthew 11, 29. And Paul echoes this in Philippians 2, where he says, our Savior did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. But he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant. Being born in the likeness of men and being found in human form, he humbled himself By becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. And Paul here stresses humility Not only because it reflects the character of Christ, but humility is also a key factor in maintaining unity. After all, what is the root of division? But pride, self-centeredness, wanting our own way. James 4 talks about this when James writes, What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder, you covet and cannot attain, so you fight and quarrel. Well moving on, next related to humility is gentleness. What keeps unity is gentleness. Gentleness here is often translated meekness And we have the misunderstanding often that meekness implies weakness. But gentleness is in fact strength. Gentleness is strength under control. The Greek for gentleness conveys the idea of a beast of burden under the control of a bit. So gentleness is really power under restraint. And Jesus as the perfect man was meek, but he certainly wasn't weak. He had a str he used his strength to seek another person's benefit So we are to be gentle, like our Savior, with others. Next is long-suffering or long-tempered It means to be not easily angered by the failures and foibles of other people. In other words, it's showing the same kind of patience to others when they fail. That we show to ourselves when we fail. In fact, it is a quality that reflects God's character. God is long-suffering with us. Because he's merciful and he's gracious and he's slow to anger and he's abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness towards us. And since we have the Lord Spirit, who is gracious and kind to us, then are we then not to exhibit his mercy then to others who sin against us? That is why we are instructed in God's Word to keep shorted out accounts and to forgive others as we have been forgiven and to overlook minor offenses as much as possible. Paul goes on to say that unity is also maintained when we forbear with one another. Which means that we recognize that just as you find people annoying, they find you equally as annoying. The feeling is mutual. So what do we do? We need to be patient with each other for the long haul and forbear with one another. And finally, how do we forbear? Well, he tells us we forbear in love, which is the greatest of all the graces and which binds them all together All these graces flow from the love of Christ, from the love of Christ who indwells within us. And all these qualities are found in our Savior. And since we have His Spirit, shouldn't they then be evident in our lives? After all, love, patience, kindness, forbearance, self-control, these are the fruit of the Spirit. who indwells within us. So shouldn't we be bearing that fruit in our lives and in our interaction with each other If we boil it down to its essence, what do we see? That these qualities, these graces, are counterintuitive, because what is our natural response? It is to be me-centered, to put ourselves first, to be self-centered. But the focus of God's people is not to be me-centered, but other-centered. All these qualities go against the grain of our world. As Paul writes in Philippians 2, do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. So if we are the real McCoy as God's people , Our community then should be marked by these qualities. These qualities are not pasted on. Externally, like a henna tattoo that you might get on the boardwalk during the summer, and by the end of the summer it's all faded They cannot be pasted on outwardly, but these qualities do arise from the core , these qualities arise from the core of our being. They are supernatural qualities, which are born from the Holy Spirit who inhabits our hearts and who empowers us to do them. But while they rest upon the power of God's Spirit working in us, that doesn't mean we just kind of let go and let God No. We're still responsible for our part, which is to be committed to actively displaying long-suffering love and patience. In other words, we need a kind of self-awareness, a self-conscious, to make a self-conscious effort to exercise these graces towards others to be other person directed rather than me-centered. And when a congregation is eager to maintain the unity of the church, We find that these qualities, love, patience, kindness, are like ready-where clothing. The congregation wears them so uniformly that one size fits all. That we are clothed in these spirit-woven qualities, and so we are characterized by them. If our church got a Yelp Review , I wonder what people would say Would they say, oh, I'd notice how the people at liberty are so united together Why you should see how patient they are with each other, how long-suffering they are with one another, how they express love and encouragement to one another Paul really challenges us here to ask ourselves, am I eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace? By exercising patience, kindness, and love toward my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. And it's a good question to ask. Because sadly, it is possible to be a congregation that has all their doctrines straight and yet fails to live up to the unity of the Spirit. And instead of seeing the fruit of the Spirit growing in a congregation, the weeds of pride and bitterness and anger take root and then divide. So what is the prescription for those divisions within the body? Verse 2 tells us. to be determined to demonstrate the qualities of humility, of patience, of long-suffering, which bound us together by love and are fueled by the power of God's Spirit. And the same can also be said about divisions within a Christian home. Let's say, for example, you have Christian Mr. and Mrs. Roberts, and they are ready to put the nail in the coffin of their marriage. They are at war with one another. Well, what do they need to do to be reconciled? They need to put verse 2 into practice They need to put verse 2 into practice by making a conscious choice by and through the power of the Spirit to exercise these graces in their fractured relationship. To be willing to clothe themselves with humility, gentleness, kindness, long-suffering, and to display sacrificial love towards one another Now, in addition to these situations, I see in this passage about unity Another very specific application for our church in this season of its life. And in relationship to a culture that is increasingly divided. Now, as I mentioned before, I've mentioned this application before, but it bears repeating. We have an opportunity as a church to make an impact on our culture, on the surrounding communities with the gospel in a very tangible way that was somewhat similar to Paul's day. Now, as we have seen, what Paul exhorts the Ephesians to do is very counterculture countercultural, radical, and revolutionary. And yet time has lessened the impact of what it was occurring then. But we we we can't really imagine how astounding, how extraordinary it was for Jews and Gentiles. to worship together, to eat together, to fellowship with one another. Before they had received the gospel, they were at each other's throats Now, as believers, they are united in the bond of peace. How transformative is the gospel of Christ That God took people who were once enemies and reconciled them , uniting them into one humanity, a new society, unlike anything that has ever been seen before. through the power of his spirit. Now, just imagine if we could go back And here's some of the conversations that were going on in Paul's day in Ephesus. Justice What is going on with you, man? Are you what is this? You're inviting a Jew to your house for dinner? What is up with that? We don't invite Jews to our home and they don't we don't go to their homes and they don't go to our homes. And justice would say, it is because of Christ and what he's done in my life. That why have this bond with my fellow Jewish believer? We can imagine somebody saying to Aaron, Aaron! What are you doing? I can't believe this. You're allowing your daughter to marry a Gentile? Are you Mashuguna? What is wrong with you? It happened in Paul's day. And the good news is that it continues to happen today. The gospel breaks down barriers that divide, and it destroys the enity between people. And it brings healing to fractured relationships through the power of the Spirit Now, unless you don't pay any attention to the news, you know very well how divided we are as a nation. I think race relationships are the worst that I've ever seen in my adult life. And with all this civil unrest. swirling around us. Here is Liberty Church, planted between two diverse, divided communities, separated not just by a reservoir, but sometimes separated by racial animosity. And yet here we are in the year 2018, a church with a school that is predominantly African American. and a congregation that is predominantly Caucasian. Now, beloved, did that happen by chance or coincidence? Well, we're good Presbyterians, are we not? We don't believe in chance or coincidence. No. So what do you think? Is the Lord trying to tell us something? I know these are uncomfortable questions, but they are questions that need to be asked. What kind of church will we be? Will we be an Ephesians for church, willing to lit up the call with which we have been called and the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace? Will we be a hinge pin church that closes the door on one community or the other community? Or will we be a bridge that spans from east to west with the gospel And in doing so demonstrates the power of the gospel by the unity that we share amongst all believers. If we were a bridge and not a hinge, what would others say Wow. I really believe what you say about Jesus Christ because I can see it by the way that you love one another. With our nation so divided, has God placed us here in this particular place in 11301 Liberty Road for such a time as this. Some might scoff and say, well, that can never happen. And yet as we heard last week from Pastor Chuck Garriott It is, Craig Garriott, it is happening. It's happening in our sister church on 42nd Street in Baltimore. And I got a glimpse of this myself two weeks ago. It wasn't in a church. It was at the Westside Technical Institute where I was serving as an election judge for early voting. Now, as you may know, I live just inside the city line, and my neighborhood is racially mixed, but my precinct is probably 90% African American And I decided to do this crazy thing. I decided, hey, I can work for one kingdom, and why not work for another one as well? So I'll work for two kingdoms. I'll work for Christ's kingdom, and for this week I'll work as a city employee out in Baltimore to help my fellow citizens with early voting. And I have to be honest. I was a bit apprehensive on that first day. I wasn't sure how I would be greeted or how I would fit in with all the social unrest that had been going on in Baltimore. I wasn't sure how I would be received in that precinct. And the first day kind of felt like the first day of school when you go into the school and you wonder, am I going to make any friends? Is anybody going to talk to me? And yet my fellow judges were very friendly towards me. But then something happened that just totally floored me. We were all set to open up the polls when the two chief judges, who are both African-American, said Okay, everybody, it's time to gather around. We're going to gather around. We're going to gather around and we're going to have Christian prayer And we're going to ask God to bless our day. So if you have a problem with prayer, then you just go off to yourself because we're going to pray. Well that just blew me away. I had never seen this happen as an election judge before. And my first thought was, what will the ACLU say about this? And so most of us gathered together in a circle and we held hands and the chief judge prayed for the Lord to bless our day. Well word got out that I was a pastor. And on the last day of voting, my third day, the chief judge once again gathered everyone together. And he said, we're going to pray. And if you don't want to, that's fine. You go sit it out. But we're going to pray. And Pastor Barry here is going to lead us in prayer. And so we gathered again and I prayed. And this passage was on my mind and on my heart. And I prayed for us, for God, to empower us, to serve our fellow citizens with patience. And as I prayed for unity among us, As we worked together, there rose a rising chorus of thank you, Jesus. Yes, Jesus. Amen and amen that were lifted up to the very throne of heaven. And as we prayed, as brothers and sisters in Christ, holding hands together, we were one body Praying together in one spirit, sharing the same faith in our one Lord, seeking the blessings of our one Heavenly Father And there was no division, whether you were Republican or Democrat, black or white, for we were all one in Christ Jesus. United together to serve him as we served our city. Oh beloved In John 17, Jesus prayed to our Heavenly Father on the eve of this crucifixion. He said, May they all be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you. that they also may be in us, so that what? The world may believe that you have sent me May our Savior's prayer be answered through us as we share the gospel with the communities around us. And so demonstrate the transforming power of the gospel to a divided world. Let's pray.