It's great to be back with you and hope that your summer has gone well and that you Uh have some good family time, maybe times at the beach or the mountains or wherever you like to spend a little bit of uh your Summer. I uh would like to draw your attention this morning to the New Testament, the book of Second Corinthians Chapter 12, we'll be looking at verses 7 on to verse 10. Listen to this portion of the Word of God. Therefore, in order to keep me from becoming conceited, I was given a thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weakness. in insults, in hardships, and persecutions, and difficulties. For when I'm weak, then I'm strong. Please pray with me. Father in heaven, thank you for speaking to us this morning. Even during our time of prayer, we're reminded of The many needs within the congregation of those who are experiencing difficult times in different degrees of suffering. I pray, Father, that you would teach us this morning. By your spirit, what it means for us as your people to experience times of pain, times of discomfort. Minister to us, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. And by the way, if you are a child and you that is from ages four to second grade, you're welcome to Be dismissed and participate in the program that is there for children. I suspect that for many of us as we We think about a passage like this, there's aren't any number of things that might come to mind. But I believe that if there's one thing that we can agree upon, and I realize that anytime there's a group of people So there's there's always divisions and differences of opinions on things, but in this one particular area, I suspect we would all agree on the fact that we dislike pain and suffering. Now if for some reason you answer the question differently, I want you to come and talk to me because I want to find out why it is that you just simply love pain and diff d times of discomfort. But it's a it's an issue that whether we like to admit or not, it's part of our lives, and I think it's important for us to have a biblical perspective in regards to what exactly the Bible teaches in this area. I noticed uh a article, this was a little bit ago, it actually was uh in The Economist. The Economist is a magazine magazine that I see a lot of people read, especially in Washington D. C. on the on the Metro. It's a magazine that comes out of Great Britain. And it has that type of perspective in some regards, but the uh the 2015 uh June 27, 2015 edition of the The economist had the the cover story that read this. It said the right to die, why assisted suicide should be legal. Now it's something that we've been dealing with with here within the United States, not only within other parts of the world. The writer advocated that those who are terminally ill, uh, those patients should should have the right to a doctor's assisted suicide. And uh it one part of the article the writer says this in regards to reason. In a secular society it is odd to buttress the sanctity of life in the abstract by subjecting a lot of particular are uh uh uh subjecting a lot of particular lives to unbearable pain, misery and suffering. The point simply being that that we ought to do everything we can to to keep someone from suffering. And that may mean that uh we allow them the the right to die with the assistance of a of a physician. Some of you may remember uh a number of years ago the name Brittany Minard, a twenty-nine year old lady, she was married, diagnosed with terminal brain cancer Very very difficult time. And she believed that it was it was not appropriate for her To bear any more pain than she needed to. And so she agreed with her husband that it would be temporary and the in order for her to have the advantage of the physician assisted suicide, she needed to move to Oregon, which she did, and there she was uh successful in dying. And she she says that before that she died that she knew that she could live maybe a a number of months more, but she simply did not want to experience any more pain than than she needed to. Now I think to to some degree all of us, regardless of what our views may be in regards to things like positions assisted suicide and other types of of uh options that are out there, that pain is difficult. And it's not it's not something that we would ever want anybody to experience And yet, it's very clear as we look at the scriptures that the presence of pain and suffering, both Old and New Testament, is very prevalent. And it's somewhat noteworthy that the scriptures do not seem to hide in any way, shape, or form. Or somehow mitigate or are put to the side the whole dynamic of pain and suffering. You see it through the Old Testament. We'll talk about some of those passages. Clearly the ministry of Jesus accents, emphasizes those who are experiencing pain and suffering. And you will note as you read through the New Testament that Jesus did not annihilate all pain and suffering. It wasn't like by the time he concluded his ministry For all, and not forever. And pain and suffering, as we go back to this passage, may come in different forms. I mean if you could go back to the end of the uh of the of the last verse that we read, Paul says, I delight in weakness in insults or he says uh he says that is why for Christ's sake I delight in weaknesses In insults, in hardships, persecutions, difficulties. He's naming some of the opportunities, so to speak, or some of the occasions in which he would experience discomfort. In some cases, we experience physical pain. And it's chronic and it's ongoing And it's difficult. In some cases the pain that we might be experiencing today is because of loneliness. And we we just find ourselves in a situ in a situation or time in our life Where where we would really like to have that special person, or for whatever reason, even within a relationship, we find ourselves painfully lonely, or maybe our pain is coming from failure. And that can be very discouraging. You you were hoping to achieve something and somehow it just didn't work out. Uh maybe in some cases it's it's the pain of rejection. And the list will we'll go on and again we'll notice some of these things. As we come back to the passage, again we're finding according to what Paul is sharing with us here. But there is truth when it comes to pain and suffering, and we ought to be connected with that truth. And there are at least three things in this passage that I think would be helpful for us to note as we explore this particular area. First of all would be what I would call Paul's accent on the presence of pain and suffering. Secondly, in regards to the purpose, and then thirdly, what I will refer to as the priest in terms of the priestly aspect. Let's go back to the first in regards to its presence. As I said before, Paul does not somehow miss mitigate or nor does he try to hide this part of his life. And I think that there is a tendency, even today, for some to say, if you are a child of God, if you've been born again Someone who has come to faith, you 've recognized your sin and you belong to Christ, that clearly it's God's will for you that you would never experience any kind of pain or suffering because you are the child of God. And again, as you go back to the scriptures, and this one particular passage is a clear example. This is Paul, this is the Apostle Paul, the guy that that has been called by God to further the church, to further the gospel. He's experiencing some really difficult uh times within his life. Now if we go back to the beginning of the Bible, to the book of Genesis, we see The very start, if we can use that word, in regards to pain and suffering. Adam and Eve were placed in a Perfect environment. Because of their rebellion against God, when you come to chapter three, we're introduced to pain and suffering. And really the pain and suffering, if you think about it, begins with this separation from God. And what what Adam and Eve experienced, first of all In terms of the consequence of their rebellion , was to be separated from , was in its essence to be afraid from God and therefore wanting to be separated from him The whole dynamic of fear, and as God was searching for them, so to speak, that they were they were afraid to be in his presence. That's really the beginning of pain and suffering. But then God is very specific in explaining to them the other consequence of what's to take place. And he says this. And I will put empty between you and the woman, and between your offsprings and hers, and he will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. The the thing that God is accenting here is that as you think about the future and the whole dynamic of God's plan of redemption, it's very much centered upon this dynamic of pain and suffering. And as you know, when Christ goes to the cross, that is not a picture of of comfort and ease. It's a picture of of immense suffering. Secondly, you would want to note the fact that Adam is told that in the in the workplace it's going to be Difficult. And therefore, there's a tendency for us today, this is not true for everybody, but to some degree for all of us, that when we think about work We think about something that's difficult. We think about the tensions of work. In some cases we don't like our job. We don't we don't appreciate the environment in which we're working. We don't appreciate some of the people with whom we We have to work. We don't like the way our boss is treating us. Or maybe we just don't like the work for whatever reason. But work often creates a lot of tension within our lives. Even those kinds, even in in those circumstances where you like your work, there's always some degree of of tension. Are you accomplishing things on time? uh i is it becoming uh an idol for you and it's almost possession possessing every aspect of your thinking and your life and your time and your your energy. And then of course for Eve, she's being told that in terms of childbirth, that there will be pain. And and think about it. Today, in the most modern of times I and I I haven't experienced this first hand, but I've seen Debbie, my wife, four times go through it. Now that was some years ago, but but I I've noticed that even today there are you know, the procedures that we go through in regards to childbirth, it's it appears to me that it's still pretty painful. You know you know, with spinal blocks and and uh epidurals and all the other things that they have that modern medicine has has uh it's still relatively painful. And so the point is simply that when you think about the the genesis of pain We go back to Adam and Eve and the fall and the consequences of that. That I think is important for us to understand And then as I mentioned before, as you go through Scripture, right, 66 books that are given to us over the that were written, given to us over the course of 1500 years. That that cover a larger period of time do not hide the presence of pain within the people of God. And so, you know, we're w who 's the first person you might think about in terms of real suffering and pain would be like Job. And and Job experienced an enormous amount of of suffering and pain. In Job one we read in the land of us There lived a man whose name was Job, and this man was blameless and upright. He feared God and shunned evil. He was the greatest man among all the peoples of the earth the East. How can how can pain and suffering enter into this man's life when he is so upright? He prays for his his children. When Paul speaks about his own He speaks about this whole dynamic of a thorn in the flesh. We don't know exactly what that means for Paul. And it well it's interesting to me that we don't know. That somehow he he doesn't describe exactly what it is. When you think of a thorn though, right, a a splinter perhaps, a a piece of wood that is somehow embedded in your finger. or your foot or wherever it may be, that's a really painful experience. No one would desire that. And yet for Paul, it's obviously something that is persistent within his life. And I would I would venture to say that that's the other dynamic of what we see in regards to To Paul, that it's not going away. It's not a short-term deal. What is it that is happening in your life where you say to yourself, this is not fun? I would love for this to go away. I would I I I pray, perhaps, you might say, that somehow God would relieve me from this particular Secondly, the purpose of pain. Why is it there in our lives Today , is there anything significant or is it just simply something that is bothersome? Pain and suffering is often a I mentioned earlier, somewhat confusing, even more so debilitating. And perhaps you are experiencing that degree of pain where it's just difficult for you to go through the course of the day. How can you function when you have that degree of pain? Debbie, who is a physical therapist, uh particularly deals And works with patients who have had hip replacements and knee replacements and uh so pretty much not every evening but many of our evenings I'm getting a re I understand that that doctors and people in healthcare have to be very careful about what they say. But I get this general overview in terms of of what people are going through through and the degree of pain. And so I've learned lots of things. You know, I've learned like the the what what uh show uses numbers to to uh talk about how bad is your pain. Is it a ten? Is it a five five, you know, whatever the case may be. And and uh the the point being that in some cases she says a a patient can get by with a little bit of Tylenol after uh uh a few days having recovered from uh maybe a hip replacement. In other cases, they need opioids. They need something really, really strong in order to deal with their With their pain. The point is simply that when the pain is there, you might say it it does serve a bit of a purpose in that the patient is being Reminded that they've had something significant happen to their body. In other words, you wouldn't want someone who just had a a knee replacement and that that type of trauma to their to them to themselves just getting up and trying to to run a marathon, right? You would think, well that's a that's absurd. You just had a a hip or a a a knee replacement. You can't possibly your body isn't able to do that. You want that pain To tell you that something is wrong. And sometimes I found that that uh you can see you can see the benefit of of that uh of that pain, so to speak. Here's what I I mean, I there was a I was working on a project at my home and I was drilling uh through a piece of wood and I forgot that when you hold a piece of wood and you're drilling it, you don't want your hand on the other side of that wood, right? And I and next thing I know that the drill bit goes through the wood successfully, I was good that part, and then it went on into my finger. Right? And you know, it was just one of those very painful experiences. And took it took maybe a month or so for my my hand to to uh heal. But here's what I here's the benefit that I learned from it. I was I was I was up in Hartford, Connecticut, uh meeting with a uh fellow up there and um I had a couple of hours before the meeting and I was wandering around the Hartford area Hartford area uh in just sort of killing time and I noticed there was a driving race And I thought to myself, oh you've got some out you've got some time, why not? Why not just drive a a uh a bucket of balls or so while you're waiting? And so I I did. And And I am not a golfer. In fact I would say uh I should never put a a club uh in my hand because it is it is so dangerous for other people people. I mean the ball the ball goes like I mean not just like a little bit in in fact it only was goes goes so far around it would hit you in the back of the head kind of thing and And the times that Debbie and I have gone to play golf, it's just like, you know, you'll never find that golf ball. Well, I'm out I'm out of the driving range, which seems to be a fairly uh safe place to be, and here's what I noticed As I was driving, the pain in that finger, in that part of the hand, corrected my swing. And I I'm not lying. I've never hit the ball so straight and far in my entire life. And I've never been able I've never been able to do that. then and so so for me for that in that limited way that pain corrected something that needed to be corrected and my point is simply I think this is That's that that's maybe making a little bit too light of pain. But the point is is that pain can do things to us, right, that we we don't necessarily want or desire, but the benefit Now, so for Paul, as if we go back to this passage, clearly for him, he recognized the benefit of pain. within his life. That which was undesirable, in a sense, by the end of the passage you realize, no, he's had a very different mindset here. We'll talk about that even in a little bit. I the you you're familiar with with at least uh accounts of people who've had leprosy, right? Leprosy, uh from what I understand, and again I I I know very little about uh the medical trade, but but uh clearly leprosy is a disease disease that I think today can be avoided, but it's a it's a it's a disease that uh impacts the nervous system so that people don't have feelings in their in their hands. And so they when they injure themselves, they don't know that something has happened. And so they they live their lives as if the in the uh the injury didn't exist, which means that it gets worse and worse and they uh I think to some degree will lose uh certain parts of their of their of their body in that regard. It's simply because they don't have the benefit Of being warned that something is wrong, that there is a problem. And that's one of the benefits of pain within our lives. Again, it's not something you would want, but But at the same time, you don't want to go through life without it. Um for example, today we spend some time in confession. Now maybe as you went through the time of confession you didn't feel anything. But possibly as you were coming into this period of confession within our worship that you were feeling a degree of guilt. That there were there was a conversation that you had. Or there's something going on within some other part of a relationship. Or maybe something else that you've been involved in. And you have been haunted by your guilt. Do you remember what the psalmist says in Psalm 32? He says, when I kept silent , My bones wasted away through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was sapped as in the heat of summer. Is that I I felt terribly uncomfortable because of my guilt. And the truth is, is that, sure, we don't want people to go around feeling guilty. At the same time, do we really want people going around not feeling feeling guilty. guilty Not experiencing the pain of of the spiritual insult that has that has taken place. No. You you you want to be made aware That something is wrong. Secondly, we as we think about the purpose, we think about the whole dynamic of sanctification. And I suspect to some degree we're we're talking about that already, but consider what James 1 says when he says, consider it pure joy. This is verse 2 of James 1. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds. Because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance and perseverance must finish its work, must finish its work, so that you may be but mature and complete, not lacking. in anything. And then if you go to Hebrews 12, you'll note there that the writer of Hebrew says, endure hardship. as discipline. God is treating you as sons, for what son is not disciplined by his father? And he goes on and talks about the the dynamics of of that son uh that father son relationship And how important it is for when there are things that are off and wrong, how God needs to be involved in that part of your life, and it may be under circumstances that are not pleasant. But think about it. Do you really want to go back in time? And never have your parents correct you. Never experience the difficulty of discipline. The the pain that you experience when you're discipline. I mean I I can think of times when I disappointed my parents, I did things, I said things that were not appropriate, and I was disappointed And that was painful. And it wasn't something that I would desire. And yet, would I really want to go through life? Without that? And what would it look like for the world to see Chuck D area without any kind of discipline, right? No. That that pain that that degree of discomfort was absolutely critical and it's imp it is critical for our sanctification. Uh thirdly, I would say in terms of this whole dynamic of purpose, is there's community when it comes to This issue of pain and suffering. Michael today, I forgot where he's sitting right here, appropriately prayed for different people in your in your congregation who have g who are or maybe have gone through some very difficult times in some cases In terms of their health, other cases in regards to loss of a loved one, etc. And so would you be disappointed If your congregation, your church ignored you, ignored others when they were difficult times? No It's one of the things that that we believe is critical for the body of Christ. Paul in 2 Corinthians, or the uh the the first chapter of the book that we're looking at here says this in regards to God's comfort. He says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion. the God of all comfort, who comforts us in our troubles, and now notice what he says, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves receive receive from God. The point being is that our community will and needs to respond when one of us is going through some difficult time. And that's going to start with prayer. And it's going to s it it's going to start when when we hear of someone going through a difficult time and we pick up the phone or we or we send them an email or a text and we say, hey, I just heard such and such I I even this past week, uh a fellow that I've known for a number of years on the Hill, Chief of Staff, um Um he just left the hill, he's going back to uh the part of the country where he's from. But uh he had responded uh to an email that I had sent and share with me that his wife is is going through chemo uh chemotherapy uh there in Houston, Texas and she's been uh dealing with with breast cancer. Was I just gonna ignore that that email, that that inform information no I'm gonna call him and let him know that I'm I'm thinking and praying for him. Uh and it makes a world of difference when we find the the Congregation, the body of Christ, reaching out to us. And in some cases, all we can say is, I'm praying for you. And that's that is all you need to say. That you are showing concern and compassion. And you are in essence demonstrating what Paul says here in Second Corinthians chapter one. And then the other thing in regards to this whole dynamic of the purpose of pain would be the dynamic. of pride. Now you can't help to notice as you begin this section of 2 Corinthians 12 what Paul says at the very beginning. Therefore In order to keep me from becoming conceited, he says, I was given the thorn in the flesh. I was made to feel uncomfortable. Now I believe that one of the one of the greatest benefits So to speak, that can be experienced within the church, within the individual's life, the individual Christian's life, is to be constantly confronted with this dynamic of And I believe that within my own life I see how it surfaces in so many ways. It surfaces in And the things that I say, whether it be to my wife Debbie or to my kids or or to a friend or to someone that maybe is an acquaintance, I the older I come in the older I become in Christ, the more I see the arrogance that is there. And as I look back on my life, I'm incredibly embarrassed by things that I would say or do or think uh that are nothing but pure contrast See, nothing more than pure pride. And I don't think we always recognize how dangerous that is, how harmful that is. I think especially in terms of the watching world, what the watching world needs to say in terms of the church is a humble church, a church that recognizes that uh it doesn't have all the answers and that it really is dependent upon Christ, not dependent upon our own abilities, upon um our own successes for so to speak. And so I see that within Paul's life, if you look at Philippians chapter two, our psalm Sorry, chapter three, Paul gives us list of things that would in essence be the sort of badge of honor that he would present to the world of saying you know, I have all these degrees, I ha I have all these positions. You know, he says if someone thinks that they have reason to put confidence in the flesh, he says, I have more circumcised on the eighth day, the people of Israel the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, in regards to the law of Pharisee, as for zeal, persecuting the church. And he goes down, he says, look at all these things. These are reasons why I could be proud. Now he he accents the fact that no in the gospel he doesn't have it. But I believe that when you look at 2 Corinthians chapter 12, Paul is acknowledging that he struggles with this whole thing of pride. Conceit. And so he says this. He says that therefore, in order to keep me from becoming conceited I was given a sword in my flesh. And then he goes on and says, a messenger of Satan to torment me Now, one of the commentators, Lensky, in regards to this word torment in the original, says this. He says it's derived from the word for knuckles. It means to strike with the fist so that the hand, so that the hard knuckles make the blow sting uh and crush. And he says, not a picture of slapping Paul in the face He says, that's inadequate. He says, for a slap is delivered with the flat of the hand. But he says, no, this, what Paul is saying is that he's experiencing the consequence of knuckles in the face. It's that sharp in regards to to pain. And why is that needed? Because Paul realized That sure he deals with all kinds of sins within his life. Everything from from uh saying things that maybe are inappropriate or whatever. But he says, you know, it's in or or at least his commentary says this, that it's it's interesting that it's not adultery, it's not stealing, it's not murder, it's not idolatry. It is Is pride that God is dealing with in terms of Paul's life. And he's using the knuckles of the tormentor to do so. Later on, you'll you'll note that Paul or uh in regards to what Paul is experiencing That Satan has his agenda, right? And as we look at this, this takes us to the third point. Which is the priestly side of things. And you know, when I talk about priest the priestly side, I'm I'm referring to the Old Testament where uh the people of God had priests. And what was the purpose of the priest? was to bring the people of God into the presence of God. Okay? The people of God into the presence of God. And the priests had that responsibility and they were the ones who were authorized to to facilitate the sacrifices and the offerings, etc. And so as you come back to this passage, you see this priestly side in terms of what that pain and suffering is doing in in Paul's life. And what's interesting to note is that Satan is very much there in the presence of it. But what's also noteworthy is that Satan doesn't have the upper hand, right? Satan isn't the one who ultimately has the power here As again, as he says, I was given a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. And the same commentator that I mentioned before, Lensky, uh, accents the point. That for Satan, his purpose was to destroy Paul's faith God, through the pain and suffering, is proving his faith. And that's like night and day. And that's what you need to remember. That God is never in the business of destroying your faith, even though pain and suffering may at times feel that way. God's work is always to prove, to further your pain and suffering. And so that we see just a number of things quickly here as we conclude. And that is that as as Paul looks at this part of his life, he realizes that he's bringing, that he's being brought into by the pain and suffering, into the presence of God in a way That he would not otherwise. And there's I think the real benefit. What does it take? What does it take for Chuck Gear To be brought into a closer, more intimate relationship with the living God. And there will be times where it has to be Some form of pain and suffering, some form of discomfort, something that will put him on his knees and put him in a position where he is crying out to God in a way that he would not otherwise because life becomes too busy and he b and and success is sweet and it feels good And it tastes good and all those things, except it tends to take us more to that dynamic of pride. And when we find ourselves in a season of We are being brought into the presence of God in a way we would not otherwise, and this is what Paul is accenting. And so he says, interesting enough, that it is Is in the midst of that discomfort that he is experiencing in the presence of God, his power. God's power. That same power that Paul speaks about in Romans chapter 1, whereas he's talking about the gospel, he says that the gospel is the power of God. He's also experiencing the grace of God He says, This is what I'm receiving from the Lord, that I have not only his power, but his grace, a reminder of the fact that the thing Things that are happening within his life are not because he deserves it, but because of God's grace and his mercy. And then the last thing would be simply this: that through this, Paul's mind Is being changed. He says, therefore I will boast. So at one point, he's persistently going to God in prayer and seeking that God would remove this. But then after a point in time as he's experiencing, he says, my as he's as he experiences the words from the Lord, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect and weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more about my weaknesses. And those times Time, those times when we realize that the Lord isn't answering our prayers the way that He would like, and basically He's saying no. He's also saying, my grace is sufficient for you. The gospel that has been poured out, so to speak, in your life. is changing your your very being that is changing the way in which you are thinking. That gospel is being made alive through this particular There was a a guy that uh again not to accent just the the the times of illnesses, but a fellow by the name of Todd Billings wrote a book called Rejoicing in Lament, Wrestling with the Incurable Cancer in Life And in the book he explores God's providence and the comfort of Christ against the backdrop of his own pride. But he's going to the Psalm And those particular ones of lament. And he says this. He says, many Christians today feel that they can only express their faith in a positive and optimistic key. After my diagnosis with incurable cancer, I rediscovered how the Psalms of Lament can provide a path for prayers before our sovereign God in the Biblical lament goes hand in hand with rejoicing in the grace of God and trusting his promises even when we feel like we are in So I don't pretend to know what you're experiencing today. I don't pretend to to know uh what degree of discomfort you're experiencing, and maybe it's Just not a part of your life and maybe it will never be. But if it is, to whatever degree, for whatever reason, remember what Paul has shared with us us here that there there is times, seasons when it's present, yet there's a purpose in it, and at the same time that purpose drives us to God in a way that it that otherwise we wouldn't experience. My prayer and hope is that as we think about pain and suffering That we'll think about our Savior, Christ, whose means that was employed of bringing salvation to us was through suffering. Isaiah 53 speaks about the suffering servant. And so as we whatever degree we go through in regards to that discomfort, we know that That our Savior understands, understands exactly what we are going through because He went through the same. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for our Savior Christ. Thank you for His suffering, his death, his resurrection. And thank you that as we think about this part of our lives, and maybe what others are going through, our friends Our family members. I pray, Father, that we would be sensitive to them and look for ways of ministering to them through the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.