Uh I have a sore throat this morning, so I hope my voice will carry me through the sermon. Uh Romans thirteen Let's begin at verse 1 and read through verse 10. The Apostle Paul writes, Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is God's minister and avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Therefore you must be subject not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake For because of this you also pay taxes, for they are God's ministers, attending continually to this very thing. Render therefore to all their due. Taxes to whom taxes are due. Customs to whom customs. Fear to whom fear. Honor to whom honor. Owe no one anything except to love one another, for he who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, you shall not covet, and if there is any other commandment, are all summed up in this saying, namely You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, as we continue this morning our study through the Ten Commandments, we pray for Your uh anointing, your presence, your Holy Spirit to move and work in hearts. Father, you know each heart, each mind here, each individual, each man, woman, and child. You know those who are yours, who've been born from above And you know those who may be here this day who are still without hope, without Christ, who are still headed for your wrath, your judgment, because uh they 're going to be paying for their own sins. But Lord, we we do pray for your mercy upon them. We pray that that same uh undeserved grace that was poured out upon those of us who are yours here Would be poured out upon them. Lord, that you'd open eyes, that you'd take away stony hearts, that you give hearts of flesh. May your word accomplish eternal things this day We ask in Christ's name. Amen. The violation of the fifth commandment Can be considered both a cause and a symptom. The violation of the fifth commandment can be considered both a cause and a symptom The dishonoring of parents and the breakdown of parental authority can be recognized as a cause, a major factor behind gangs and theft and violent crime and a general disregard for civil law But the dishonoring appearance is, of course, in another sense only symptomatic of man's depravity in our fallen state. We uh resist all authority over us. In our first message on the Fifth Commandment, we saw that in its primary application, this commandment requires us to honor our parents. By showing them respect, speaking well of them, covering their faults, obeying them right away, all the way, with a good attitude. By always speaking the truth to them, by heeding their counsel and their wisdom, by expressing and demonstrating love to them, by supporting them in their old age. Now why are we to honor father and mother? Well, because first of all it's commanded by God. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God gives thee. It's commanded by God. Secondly, it pleases God. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is well pleasing. Obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. He has given us solemn warnings if we refuse to honor our parents. There's another reason to do it. He's solemnly warned those who refuse to honor their parents. And then our parents, of course, deserve our love and affection and honor. Uh certainly in in almost all cases. There may be exceptions to that. You know, there are abusive parents, there are unconcerned parents disconnected parents, but generally our parents deserve our love and affection and honor for all that they have done for us and and continue to do for us. And then the nation in which children honor their parents will be blessed. The nation in which children honor their parents will be blessed, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God gives you. Now, as we've noted before, each commandment has a broader application than may first appear, as Jesus indicated by his comments on the sixth and seventh commandments. Since hating someone without a cause or calling someone worthless or fool is a violation of the sixth commandment, you shall do no murder. according to the Lord Jesus. And since looking upon a woman to lust after her is a violation of the seventh commandment, you shall not commit adultery, Again, according to the Lord Jesus, then we may safely conclude that the fifth commandment has broader application as well. It applies not just to our relationship with our biological parents, but it applies to our relationship with our caregivers, it may be grandparents. Aunts or uncles. It might be our adopting parents. And by implication, it applies to all those in authority over us. Dutch theologian J. Dauma points out, in Israel heads of families and elders exercised authority in society. Exodus 12, 21. Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel. And in that passage he gave them instruction concerning uh instructing those under them in uh the the way to partake of the uh Passover meal. Passover sacrifice. Elders sat by the city gate to administer justice. Deuteronomy twenty-two fifteen, Job twenty-nine seven. Paternal authority flowed naturally from the household and family to the court and state. Alright, now still quoting from this theologian Dalma, he says, uh Paternal authority flowed naturally from the household and family to the court and state. Thus the king is called father as David addressed Saul, 1 Samuel 24, 12. Just as a king could be called father, so too a woman like Deborah could refer to herself as a mother in Israel. Judges 5. 7 He goes on to say, the honor due to father and mother must therefore be given to all those other fathers and mothers. As the Heidelberg Catechism puts it, this commandment requires that I show honor, love, and faithfulness to my father and mother, and to all who are set in authority over me. that I submit myself with respectful obedience to all their careful instruction and discipline, and that I also bear patiently with their failures, since it is God's will to govern us by their hand. The Westminster Shorter Catechism puts it this way: the fifth commandment requires the preserving, the honor, and performing the duties belonging to everyone in their several places and relations. Alright, let's say that again. It requires preserving the honor and performing the duties belonging to everyone in their several places and relations. The larger catechism asks, who are meant by father and mother in the Fifth Commandment? The answer is, by father and mother in the Fifth Commandment are meant not only natural parents. but all superiors in age and gifts, and especially such as by God's ordinance are over us in place of authority, whether in family, church, or commonwealth. The family is, of course, the primary institution of government in our society. So it should come as no surprise to us that when the family structure begins to erode or dissolve All other governmental structures begin to dissolve as well. The opposite of authority is anarchy As fewer children are born into intact families, as it becomes the norm, as it becomes acceptable in culture for children to be born out of intact families, An increasing percentage of children don't have an ongoing relationship with their fathers. Sometimes don't even know who their fathers are It should not surprise us that they have little respect for other authorities, including those who make our laws and those who attempt to enforce them. Former Senator Phil Graham of Texas said the Justice Department projected, now this was some years ago he said this, the Justice Department projected that three out of four Americans will be victimized by violent crime at some point in their lives. Three out of four Americans will be victimized by violent crime at some point in their lives. Remember that quote of Augustine we shared last week. If anyone fails to honor his parents, is there anyone he will spare? You see, if I don't honor that most uh uh uh important commitment to my own parents If I don't obey and submit myself to them, then is there anyone I will spare? The home is the training ground established by God for the imparting of his truth and the preservation of society. Honor your father and mother that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God gives you. When children learn to honor their parents, they will More easily learn to honor other authorities and the structure of society will be preserved. It's our responsibility then as parents to teach our children by our words and by our example to honor all those in authority. Now this includes government leaders. Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God. And the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority, resist the ordinance of God. And those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. Romans 13 Young David, you'll recall, was fleeing from King Saul. Saul was intent upon killing David because Saul was envious of David, and he viewed him as a rival. This, despite the fact that David was a loyal subject to King Saul, who himself sought the king no harm You remember that as Saul's men, led by the king, were searching for David in a mountainous uh area, Saul, in the providence of God, entered a cave where unbeknownst to him David and his men were staying. So David's men pointed out to him, look, the Lord has delivered your enemy into your hands. This is your chance. You can slay Saul right here in the cave. But David responded, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing to my master, the Lord's anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of the Lord. However, as you remember, David did secretly cut off a corner of Saul's robe, all right, a little piece of fabric. He cut off a corner of Saul's robe, uh, evidently for the purpose of trying to persuade Saul that even though it was within David's power to harm him, he would not. See, that way he could show Saul the the corner of the robe later, which he did And say, you see, Saul, I could have cut off your head if I wanted to, but I don't want to harm you. So David recognized that Saul was God's appointed leader. And in fact, even this cutting off of a little bit of Saul's garment later troubled David. It says, Now it happened afterward that David's heart troubled him because he had cut Saul's robe. David recognized that Saul was God's appointed leader and he deserved the honor befitting his position, even though he was not at that time acting honorably. You get it? Saul deserved honor for his position as the king of Israel. Even pagan kings were to be given honor. Nehemiah and Daniel faithfully served their foreign civil leaders After their nation in the providence of God had fallen under the control of foreigners, they faithfully served their foreign leaders. Now this gives some gives us Some indication as to how Americans should, as individuals, respond to our Chinese masters should they decide to call in our debt. And no longer support us in the lifestyle to which we've grown accustomed. The borrower, the Bible says, is servant to the lender. The borrower is servant to the lender. Proverbs 22. For an example of how we're not to act toward our civil leaders, we have Shimei When King David was reduced to fleeing from Jerusalem during the rebellion of Absalom, Jimei cursed the king, you remember. He threw stones at him. He was up in the hills and David was blowing He was throwing stones at the king and cursing him. Come out, come out, you bloodthirsty man, you rogue. The Lord has brought on you all the blood of the house of Saul. I wonder if some of us have been guilty of saying worse things about our providentially appointed leaders. For saying this, Shimei eventually lost his head for this and other uh infractions later. He eventually lost his head. I wonder if some of us have been guilty In similar ways. Render therefore to all their due. Taxes to whom taxes are due. Customs to whom customs, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Parents, have you taught your children this? That they are to honor all those in authority over them. And in particular, the point here, they're to honor their civil government. Note that we are to obey not just our government leaders, we are to obey our spiritual leaders. Obey those who rule over you. Literally, the word could be translated, be persuaded by. those who rule over you, and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls as those who must give account. Let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you. We had some membership sessions this past weekend, Friday, night, Saturday. Some people say, well, why why should I be be a member of a church? Why is that necessary? Well, for one thing The passage such as this, obey those who rule over you and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls. There is an accountability factor And there are lots of other reasons, of course. Uh if you don't have membership, who chooses your pastor? Who who elects your leaders? Uh how do you choose Sunday school teachers? Is it anybody who just happens to walk into a meeting? May or may not be a Christian. What about when there's a discipline matter? As in 1 Corinthians 5, if someone uh had committed a a sin and had to be removed from the church. If there's no church membership, how is that done? How is discipline done? There are many reasons why it's quite clear that we must be in some association with a local body. But part of that means to submit to the leadership. We are to submit to all legitimate authorities that are placed over us. Therefore, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the king as supreme, or to governors as those who are sent by him, for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of those who do good. Honor all people. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King. We should honor those in authority over us in our vocations. Servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the harsh. Now, of course, the servant-master relationship was somewhat different from the uh from the relationship of an employer and an employee, but it's it's a pretty close match in Scripture. Servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only to the good in general, but also to the harsh. Joseph, sold into slavery by his own brothers, had a very good excuse, didn't he, for being sullen and uncooperative as a servant to Potiphar. undermining his Egyptian master, but instead he was so obedient, so diligent that Potiphar granted him authority over all his household. The obvious point there for parents is have you taught your children, are you presently teaching them to be obedient and submissive to those who employ them? We should honor the aged. You shall rise before the gray-headed and honor the presence of an old man, and fear your God. I am the Lord. Leviticus 1932. You shall rise up before the gray-headed and honor the presence of an old man, and fear your God. I am the Lord Do not rebuke an older man, but exhort him as a father, the younger men, as brothers, the older women as mothers, was Paul's counsel to young pastor Timothy, 1 Timothy 5. After the prophet Elijah made his rather grand exit , carried up to heaven and chariot of fire. And his mantle had fallen upon Elisha. We read that as Elisha was going up the road, some youths came from the city and mocked him. They said to him, Go up, you bald head! Go up, you bald head! It's worth noting that these were not mere children. The same Hebrew word was used to describe Joseph, the word that was translated use. was were uh was used to describe Joseph when he was full grown and in the Egyptian dungeon. I think by that time maybe uh close to 30 years old in Genesis 4112. Because Elijah had just been carried up by chariot to heaven, or we should say because these young men had heard that account, which they probably didn't believe. They said to Elisha , Go up, go up. They may have been saying, why don't you get carried away like your master or like Elijah? We don't want you here any more than we wanted him here Bethel, where they were, was a stronghold of Phoenician idolatry, which was encouraged by King Ahab. As one commentator put it, these young idolaters, probably instigated by some of Baal's prophets, Who were desirous of pouring discredit and ridicule upon the report of Elijah's rapture, publicly insulted the new prophet by sarcastically bidding him to follow his master By the way, scholars believe that they're calling Elisha bald head may have been a reference to what we can assume to have been Elisha's lack of hair. That's why we need scholars to tell us that Which would have been quite a contrast, of course, with Elijah, who was described as a very hairy man. Elisha, you'll remember, cursed these young men. uh commentators uh Jameson Fawcett and Brown note not in a fit of irritation or from an impulse of vindictive resentment, but as the minister of God solemnly in his name pre-intimating the awful fate Which, as a providential judgment, was about to overtake these idolaters. As you may recall, they were then attacked by two bears coming out of the woods Remember the leprosy that came upon Miriam when she challenged the authority of one who was both a governmental and spiritual leader, as well as her own brother. There are, of course, exceptions to the command to render honor, respect, and submission to those in authority over us. First of all, when those in authority over us command us to do what God has forbidden When because he feared they were growing too numerous, which could result in an insurrection, Pharaoh tried to limit the number of Hebrew males who were born. Remember how he ordered the midwives to surreptitiously snuff out the lives of the baby babies who were being born during the birth process? The midwives, of course, didn't do it because the scripture says they feared God. They feared God rather than Pharaoh. Feared God over Pharaoh. Their excuse was, they said to Pharaoh, well these Israelite women are just too lively by the time we get there. We get word they're about to have the baby, by the time we get there, the baby's already been born. We can't, you know, uh be uh be sneaky about uh strangling the child in the process of of birth or whatever they intended to do to or Pharaoh asked them to do. Just somehow snuff out the lives of the male children and allow the female children to live. And the scripture says, Therefore God dealt well with the midwives Wait a minute, they lied to the to Pharaoh, they didn't obey the legitimate authority over them, Pharaoh, and yet the Bible says God uh was blessed by their behavior, or God dealt well with the midwives. God bless them, you might say, for their behavior. Why? Because they were obeying God. Because what God says takes precedence over what the civil magistrate says And secondly, we are not to obey the authority when we are commanded to cease doing what God has required. Best example of that was It's probably already come to your mind, is when after Christ's resurrection the body of men that had conspired to have Jesus crucified discovered that the apostles were going throughout Jerusalem proclaiming that Christ was alive. That he had risen from the dead. They were arrested. Some of them were ordered to be silent. But Peter and John answered, whether it's right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God You judge, for we cannot but speak the things we've seen and heard. We can't do anything else. We've got to tell what we've seen and heard. You think it's right to obey you instead of God? So uh that's Acts 4. So what does that mean to us? It means a soldier is to obey his commanding officer, but not if he's ordered To murder innocent civilians or to cover up a crime. An aid to the president is to obey his commander-in-chief, but not if he's ordered to break the law. An employee is to diligently serve his employer and his direct superior, but not if he's told to falsify a document or violate God's law in some other way. You see, when we fail to recognize such exceptions to the biblical principle of honoring authority, we can end up with atrocities on an immense scale. While everyone in the chain of command affirms I was only following orders. I was only following orders. It's not my fault. I was just following orders. The Christian declares there is a higher authority than the general or the president or the prime minister or the king. We obey God rather than man. Amen? But I suspect that in our society most acts of disobedience to authority are not committed out of conscience toward God But they're committed out of a basic spirit of rebellion that if you're honest with yourself, you probably recognize in your own heart. We resist the authority. We resist the authority of parents. We resist the authority of teachers. We resist the authority of elders. We resist the authority of police, of the military, the gov We resist the authority of God Himself Every time you kick and squirm and chafe and buck about a decision that was not yours to make You are demonstrating the same spirit of rebellion against authority. Whether the decision was made by the board of your company, the administrators of your school, the leadership of your church, or your father in your home The Bible says rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. In other words, it is a very serious thing. How do we violate the Fifth Commandment? Every time I break a law or rule to which I'm subject, I violate the Fifth Commandment. If your parents say be in the house by 11. 30 and you're not in until 12, you are violating the fifth commandment. If your boss says do the job one way and you decide to do it another way, you're violating the fifth commandment. Your teacher assigns two chapters for you to read and you only read one, you're violating the fifth command. If the speed limit is 35 and you decide in your infinite wisdom that you can safely go 40 or 45, you are violating the fifth command. When I was in high school there were rules about hair length. I resisted them because I thought it's my hair. You know, if my hair got on my collar, I don't know if it's on my collar now, but You know, they gotta clip it off. Uh hey, it's my hair. Uh there were rules about what shoes you could wear, what kind uh how you had to wear socks all the time Uh d which was not a bad thing, I guess, but nonetheless. And uh there were rules about shirt tails that all had to be tucked in. And I resisted that. Hey, they're my shirts. Why can't I wear my shirt tail out? Who was that harming in my in the my high school? It was a few years later that God opened my eyes to see that it was not ultimately uh my hair, my feet, my clothes All I was, all I had, was really God 's. It's all unloan to me, you see Uh I'm not going to take it with me unless you bury me in this shirt. Uh and and and even then it's just loaned. It's all on loan to me God is the one who commands, let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. There's no authority except from God. The authorities that exist are appointed by God. That includes your principal at your school. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. Christian, listen, if you will once truly grasp this truth If you will grasp this truth, you'll take a giant step in your Christian growth. Apart from the exceptions that we've noted, When you break a rule or resist a legitimate authority, you are disobeying or resisting God. That's children, that's why your parents are so insistent that you obey them. Because when you disobey them, in effect you're disobeying God. Because they're because God's the one who placed them in this position of authority over you. It's not that they just want to wield all this power. They're trying to teach you this lesson. How then are we to keep the fifth commandment as it relates to authority? First of all, don't speak evil of those whom God has placed in authority over you: teachers, principals, bosses, policemen, spiritual leaders, government leaders. Presidents, congressmen, justices. Secondly, obey all rules and regulations to which you are subject, and do it as unto the Lord, the scripture said. Yeah, the the your boss may be a real jerk, but you obey him as unto the Lord Let your attitude be one of obedience and submission, so your parents and teachers and employers see that you want to please the Lord by obeying and honoring them. And as it happens, not surprisingly, such a spirit, which is what God calls us to, such a spirit will well may well open doors for you in whatever vocation you choose. You don't have to go to go to college and master get a master's degree and what you get a job anywhere And you work really hard. You get a job you really enjoy doing, and you work really hard, and do your best and obey those in authority over you, and you may well find yourself moving up the ladder. and becoming you know vice president of the company one day or president. That's the way it works. As it happens, such a spirit may well open doors for you in whatever vocation you choose. Now, a word to the breakers of the fifth commandment. First of all, recognize that the desire to be free of all restrictions is Satan's temptation, to which he himself succumbed. God doesn't want you to have what he has. He's keeping stuff from you. The desire to be free of all restrictions is Satan's temptation to which he himself succumbed. Recognize that succumbing to that temptation leads to destruction. Destroyed relationships with parents, destroyed marriages, destroyed work relationships, destroyed churches. Thirdly, remember that Christ made himself of no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Jesus says, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, my burden is light. So I wonder, have you submitted to Christ's authority? Have you fallen before Him and acknowledged Him as King of kings and Lord of Lords? Have you submitted to Christ's authority? Have you asked him to forgive you and save you? Have you acknowledged that you violated his law? Have you cried out to him? God, forgive me, save me. Jesus, have mercy upon my soul. Or are you rebelling against him, as Satan rebelled against him? On the authority of God's word, let me warn you, if you do not throw down your weapons, if you do not throw down your weapons and sue for peace, With God, then your end will be the same as the end of Satan. He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the cowardly Unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death Have you submitted to Jesus Christ? Let's pray. Father, uh, forgive us for violating the fifth commandment in the way we've spoken to our parents, the way we've thought about them. The things we've done when they haven't been watching us. And the way we treated others in authority over us, teachers, principals. government authorities. Lord forgive us. You know our frame. You know that we're dust. You know that we're fallen creatures. And uh we still struggle with that old man. So, Lord, we need your help. And those of us who have repented of our sins and laid hold upon Christ, help us to be obedient and submissive to authorities, to have a good spirit, a good attitude. And uh we pray for those especially who might be here still without Christ. Lord, I do pray, we pray. That you will trouble their souls, that you'll give them no rest, no peace, until they find their rest in you, until they make their peace with you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Have thine own weight