If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to 1 Corinthians 7, verses 32 to 40. I would invite you to stand and honor the reading of God's Word if you're not already standing. Some of you are. 1 Corinthians 7, 32 to 40. I want you to be free from anxieties. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord. How to please the Lord. But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife, and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord. How to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to please her husband I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraints upon you, but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord. If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly towards his betrothed, if his passions are strong, and it has to be, let him do as he wishes. Let them marry. It is no sin. But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity, but having his desires under control , and has determined this in his heart, to keep keep her as his betrothed, he will do well. So then, he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even better. A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. Yet, in my judgment, she is happier if she remains as she is. And I think that I too have the Spirit of God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you, and we come before you Thankful, O Lord, that you establish the ordinance and the covenant of marriage, but we are also thankful, O Lord, that you establish and call some people To the holy state of singleness, which we often do not talk about, often, Lord, in our circles. We pray, Lord, that you would take your word, that you would make it clear to us this morning, that you would write it on our hearts. And that we may receive it with joy and live your word out with conviction in a world that is so full of uncertainty. We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. Well, it's been several weeks since we've been in First Corinthians. We paused for a break in Holy Week as we typically do at this this time of the year. But we come back this morning to 1 Corinthians 7 and we consider Paul's arguments about marriage and singleness. Not topics that I think are talked about too often in the contemporary church today If you remember several weeks back, our last passage in 1 Corinthians 7, 25 to 31, I titled that message, Should Christians Marry? question mark, and the answer was yes and no. And you maybe were thinking when you heard that, okay. Um I don't know what to do with that. Well, we continue Paul's argument here because he continues that same train of thought, arguing for the validity of singleness as a Christian option. and continues laying out arguments and reasons in favor of singleness and why it is a legitimate calling in the Christian life. Now, I hope that you can appreciate and understand the complex nature of this particular topic, particularly in a church like this, which is filled with families. And I think it's really ironic that the Lord would call me as a single man who's a pastor to come up here and say these things to you. Somebody asked me this week, what are you preaching on this coming week on Sunday? And I said, well, I have to convince a church filled with families to be single. How about that? I've got my work cut out for me. But you know, I'm actually really grateful for this opportunity because I'm not up here to share my opinions. I I'm never up here to share my opinions I'm here to preach what is in the scriptures and to do so with full confidence. And so I intend to do that this morning. And our main passage is, our main idea of this passage is this. Christians may want to choose to remain single as the better option if they desire greater freedom from worldly concerns and if they have their passions under control. Notice you have the main idea of whether or not to choose singleness, and that breaks down into two if clauses, right? Christians may want to choose to remain single as the better option if they desire greater freedom from worldly concerns, and if they have their passions under control. Those two if statements are kind of going to form our two subpoints to that main idea as we work through this passage. And I want to begin with the first one in verses 32 to 35, Christian singleness and freedom from anxiety. And we see first the anxieties of unmarried and married people contrasted in this passage in those verses. Now what I'm going to do if you look at your Bible there, there's an initial statement in verse 32 that ends with a period, and then the verse continues. I'm going to cut out the beginning just for now. I'll come back to that in a second. I want to look in the middle of verse 32 through 34. The second part of verse 32 says this. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord. Verse 33. But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife, and his interests are divided. And then it's verse 34 kind of says the same thing about unmarried women and then married women. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit, but the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to please her husband. Let's go ahead and stop there at the end of verse 34 for the moment. We see the anxieties of the unmarried and the married contrasted I love the way Paul writes because he basically repeats the same pattern, first for men and then for women, and saying almost the same things about each. Notice he he lays this out here. He talks about being anxious about the things of the Lord when we look at the anxieties of the unmarried man and woman. Let's take a step back really quick and just say it's not that single people have no anxiety whatsoever. That is not true. But we'll contextualize what he means by anxieties as we work through this. He does talk about the anxieties of unmarried men. and unmarried women, and they are anxious first and foremost about the sings of the Lord By the way, I think that that gives a tremendous honor to singleness because it lays out two things that are really important about their anxiety. And it's the idea that their lives As single people are the possession of the Lord. Notice, what are they anxious about? The things of the Lord. That entails the Lord's possession of something. They're anxious about what the Lord possesses and how they relate to that. And first and foremost, as single people, they are the possession of the Lord in a very unique way. When you get married to somebody, in a sense, and we don't like to talk like this in our society, but in a sense, you know, each spouse is the unique possession of the other. They belong together. They belong to one another. But that's not the case with single people. They don't technically belong to any one other person , but they do belong to the Lord in a very unique way. And so that's one thing that we see there. They're anxious about the things of the Lord. But the other thing is those things that God gives them to do. Those things that God gives them to do. The Lord Jesus, in part of the Olivet Discourse in Matthew chapter 24 , Particularly I'm thinking verses 45 to 47. He 's giving this parable of what life is like when Jesus is crucified and then leaves this earth and then prior to the second coming. And he talks about a master who goes away and commits the affairs of his house to the different servants. And so this servant, the doorkeeper, has this role. This servant over here has the role of feeding uh the other servants and making sure the household runs properly. And Jesus makes statement in there where he commits the possession the master commits his possessions into the hand of the servant. That's the idea that illustrates what Paul's getting at here when he talks about the unmarried man and the unmarried woman being anxious about the things of the Lord. In their singleness, the Lord has given them certain gifting, certain responsibility in the kingdom, and they have to carry out faithfully what the Lord has given them. regarding what belongs to him. And so they're anxious about the things of the Lord, but secondly they're anxious about how to please the Lord. That's the other thing that is repeated. It's repeated for the man, it's repeated for the woman. They're anxious? How to please the Lord. Now that's again really interesting because when you talk about seeking to please someone, you are talking about how are you going to be a blessing to them? How are you going to work or function in a way that is to their advantage or their interests. That's the idea here. Talking about the interests of the Lord. How to please the Lord. Now if I was to illustrate that, typically when people are young and they're let's say they're getting out of college and they're applying for jobs in the field that they've studied for and gotten a degree, what do they do? They try to work up their resume and then when they're in the interview, they are trying, if they really want the job, to convince the person interviewing them that they can do the job in a way that will Please the boss or the superior. That's the idea here. And the question then comes up, just incidentally. Do we serve the Lord half-heartedly? Or do we do our best? Now, I I think if I were to ask anyone in here, they'd probably s want to say, well, we want to give our best. We don't want to do just enough to get by. Nobody's impressed with that. That doesn't please anybody. And it doesn't please the Lord. But single people, because of their unique standing before the Lord, in a sense that they don't belong to any spouse, they belong directly to the Lord are setting their hearts to please him and to please them not half-heartedly, but with the best that they can. Boy, if I was to illustrate that a different way, think of like Cain and Abel. Remember that when I preached through Genesis? Cain brought the best fat portions of his offering. And it pleased the Lord. What did Cain bring, the leftovers? It's just enough to get by, and the Lord did not regard his offering. Now there's a third thing here that is unique to women as far as Paul puts this and argues this. He talks about being anxious about how to be holy in body and spirit. Did you see that in verse 34? It's interesting because he adds that to the discussion about single women. He doesn't say that same thing about single men in verse 34. The unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord. That's the same. But how to be holy in body and in spirit. Now I thought to myself when I was studying this this week, why is that different? Why doesn't he just repeat exactly what he said before about the man, how to please the Lord? Why does he say how to be anxious to be holy in body and spirit? Now, I did a lot of digging into this, and the best that I can come up with from different commentators is there had to be something in the historical context of Corinth that made that statement necessary about women. And then when you think about the whole context of this passage in this chapter, uh and even chapter six at the end, warning about sexual immorality. Um and the very heavy warnings there. Maybe this had to do with cult prostitutes, and that some of the women who were converted in the Corinthian church used to be in that line of work and now they're called to single-minded purity and devotion to the Lord. Now, I want to put right out there that the principle of being holy in body and spirit, while Paul argues that probably for contextual reasons as applying to the woman applies to men and women alike. I don't think anyone reading scripture could say otherwise The idea of holiness applies not just to what we do in the body, but to the heart, the spirit, everything that lies within, the affections that we all have. And so the mention of body and spirit means that with single people, purity and holiness and being set apart by God for a holy usage and a holy purpose applies to all of them, not just some of them. Not just some of them. Now we see in verses thirty-three and thirty-four, we see as well the anxieties Not this time of unmarried, but married men and married women. Let's take a look at those particular passages But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife. And his interests are divided. And then you skip down to the the other part of verse 34, but the married woman is anxious about worldly things. how to please her husband. Once again, he says roughly the same things about men and women alike who are married. Notice they're anxious about worldly things. What kind of things does he have in mind there? Well, one commentator, William Baker, says this. He speaks of both men, verse 32, and women, verse 34, who remain unmarried, being able to focus on doing what Christ wants them to do without having also to factor in how this would affect their spouse and their family. Those are the concerns, the worldly concerns he's talking about. When you are single, you are free to make a wider range of decisions without having to consult somebody else, especially if you feel the Lord calling you to make those decisions for his kingdom. But you don't have that same freedom when you're married. You really don't. You've got to ask, well, how is this decision going to affect my wife or my marriage. How is this, or your husband if you're a woman, how is this decision going to affect my children and my upbringing? I'll give you an example. Years ago, I met a pastor at a conference I went to. This would have been probably 2013. And he had planted a church, a PCA church, in Las Vegas, Nevada. And I thought, wow, that's kind of interesting. I mean I mean that must have been really hard. To go to Sin City and you know, where prostitution is legalized and gambling is everywhere. Um and there's all kinds of sin in that city and corruption to to go and plant a church there. And I remember asking him, so was that a hard decision to make to I mean, are you married? Do you have kids? And yeah, he was married and had four kids. And He said to me, well, I consulted with this one professor because when I was thinking about going to plant this church, I had another opportunity to go to New England. I mean New England versus Thin City. And I said, well what made you choose Las Vegas over New England? And he said, well, this professor explained to me just the cultural differences between New England and Las Vegas. New England is living in a post-Christian culture, and the soil spiritually is very hard and rocky. And Las Vegas is technically in a pre-Christian culture. Christianity never took root in that society. And so people might be more open to the gospel there. And then this professor asked them, Do you have kids? He said, yes. How old are your kids? Elementary school. Aged. He said, go to Las Vegas. Your kids are going to be better off in Las Vegas spiritually than New England. What's the point of that illustration? The point of that illustration is this man had to consider what was best for his family, despite the fact that he may have wanted to go to the other place he ended up not going. William Baker continues in his commentary saying this. Presumably this would enable them, being single people, to make bolder choices and take greater risks. to achieve Christ's plan in such dangerous times. Surely it would enable them to travel swiftly and to far-off places as needed. So notice the anxieties of married people and single people are very different when they're putting the Lord first. Kind of humorously. I remember when I was in seminary I took this one girl out on a date And over dinner, I remember very quickly in the dinner, um, even before the food came out, she had told me that she was thinking about going either to Egypt or Sudan as a missionary. I thought, oh. And she's like, yeah, in fact my father's coming out in two weeks. We're going to go out there and we're going to go to both countries and I'm gonna experience both and then we're gonna come back and I'm gonna pray about which country the Lord is calling me to because I really feel the Lord calling me to missions. Now obviously she was single, otherwise I wouldn't have been out on a date with her. And I remember sitting there thinking, and no joke, yeah, that's the part that doesn't work for me. And I knew right then and there it was not going to work. But think about the freedom she had as a single woman to go to two You know, choose one of two very dangerous places for Christians to go to. That's the idea that William Baker's getting across here. The anxieties of of unmarried men and women versus the anxieties of married men and women are very different. And that leads to our second kind of little point here as we flesh out. This freedom from anxieties principle. And it is in verses 32, the beginning, and then verse 35, the principle of freedom from anxieties. Notice what he says right at the beginning of our passage. This is the beginning of verse 32. I want you to be free from anxieties. Why is he saying that? Well, go back and look at the context. that we looked at a few weeks ago. He talked about singleness being preferable when you look at the present distress. And we know from the context of this particular church, as you look at its founding in Acts chapter 18, that this church was founded under much persecution. These are Christians that were afflicted and suffered persecution and isolation and all kinds of consequences for their faith. It was a high-cost environment. And so in that context, Paul says, I want you to be free from anxieties. You know it's interesting between verses 32 and 35, Paul uses that word anxiety or some related word in Greek, because those words are all related six different times. Six times in this particular passage And so there's a principle that he wants believers to be free from anxieties in tough context. And what's the purpose of this principle of freedom? Look at verse 35. He writes, I say this for your own benefit Okay, well, negatively, he says, not to lay any restraint upon you. So there's a negative component to the purpose of this. He's not trying to command them to be single, because that would actually put a noose around the neck of some people and and you know make them feel like they're in bondage and chains in their singleness. It's not a command. And by the way, if you look at what happens when you unnaturally put the restraints of singleness onto people who don't have that calling. Horrible things happen. Think about all the stories you hear from the Roman Catholic priesthood. I mean, before I moved here, when I was in Pennsylvania, I heard of this multi-hundreds of millions of dollar lawsuit against uh the diocese of Baltimore here because of the sexual abuse scandals going back to I think it was like 1956 Someone could fact check me on that, but it was going back a long time. You imposed this celibacy on men who felt called to the priesthood. And what do you think is going to happen when they're not called to that? And so Paul says, he's trying to avoid that here. So he's like, look, I'm not trying to place a restraint on you, but positively he gives two things. One, I'm trying to promote good order. He says that in verse 35. That's the first purpose of this principle of freedom from anxiety, to promote good order. That word that he uses in Greek for good order is euskema, and it's it's the word we get the term in English scheme or form or pattern from. In other words, what he's trying to say is, I'm trying trying to work and counsel you, Corinthians, so that in your singleness, you are not just drifting through life. But that your singleness is sought through, it's well ordered, and it's got a purpose and an aim that it is driving towards. And that begs the question, how many Single people today in the church are simply drifting through their singleness with no purpose or plan or wasting that time. Believe me, as a single pastor, as a man who was single long before he was a pastor, I've had to think through that myself. How do you invest the time well? That's what he's after here. In this freedom from anxieties. It frees you up from all the noise so that you can order your life well. And what's the other purpose? To secure undivided devotion to the Lord. Undivided devotion to the Lord. What is he getting at here? Well, another commentator says this. By the way, I realize this sounds really harsh towards marriage. up to this point. This commentator writes this, Paul does know that one can serve the Lord through a marriage. Absolutely. But he also knows that sometimes married people face problems and unmarried people do not. For example, wondering anxiously whether the choices they are making in per in a particular situation are doing injustice to their commitment to the Lord, since these choices seem so earthly centered rather than heavenly minded? He continues, nor does Paul write this as though he considers unmarried people to be completely free from earthly concerns. In fact, he's writing on this issue because of the worry or the anxiety on the part of the unmarried as to whether or not they should get married. Let me pause. A lot of unmarried people worry about that. Unpause. Moreover, he probably knows, as we certainly know, how self-centered the single life can be. But from Paul's own experience, he can testify to the advantages for doing Christian ministry and trying to please the Lord that come through living as an unmarried person It allows one to serve in undivided devotion to the Lord, and the commentator cites verse 35 to make that point. So the question becomes, as we think about how to apply this, how should we weigh or value the relationship between Christian freedom and Christian singleness? It's an interesting question. Greater freedom, this is the idea I've kind of come up with here from Paul by way of application, greater freedom from worldly concerns frees Single Christians, maybe I should say potentially freeze, single Christians, up to serve the Lord more freely without restraint. There is that possibility. And I want to just say freedom from anxiety must be qualified. I've kind of already alluded to this. Just because Paul says, I want you to be free from anxieties. Notice he does say that the unmarried are anxious about something. It doesn't mean that single people have no anxieties related to this world. And so, but we do want to clarify that the anxieties that Paul's talking about are not the same anxieties. The scripture talks about in other places when it says things like, you know, be anxious for nothing. Do not be anxious about tomorrow, for today has enough trouble of its own. In those contexts, it's very clear that when when Scripture talks about anxiety, it's talking about anxiety in a sinful sense, in a sense of not trusting This is not the type of sinful anxiety Paul's talking about here. It's talking about anxieties that are entirely legitimate. Those of you who are married understand the anxieties of how am I going to put food on the table when work may not be as busy as it could be. How are we going to save enough money for our kids to go to college? How are we going to, you know, make decisions about our children's education? How are we going to make sure that as a married couple we have time to invest in one another and in our marriage so that it's strong and healthy to provide the best possible foundation for our children to aim them and to launch them as as Psalm 127 talks about when it says children are blessings from the Lord. They're like arrows in the quiver of a man. What do you do with an arrow? You aim it Those are all legitimate things to be concerned about. So when Paul talks about anxieties here, I want to just clear the air by saying we're not talking about sinful things that people are thinking about at all. But what he gets at here is in the end of beginning of verse 34 is interests that are divided. That's what he's talking about. And so freedom afforded by singleness must be aimed at a purposeful and redemptive end. Let me just say, the way that the world views singleness and the way that Christians who have their perspective rooted in Scripture, the way they see singleness, are two very different things. And I think this morning, whether we're married or single, we need to check our hearts on our attitude towards singleness. Are we more influenced by what Scripture says or by what the world says? From a worldly perspective, let's start there. Singleness is often used as a time for one to pursue their own goals That's not exact exactly a bad thing. Or is time for personal self-discovery, self-realization, self-improvement, or a search for meaning. Or in the worst possible way, for someone to go sow their wild oats. We've heard that phrase before. It doesn't matter how you splice that, the name of the game there is. Selfishness. Selfishness. We live for ourselves Which in the final analysis oftentimes leaves single people today feeling depressed, deprived, directionless, purposeless, and ultimately unsatisfied. Why? Because the unspoken assumption and lie that people buy into in the world is that this life is all about their story, their experience, and that the world revolves around them. I remember years ago a man telling me, wait till you get married and have kids, you'll realize marriage is like disorienting enough when you go from being single to married, and then you feel like you have that figured out and you've got a rhythm and a flow to that, and then you have kids, and then it's like a Copernican revolution. Everything revolves around the kids. And I remember questioning him about that. Do you think that's really a biblical perspective? And I got shut down pretty quick. By this man. Well, you're you you're a young man, you're single, you're not married, you don't understand. Okay. I didn't argue with him, but I called my dad and asked him about it later. What do you think about that perspective? You've been married 30-something years. You raised three kids that are walking with the Lord. What do you think about that? And my dad's response was quick and simple. That man's a fool. Ooh. My dad didn't mince words. He was he was a kind man, but he did not mince words. That man's a fool. I said Well, why do you think he's a fool? He said, because by by letting their kids be the center of family life in the universe, they're implicitly raising their kids to believe that the world revolves around them. Parents and families? Supplies to you. Do you revolve your lives around your kids? Or do you bring your kids along with you and train them to be adults? I think that's one of the reasons we're seeing single people living in mommy's ba in daddy's basement until they're thirty-five. Playing video games and not growing up. We've taught them this. We've imbibed a worldly perspective of singleness and that life is about us. But you know what the Bible tells us? People, married or single, all people need a purpose that comes from outside of themselves and is much bigger than them. And so if we are imbibed with a worldly mindset this morning, this passage is calling us to repent of the sins of the mind and the heart and the attitude. About singleness. Well, what does the Bible provide as an alternative? Well, from a biblical perspective, we have something much bigger than ourselves in the Lord. Now, let me just stand up front. This applies to married and single people alike, but Paul is applying it specifically to single people here. So that's what I'm going to do. Think about that. Paul highlights single people having the freedom to be anxious or focused on the things of the Lord, number one, how to please the Lord, number two, and to pursue undivided devotion to the Lord, number three. What is the common thread in all three of those things? The Lord. That's it. Notice all of them have the Lord as the focus. And I want to just put something out there. The goal is not simply serving the church, although that is important, uh, as grand as that is. It's not um pursuing some godly endeavor. Whatever that godly endeavor may be. The focus is not what you do. The focus is a person. The focus is the Lord. Thank you. Someone gave an amen to that. Now the church or whatever kingdom endeavor we might pursue only has meaning and significance as it serves the pursuit and the knowledge of the Lord Himself. Let me draw let me draw the point very home very clearly. Only the Lord is big enough to hang the meaning and the purpose of our lives on. And while this is true of all people, married and single, it has some unique applications for the single life. What applications? Well, when you get married, you become what? One, someone say it, flesh. You have union with someone else who's a human being living in this world. And that's a good thing. It's biblical. But a single people a single person does not have union with any human being living on this earth. But who do they have union with, like all believers? They have union with Christ But because that union is their only union, it often comes with a load that is heavy and difficult to bear. But I've said this before in other contexts. The difficulty of a task is often related to the glory that is attached to it. If you're here this morning and you are single as a believer in Jesus Christ, be encouraged that one, you have union with Christ. And while I, as a fellow single person, understand how difficult and heavy that load can often be, feeling like you're alone, there is something glorious in that that is related to the difficulty. Be encouraged. You've not been forgotten. God still loves you, even though you're single. At least to the second point, verses 36 to 40, Christian singleness thoughtfully considered. Now we're gonna go through this fairly quickly for the sake of time, but it is important as well. We need to think through the need for marriage in verse thirty-six. Yes, the need for marriage. How about that? Look at verse 36. If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed, if his passions are strong. And it has to be, let him do as he wishes, let them marry. It is no sin. I have to love how he says it is no sin to get married. That is totally not what you would expect the Bible to say. It's like, oh, you got to get married? Oh, go ahead and do that. It's not sinning. Was there any question that it was? Notice what he says here. He lays out two things that might indicate that, you know what, it's better for you to get married. We've got to counterbalance this counsel here. First, if he's not behaving properly toward his betrothed. . I tend to think based on what he said back in verse nine, if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. I tend to think that's related to what he's saying here. If you cannot continue on in purity in a very practical way for a lack of self-control, it is better to get married. And then secondly, if his passions are strong, again looking at verse 9, if you just are seem to be burning with desire Getting married seems to be all you can think about. Look, it might be better to get married instead of fighting that. And then secondly he says, you know, necessity should lead someone to get married. If it must be so. Because again, what happens if you don't have the gift of singleness? And you continue to try to force yourself to be single, and you put off marriage unnecessarily, all kinds of horrible things happen. Sin happens, and this is what Paul is trying to avoid. In other words, it could lead to sin if they don't get married. So look, marriage is the better option for some. Let me just say, this is a personal opinion. I tend to think marriage is probably the better option for most Christians. Alright? I know Paul is speaking very strongly in favor of singleness here. But I think for the majority of people I do think marriage is more normative, and for good reason. Now we get to verses 37 to 38, thinking through the option of singleness. All he does here He takes the reasons that would make marriage the better option and he flips them on their head. That's what he does. And so in verse 37 , Take a look at that very clearly. But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity , But having his desire under control and has determined in his heart to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well. So it has the idea of having one's heart set on singleness. There is a definitive decision there. Notice the two phrases. Established in one's heart. He's determined in his own heart. That phrase, in the heart, is repeated twice in one verse. This is an internal decision of the will. And it is a decision made in full confidence that that is the right thing to do. But here's the point. It's up to the person. Nobody can tell them one way or the other. And then He talked about passions being strong. He contrasts that in verse 37. If his passions are under control, that certainly breaks the power of necessity to get married And I'm just gonna put this out there. This may be a small minority of people in the church that have this kind of self-control and their desires are not burning Paul does call singleness better when we understand the purpose of singleness, but he leaves it up to one's discretion. If these contingent things apply to you, where you've settled it in your heart, hey, I I can be single. I am not burning with passion. I have all kinds of opportunities to serve the Lord. And I really desire to serve Him. If that is your heart's position, then Paul's conclusion is very clear. Singleness is better. for you. Marriage? You could get married. I mean, he makes that very clear. 38 He who marries his betrothed does well. Yeah, marriage is good. But he who refrains from marriage will do even better if those conditions are true of them. One last thing, I'll be quick about this part before we apply this. Verses 39 and 40. Thinking through the permanency of marriage, this is something then more people ought to think twice about before they get married. And that does not mean to like put an any kind of dispersion on marriage. But notice what he says, particularly in verse 39, marriage is permanent. A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she's free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. And then the first part of verse 40, yet in my judgment, she's happier if she remains as she is. Again, he's advocating for singleness. But I wonder, and I really do, when people get married, how many of them stop to think? This is permanent. I had one friend in seminary, some of you may laugh about this, some of you may not. Um he was getting to know this woman, and I thought, man, they are really good together. And I'm and then he ended up like not pursuing her at all. And I remember thinking, hey, he should marry that woman. Like anyone could put up with him. Cling to her. And he I love this guy, I can say that. Um He ended up pursuing her and I remember asking him, Why didn't you pursue her and like get married to her? That would have been like perfect for you. And he said to me, Well, I had to count the cost Well, what do you mean? Well, as I got to know her, I'm not going to tell you what I what some things I found out about her to protect her, you know, integrity, but I found out some things that I just knew Oh boy, if I married her, that's a sentence that only death will deliver me from. I thought, oh. I don't want to know. But he counted the cost. He knew marriage was permanent. Now there's no perfect people out there, so when you marry someone, you marry someone imperfect. They're a sinner like you, but it's permanent. That leads us to apply. How can we summarize Paul's counsel to remain single? While Christians have total freedom in the gospel to stay single or get married , if they have their passions under control and if they are not constrained by circumstances, they may want to consider singleness as an option for them. Now I want to just be very clear. When we talk about considering singleness through the grid of self-control , I think this is hard in the sex-saturated culture that we live in to make makes us difficult, I think, to discern. But having a strong sense of self-control does not mean that somebody is free or above or without any form of temptation. If you believe that, that is a fool's errand. We will always be tempted till the day we die. But what it does mean is that someone does not need to fulfill these desires physically to have a sense of being complete and fulfilled before the Lord. Let's face it, there are people out there and there's nothing wrong with this. who feel like they're missing something if they stay single. That may tell you that you're not called to be single. Some people know that they are complete in the Lord and they have no sense of urgency to get married to fulfill a desire of meaning and significance. That's what he's getting at here. By the way, that presupposes exactly what the world tells us is impossible. The world tells us that it is impossible to be fully complete and fulfilled unless you are sexually engaged with someone. And as a Christian, that means marriage. And we tend to make the very easy slip from one perspective to another and fall into that lie and believe that we're nothing if we're not married. That's not true. But we need to consider singleness as an open-ended option. This is the last thing I'm going to say today, this morning. By open-ended, I simply mean that the Lord may have you single now. In this season. That doesn't mean he's always going to have you single the rest of your life. Or if you're a widow, you know that you were or a widower, you know that you were married at one point, and now you're in a season of singleness. We have to understand that practically this calling is a high calling, it's a holy calling, and it's a difficult calling And just as in all things, whether you get married or stay single, I think either way you have to count the cost. Of what you're going to decide. And when we look at the whole testimony of this passage, one can choose either to get married or singleness, and each can live a fulfilled, a complete, and a satisfied life in Jesus Christ. But we should weigh these things as we consider singleness. Whether we choose Whatever we choose, we must choose either marriage or singleness with the glory of God as our chief desire and pursuit. Are you wrestling with whether or not God's calling you to stay single if you're single? Maybe ask the question: Is God going to be more glorified in my life if I stay single? Or if I get married. That should be the driving thing. For some, God is going to be more glorified by the pursuit of a single life, and for others, He'll be more glorified by the pursuit of a married life. But either way you look at it, it points you back to the main idea. Christians may want to choose to remain single is the better option if They desire greater freedom from worldly concerns, and if they have their passions under control. Let's uh close our time in a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. These are such complex matters, and Lord, I am so grateful that you give Christians in the gospel the freedom. to choose either to get married or to be single. And Lord, that you do not withhold your good blessings and benefits from either one. Whatever they choose, you are with them, you bless them, and you use them for your glory. Lord, for those who are married this morning, I realize some of this can maybe hard to hear, but I pray, O Lord, your blessing. on their marriages and that you would give them a tremendous amount of joy and contentment in those marriages. But for those who are single here or maybe waiting to get married, I pray, O Lord, that you would drive into their hearts that you have a great purpose, either in this season of singleness or if they've chosen this for their life, In the life of singleness. I pray, O Lord, that you would help us to navigate these issues with wisdom And in your presence and for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.