Amen. Thank you, choir. And uh as you turn to uh Exodus chapter twenty and as we release the little ones for the wonders of worship downstairs There is one other uh announcement we've failed to mention, and uh the sad news that uh Charlotte Crohn's uh nephew, John, many of you may be aware of John. uh passed away last night uh uh s very suddenly. So let's remember uh Charlotte, uh guess that's her sister Sandy's uh uh son. So if you'll remember Charlotte Crone pleads in prayer in the family. Uh, Exodus uh chapter twenty We come back now to the Ten Commandments that we have been away from for several weeks. Exodus chapter 20. Let's begin at verse 1. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image Any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth, you shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Let's pray. Father, we we uh once again come to you With humility, recognizing that we are sinners who deserve your wrath, recognizing that each of us has broken your holy law But we come as redeemed sinners, those who've been forgiven, those who've been restored, and those who now want to do what is pleasing in your sight. So guide us this day with your Holy Spirit. Speak to hearts, Father. Encourage believers, exhort them, strengthen them, and for those who might be here outside of Christ, Lord, may this be the day of salvation for them. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. There are many doctrines we can derive from Scripture that are crystal clear. Doctrines that we can be and should be quite dogmatic about. For example, the doctrine of man's depravity The doctrine of Christ's deity, the doctrine of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone. But there are others which are not as clear and not as critical Matters over which genuine, godly, Bible-believing Christians tend to disagree. For example, the meaning and mode of baptism, the precise order of events, of the end times. Well, among these is the question: are Christians expected to keep the fourth commandment, or was it intended as part of God's ceremonial law and therefore fulfilled by Christ? Laws which we are no more bound to keep is it a law we're no more bound to keep than, say, the Feast of Tabernacles or the Passover? Well, I believe the Fourth Commandment has validity for us today, and let me explain why. Most obviously, because first of all, the Fourth Commandment is included as a part of what we call God's moral law, as one of the Ten Commandments. Remember the uniqueness of the Ten Commandments. Remember the extensive preparations commanded by God preceding the giving of the commandments. Consecrate the people. Let them wash their clothes, abstain from marital relations, set boundaries around Mount Sinai. Remember the thundering, the lightning, the sound of the trumpet, the mountain smoking. The commandments were written by the finger of God, the Bible says, on the tables of stone, kept in the ark of God, reaffirmed by the Lord Jesus and by the apostles. The Apostle John wrote, By this, we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. 1 John 5 Consider the prominence given to the fourth commandment. It's the longest of the commandments. It takes up approximately one-third of the words that are devoted to the commandments. And then consider the antiquity of the principle of a day of rest. Listen to this from Genesis 2. Thus the heavens and the earth and all the host of them were finished. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it. hallowed it, set it apart, you might say, because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. In the wilderness wanderings before the giving of the commandments, you'll remember that God sustained his people with the manna that fell from heaven. We considered it the last Lord's Day. The bread from heaven sent to sustain the people. Where there was little or nothing else to eat. Remember that that manna was doubled on one day each week, so the people might rest on the following day and not have to go out and gather food from the ground Clearly, the practice of resting one day in seven did not begin at Sinai any more than the prohibition of murder or theft or adultery began at Sinai. Although God's people had presumably not enjoyed a weekly day of rest when they were slaves in Egypt. I believe the fourth commandment has bearing for us today, also based upon Jesus' words in Matthew 5. He said, do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled And then he says this, these solemn words, whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so Shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven And then he went on to speak of the sixth and seventh commandments. Remember, he he uh he explained that uh the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder, uh, doesn't end with murder. But but if you hate your brother in your heart, you violated that commandment. The seventh commandment, thou shalt not commit adultery, includes lusting, it includes a prohibition of lusting in your heart, and that's a violation of the commandment So uh it's clear that he had the commandments of God particularly in mind uh in that context. Now I don't know about you, but I'm not aspiring to be called least in the kingdom of heaven. Although it would certainly be an appropriate term, but that's not what I'm shooting for. Now, what was the purpose of this commandment? Well, first of all, it had reference to the past. It's a memorial of creation. For in six days the Lord made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. So the first thing the commandment does is look back to creation. What's a memorial? Well, it's an aid or an encouragement to remember. Memorial Day is a time to remember those who have died in the service of their nation. The day of rest was given to remember God's creative work. You know, it it's it's worth remembering, isn't it, that God did it all, that he made it all, that it's all from him. So he gives us a day in the week to rest from our labors, reminding us that he rested From his labor after creation. And then secondly, it has reference to the present. That is, it's a memorial of our present state of redemption. In the restating of the law in Deuteronomy 5, Moses says, describing the fourth commandment, and remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt. And the Lord your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. So it's it's a memorial of redemption. The Sabbath is a reminder to us of our redemption. Now for the Israelites, that was best pictured by pointing to their deliverance. from slavery in Egypt. For Christians, of course, it's best pictured by pointing to our deliverance from slavery to sin at the cross. Thirdly, it has reference to the future. The Sabbath has reference to the future, just as the land of Israel was to find rest on the seventh year. But in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to the Lord, Leviticus twenty five. After seven Sabbath years, that is, after forty nine years, there was to be a year of Jubilee when debtors would be released, when slaves would be set free, when those who had lost or uh sold their homesteads, their family homesteads, their ancestral homes, uh could receive them back again in ancestral lands. The concept of the Sabbath was a picture, you see, of the redemption that is to come to this earth. When God remakes it, makes it new, you might say. Fourthly, the Sabbath was to provide a time of rest and worship for God's people. Remember, Jesus said the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. God didn't say, Well, I've created this day the Sabbath, now I've got to go out and find somebody to create, to keep the Sabbath. No, no, the Sabbath was made for man. We have a physical need for rest. That's not news to any of you. Some of you rest right here. People in the back there. Me over there. Uh we have a physical need for rest in these bodies that God has designed for us, right? Uh how many of you slept last night? Or at least attempted to. We have a physical need for rest. We have a spiritual need for worship in these spirits or souls that God has designed for us. On the Sabbath day, this special day that was set apart, the burnt offerings were doubled, Numbers 28. And later the word of God was read and proclaimed in the synagogues on the Sabbath day. And God's people gathered together for worship. Well then, why do some believe that the Sabbath no longer has application to us? And some do believe that, perhaps some here. Why do some believe that the Sabbath no longer has application to us? Well, first of all, I think because of the way the ancient Jews kept the commandment. Remember, they developed hundreds of rules and laws spelling out exactly what was permissible and what was not permissible on the Sabbath day. For example, it was permissible to tie a knot on the Sabbath day if you tied a knot with just one hand. It was not permissible to tie a knot with two hands. It was not permissible to save a drowning man on the Sabbath day. Apparently, the thinking was he should have had better sense than to drown on the Sabbath day. There are six other perfectly good days of the week on which to drown. A few thousand years later Some Sabbath restrictions still seem misguided, at least misguided to me. When Donna was a student at the University of Florida, this is some years ago now, one of her sweetmates was an Orthodox Jewish girl She would ask the other girls in the suite to turn on the lights on Saturday, on her day of rest, which, as she was taught, for her to do herself. Would have been a violation of the Sabbath. Now, such rules made and continue to make the Sabbath onerous for some people But the fact that some legalists tended to misconstrue and misapply the commandment is no reason for us not to keep it properly from the Spirit as God intended. In a similar way, the fifth commandment, honor thy father and thy mother. Now, that could be interpreted by some to mean That children should bow down before their parents each morning, kiss their hands and feet, brew their coffee, and sing a song of thanksgiving for them. Amen. And this is of course the way I interpreted this commandment. until our children ran off and joined the circus. But a misinterpretation of a commandment does not negate the true meaning of it, right? We could write all sorts of laws and rules about any one of the commandments. Now some point out, secondly, we're looking at reasons why some would say the commandment no longer applies to us. Some point out that the fourth commandment is not specifically repeated in the New Testament, and I believe that's true. But an argument from silence is not a strong one. If I'm not mistaken, the Old Testament prohibition of incest is not specifically repeated in the New Testament, or the commandment, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain It's not specifically repeated in the New Testament, but we can hardly conclude from that silence that either of those is now acceptable. Thirdly, perhaps the strongest argument of those who believe the Sabbath was a ceremonial law that along with the other ceremonial laws has been fulfilled in the coming of Christ and in his death and resurrection. comes from basically two New Testament passages. Let's look at those. Romans chapter 14. If you have your Bible or your Bible pad or whatever it is you people have nowadays. Romans 14 Bible phone, Romans fourteen, verse one Now, this is of course the Apostle Paul writing to the Romans. He says, Receive one who is weak in the faith, but not to disputes over doubtful things. For one believes he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats only vegetables. Let not him who eats despise him who does not eat, and let not him who does not eat judge him who eats, for God has received him. Who are you to judge another's servant? To his own master he stands or falls. Indeed, he will be made to stand, for God is able to make him stand One person esteems one day above another, another esteems every day alike. Let each be fully convinced in his own mind. He who observes the day observes it to the Lord, and he who does not observe the day to the Lord he does not observe it. He who eats eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks And he who does not eat. And he who does not eat to the Lord, he does not eat, and gives God thanks. And then look over to Colossians. A little bit further along in your New Testament, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians chapter 2, and verse 11 In him that is in Christ, you were also circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. buried with him in baptism, in which you also were raised with him through faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you, being dead in your trespass and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he is made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. So Let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come. But the substance is of Christ. So the argument goes like this. The Jews had annual ceremonies, festivals, feast days, the Passover, of course, the Feast of Tabernacles, the Feast of Pentecost, also called the Feast of Weeks. Feast of harvest or the feast of first fruits. They had the feast of trumpets. They had the Day of Atonement. And Paul here in Colossians is referring to those in verse 16. So let no one judge you in food or drink or regarding a festival. Alright, so festival, that would be an annual feast. Or a new moon. They also had monthly ceremonies. New moons, right? Moon comes along, new moon every month, monthly ceremonies. And then they had weekly ceremonies that he refers to here as Sabbaths. But all those food restrictions, and here's the way the argument goes, all those food restrictions, annual, monthly, weekly ceremonies, have been fulfilled by Christ. He's wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us. I think he may mean they're hard for us to keep them all. And he's taken it out of the way, having nailed it to his cross. Therefore, Paul says, Don't let anybody judge you. Don't let anyone judge you in these things. In other words, you're no longer bound to keep them. But I would make three observations. First of all, it's not clear that when Paul referred to Sabbaths here He was referring to the weekly day of rest commanded in the fourth precept of the law Remember the Jews had a number of special Sabbaths, special holy days of rest. Leviticus 23, 39 describes the Feast of Tabernacles. Also, on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you've gathered in the fruit of the land, you shall keep the feasts of the Lord for seven days. On the first day, there shall be a Sabbath rest, and on the eighth day, a Sabbath rest. Clearly, the term Sabbath did not always apply to the normal weekly Sabbath. And then, secondly, remember that Paul was writing in a period of transition. The Jews would embrace Jesus as their promised Messiah didn't immediately en masse simply conclude that all feasts and ceremonies should now cease. They didn't all decide that circumcision and the Passover and all the other feast days and food and clothing restrictions and sacrifices that they and their fathers had been observing for hundreds of years were suddenly no longer necessary Now, some of them indeed were coming to that conclusion. Others were not there yet. Paul's point was: don't allow others to bring you into bondage in such matters. Don't imagine that you are judged by them. You're not. If you keep that special day, whatever it is you're keeping, keep it to the Lord. If you choose not to keep that day, You do so also in good conscience before the Lord. He who observes the day observes it to the Lord, he said. He who does not observe the day to the Lord, he does not observe it. Paul's point was, be persuaded in your own mind. Don't allow other people to intimidate you, to judge you in such matters. That's good counsel. Even today, there are special days that our culture recognizes, right? Valentine's Day, Mother's Day, Father's Day. New Year's Day, Pastor's Appreciation Day, Martin Luther King Day, Independence Day. Senior Pastor's Day, etc. We we might very people aren't up on all the uh holidays. We might even consider uh Christmas and Easter in that list because we're not commanded anywhere in Scripture to observe either of those days. The Christian, therefore, is at liberty either to observe the day or to not observe the day. If you observe it, do so unto the Lord. If you don't observe it, do so unto the Lord. In other words, for godly reasons, conscientious reasons. Don't allow someone else to judge you in that. You have your own master to answer to, right? And thirdly, the third reason I think that uh these passages that we read uh aren't necessarily telling us that we are no longer to keep the Sabbath day. is even if you believe Paul was referring to the weekly Sabbath here when he refers to Sabbath, his very point was, don't let anybody judge you in regard to it, which is always good advice. It's difficult for me to believe that the apostle would so cavalierly set aside one of the commandments of God. Without developing it and giving us a clear theological justification For taking this third one-third of the Ten Commandments, basically, and removing it. Or another way of looking at it, taking one -tenth of the commandments and saying it's no longer applicable to us Now, continuing with the reasons that some believe the fourth commandment has been abrogated, and we no longer need to keep it, we've considered thus far the fact that the ancient Jews tended to misuse the commandment The fact that it's not repeated in the New Testament, Romans 14 and Colossians 2 could be understood to suggest we're no longer expected to keep it. And now consider this. The Jews kept the last day of the week as the Sabbath, what we call Saturday. If in fact the Sabbath is still in effect, then why do we remember it on Sunday instead? Well, I would respond to that. Nowhere are we commanded to keep what we call Saturday as the Sabbath. What's the commandment? Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. But the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work. The principle is labor six, rest one That's the commandment. Labor 6, rest one. As theologian John Gershner pointed out, the only way the Jews knew to keep what we call Saturday was that the manna was doubled on the day before. Had the man have been doubled on what we call Wednesday, they would have rested on Thursday. The command was labor six, rest one. And then Jesus calls himself the Lord of the Sabbath. His Lordship certainly makes the change of the day of rest possible. Well, all right, granted that it was possible, why would it be appropriate? Well, it's certainly more appropriate, I believe, for Christians to celebrate God's redemptive work than his creative work. Makes more sense to celebrate the resurrection than the day of rest when God rested after creation. We could view it this way: the first Sabbath was a memorial of creation. The second, a memorial of the new creation. The first Sabbath commemorated the giving of life. The second Sabbath commemorates the giving of new life. By creation, we have life through the first Adam. By redemption, we have life through the second Adam, the Lord Jesus Thomas Watson wrote, By creation we had a right to an earthly paradise, by redemption to a heavenly. Now we should note that just as they had done with circumcision, the ancient Jews had sort of, at least, now this is my take on it, had sort of made a mess of the Sabbath day Turning it into something that was meant to bless and refresh God's people into something burdensome to them. Can you imagine them taking issue with Jesus for healing a man on the Sabbath day? And thinking they were justified to do it. That's the one place I believe in Scripture where it says Jesus was angry. Jesus looked around about on them with anger. Being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts. There was a man there in the synagogue who had a it was his hand, right? Or was he lame? I think it was his hand. And anyway, Jesus healed them on the Sabbath day. And uh maybe maybe he was lame, I've forgotten now. But the point is, he healed him on the Sabbath day. And the and the people, the Pharisees were there and they were judging him in their hearts. Who is this guy healing on the Sabbath day? And it says, and Jesus looked round about on them with anger, being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts Circumcision uh you know became for the Jews uh something of a mess as well because they thought that if you're circumcised, then you're okay, you're one of God's people, you're headed for glory. And they had lost the significance of the circumcision, which is a sign of faith. Abraham received the sign and seal, the faith that he had while he was still uncircumcised. If you don't have the faith, it's a meaningless ritual. God is able of these stones to raise up children of Abraham. So circumcision was supplanted by baptism. It shouldn't surprise us to find that the Sabbath day, the the uh Sixth day was supplanted by the first day. Or the the Yeah, sixth day. Sabbath supplanted by the first day of the week. Is that right? How many days are there in a week? See, this is what happens when you depart from your notes. Don't ever do that. If the Old Testament people of God celebrated the creation by resting on what we call Saturday, Surely it's fitting that the New Testament people of God should celebrate the new creation by resting on the day of Christ's resurrection. Similarly, it's more appropriate for us to celebrate Christ delivering us from bondage to Satan than to celebrate Moses delivering us from bondage to Pharaoh. And of course, we have New Testament indications that the first day of the week is now very special for believers. It was on the first day of the week that the apostles discovered that the tomb was empty. It was on the first day of the week that Jesus appeared to his disciples as a group. It was on the first day of the week that the Holy Spirit was poured out upon the church, the day of Pentecost. There is reason to believe that the first day of the week very early became a special time for Christians to gather. Acts chapter 20, verse 7. Now on the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul, ready to depart the next day, spoke to them. Now you could be arguing, yeah, but they would meet all kinds of days, right? It just happened to be the first day of the week. But nonetheless, it's interesting that scripture refers to that In first Corinthians sixteen we see Paul exhorting the believers in Corinth, concerning the collection for the saints, as I've given orders to the churches of Galatia, so you must do also on the first day of the week Let each one of you lay by him something lay something aside, storing up as he may prosper, that there be no collections when I come Evidently, the day came to be called the Lord's Day, because the day was sanctified, set apart for the Lord's use, just as normal bread and wine, once set apart, becomes the Lord's Supper. Some believe the Apostle John was referring to the first day of the week when he wrote, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And I heard behind me a voice, Revelation 1:10. And then we have some indications from early church history for what they're worth. The Epistle of Barnabas, cited by Clement of Alexandria in the second century, traditionally ascribed to Paul's missionary companion, Barnabas. It says, quote, we celebrate with gladness the eighth day whereon Jesus indeed rose from the dead. Alright, so seven days, seventh day, seventh, the next day, first day of the week, the eighth day. We celebrate the eighth day. Ignatius, who was a contemporary of Polycarp, Polycarp was a disciple of John, the apostle. Ignatius wrote, Let everyone who loves Christ keep holy the first day of the week, the Lord's day. And the African theologian Tertullian, born historians tell us about 160 A. D. died early in the third century, about 215. He wrote this: Sunday we give to joy. Sunday we give to joy. Now, some closing observations First of all, remember the day of rest was given by God for our benefit. The Sabbath was made for man. As someone put it, when the falling gust of the world has clogged the wheels of our affections, that they can scarce move towards God, the Sabbath comes and oils the wheels of our affections, and they move swiftly on The day of rest was not meant to be a day of drudgery. Drudgery would be life without it. Secondly, like the day of rest itself, worship is not meant to be optional. It was ordained by God for our good and for his glory. We are not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is We're called to be members of a church, members of a body. Everywhere the apostles went, what did they do? They planted churches. They started churches. They gathered people together into bodies of believers. And they encourage them to use their various gifts to edify the body and to reach out to others. That's God's idea. Thirdly, it's not asking too much, is it, for us to devote one day and seven to rest and worship? Imagine a man with seven gold coins. I think I've shared this illustration before. Let's say I've got seven gold coins. And uh Nick, you're close here. So Nick comes up to me with a pistol. And he he uh demands all my he demands my money And uh no way I'm telling the story wrong. All right. Let's just say you're a beggar, Nick, all right. He's got that tiny little office by me. And he he comes over and he says, uh, you know, I really could use some gold coins. And I have seven, so I decide to give him six. I graciously give him six gold coins. Then he pulls out the pistol and demands my seventh gold coin. Alright, then I call the session and Nick's outta here. Alright. But uh but the point is You know, God has graciously given us six days for our use. He didn't have to give us any, right? He created you. He gave you six days. He says, use these, labor, do your labor. But the seventh I want you to rest. And I want you to worship me and let it be a time of for rest and for worship. And so what do we do? You know, we say, no, no, no, I want that seventh coin I want that for me. Are you grateful for the sixth or are you covetous of the seventh? Are you grateful for the sixth or covetous of the seventh? In conclusion, yes, I believe there are Ten Commandments, not nine. I believe these commandments express God's desire for mankind and for his people in particular. And when we return to our consideration of the Ten Commandments in a couple weeks, Lord willing, we'll devote some time to answering the question: how are we to keep the fourth commandment today? But let me say this. There is a danger in preaching on the Ten Commandments. There's a danger in preaching on the Ten Commandments. The danger is that it might encourage a listener to settle for morality and miss Christ, right? If you think you can merit eternal life by conscientiously resting one day in seven, or by scrupulously avoiding taking God's name in vain, or by not stealing, or not coveting, then you've missed the point. You see, the law was never intended to do that. You and I, well, let's talk about you for a moment. You're like A man who's been bitten by a poisonous snake, by a venomous serpent. You're like the man or woman who's been bitten by a poisonous snake. Now uh uh you came across some rules about handling poisonous snakes, ten of them, in fact Uh don't handle poisonous snakes. Don't reach into a hole where a poisonous snake might uh be living. Uh the third, uh don't bring a poisonous snake into the bedroom with you. Uh never make a gift of a poisonous snake on Pastor's Appreciation Day. Don't don't take your neighbor's poisonous snake. And that's all good counsel, that's all good advice. And you determine, hey, from now on, I'm going to try to keep those rules about poisonous snakes. Well that that's that's good. But that's not going to help you. You've already been bitten by a poisonous snake. That's not going to keep the venom from coursing through your veins. If there had been a law given which could have given life, then righteousness would have been by the law. Galatians 3. 21. You see, it's too late for you to try to keep these rules and regulations as a way of life The poison's already coursing through your veins. It's already destroying you from within. There's only one hope for you, one hope for me. Cry out to Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus, come to me and bring the antidotes. He has an inexhaustible supply, and it was purchased at great cost. He has an inexhaustible supply of antidote that was purchased at great cost. The Scripture has confined all under sin that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the man in the wilderness, they're dead. This is the bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world. You see, it's faith in Jesus Christ, not morality, that's going to save your soul. It's faith in Jesus Christ, not morality, not keeping these commandments, not keeping the golden rule, not trying to be a good person. Why is that? Why why can't that help you? Because however old you are, you've already got years and years of sin behind you. And even if you could be perfect from now till the time you die, and you can't be. You can't pay back for all those sins you've already committed. The soul who sins must die. The wages of sin is death, God says. You've got to come to him, Lord. I have broken your commandments, I've broken your laws. Every single one of them. In my thoughts, in my words, in my actions. And I know that your holiness demands that sin be punished. Because whoever keeps the whole law yet offends in one point is guilty of all, the Bible says, James. I'm a lawbreaker, Lord. I need a redeemer. You sent your son to be the sinless substitute, the Lamb of God. Lord, forgive me and save me for his sake. Save me by his precious blood. Give me the antidote for my sin, the precious blood of Christ. I'm resting in him. I'm trusting in him. I'm believing in him. Save me for his sake. Not because of what I've done, but because of what he's done. You come to God that way, mean that. Pray that prayer, mean that in your heart. On the authority of God's word, I declare to you, your sins will be forgiven. As mine were. You'll be with God in heaven. And uh and then you'll be able to perfectly keep God's law. Let's pray. Oh Father, we pray first of all for anyone here young person, boy or girl, uh man or woman, still outside of Christ. Oh Lord, please draw them by your Spirit to true saving faith. Lord, keep us from legalism. But Lord, help us to know the joy of being your people, trying to obey your revealed will and trying to do it from our heart. out of uh glory to you. Thank you for your word. Thank you for Christ. In his glorious name we pray. Amen. Would you uh