If thou carest not who I love, then thou lovest not me. wrote the English poet and Church of England cleric John Dunn. God cares who we love and who we worship The first commandment concerns, of course, who we are to worship. I am the Lord thy God, thou shalt have no other gods before me. The second commandment concerns not only who we worship, but how we worship. Let's look at it again. Verse 4. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. What does this commandment forbid? Well, at first hearing, we might conclude that it forbids all artwork altogether. This is uh clearly not how it is to be understood because just a few chapters later, according to our chapter divisions , The Lord gives directions on the fashioning of the Ark of the Covenant, that elaborate chest in which was kept the tablets of the law the jar of manna from the wilderness wanderings, and the rod that was used by Aaron in the great confrontation with Pharaoh. On top of that box or chest, the ark, God told his people to build a mercy seat, he called it, of pure gold. It 's just under four feet long, by our reckoning. And you shall make two cherubim of gold, and the cherubim shall stretch out their wings above, covering the mercy seat. Exodus 25. Other examples include God commanding the fashioning of oxen for the temple. And Moses was instructed, you'll remember, to make a serpent of brass when God's wrath broke out upon his people. The Lord would not have directed his people to do what was a clear violation of his moral law. So God's subsequent instructions clarifies the meaning of the second commandment, just as the instruction to execute murderers in Exodus 21 Clarifies the meaning of thou shalt not murder or thou shalt not kill in Exodus 20. Clearly the the forbidding of murder in Exodus 20 does not include executing murderers. which is a lawful role of the civil government granted by God, which is clear from Exodus chapter 21. So the depiction of animals or people or fish or trees or birds by sculptors or by other craftsmen or artists is not in and of itself a violation of the second commandment, quite clearly. So what does this commandment forbid? Well, first, it forbids the worship of false gods with images or idols. It forbids the worship of false gods with images or idols God's people were to have nothing to do with the heathen worship of the nations around them. Ashkareth of the Zedonians. Dagon of the Philistines, Kemosh of the Moabites, Molech of the Ammonites. We ask again, where did all this idolatry originate? The descendants of Adam and Eve were certainly introduced to the true God and his worship. The scripture says, although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful. But became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God. into an image made like corruptible man and birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Romans 1 In other words, they did precisely what the commandment forbids. Now, describing idols, the scripture says, eyes they have, but they do not see. Ears they have, but they do not hear. Noses they have, but they do not smell. They have hands, but they do not handle. Feet they have, but they do not walk. Those who make them are like them. In other words, when it comes to spiritual insight, those who make such idols are as dense, as senseless, as lifeless as the idols themselves. The scripture goes on to say, so is everyone who trusts in them. Well, that's us if we trust in these idols that are created by a craftsman. But we are as lightless as the idol, spiritually speaking, certainly. Now, you may be thinking There is no chance that I will ever succumb to such nonsense, right? Now, thankfully, there's at least one commandment that I'm not in danger of violating. The second commandment. Well, perhaps that's true. If you consider violating this commandment in its most obvious sense only , Carving an image of a calf or a lion or an eagle or a man and then bowing down before it in some act of worship. Granted, I would suggest that, or I would agree that Few, if any, of us, uh would uh would succumb to that temptation. But this commandment also forbids the worship of the true God with statues, images, pictures, etc. It was the true God who was being worshipped via the golden calf at the foot of Mount Sinai. It was the true God. Who was being worshipped with the golden calf at the foot of Mount Sinai? This is your God, O Israel, that brought you out of the land of Egypt. Exodus 32, 4. The people wanted to worship Jehovah, but they wanted to direct their worship to or through something tangible. Something they could see or touch, something that would represent God. They knew that God wasn't some cat. But they wanted to worship God. And they wanted something to look to and to touch and to think about as they were worshiping this invisible God. The late Harold Lindzel wrote, The infinite, invisible God cannot be limited to plastic. that is able to be shaped or molded forms, nor be truly represented in any man-made fashion. Graven images profess to give men some real idea of what God is like. This cannot be done. For if the whole world were filled with figures of God, they would all give the wrong impression. And there would not be enough of them to fill the need. God is a spirit, and any endeavor by man to anthropomorphize him That's a big fancy word, meaning to make him appear to be a man, or to get ascribe to him human characteristics, does violence to his being and person. This commandment forbids the use of statues, images of any creature or created thing in God's worship. And he makes it rather clear, doesn't he? In heaven above, well, that would include the sun, the moon, the stars, uh asteroids, uh uh meteor meteors, uh uh birds, all creatures, all flying creatures. In the heaven above, in the earth beneath, well that would cover trees, rocks, mountains. rivers, people, animals, insects, crawling things. Well, what about ocean creatures? Perhaps we can make images of them. No, you shall not make any likeness of anything in the water under the earth. Well, that would rule out then uh uh fish, squid, uh sharks, dolphins, whales. You shall not use such an image in the worship of God who is a spirit Well, that seems to cover all the bases. Heaven above, earth beneath, waters under the earth. You shall not bow down to them. There are great cathedrals around the world where the statues, statues of Mary, Peter, Paul, etc. , have had their toes worn away By the kisses of the devout as they bowed down to them. The Roman Church makes a distinction between the supreme worship, which is reserved for God. And the veneration or honor that is given to saints. And when they say saints, they mean someone who has uh for whom or or through whom some miracle has been performed and who has been declared to be a saint uh by the Roman Church Rome insists that the image or statues, the images or the statues, they're not being prayed to. The prayer is being offered to the person represented by the image. So when you bow down and kiss the feet of a statue of the Apostle Peter, you're not worshiping the statue, but you are praying to Peter and venerating him. The image or statue is simply an aid to the worshiper. As Thomas Aquinas put it, men are more easily moved by what they see than by what they read or hear. That's the thinking behind it. The Church of Rome argues, sometimes an image can teach more than a whole day's worth of reading Scripture. They would point out that they're not making images of God. They're simply making images as aids to our worship. But look at verse 3. Again, you shall have no other gods before me in verse 4. You shall not make for yourself a carved image Any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth, you shall not bow down to them, nor serve them. Is it not the height of presumption for me to dare to worship God in the very way he specifically declares in his commandments that he is not to be worshipped? It's interesting that in the Catholic numbering of the commandments, they lump what seems clearly to be the second commandment that we've read into the first commandment. Now, some think this was an attempt to blunt the force of the Second Commandment by absorbing it into the first. In fact, if you do a web search of the Ten Commandments, the Catholic list. You will find in the abbreviated list of the commandments that will come up on your computer, at least it came up on mine, in the abbreviated list, the bullet points, you might say , The first is, I the Lord am your God, you shall not have other gods before me. End of that first bullet point commandment. And the second is, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. What we call the third commandment. They simply absorb the second commandment into the first, and at least in the bullet point, it's not even mentioned. Now, how then do they arrive at 10? Well, they divide what we call the tenth commandment into two. Number nine is you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, and number ten is you shall not covet your neighbor's stuff, your neighbor's goods. But whether you lump it into the first commandment or let it stand on its own, the scripture is crystal clear. Only God is to be worshipped, only God is to be venerated, and only in the way He has ordained. As Luther came to see it, the introduction of statues and images into the worship of God is in reality establishing idolatry. It is undertaking to worship God without God's bidding, on the basis of one's own devout inclination. For he will not have us, us, direct him how he is to be served. He will not have us direct him How he is to be served. He intends to direct and teach us in this matter. His word is to be there. This is to give us light and guidance. Without his word, all is idolatry and lies. However devout it may seem, and however beautiful it may appear. For here you learn that it is not enough to say and think, Well, I am doing this for the glory of God. I intend it for the true God. I want to serve the only God. All idolaters say and intend just that. End of quote. But the entrance of God's Word brings light. While I was studying at seminary in Philadelphia, this was way back in the 20th century. Donna and I worshipped and served in a small church in what was called the Frankfurt section of northeast Philly. Donna visited the home of one of her Sunday school children, and the mother told Donna that she bowed down to an image of Mary every morning and every night She showed her the image. I think it was in a little uh ch uh uh what do you call it, closet, I guess. She opened the closet and there was that image and She would bow down to that image of Mary morning and night. But the entrance of God's word into that home brought light. And that dear lady came to true saving faith in Christ, joined the church, and even sang solos in our In our church there in Northeast Philly. So this commandment forbids the use of carved images in the worship of God. And it forbids by implication The use of any other objects to be adored or venerated in the process of worshiping God. Any objects not sanctioned by God's word. To help to establish that, look at Deuteronomy chapter 12. You're in Exodus, Leviticus, numbers, Deuteronomy, fifth book of the Bible, chapter 12. And look at verse 2. You shall utterly destroy all the places where the nations which you shall dispossess served their gods. On the high mountains and on the hills and under every green tree. And you shall destroy their altars, break their sacred pillars, and burn their wooden images with fire. You shall cut down the carved images of their gods and destroy their names from that place. You shall not worship the Lord your God with such things. In 2 Kings 18, we read of King Hezekiah of Judah doing what was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father David had done. He removed the high places and broke the sacred pillars, cut down the wooden image, and broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made. For until those days the children of Israel burned incense to it and called it Nehushton or Bronze Thing. Now we mentioned this bronze serpent a little while ago. It was it was made at the Lord's instruction, as many of you know, for the benefit of his people. Remember, God had wondrously delivered his people from their bondage in Egypt through miraculous means, but the people in the wilderness became discouraged and uh and actually complaining. You know, at least back in Egypt we had uh They had a variety of vegetables to eat. We had food that was uh uh you know that varied, and here we are out in the wilderness, and we're gonna die out here, and they began to complain against Moses, and they began to complain against Well, God sent fiery serpents among the people, the Bible says, some type of poisonous viper, we presume And many of them died. But Moses interceded that God might not, in his wrath, destroy his people. And God told Moses to make a serpent of bronze and put it on a pole. And if a serpent had bitten anyone, and he was therefore dying, if he looked upon the serpent of bronze, which was lifted up on the pole, he would live. But years later, that serpent of bronze became for the Israelites a stumbling stone. They treated it as something special, and they burned incense to it And so Hezekiah utterly destroyed it. You see, the tendency that we have as humans is to take something material that has had some connection to some great person or great event some a person perhaps that we hold in high esteem, and we we hold that thing, that object, in high esteem. That's the tendency That has helped keep Christie's auction house in business for almost 250 years. Huge amounts of money are paid for items of clothing or objects that once belonged to famous people. Lincoln's uh what they call the stovepipe hat, for example. That same tendency has led through the years to the church's veneration of relics and the use of relics. Now, the fact that people were venerating relics and were told that as they did so they would lose time in purgatory, that Helped to lead to the great Protestant Reformation, as you know. Luther's biographer, Roland Bayton, notes some of the relics that were housed in Rome in Luther's day. Quote, Rome had a piece of Moses' burning bush. Rome had the portrait of Christ on the napkin of Saint Veronica, the chains of Saint Paul. the scissors with which the Emperor Domitian had clipped the hair of Saint John. A church in Rome had the crucifix, which leaned over to talk to Saint Brigita , Brigitta Another had a coin paid to Judas for betraying our Lord. Its value had greatly increased, for now it was able to confer an indulgence of 1400 years. As dishonoring as such relics are to God, they are also damaging to believers and unbelievers alike. giving them giving the unbeliever another excuse to write off the whole Christian church as steeped in superstition. I was interviewed Interested to read uh something that Mark Twain wrote. Mark Twain, the actual author, Samuel Clemens, known to us as Mark Twain, published a book in 1869 describing an excursion he took. a a luxury uh boat uh excursion. They went they went to Europe and and uh went to uh the Holy Land This was now, think about it, about 350 years after the Reformation. The book was called The Innocents Abroad, and it was the best-selling book of Mark Twain's career during his lifetime. I was interested to read this description of his visit to the cathedral in Milan. The priest showed us two of Saint Paul's fingers, he wrote, and one of Saint Peter's, a bone of Judas Iscariot, it was black, and also bones of all the other disciples, and a handkerchief in which the Saviour had left the impression. Of his face. Among the most precious relics were a stone from the Holy Sepulchre, part of the crown of thorns. Then he has in parentheses, they have a whole one at Notre Dame. A fragment of the purple robe worn by the Savior, a nail from the cross, a picture of the Virgin and Child painted by the veritable hand of Saint Luke. This is the second of St. Luke's Virgins. We have seen, he wrote, and once a year all these holy relics are carried in procession through the streets of Milan. Now I'm not a history detective, but it's not hard to imagine that his visits to the great cathedrals in Europe only served To confirm Samuel Clemens in his skepticism toward Christianity. This commandment forbids the use of relics and images and statues, etc. in the worship of God. And by implication, this commandment forbids the worship of God by any means not appointed in his word. Remember, Jesus said the commandments are deeper and broader than they appear. Thou shalt not murder, that also means you shall not hate your brother. Thou shalt not commit adultery means you shall not lust after a woman. You see? This commandment forbids These commandments are broader than they appear at a first reading. So by implication, this commandment, I believe, forbids the worship of God by any means not appointed in his word, rosaries, confessionals, crucifixes, pilgrimages, special holy days, holy seasons, whatever the mind of man can devise Deuteronomy 12, 32, whatever I command you, be careful to observe it. You shall not add to it, nor take away from it. Now, to come a bit closer to home, the use of drama in worship services is becoming acceptable practice even in evangelical churches such as ours The motivation seems to be to reach the unchurched visitors who may be present to try to reach them where they are. Now the goal may be admirable. Drama can certainly be utilized to present the message of Christ, as is evidenced by some of the fine Christian films that have been produced recently that many of you have seen. But I don't believe there is any biblical warrant for including dramatic presentations in the worship of God. We should not approach the subject of worship with the primary intention of reaching, much less pleasing the unbeliever who may happen to be in the congregation. As Westminster West professor Michael Horton put it, you can tell who is being worshipped on Sunday morning in a given church by whom the service is attempting to please. Our evangelism is often human-centered, so we tell the unbeliever what we think he or she wants to hear. How God can do this for him or fill that need for her. Our public worship is therefore often geared toward the consumer, getting new people in, instead of raising the eyes of the people to heaven in praise and thanksgiving. If this is our focus, our worship will inevitably require innovations at every turn. And theological objections will almost always be undervalued. That is, if our goal is to get new people in. In contrast, biblical, God-centered, Christ-focused worship looks to the word and the sacraments, not to entertainment, to inspire worship. He goes on to say it's but a small step there. I'm sorry, it is but a small step from a human-centered religion to a self-centered living. If God is there for me, if I, as a pastor, believe that I must conduct worship in a way that treats each person as though he or she were the main attraction on Sunday morning, And if the theology I teach gives them the impression that God exists for their happiness and pleasure, it is inevitable that the people present in the auditorium on Sunday will worship themselves and not God. On Monday. When we come to church in order to get something rather than to give something, when we come to church in order to get something rather than to give something, namely praise, thank God. Thanksgiving, fellowship service. And when we come as members of an audience expecting to passively experience the events of a service, Rather than to actively participate in them as members of a congregation, what is going to challenge us to get beyond that sort of worldly thinking on Monday morning? Francis Shaker was quoted at Presbytery yesterday as saying, Personal pleasure and comfort are the idols of people in the Western world. world. They got our idols. They may not be calves. Personal pleasure and comfort. As we've noted, every negative commandment in the Ten Commandments includes implicit with it a positive command. You shall not murder also means that you shall do everything in your power to preserve life on the other side of the coin, you see. And uh And even so, when God tells us that we are not to worship him with graven images, it implies that we are to worship him as he has commanded us in spirit and in truth. So much more could be said about what true worship is and how it is to be offered under the uh Under the uh teaching of this commandment, much more could be said about what true worship is. But uh that has been a subject of our preaching here before, and we're not going to expand on that on the Ten Commandments series by uh uh devoting another several weeks to talking about what true worship is. For more on that, if you're interested, you could listen to this. We have a five-part series on worship that we started in November of 2010. And that's available on sermon audio, or you could receive a C D of those sermons here. What is the reason given for this commandment? For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. That's the reason given. Now jealousy occurs when a person is convinced that affections, service, sympathies that should be reserved for him or for her are turned elsewhere. Right? That's what jealousy is. No husband who truly loves his wife would want her to squander her affections on some other man Nor would he want her to pretend that as her heart is going out to this other man or to others, her true intention in that is to honor her husband. So does God have cause to be jealous? Of someone or something in your life? Does God have cause to be jealous of someone or something in your life? Those things God has graciously given you, perhaps your home, your job, a husband, a wife, a child, children. Do you glorify the gift and then neglect the giver? Or perhaps is there an image, or a statue, or a picture, or a token, or a set of beads in your car, or around your neck? Or in your home that assists you in the worship of God? Are you worshiping God in some way not appointed in His Word? Well, there is a remedy for those who break this commandment. God has graciously given us a gift to satisfy our hunger for an image of Himself, to aid us in our worship. He's given us what Colossians calls the image of the invisible God. He's given us his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. The image of the invisible God. The word translated image is icon Jesus is the icon, the physical representation of the invisible God. In him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead, bodily, the scripture says. Colossians 2. 9. So Jesus was able to say, He who has seen me has seen the Father. John 14. As someone put it, God provides in Christ for all the cravings our hearts may have to see God. God provides in Christ for all the cravings that our hearts may have to see God. But how do we see Jesus? How do we 2,000 years removed from his earthly walk. How do we see Jesus? Well, we see him in the Gospels. We see him feeding the 5,000, rebuking the winds and waves on the Sea of Galilee. We see him transfigured on the mount we call the Mount of Transfiguration. We see him casting out demons, giving sight to the blind, giving hearing to the deaf, voice to the mute. We hear him say to the leper, Be clean. To Jairus' daughter, Talatha. We hear him say to Matthew, follow me to Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. Come to him, drink of him, eat of this living bread, smell his garments, as scented with myrrh and aloes. Psalm forty five. Touch his wounded hands and sigh. Jesus is all the image of God that you or I or anyone will ever need. But perhaps you're not a believer. Perhaps you have no confidence that when you leave this earth you'll be with God. You remember the incident of the venomous serpents that we spoke of earlier from Numbers 21? Listen, you are in much the same state as those Israelites who have been bitten by the poisonous serpents. There is a poison that is coursing through your veins. It's sin. And it will take your life. It's just a matter of time. But as God provided the children of Israel with a way of deliverance from certain death, so he has done for you and for me. Jesus said, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whoever believes in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. And then he goes right on to say, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Jesus was lifted up on the cross, not for his sins, but for the sins of his sheep, for the sins of his church, for the sins of his bride. Well, you say, well, how do I know if I'm one of his sheep? Here's how. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life. Life and they shall never perish. Neither shall anyone snatch them out of my hand. My father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand. I and my Father are one. There it is again. The image of the invisible God. If you're hearing Christ's voice That is, if you're if you're hearing what I'm trying to say, if God's Spirit is speaking to your heart and you see, yeah, I'm a sinner, I've broken the laws of a holy God, I deserve his wrath, I have that sin nature. In my blood. God have mercy on me. You come to God that way. You cry out to Him God, have mercy on me, a sinner. I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life, that he died upon the cross, that he rose again from the dead. I believe it. And I want him as my Savior You come to God and pray that prayer, you mean that in your heart. On the authority of the Word of God, I can tell you, your sins will be forgiven. You'll be granted this precious gift of everlasting life. Does that mean you'll never have trials or suffering? No, not at all. You come, you take up your cross, and you follow me, Jesus said. It's not necessarily going to be easy, but it's the way of life. It's the way of the cross. It leads to glory Let's pray. Father, you know that we are given to idolatry. Children, athletes , movie stars, authors , great leaders, it just goes on and on, Lord We want to see something, we want to touch something, we want to have things that have touched the famous or the powerful. And Lord, that Tendency creeps over into our worship of you, and so God forgive us. You've told us in as clear terms as we can imagine That we are not to worship you with things. You are a spirit. You don't have a body like men. So Lord, help us. Help us to examine our hearts, to examine our lives. And Lord, if there's idolatry going on there, Father, please bring it to our attention by your Spirit. May we repent of it and lay hold upon Christ and Christ alone. And Lord, if there's someone here this day still dead in sins, Father, may this be the day of salvation for that one. Please, Lord, take your word. Anoint it. Water it. Give the increase that souls might come the true Savior. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.