If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to open them to Matthew chapter twenty-one, verses one through eleven. Um if you need the Pew Bible in front of you, that's on page nine eighty-one and nine eighty-two. And if you are physically able, please stand in honor of the reading of God's holy word from Matthew chapter 21, verses 1 through 11. This is the word of the Lord for us his people this morning. Now, when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Beth Page , to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, the Lord needs them and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophets, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you. humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the full of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. Then they brought the donkey and the colts and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when they enter Jerusalem, The whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth. of Galilee. This is the word of the Lord. Please be to God indeed. You may be seated. Let's go before the Lord and ask his blessing upon his word. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we do come to sit at your feet, to learn from you, to hear from your word And Lord, in this passage, particularly and directly, to see your son Jesus magnified, O Lord, as the triumphant King. Lord, we come before you and we pray that because of this time in your word, that your Holy Spirit would make much of your Son Jesus in our eyes. That he would indeed be glorified today as he is in your presence in heaven, seated at your right hand. Lord, we pray that you would take your word and that you would open our eyes, our ears, our hearts, and our minds. Lord, that we might see and hear. And know and understand. And that we might receive this with great gladness and joy today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen Well, you can imagine that at the end of World War II there was great, great joy and celebration. Now I know it's hard for us today to probably grasp uh the magnitude of their joy at that time because we're so far removed uh in terms of time and history and chronology from that generation and that event. But I think when we look at pictures uh of what happened at that time and the celebrations that they had, I think we might understand clearly uh what their joy was all about. The the picture that I I have in my mind when I think of the end of World War II and when the Allies defeated the Axis powers of of Japan of Germany first and then Japan a little later, there was rejoicing in the streets of Times Square. You might remember the picture of the young man who's coming home from war and he grabs this woman and he's just kissing her with Times Square right in the background. And you might think, Oh, what a lovely couple. What a special moment. And then you learn something about that picture. This man had no idea who this woman was. He was just so happy to be home. He grabbed any woman he could and just kissed her. I mean joy that was exuding in that moment. And we think of when oppression is conquered, there is an appropriate response of joy. And that leads us to our main idea of this passage this morning, and it's this, because Jesus has triumphed over our enemies. Our response and faith should match the magnitude of his victory. That's the idea of this triumphal entry. Because Jesus has triumphed over our enemies, our response and faith should match the magnitude of his victory Now if you're visiting with us or you're unfamiliar with how we do things here, we have that main idea printed right below the liturgy on page five for you to come back to. But that is the idea that we want to unpack this morning as we walk through this passage Together as we relive the moment of Jesus' triumph at the beginning of his Passion Week And there's a few things we're gonna try to answer as we work through this. Uh for instance, when we talk about the triumphal entry of Jesus What is it that Jesus triumphed in, or we could ask, what is it that he triumphed over? That's one question that we want to get clarity on. What enemies are we talking about? We're clearly not talking about the Axis powers of World War Two. There's other enemies that we're talking about talking about here. So let's dive in and try to answer those as we look at the story once again and walk through it. I want to begin first. Our first point is The preparation of Jesus' triumph in verses one through five. Look at me again at verse one. We see that Jesus prepares his approach. It says now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Beth Page, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two of his disciples. Now I know there's a comma there leading into verse two, but let's stop there for just a moment. We see Jesus approaching by laying out the purpose of his coming to Jerusalem. And to do this we have to look at the the context that comes before this passage. We talk about context being king. The context of the story will illuminate the meaning of these events and and when we look at what happens beforehand, um in Matthew chapter 16, verse 21 to 21 23, Matthew 17, 22 to 23, and Matthew 20, 17 to 19, you don't have to worry about the specific references. Just remember that three times leading up to Jerusalem, Jesus predicts his suffering and his death and his resurrection. You can look at any of those three um announcements to his disciples privately, and Jesus predicts, so to speak, that he will be rejected by the chief priests, the scribes and the elders of And that idea of being rejected, the the word that he uses there in the original Greek has the idea of rejecting something after close examination. And we know as we will read the story this week, uh that Jesus, as he's handed over to the Jewish religious leaders by the mob in the Garden of Gethsemane, he went through these mock trials, so to speak. where there were false witnesses brought forward, and that was used as the basis of his rejection. We see that he's handed over to the Gentiles. He prophesied that. times. He he mentions that he will be mocked and scourged, which he was. He mentions then he will be put to death. We find that that will happen by crucifixion. Which happened. And then he mentions after all that negative themed things that he's going to go through. But then on the third day, he will rise again. And we find in Mark's gospel particularly when he mentions being risen again, the disciples did not quite understand what that meant, and yet they decided, well, let's not ask it But he prepares his approach by laying out the purpose of their approach. He's going to be hand Handed over. He's going to die on a cross. And then he's going to rise again from the dead. That is the purpose for which he is on his way to Jerusalem in this passage. And we see that he approaches via the Mount of Olives. And that that is really kind of important for us to understand. Uh we're given the place name here. He comes to Beth Page, or Beth Page, um however you want to pronounce that in the Gospel of Matthew. Luke and and Mark also mentioned Bethany. Bethany and Bethesda. Bethany and Beth Page. It's likely when you look at the geography and how that is laid out, Jesus. Jesus is coming from the east. He's heading west towards Jerusalem. The Mount of Olives is on the east of the city Um Bethany is where he would have come to first. John chapter 12, verse 1 lays out that Jesus came to Bethany and stayed there. That's where Lazarus was, whom he raised from the dead previously. He's staying with him. Beth uh Beth Page would have been uh right to the west of Bethany. Now, why is it important that Jesus approaches from the Mount of Olives coming to Why is it important that he comes from the east moving west? Well, if you go back to your Old Testament and you look at Ezekiel chapter Chapters 8 through 10. What you find is as uh God's people in the Old Testament were about to go into exile to Babylon, Ezekiel has this amazing vision. of the glory of God leaving the Holy of Holies in the temple, going into the holy place, out into the temple court, and the glory of the Lord leaves the city by way of the Mount of Olives. In other words, signifying that God's people are about to go into exile east, and God's glory leaves east to the Mount of Olives, signifying their exile was at hand. And later on in Zechariah chapter 14, verses 1 through 5, the Mount of Olives is where the Jews were expecting the Messiah to come according to that Messiah. Now I happen to think that the Zechariah prophecy is referring to the second coming of Christ But remember, the Jews at that time didn't differentiate between a first and a second coming of Christ. And so what would they have been thinking? What would have been on their minds as Jesus is approaching from the Mount of Olives? I mean keep in mind, pil uh the Jewish pilgrims would come by the thousands through the Trans Jordan because they didn't want to go through Samaria and defile themselves. on the way to Passover. They would have been on the other side of the Jordan. Jesus went that way. They would have crossed the Jordan. They would have come through Jericho. We know that Jesus came He would have stayed in Bethany. There's anticipation building here. And as people are watching this approach, you can imagine that in their minds, the King of Glory is coming. And we see that Jesus continues the preparation of his triumph in verses two through five with instructions. And notice in verse two, he gives three instructions. Very simply, go to the village opposite you. In other words, they are in Bethany. The village opposite them, looking west, would have been Bethpage, or Beth Page, however you want to pronounce it. What's that? He secondly says, Loosen the donkey, and thirdly, bring it to me. He gives these instructions and then in verse three he gives instructions in the event of experience Well, what if somebody looks at you and says, Well, what are you doing? Well, you can see in verse 3, he's very clear. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say the Lord has need of them. It's interesting that in the original Greek, that uh conditional statement there, if anyone says to you Is is a true to fact statement. In other words, Jesus is giving a prediction of what will actually happen when they get there, what they will experience. Now, Matthew doesn't record it here. Mark does in the parallel passage that they actually did experience that opposition. Someone did ask them, What are you doing? And they did exactly as Jesus had said. Well we see Jesus giving instructions. We see him instructing his disciples in the event of experiencing some kind of questioning in verse three. But then we see in verses four through five, Jesus' instructions reveal his sovereignty as king. And so not only does he give his disciples instructions of what to do, not only does he explain to them what will happen when they carry out his instructions, now we find parenthetically in Matthew In verses four through five, what this all means. And we find that Jesus' instructions and what is about to happen to him is entirely consistent with Old Testament scripture Remember at this time, they don't have the New Testament like we do here in front of us. Their scripture was the Old Testament. But what what happens here is consistent with Scripture, and we find that this scripture passage is actually none other than Zechariah 9-9, which we read earlier in our worship service. And it quotes it right there. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is Coming to you humble and mounted on a donkey on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. Verse four says this was to fulfill that statement. Now the question is, how does this event fulfill what Zechariah had said in Zechariah 9 9? Well again, just think of how context determines meaning. Zechariah nine, verses one through eight, if you were to read that, which we did not, tells us that the coming king is coming So we get this idea that the king is coming and he's bringing judgment on the enemies of God's people. Verse 10, right after verse 9, tells us that in response to that judgment, or or what issues forth from that judgment, is that he will speak peace to the nation. By the way, when you think of a king coming to conquer his enemies, um that's not what you ideally think is going to happen. You usually think a war is going to happen. This king is going to speak peace to the nations, which is a strange way to conquer them, but that's how God works. And then verses fourteen through seventeen of Zechariah 9 tells us that that coming king is coming to save his people. All of this would have been in mind. for these Jewish pilgrims um as they experience these events. But I think it's interesting that the prophet tells us, and I want you to highlight this. If you are one to take notes or highlight something in your Bible, the prophet here is telling us that Jesus is a humble king In other words, Jesus is not like the kings of the world at that time. And to us, this whole idea of coming humble and mounted on a donkey, that sounds like a strange way to prepare for a triumphal entry. In our day and age, we think the same way they probably thought back then. If you're gonna come in triumph, a king is gonna come with chariots and soldiers and a lot of pomp. But that's not again how God works. And again, the imagery would have been really stark to the Jewish imagination. It would have reminded them of 1 Kings chapter 1, verse 44. When Solomon, when Solomon, in all of his glory, was installed as king over Israel. Israel, there was some conflict going on. There was somebody who was claiming the throne, and it was Solomon's older brother. But what does David do? He tells his advisors, take my son Solomon. Sit him on the king's mule, in other words, on David's mule, ride him through the city of Jerusalem, and proclaim that Solomon is king. Very similar imagery to what Jesus is saying to do here. And the Jews would have understand that this entrance of the kingdom King means that God had promised to send this king, and God was about to deliver them from their enemies. But this king comes to set up his kingdom, not in the way that other kings set up their kingdoms. Again, when I think of how kings and history have set up their kingdoms, it's always been through much bloodshed. And it's usually the shed blood of those who are conquered. But this king is different. He does not come to conquer through shedding the blood of his enemies and those he conquers. Rather, he comes to conquer by the shedding of his own blood. And that's exactly what he prophesied three times on the way to Jerusalem. And so I want to ask the question, how does Jesus' preparation of his own triumph, how does that inform us this week as we look forward to Holy Week? I think that's a fair question. And I I think the answer to that is we prepare for Jesus' trial By preparing ourselves for what we are about to go through ourselves this week for Holy Week. Now, most of you today sitting here, I shouldn't say most of you. That's being presumptuous. Many of you, perhaps, this morning have not really given too much thought for preparing for Holy Week. I mean in the reformed camp of the church, oftentimes we don't typically observe things on the church calendar, and so things like Lent. Are not always in the forefront of our imagination, but for some Christians that is what they use to get ready. And I'm not saying we should practice Lent. I'm not here to make the argument for that, but I do believe in principle that Jesus' preparation for his triumphal entry is instructive for us this morning and this this week and and I I want to put two things before you by way of application as we think about Holy Week this week. Do we prepare ourselves by nurturing a longing for Jesus' second coming? I mean clearly that is what was going on when Jesus is is announcing three times that he's gonna go to a cross and and die and arise again. He was essentially trying to whet the appetite of his disciples of what was about to happen, which was going to secure their redemption. And so we ask ourselves, do we prepare ourselves today? I would encourage you this morning in the swing to focus your attention on the cross and the coming resurrection this week, which secured our redemption. Which secured our our salvation from sin. This is why I prayed earlier. I believe it was when we did the prayer of invocation at the beginning, praising the Lord that He has secured our redemption and salvation, not simply made it possible. That's a hallmark of Reformed theology. But our redemption is secure and that security of that redemption falls upon the cross and the resurrection which we're looking forward to this week. And I believe if we nurture our hearts on those truths this week, that will create a desire and a long For the second coming of Christ, when we will see that redemption realized in full. And so how do we begin to prepare ourselves? Well I think preparation comes with our meditation from the scriptures. And I realize how stereotypical that sounds. Just continue to point back to the Bible. But remember, Matthew excites the reader to Christ's triumph here in verses four to five by pointing back to the scriptures. Scriptures to demonstrate the consistency between what God says and what God does. I mean, when somebody says one thing and does another, we become very weary of them, don't we? Just in our relationships with one another. others. But Matthew's trying to whet our appetite and prepare us by showing us there's a consistency between what God says and promises and then what God does when He fulfills that. And I want to I want to encourage you to do maybe you can do one thing this week to to put this into practice. Choose one gospel account. It can be Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John. Choose one gospel account this week week and I want you to read through the Passion Week each day at a time. So for example, today Sunday, Palm Sunday, the first day of Passion Week. We're reading, at least for this sermon, right? The Triumphal Entry. That is what happened on Sunday. And then follow the narrative through. What happened on Monday? Read that. What happened on Tuesday? Read that. that this precious little said about Wednesday but you'll find Thursday and Friday and each day read that part And as you do so this week, ask the Lord to reveal the significance of each day of the Passion Week. And ask the Lord that in light of that he would grow your own anticipation for the second coming and ultimate triumph of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. That leads us to our second point this morning, the entry of Jesus in triumph, which we see in verses Verses 6 through 9. Now, this is where what Jesus said and instructed begins to unfold in real time for the disciples. We see in verses 6 through 7 the entry on a colt of a donkey. And again, we notice here when we look at verses six and seven, the disciples went, they did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Now I've already said how this procession is has begun long before Sunday. It began when Jesus started working his way with the other pilgrims. in the Trans Jordan to Jerusalem. In fact, Luke nineteen thirty-seven says that this begins outside of Jerusalem, and that's interesting because we tend to just Think of everything that happens in Jerusalem and this story. But it happened long before that. People have been following Jesus. Since Jericho, where he healed the two blind men. He saw they saw him raise Lazarus from the dead in Bethany, and now they're he's visiting with Lazarus again six days before this event. Momentum had been building. to this entry. And when you look at verse eight, the entry comes amidst much celebration. Take a look at that. Verse 8. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. No, that's interesting because there's two things happening there that unless you really know your Old Testament, you may miss these details. One, they throw their cloaks on the road. Why would they do that? Well again you see this imagery played out in the Old Testament in Second Kings chapter nine verse thirteen. And to make a really long context and story, very short for our time this morning, God had pronounced judgment on the wicked house of Ahab, who was king in the northern Kingdom of Israel. And as he did that and began to work that judgment out, he raised up a man by the name of Jehu to be king. And when he did that, it says in that passage, they hurried and took their cloaks and spread them under Jehu on the bare steps. They blew the trumpet and they shouted, Jehu is king. Well what does that have to do with this passage? Well, think about it. Jehu went and then executed judgment on Ahab's house. Perhaps the Jews here are thinking that Jesus is coming to bring judgment on their enemies, the Romans. That may have been in the Their minds. In fact, I tend to think it was on their minds. But they throw their cloaks in the road. That's the first thing. The second thing, they throw palm branches in the road as well. Well what's up with that? Well, I got news for you. I don't think, contrary to John Calvin in his commentary, I don't actually think that this was a spur of the moment decision. If you go back to Leviticus, I believe it's chapter twenty-three, verse thirty-nine and forty. Um I should have put that in my notes. not there. Someone can fact check me on that later. But it is in Leviticus. During the feast of Passover and Tabernacles, the Jews would gather palm branches and make a procession into That was something in the Old Testament Mosaic Law. They are fulfilling that as The king of glory, to use Psalms twenty-four's language, comes in to the city. So there's entry amidst much celebration. There's entry on the colt of a donkey. And verse nine, there's entry amidst much praise. Look at verse nine. This is what they say. The crowds that went before him and the crowds that were following him. That's an amazing retinue for a king. They were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. That 's beautiful. Why is that beautiful? Because you just see more Old Testament scripture coming to life and being fulfilled in the experience and life and ministry of Jesus. Jesus Christ. That's Psalm one eighteen, verse twenty-five. And the fascinating thing about that is Psalms one thirteen to one eighteen. are called the Egyptian Halel Psalms. Those are the Psalms that the Jews would sing, especially as they celebrated the Passover. He's quoting the very last psalm that was associated with Passover. That gives you an indication of what is about to come. Death, burial, resurrection. And notice that phrase, Hosanna to the son of David. What does Hosanna mean? Well, it's an Aramaic word or phrase. It's pronounced Hoshiana. It means help. Or it means save. I pray you or I beg you. These people are pleading for salvation. Now, again, I tend to think they're thinking in fleshly terms. Salvation from the Romans But there's a few things we can pull away from this, uh this story, by way of of application this morning. And I'm I'll just say two things. I think that their expectation of salvation from a material, physical, we'll say political, because we're almost an empire, a political enemy kind of clouded the issue. Their expectation was off the mark. And I think that challenges us today a little bit as American Christians. Christians It causes us to take a step back and ask as we think about the Lord working uh to save his church and to work among his people today, are our expectations fleshly? Are our expectations today worldly? I don't know. Maybe. Do you demand of Jesus what he never promised you? Do you demand that he build you the kingdom that is more about this world and your comfort than it is about his character and glory? So I do think that there's there's an implicit challenge to where our hearts are this morning in this passage. But on the flip side, and on a positive note, look at the great joy that these people have. And rightfully so. As they they live out, maybe even unknowingly, uh the Old Testament and what it promised and prophesied about There was great joy that these people had. And so the other side of that question is, do you have joy this morning? Or did you just walk in here because that's just the thing you do on a Sunday morning? I believe this this passage is meant And that leads us to our third point this morning in verses. 10 through 11, we see the power of Jesus' triumph. And so we've seen the preparation of Jesus' triumph up to this point. We've seen the entry of Jesus in triumph, but now we see the power of his triumph in verses ten through eleven. And we see it in a way you probably don't see on the surface. Let's look at verses ten and It's very simple and straightforward. When he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up saying, Who is this? And the crowds said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee Okay. So they're asking who he is. They get at least some semblance of an answer. By the way, from from our perspective today, that may not sound like a satisfying Answer. This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth. He's coming in as a king and they're identifying him as a prophet. Well what's what's with that? Well if you go back to Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 15 through 20. Most pointedly 15 through 18, you find that Moses makes a prediction or a prophecy that the Lord is going to raise up a prophet like him from among their brothers, and it is They were looking for the prophet. And we see him identified as that here. even as he comes in as a king. In verses 10 through 11, as we think about our third point, the power of Jesus' triumph, what is the triumph of Christ in this passage? What's going on here? Because I've got news for you. It's much more than just what happened physically on Palm Sunday. That points to something more. We see the the power over sin and death. And to understand this, we have to understand what Jesus said, going back again to the context beforehand. These three announcements that he is going to die, as we find, through crucifixion and then resurrection. The power over sin and death is the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus that we celebrate on Holy Week, which begins today on Palm Sunday and goes through Easter. Now the misconception that will be cleared up as we read through the passage and we work through the gospel all the way to Easter Sunday is that the enemy that Jesus conquers is not the Romans. And it's not because that wasn't a worthy enemy to be defeated. And the Romans were formidable in the world. But even the Romans, in all their strength and might, was too small of a victory for the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about that. Rather, the enemy is sin and death. The New Testament goes on to explain this, and I'll just use Romans as my example. Romans 3. 23. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans 8. 3, Jesus condemns sin in the flesh on behalf of his people. In other words, those who put their faith in him That helps us understand what this victory is all about when we look at the context beforehand, but look at the context after this passage. Now we didn't read this. But if you look at verse But if you look at verses twelve and thirteen Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and brought and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers. And the seats of those who sold pigeons. And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of robbers. What is going on there? Well, Jesus yeah, he cleansed the temple historically. But do you know what Jesus did after he died and rose again from the dead? He ascended into heaven, didn't he? The New Testament tells us that. We see that in Acts chapter 1, verse 11, after Jesus. is risen from the dead 40 days later, after instructing the disciples for 40 days on what is going to come and what their mission is going to be and their work and their task, he goes up to the Mount of Olives. And he ascends into heaven until a cloud covers Jesus from their view. What does he do when he gets to heaven? Well, the book of Hebrews. Hebrews. It's pretty instructive. Jesus went into the heavenly tabernacle, didn't he? And he essentially cleansed the heavenly tabernacle with the blood of his sacrifice, then he sits down on at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, not just as king, but to enter into Don't you understand, brothers and sisters? This morning, when we look at the triumphal entry of Jesus coming in to Jerusalem, going to the temple and cleansing it. We are getting a a picture, a foretaste of his triumph in his death, in his burial, in his resurrection. in his ascension and his cleansing of that heavenly tabernacle so that we might be brought into fellowship, into the holy place before the Father, unhindered by sin. Because of what he did. And his triumph. And so we don't just see the power over sin and death. We see the power of the resurrection and the ascension. This is what the triumphal entry points forward to. This is why it is so triumphant. It is an earthly um foreshadowing of a heavenly reality. Listen to what the Apostle Paul says in Ephesians 4, 8. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led host a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. Ephesians two six Jesus has seated us with himself in his triumph over since Sin and death. We are seated in the heavenly places in Christ even now. What a triumph And so what does the power of Christ's triumph mean for us today? Maybe not what you think. It means this. This is the principle of application. Jesus as king subdues us to himself. The Westminster Shorter Catechism says about Christ as King. Christ executes the office of a king. I like this in subduing us to himself. And then in ruling and defending us, and in restraining and conquering all of his and our enemies. And so for the time being, and for the limited time We have right now this morning. I want to focus on that phrase and that um catechism of Jesus um subduing us What's the application here? If you are here this morning and you are not a Christian, you have never made a profession of faith in Jesus, He is not your King, your Lord and your Savior by profession. There are some of you here where that's the case. Maybe you are here this morning testing the waters of Christianity to see if it is really for you My my my exhortation, my pleading with you this morning would be to come to Jesus because he is the King who rules humbly. He's not a tyrant. He's not a despot. He's not gonna abuse you. Look at how he comes in triumph in this Passage. Humble, mounted on a donkey, is fulfilling a passage that follows in uh in Zechariah 9. 10 saying he speaks peace. to the nations. This is the manner of his conquest. It's a declaration and an invitation. Peace with God. Some of you here this morning who are not Christians or don't know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior personally for yourself through faith, some of you are at enmity with God. In you're in you're thinking that your sin separates you from God and how could he possibly forgive you? By his death, his burial, and his resurrection, he has triumphed over everything that could possibly Separate you from him forgive and he pleads with you. Come. And his invitation is an invitation of peace. It's not violent conquest. It's peace For those of you who are Christians. Maybe you're here this morning, and you have made a profession of faith in Christ. You've given your life to Him. You know the joys of walking with Him. The question is, do you continue to live your life in allegiance to Jesus? For you, I'm talking about your sanctification, your your Christianity Do you submit to Jesus as King? Or as we prayed earlier in our confession of sin corporately This morning? Do you treat Jesus as if he's the servant and you're the Lord? There's a difference in perspective because Between saying, Jesus, I want to invite you to come along on my journey with me. Notice that puts you in the driver's seat. Versus saying, Lord Jesus, I'm yours. You're my king. Where are we going? Where are we going? Those are two different perspectives, brothers and sisters. And I fear that even us Christians are not not um immune to the temptation of treating Jesus as if we're the King. So what stands in our way of living lives in allegiance to the King of Kings? Or not, I think expectations come into play. We have expectations of what we want our families to be, what we want our marriages to be, what we want our careers to be, what we want our friends to be. And by the way, let's just say all these ex not all these expectations are bad. But when we think and live this way as if it's our expectations that have to be met. We're putting ourselves on the throne and the short changes us from the King of Kings transforming our lives into what he He wants us to be his chosen people who are being forged even now through difficulties so that they might be fit. For a kingdom of glory when he returns. That brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? Because Jesus has triumphed over our enemies. Our response and faith should match the magnitude of his victory. What is the magnitude of his victory? He defeated our greatest enemy, death. He brings us eternal life. He took our flesh and then transcended the confines of this world. And now in his human body, I don't know if you've ever thought of this. in the human body of Christ, which was resurrected from the dead, ascended into glory, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, the dust of the earth now sits on the throne of Christ. What a triumph. What a cause for joy this Palm Sunday. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today. We are thankful, O Lord, for the triumph of your Son Jesus. Lord, I pray that you would fill us with joy in knowing that this triumph of His is our triumph. And I also pray, O Lord, that you would use your word this morning to prepare our hearts to look in more detail this week as we think about what happened in Passion. As we think about returning here on Thursday night for Maundy Thursday to remember that upper room with your disciples that was so intimate and so So precious. As we return here on Friday to remember the cross and your death, Lord Jesus, and what that entailed for us. And as we look forward to Easter Sunday. Sunday, next week, where we celebrate. Prepare us, O Lord, to be filled and satisfied. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.