If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Look at verses 1 through 5 this morning, and I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word if you are physically able to do so. First Corinthians chapter five, verses one through five. This is the reading of God's holy word. It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans. For a man has his father's wife. Are you arrogant? Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you. For though absent in body, I am present in spirit. And as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus, and my spirit is present with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh. So that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. This is the reading of God's holy word. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and this passage which deals with some heavy realities, Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes to see see um and open our ears to hear and our minds to understand and our hearts lord to to receive from your word uh what you have for us this morning help us to see the gospel in this And we pray, Lord, that you would help us to see and understand your heart for your people in this passage. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In Luke's gospel, interestingly enough, the Christmas story begins with the angel Gabriel coming and announcing to a virgin that she would conceive and bear a son and commanded her to call his name Jesus. Now, in response to that, Mary asks a totally legitimate question, which I think would be in anyone's mind. How will this be since I am a virgin? In Luke 2, 34. You can almost imagine the motive behind that question. Yeah, right. You mean to tell me I'm supposed to go to my family and tell them that I have been totally pure and chaste, and yet I am pregnant with a child? Who is possibly going to believe that? Even when her fiancé Joseph finds out a little later that she is pregnant in Matthew's Gospel in chapter 1, He concludes, I would say reasonably so , miracle aside, that she had been sexually immoral and he sought to divorce her quietly As Matthew 1 19 tells us, being a righteous man. Later in Jesus' ministry in John chapter 8 Verse 41, Jesus is locked in this discussion with the Jews around him and the Jewish religious leaders in the temple, likely at the Feast of Tabernacles. And and something comes up, a comment is made. They say this to Jesus, we were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. What were they implying by that statement? They're implying that Jesus was born of sexual immorality, obviously not believing the account that Mary was yet still a virgin when she conceived and gave him birth. You can look at going back to the Old Testament times, God's people were called to deal with sexual morality in one way or another. You go to Genesis, uh excuse me, Deuteronomy 22. There's all kinds of case laws, and there's different responses depending on the situation, but the principle was the same. God's people were called to deal with sexual immorality. in their midst. The New Testament is no different. And that's what leads to our main idea this morning, which is this. The church must respond to sexual immorality in her midst by grieving over its destructive nature. And by exercising church discipline with the aim of reclaiming the sinner. That's the idea of verses 1 through 5 of 1 Corinthians 5. By the way, if you're visiting with us or you're not familiar with this, you will see that idea printed on page four in your bulletin. In the church, the church must respond to sexual immorality in our midst by grieving over its destructive nature and by exercising church discipline with the aim of reclaiming the sinner. Let's unpack this particular idea this morning in verses 1 through 2, in our first major point, the church's attitude towards sexual sin. Look at verse 1. We see the report of sexual sin laid out very clearly for us. Paul says this it is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind That not the uh excuse me and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans. For a man has his father's wife It's really interesting. There's uh a really interesting transition from the end of chapter four, if you remember, uh verses eighteen to twenty-one of the last chapter, Paul essentially says, Prepare for my coming, Lord willing. to you. And you have a choice, Corinthians. You can either have me come in severity, in other words with a rod , And I can be very firm in dealing with your arrogance, or I can come in a spirit of gentleness and love. The choice is yours. But I'm coming to you, Lord willing, to deal with some of the issues of divisiveness that we've already dealt with in in chapters one to five. And now he talking about discipline in the last at the end of the last passage, he gives us a case study, a case of something that is actually happening in their midst, to which they were supposed to exercise discipline. Notice first, he says we see the scandal of the report. When he says that statement, it is actually reported. That's a really interesting phrase because we don't know who actually reported this to Paul. Was it Chloe 's people, as we saw in chapter 1, verse 11? that that reported to Paul that they were being divisive in their midst and fracturing and splintering off into different groups. What was it clothes people? Was it Stephanus Fortunatus and Nicaicus who came to Paul from Corinth, as we'll see later in chapter 16, and give him a report of the Corinthian church themselves? We don't know. But think about it. If there is a report, then it means that what is reported is no longer a secret but common knowledge among the Corinthian church, and I would argue, perhaps even among the people in the city of Corinth, and maybe even bigger than that, the other churches in other cities. There is a report that has gone out. What you would think is a private sin has now become a public sin, publicly known. both inside and outside the church. And let's face it, when sins of a private nature become the topic of public discussion And sometimes maybe even mockery, then it leads to scandal for the church. So what is the scandal? Well, it's the scandal of sexual sin. By the way, there's two real scandals in this these first five verses. The first one is actually the sin. Notice there's three clauses that build the intensity of the point. And I believe that it does this for more than just rhetorical effect, although it does have that. First, Paul writes, there is sexual immorality among you. That's plain enough for the most part. The Greek word for sexual immorality that he uses here is the same word that we in Greek that we get our English word pornography from. And it's a word that in the Bible, both Old and New Testaments, when this word is used, it is a word that is very general in scope and can refer to any kind of immorality, both inside and outside of the Bible. I mean it has that just common usage. But he has to specify. So secondly he says, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among the pagans. That's saying a lot. Why is that saying a lot? Because the city of Corinth was known in the Greco-Roman world for its immorality. In fact, there was a common phrase in the ancient world to kind of disparage the quality of women in Corinth called a Corinthian girl. Oh, you've got yourself a Corinthian girl. That was an insult. And it was an insult that came from a stereotype that was rooted in some measure of truth. So when Paul says here, look, what was happening among you is of a type of immorality that not even the pagans tolerate. That's saying a lot. Even the unbelieving pagans in Corinth, who were known for their immorality, would see what was going on in the Corinthian church is scandalous. It's like going to it's like today going to Vegas. It's like going to Vegas and speaking to some Christians in Vegas where everybody knows Vegas has legalized prostitution. And saying that what they are doing would make the prostitutes, the handlers, and maybe even the pornographers in in Vegas blush. That's the effect of what he's getting at in that second clause. And thirdly, he specifies what this really is, and he he puts this ever so delicately. He says, thirdly, for a man has his father's wife. Now let me be clear there. I think the language is is Very specific. It's not that he's doing this with his biological mother. It's likely his stepmother, and we don't know the circumstances. Is his father already dead? We don't know. Is his father living? Who knows? But I read part of the Old Testament Holiness Code from Leviticus 18 this morning, and I I pretty much stopped short for a few reasons. One, for the sake of time. Two, there's a lot in there. This is very heavy. And I'm going to be honest with you, I didn't really want to have to read all of that. But you read the Holiness Code and it lists all kinds of sexual perversions. And the two that I did read had to do with the issue that we're dealing with this morning. not um uncovering the nakedness of your father's wife. And if you remember the parts that I did read in the beginning and the end, we saw very clearly that God's law makes it very clear to Israel before they're going into the Holy Land that this was the type of sin that was common around them in ancient Egypt where they lived for 400 years. It was common among the Canaanites where they were about to go in and take their land some forty years later. This was sin that they were accustomed to just seeing. It was in the water of the culture. And what God is saying in that holiness code in Leviticus is: you as my people are supposed to be different in how you steward the gift that I've given you of sexuality. There are boundaries. There are limits relationally and physically that you are to honor is what he was getting across there. However, it's a little different in the Greco-Roman world, believe it or not. You can read Romans 1, and there's a whole category of sins, which includes homosexuality, which is common. in the Greco-Roman world. But what's interesting is incest was not. Particularly incest with a mother or a father. That was still frowned upon even among the Gentile pagans in the Greco-Roman world. And I can illustrate this in two ways for you. Some of you, maybe in high school or college, had a class in English or something where maybe you read some of the Greek tragedies. There's one by the Greek writer Sophocles titled Oedipus Rex. There's a term the psychologists use called the Oedipus conplex. And if you know the story, i I mean it's a it's a Greek tragedy. It's a guy who was born and when before he was born, there was a prophecy made that by the end of his life he would have murdered his own father and married his mother. And when he was born, he was, you know, exiled and uh well he ends up coming back to the city of Thebes where he was from. And He ends up killing his father, not knowing it's his father, in order to take the throne and become king himself. And he does so, and then he does what anyone would do in probably that time period. He would take the widow of the king that was deposed into his own harem and marry her himself. And that's what he did, not realizing again that it was his biological mother. And the tragedy of the play is that when he finds out he is brought to such despair uh over his uh fratricide, his killing of his father, and disgust over realizing that he's married his mother that he gouges his eyes out. It's a tragedy. But it's this kind of mindset that really formed part of the cultural milieu of the Greek-speaking world. Even they would have been disgusted by what was going on in the Corinthian church And the second illustration I can give you to make this point historically is that even in Roman law, it was illegal to have these kinds of marriages and associations. And so Paul is telling the Corinthians, look, there is a sin happening among you that is even scandalous by the pagan Gentiles among whom you live. And yet, what is your attitude? Look at verse 2. We see the attitude that they have towards sexual sin. Just look at the beginning of verse 2, or actually. Two things, a statement and a question. Are y and you are arrogant. That's the statement. The question then follows that is ought you rather, ought you not rather to mourn? Notice the failure of these Christians in Corinth, a failure in their attitude. By the way, this is really the second part of the scandal. And this is the part of the scandal that the Apostle Paul is going to focus most of this passage on. He doesn't really unpack the fact that the guy's sinning, as bad as that is, and the weird nature that it is. But Paul focuses, he's astounded by the scandal, that their attitude is that they're arrogant Well, what does that mean? Well, this was the same problem we saw last week in verses uh 18 and 19 of chapter 4. There's arrogant people that are following certain types of leaders and putting confidence in their flesh and their maybe charismatic leadership. The Puritan Matthew Henry surmises that perhaps the man that is doing this is a very eloquent individual Maybe he's very learned or very gifted, or maybe he has this tremendous amount of influence because of a charismatic personality among the saints in Corinth. That because of this they were unwilling to do anything about his sin problem. So in other words, Matthew Henry's surmising maybe there's a cult of personality going on here and people are just afraid. to confront him or unwilling to confront him on what they know is wrong. And Paul still calls that arrogance. Whatever the case may be. Paul's point is that their attitude towards this sin was prideful, and it prevented them from dealing with it effectively. So, what does he do? He gives them a call for an attitude adjustment. Have an attitude of repentance. Notice the rhetorical question that he asks there is really implies a call for change. Ought you not rather to mourn? Instead of taking pride in the man in his sin, they should be mourning or grieving, which would be the proper heart attitude. towards sexual sin within the body. Now it's interesting, I scoured several commentaries as I worked through this, and there's two of them that I thought really articulated it well. Both John Calvin, the 16th century Swiss French speaking reformer and the Lutheran commentator R. C. H. Lensky. They point out the same thing, but it's the truth that Part of their grief should have been motivated by the fact that this man's sin, which you would think is private ends up polluting the whole church and brings their whole congregation into suffering disgrace Let me give you another example from the Old Testament that kind of illustrates that principle, and it was the sin of Achan. You remember in the book of Joshua, he They were going into the promised land and they took over Jericho and they tore it down and they were going to go to the next city or cities, Bethel and Ai, and God tells them what he's commanded them with Jericho, destroy everything. Everything. Even even the property has to be burned. And what does this man do? He t took some gold, some silver, and a Babylonian garment, because it's like, well, who's going to really know? And he buries it in his tent, and when Israel goes to take over the next city, they get defeated. And God's the point in that passage was the sin of one man polluted the whole congregation, put the whole congregation under God's wrath for disobedience because they withheld and kept something back that should have come under God's judgment and should have been destroyed. And yet they can't well this one guy kept it and it had a massive impact for the whole nation at war. That's the idea here. Something that seems so private in nature, in this type of sin, yet has consequences of bringing pollution, defilement, and public disgrace to the whole body. Everyone is affected. By this sin. And so he's calling them. Shouldn't you mourn not just over this man, but over the effect on the whole body of believers? And his point here is that the grief in the heart must be the beginning of their repentance as a church. If there is any hope in bringing the offender into repentance. Repentance begins with grief over sin. It's not just the sin of the man at this point. It is the sin in the way that the church has handled this, or I should say, did not handle this problem. So that leads to our application question this morning. Why should we call one another to grief over sexual sin? Well, godly grief over sexual sin comes when we understand the nature of the sin and the need for repentance. And I want to just highlight the fact, the effect of sexual sin within the church. Right? The reason for the grief was partially because of one man's sin, pollutes and disgraces the whole congregation. This is something we need to understand today. Because we tend to live in a cultural milieu where people have argued in the political sphere, you know, why should anyone care what others do in the privacy of their own bedroom? But in the church, that's not the case. In the body of Christ, that is not the case. Sexual sin of one pollutes all. Which is why it needs to be taken so seriously. It doesn't just defile the person. It doesn't just defile the marriage that they're maybe in. But the purity in the integrity of the whole congregation of saints Now, I'd be remiss if I didn't say something about the issue of incense, and don't worry, I'm not going to get into all the details because it's not necessary. But there are two questions that arise from this passage because of the world we live in. And the first is, why do you want to talk about that in the church? That's that's a good question. Why why would you want to talk about that in the church? Well, the short answer is because we live in a society where I would argue our society is probably worse off than the Greco-Roman society that they lived in back then Why why do I say that? Well, I say that because all manner of immorality is not only tolerated today, but we live in a society in which it's c uh celebration is called for in an attempt to normalize. all forms of immorality. I mean this has occurred with things like homosexuality, bisexuality, transgenderism. Do you realize that the acronym LGBTQ and some people add IA ends with a what? A PLUS. What does the plus indicate? More is coming. More is coming, that's the idea. And now we're getting into things like polyamory, which is the same concept of polygamy, only without the confines of marriage. It would not surprise me, brothers and sisters. And it saddens me to have to say this from a pulpit, but it wouldn't it would not surprise me. If somebody really soon in our society began to seriously advocate and argue for the legitimacy of things like incest in our world. And as Christians, we must regrettably have to give our attention sometimes to speaking clearly, biblically, and unequivocally about what God's Word says about all types of sin. And no, it's not a joyful thing to have to do that, is it? But it's our calling. The second question that comes up is, and this may be even more of a shocking question for you, but why is incest morally wrong and evil? Now, I don't know about you, it's so easy to even hear the word and just kind of oh make a face. But again, we're living in a world where sin is brazen. And as Christians, we need to be able to answer for the hope that is within us. And we need to be able to speak unequivocally about why we think something is morally evil or wrong. And so that's why I boldly set out that question. Let me just give you a few things to think about as you reason your way through this as a Christian. I think one, as a Christian, let's just put it out there, we The the answer that because God's word says so should be enough. But again, we live in a world where that's Not the case for a lot of people. First, let me submit this idea to you. First, the one flesh union between a husband and wife in the covenant of marriage reflects the glory of God's image in humanity because we bear the image of God and how we were created. That's a scriptural principle. The image of God is reflected in the one-flesh union between a husband and wife, which includes the marital bed. And so any kind of sexual morality, especially incest, in the case of our passage, is a violation of that one flesh union and therefore is a personal attack. on the God in whose image we are made. That's the first principle. Secondly Incest confuses the relational roles and responsibilities that different people have and responsibilities that they learn in the context of the family unit. We are socialized first and foremost in our nuclear families. I mean that that is just a common grace truth, isn't it? We learn how to submit to authority in our families by submitting to our parents. Parents are learned, learn, and oftentimes are sanctified in the process of learning how to use that authority in a godly way with their children. Children learn uh and how they relate to their siblings, at least ideally, and how what is appropriate ways to deal with conflict and and get along and and have a society, right? Roles and responsibilities in the family. Incest confuses those relational roles And wreaks havoc on those responsibilities. It confuses the structure of authority within the family with devastating results to people personally. spiritually, emotionally, and psychologically. Okay? That's the second point. Third Incest weakens the strength of the family structure. That just kind of flows out of my second principle, right? The family structure is only as strong as the marriage covenant that stands as the found at the foundation of the family in the first place. And so in a case like incest, like what we see when a man has his father's wife in verse 1 of our passage, that weakens the family structure by destroying that marriage. Fourth, because the family is the most basic unit of the church as a spiritual society and covenant community. And it is the most basic unit of society at large. Any attack on the family, such as incest or any other sexual morality. Is an attack on the very foundation and stability of society at large Mark this well. The disorder, chaos, and violence that incest perpetuates on the family will only lead to the same things. Disorder, chaos, and violence in society at all. Large. Brothers and sisters, it is a sad day when we have to think through these things as to why a sin that would seem so obvious is wrong is wrong. But I'm submitting to you those ideas. It attacks the very foundation of family, society, marriage, people's identities, roles, responsibilities. And what should this produce in us? Well, the second part of our application is that godly grief comes at the heart of biblical repentance for sin. I believe that's very clear in the passage in the beginning of verse 2. Grief related to our sin stands at the heart of what it means to start repenting. But I want to make it very clear that not all grief is is created equal as it relates to sin. What do I mean by that? Well, Paul will get to this later in in 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 8 through 10. This is what he says. And by the way, he's actually in that letter talking in this passage, quote, about what we're dealing with this morning. He says, For even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it. Though I did regret it, for I see that the letter grieved you, though only for a little while. So okay, we we know that they responded. In grief, they listen to what he's saying in verse 2. Because they grieved only for a little while. He goes on to say, as it is, I rejoiced, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief latch onto that statement. A godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas, and this is the other one, worldly grief produces death. Godly grief and worldly grief in relation to sin. They're not the same thing. What's the difference? Worldly grief is not truly sorry for what was done, but it is sorry that the person is now suffering the consequences for what they did. It's like, oh great. I got my hand caught in the cookie jar and now I've been publicly embarrassed. I'm really sorry about that embarrassment. I know this is such an easy target, but I'm gonna do it anyway. You know, um I you see this a lot in politics, don't you? Somebody gets somebody's corruption or some scandal erupts and oh I'm sorry. Well you weren't sorry before you got caught. Worldly grief. What is godly grief? Godly grief laments over how our sin grieves the heart of the Lord who redeemed us. If I were to give an uh like just an um illustration from the regular life, just think about you maybe you maybe you sinned against your spouse or something and then they you've made them really upset or you really hurt them. You know, a real godly grief would take a look at the sin of what you did and take account of the fact of how you've hurt them. And to be moved by that, that you hurt them. That's like godly grief. Godly grief looks to the cross of Jesus Christ and it grieves over the fact that Jesus had to suffer and pay the penalty of God's justice in our place when he died on that cross. Godly grief is concerned with what our sin costed the Lord to secure our redemption And it is that kind of grief that stands at the heart of and moves forward and produces a repentance within us. And repentance means like a change of mind and a turn of action. 180. Why would you turn from sin in the other direction if there wasn't grief first? And a godly grief that takes into account the cross. And so as we seek to apply this today, we can first ask ourselves, first and foremost, are we grieved over our own sin when we see it? Or are we only sorry when our hand gets caught in the cookie jar? No, I can't answer that for you. It's one of those diagnostic questions we ask ourselves. But secondly, do we grieve over the sin of others in the body of Christ? knowing that their sin will inevitably affect the whole church. It's important for us to understand that prior to initiating church discipline, the church must have a proper grief over the scandalous sin of its members. And let's face the fact, I wouldn't just say this happens here, I say this happens anywhere, that we tend to have this tendency to want to gloss over the sins of the people that we get along with because we really like them. But are we grieved? And when we're grieved This will ground the church with the proper motivation as they work through the process of church discipline when it is needed. And that is where Paul goes in our second point here in verse, the second part of verse 2 through verse 5, the church's responsibility to church discipline of sexual sin. Look at the end of verse 2 and the beginning of verse 3 as we try to consider this. We see the command to practice church discipline. He moves on from the attitude to the command. Not just the heart, but okay, what do you do with that? He begins where most of us would not expect. Look at the end of verse 2. He writes this, let him whose done this be removed from among you. Period He begins here with church discipline through excommunication. Not about you. I think of excommunication as that's the end of the process. And that's where he's beginning. Now in the Old Testament, you see in Deuteronomy 22, verses 21 and 22. In the context of dealing with certain types of sexual sin that might be committed in Old Testament Israel, the law gives the commands for removing someone from their midst. The Old Testament uses this phrase. You shall purge the evil from your midst. By the way, that's the same language Paul is using here. Now in the Old Testament, purging evil from your midst meant you you put them to death. You know, usually by stoning them or something like that. We don't put people to death in the New Covenant church, do we That's not what we're called to do. Romans 13 makes it very clear. The state or the civil authorities bear the sword. The church's authority is only ministerial and declarative. That's it. They don't put people to death. But the principle is still the same. And what that looks like in the new covenant Community is excommunication. Removing an unrepentant sinner from the congregation of the saints. That's what he calls them to there at the end of verse 2. And we see in verse 3 a little bit of why he does this. Paul explains himself by basically saying that church discipline comes through Judgment, the discipline of excommunication in this case. Look at verse 3. For though absent in the body, I am present in the spirit. And as if present, I have already pronounced judgment. on the one who did such a thing. It's interesting. That's how bad the sin is in Paul's mind. He doesn't even repeat it. He says, who does such a thing? Think about that. First, part of his explanation as to why the man was being excommunicated was the fact that the sin was ongoing, implying his unrepentance. When he says the man has done such a thing, he's using a participle there. In the original Greek. That is an ING word. That is ongoing. And if it's ongoing, it implies he is unrepentant. And so we learned something about excommunication here. It is for ongoing and unrepentant sin of a scandalous nature. Let me just say, if somebody came up to me and said, Well, I told a little white lie at work, my boss asked me if I if I did this one thing and maybe I was supposed to you know, make a note and get something done and I didn't do it but I told them I did it. Well am I gonna excommunicate someone for that? No. Go to your boss and make it right. Just do what you gotta do. We're talking about ongoing, unrepentant Scandalous sin. Secondly, the other part of his explanation in verse 3 is that Paul has already pronounced judgment on the man for committing this sin. Now this goes back to the point I just made about the church's authority being ministerial and declarative, and that's it. Excommunication is a judgment that comes through pronouncement, brothers and sisters. But if there's a question, there is a question that I think arises from this passage if we are careful readers of Scripture. And I alluded to it a second ago. I tend to think of excommunication as coming at the end of the process of discipline, not the first thing you do, and that seems to be what Paul does here. The first thing he does is excommunicate them. And a careful reader of scripture would be thinking to themselves, well, wait a minute, hold on. Time out, Paul. I think you're a little out of order here. What about Matthew chapter 18 verses 15 through 17? There is a process you're supposed to go through with discipline. You went to the end of the process. What about the first two steps? You know what I'm talking about, right? Matthew 18. If someone sins against his brother, you know, you go one-on-one. If he doesn't listen to one-on-one, bring two or three others. So every fact may be confirmed. That goes back to an old testament precedent by a by the mouth of two or three witnesses, every fact will be confirmed. If they don't listen to the two or three, then you bring it to the church, and if they really don't listen to the church either, then you Throw him out. Treat him like a gentile and a tax collector. Paul, didn't you circumvent the process and go to the end? What are you doing? Okay Remember from verse 1, how do we explain this? One, I think Paul did what was entirely appropriate here. Remember verse one? The sin was act when it said the sin was actually reported, implying that it was already publicly well known. And then you add to that, verse 2, the church was arrogant in choosing not to deal with the discipline. uh in this situation. It leads to a principle here, and this is so important, brothers and sisters, as the lights flicker. That was for refect to make sure you're awake. I've put people to sleep before, so you gotta keep 'em awake. Here's the principle. When it comes to discipline in the church, you deal with the sin at the level to which it is already known or happening. That's the principle. Private sins must be addressed privately in those first two stages. Notice the way Jesus phrased that in Matthew 18. It implies that the sin is between two people. That's pre-private. That's not typically public. Right. But public sins must be addressed publicly. as in the final step of Matthew 18. And so in our case of incest here being publicly known and boasted about That must be then addressed publicly. There has to be some kind of congruity to the level in which the sin has risen to, to which the level you deal with it at. That's the idea. And because we've established that this thing is ongoing, it is unrepentant, it is public, everybody knows you have to deal with it publicly, and the way to deal with that is excommunication. That's the logic behind Paul's explanation in verse 3. And then you see in verses 4 and 5 the application of church discipline. He gets across in this final point the authority and the purpose of church discipline. And those are both important. As we unpack the authority, Look at verse 4. You see, church discipline in the name and power of Jesus Christ. This is what he says in verse 4. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, With the power of the Lord Jesus. I know there's a comma there in English. Let's just stop for a moment. Okay. First we see that discipline must be done in the assembly. In this case It's happened publicly, it must be done and dealt with in the assembly. And I want to highlight that for you. That is how excommunication at that stage is to be done in the assembly of the congregation. When Paul says when you're assembled, he makes that very clear. And I I'm gonna submit to you that that is entirely consistent with Jesus' principle in Matthew 18, 17, when he says, if he refuses to listen to them, being the two or three witnesses, Tell it to the church, and if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Why does it have to be public? In the assembly. I'll tell you why. The rationale is because when the saints are assembled And excommunication happens? It changes the relationship between the person who's excommunicated on the one hand and members of the church and how they relate to him or her on the other hand. The relationship changes. And everybody needs to know that the relationship has changed. Because everyone who's at least a member of the church is part of a member of a covenant family in that church. They all have that right to know. Now that's not comfortable for us today in 21st century America. But it's biblical It's biblical. When Jesus says in Matthew 18, um, well, let's move on. He see he So it's done in the assembly, it's done in the name and the power of Jesus. I want you to understand something here. What he's saying essentially is this. When the church exercises the discipline of excommunication, as heartbreaking as that is Jesus Christ himself is acting through his church and through their judgment. Listen very carefully, Saints. Matthew eighteen verses eighteen to twenty finishes out this little section on Jesus' statement on church discipline. It says this, truly I say to you, this is right after going through those three stages. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth and any On earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. Where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them. Most of us tend to apply that to talk about Christian fellowship, oh, where two or three of us are gathered. Here he is in the midst Now that's true, but in the context, he's talking about church discipline. And the principle is that when the church acts and does this, Christ himself does this. And so in our day and age, when somebody gets upset because they get excommunicated and they go down to the marketplace of churches down the street and just decide to join another church, guess what? They are still at odds with Jesus Christ Himself. None of us thinks that way today. And yet it's biblical. And it's real. And the problems that they had in one place will follow them in another. Look at verse 5. We see the church church discipline and handing someone over. And this is part of the heartbreak, but what's surprising about verse 5 is it's probably not saying what you think it's saying on the surface. Let's take a look at that. When you're assembled, you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Oh gosh. Okay. That sounds harsh, doesn't it? What does it mean to hand someone over to Satan? Let me just say what it doesn't mean. It doesn't automatically mean that person is damned and condemned to hell. It's not what that means. Paul uses the same phrase in 1 Timothy 1. 20 when he talks about handing over two men, Hymeneus and Alexander, handing them over to Satan. Why? To teach them not to blaspheme. Well, guess what? That sounds pretty redemptive to me. There's a teaching moment in this. Job chapter 2, verse 6 in the Greek Old Testament uses the same exact phrase. about God's handing Job over to Satan for tempting. Now in that case Job didn't do anything wrong, but you get the point. We all know how that ended. It ended with a more faithful Job, a Job who had a closer walk with God because of his testing and handing over And so I want to just submit to you, there is hope in the midst of something as terrible as excommunication. What does the destruction of the flesh mean? Again, if you're like me, when I first read that, I thought it meant a reference to physical death or physical consequences Now you can't rule that out, and I suppose that could happen, but I don't think that's what Paul's getting at here. There is a difference in the Greek New Testament between the word body on the one hand, and flesh on the other. He doesn't say, hand over this man's body for destruction, which would then imply death No, hand over his flesh. What does Paul often mean when he talks about flesh? Paul often uses that word flesh to refer to the sinful nature that we all have and are born with and wrestle with, even as Christians. And so why do you hand someone over to Satan in excommunication for the destruction of that sinful nature? Isn't it interesting? God will even use Satan in a redemptive way there. And that sinful nature through handing over is Lord willing, dealt with when those people come to a place where that sinful nature is crucified with its passions and desires at the foot of the cross And what's the ultimate purpose here? Look at the end of the verse. So that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. His flesh, his sinful flesh is crucified and destroyed in the process. What's the hope? That his spirit might live. That his spirit might be saved. That's redemptive. And that's the kind of attitude that should be had even when excommunication has to happen in a local church. Every step of church discipline should have that redemptive hope, repentance unto life as the goal. The reclamation of the sinner as the goal. It's not just condemnation, brothers and sisters. It's not public shaming So why should the local church be faithful to practice church discipline when necessary? Because it's how we apply the gospel to pursue the peace. and the purity of the local church. And it is the means that God in his sovereignty and wisdom has ordained in reclaiming sinners who are moved to repentance. Let's keep in mind the result of excommunication is for unrepentant sin. We do need to understand, on the one hand, church discipline is not an option. It's a command if we're to study the peace and the purity of the local church. You guys took that vow when you became members of this church. I took that vow when I got ordained and installed in this church. Just as fathers and mothers today, to give another example, cannot put off disciplining their children and working through sinful tendencies and pointing them to Christ as they raise their kids. Neither can the leadership of the church. And let let's just be very clear. Within an individual household, it is not the elders' job in this church to tell you exactly how you've disciplined your kid. If you choose to spank or ground or whatever it is, we're going to have to trust that you know your kid. That's the authority that God has given you as parents, isn't it? But think of the church as the household of God and the family of God, and God as a Father has the authority to prescribe how discipline is to be done in his family, the church, as well. And again, I just want to highlight the context of our passage indicates that excommunication is reserved for unrepentant sins of a public scandal. And the hope is the reclaiming and saving of the sinner. So where does the gospel come in? It comes in here. What's the final goal? The salvation of the person being disciplined. Even excommunication holds out hope that this person is not beyond the grace of God. That they can still be forgiven and restored and embraced and reconciled with. And let's just face it, when we forgive sin, we as a church as well as individually, we do not bring it up again. You don't throw it in someone's face once it's forgiven. That's the power of the gospel. That's what Paul is aiming at in these first five verses. And let me fast forward here. We didn't read this this morning. If you read into 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 5 through 11, do you know what you will find? You'll find that this person who was excommunicated repented of his sin. He grieved over it. And Paul counsels the church, restore him and embrace him as a brother once again. He says, you should turn rather turn and forgive and comfort him, or he may be overcome by excessive sorrow. So I beg you, he tells the Corinthians in the second letter, I beg you to reaffirm your love to him. He repented, he was forgiven, and he was restored. Brothers and sisters, I know how uncomfortable it can be to sit here. and listen to a sermon on incest in church discipline. But I want to encourage you with the hope of the gospel that it does not matter what kind of sexual sin You have lived in. The hope of the gospel is there. Forgiveness is readily available at the foot of the cross. The blood of Christ cleanses all. And when there's repentance, we embrace you, we will restore you, and we will love you as the family of Christ. That is the power of the gospel and the hope of discipline. That we have. And it leads us to our point, doesn't it? Right from the beginning. The church must respond to sexual morality in her midst by grieving over its destructive nature. And by exercising church discipline with the aim of reclaiming the sinner. That's what the gospel's about. And that is all about what the Lord's Supper is going to be a sign and seal of that we will partake of in just a moment. Let's pray and begin to prepare our hearts to come in fellowship with the Lord because of his grace. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you and we do thank you for the hope of the gospel, Lord. I think of the author of Hebrews quoting from the Proverbs about discipline. Do not despise discipline. Lord, you discipline those whom you love. And Hebrews makes it very clear, it's not fun to go through, but it certainly produces a crop of righteousness and holiness as a result in Christian maturity. Lord, we pray that you would spare our church from having to go through painful cases of scandalous sin and discipline. But Lord, we pray that even now as we hear this, that we would each deal with our hearts, with the hope of the gospel. And seek the healing and the forgiveness that comes when we just confess our sin to you, knowing that you are faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us of all unrighteousness. So Lord, as we come to the table, prepare our hearts to just take joy in the grace that has been poured out for us at the foot of the cross. Cross. We ask this in Jesus name. Amen.