Oh Lord, our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth. A couple things before we dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship. Downstairs. Um several people came out yesterday uh to help remove the carpet from the mission house. Uh we're refurbishing the mission house By the way, we're about a halfway to our total goal of about $25,000 we'd like to raise to do everything we want to do in the mission house. And if you're looking for a year-end uh project, something you can give uh funds too in in honor of Christ's birth, uh so that we're not just spending money on ourselves. Um that would be a good thing to consider. Uh so we want to thank those who came out uh and and also um Uh this uh there's Chuck Klein wandering up from working on the boiler. I appreciate Chuck's labors. Yeah, I think he was here at seven in the morning and uh also yeah, thank you, Chuck. Well uh there is uh there's heat in the back of the the main sanctuary, there's heat in the old sanctuary, but still got some places where it's not quite working yet. But appreciate Chuck, uh Tommy Crohn, of course, and and all his labors and lots of others. But uh we're just grateful for all our uh the men who do so much to keep things uh running here. If you'll turn in your Bible to uh Mark chapter eight and we'll get we'll begin at verse twenty two. We're gonna pick up uh and read a little bit of the context here before we come to the Mount of Transfiguration. And as we do, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Mark chapter 8 Let's begin at verse 22. Then he came to Bethseda, and they brought a blind man to him and begged him to touch him. So he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything And he looked up and said, I see men like trees walking. And then he put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up, and he was restored and saw everyone clearly. Then he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town nor tell anyone in the town. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered, John the Baptist. But but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests. priests and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. He spoke this word openly. And then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, He rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. And when he had called the people to himself, with his disciples also, he said to them, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. And he said to them, Assuredly I say to you that there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. Now after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up on a high mountain apart by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. His clothes became shining exceedingly white like snow. such as no longer on earth can whiten them. And Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, says, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Because he did not know what to say. They were greatly afraid. And a cloud came and overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him Suddenly, when they had looked around, they saw no one anymore, but only Jesus with themselves. Now, as they came down from the mountain, he commanded them that they should tell no one the things they had seen. till the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept this word to themselves, questioning what the rising from the dead meant. And they asked him, saying, Why did the scribes say that Elijah must come first? And then he answered and told them, Indeed, Elijah is coming first and restores all things. And how is it written concerning the Son of Man that he must suffer many things and be treated with contempt. But I say to you that Elijah has also come. And they did to him whatever they wished, as it is written of him. May God bless this fortune of his word to our hearts. Let's pray. Lord, once again we acknowledge our utter dependence upon you Our utter dependence upon your spirit to help us, especially today when uh the flock is in some discomfort, we pray that you'll focus their attention. on your holy truth, and that the truths of your word will warm our hearts and strengthen us, Lord, to face whatever trials and afflictions are ahead of us. When Moses approached the wondrous sight of on Mount Horeb, a bush that burned with fire but was not consumed, You'll remember that God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, Do not draw near this place. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground. As we approach in our study of Mark's Gospel the Mount of Transfiguration, we too are approaching holy ground. Let's draw near with reverence, asking Christ to reveal to us just a measure of the glory of his nature that he revealed to Peter, James, and John that day. Before we ascend the mountain, let's remember the events that preceded this glorious experience, because they have a bearing upon what we're about to see. After having, for the second time, fed several thousand people with only a few loaves of bread and a few fish, Jesus warned his disciples as they crossed the Sea of Galilee, as they crossed the lake. to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. They talked together and they said, is he rebuked That's because we only brought one loaf of bread with us, they realized that with all that and there were extra loaves of bread. They must have left them all with the people and they got in the boat with only one loaf, which wasn't enough really to feed them all And they thought somehow he was rebuking them for forgetting to bring more than one loaf of bread. And Jesus said, Having eyes do you not see? Having ears, do you not hear? Do you not perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? He seemed to be saying, Don't you know who I am? Isn't it sufficient that I fed five thousand with five loaves of bread and two fish, and then four thousand with a few loaves of bread and fish? Don't you realize that if we're out of bread, I can supply the bread? I'm not talking about material bread. I'm talking about the leaven of the Pharisees, the teaching of the Pharisees, and of the Herodians. Don't you know who I am, he seemed to be saying. And then He healed a blind man, and for the first time and the only time in the New Testament that I'm aware of, Jesus healed in stages. He after he anointed the man's eyes, he said, Can you see? And he said, Well I I see I see men but they're moving around. I they're they're hazy, like trees walking. He he was seeing as if we might see if we We were looking through cataracts and he saw shadows. So then Jesus anointed him again, and he could see clearly. He completed the healing. And there seems to have been a lesson here for the disciples. You, my disciples, you you see , you know me to be sent of God, you know me to be a prophet of God, you know me to have the power of God, to be filled with the Spirit of God But do you see me as the anointed one, as the Messiah, as the Son of God? You see, but not yet clearly. Shortly after this, Jesus Helped his disciples to see more clearly by engaging them in conversation on the way to Caesarea Philippi, about twenty-five miles north of the Sea of Galilee. Heard and and then Jesus asked them, Who do men say that I am? Well, John the Baptist, that's the current opinion. You're John, risen from the dead, that's what the people think. Well then some think you're Elijah, and others think you're one of the other prophets. Maybe Jeremiah or Ezekiel. Well who do you say that I am? And Peter, answering evidently for the twelve, said, You are the Christ. You are the Messiah. You are the anointed one. And Jesus said, Blessed are you, Simon, for flesh and blood has not revealed this unto you, but my Father who is in heaven. He accepted that, of course, he acknowledged that he was, in fact, the Messiah. He confirmed their faith. But then he he strictly warned them not to tell anyone else about him. We assume that this was because he had much more to accomplish before returning to the Father and And uh if multitudes embraced him as the Messiah at this point in his ministry, uh th the culmination, the cross, the crucifixion would happen sooner than it was planned. So he then began instructing them. For the first time, they've acknowledged him to be the anointed one, the Messiah. Now that they've gotten over that hump, he begins to instruct them in just what the Messiah was going to face, because they had no idea. And he told them that he, the Messiah, would face suffering, rejection, and death. And he alluded for the very first time, it seems, to his rising from the dead in verse 31. Now, all of this instruction seemed to be for the purpose of helping them see more clearly, just as he did with that blind man, to help them see more clearly. And that theme seems to extend even into chapter 9, which recounts for us the Mount of Transfiguration experience. First, he had begun to help them to see that he was indeed the anointed one. He had he had brought them to see that he was the anointed one, the long-awaited Messiah. That was hard for them to grasp because they expected a temporal king. That's what the scribes told them. And this was a poor carpenter from Nazareth. It didn't seem to be uh someone who was going to reign on the throne of David. But then, having gotten them over that hump, he helped them to see that The Messiah would suffer, would be rejected, be killed, and rise again. And now this was so far-fetched that Peter rebuked him, of course, and and then Jesus rebuked Peter and said, Get thee behind me, Satan, you you uh you you are uh uh how did he put it you you're uh you focusing on the things of of uh man uh you are not mindful that's why he said not mindful of the things of God but the things of men So uh no sooner had the disciples begun to wrap their heads around the fact that uh he he was the Messiah than he he helps them to understand that the Messiah is going to suffer. And that's not something they had ever heard before. Now Psalm 22 is in the Bible and Isaiah 53, but the scribes didn't apply those things to the Messiah. They missed it. And there are other passages, of course, that refer to his suffering. And then he takes it even further. He says, if anyone wants to come after me, you're my disciples, if you want to come after me, you have to deny yourself and take up your cross and follow me. So really this was a lot for them to take in. You'll find it. If you're ashamed to be it in my words in this adulterous and sincerity Generation, then the Son of Man will also be ashamed of you when he comes in the glory of his Father with his holy angels. And then he ends this discourse with the twelve, and by the way, with others who were present. With this cryptic saying, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God present with power. We'll talk about that in a few minutes, but now let's look at the transfiguration account. Verse 2 of chapter 9. Now after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up on a high mountain apart by themselves. And he was transfigured before them. His clothes became shining exceedingly white like snow, such as no longer on earth can whiten them. Wha whiter than snow, and no launder on earth could whiten them like this. Now it was Peter, James, and John that he took. Remember, they seemed to be the closest of the disciples to the Lord Jesus. Jesus. He had them with him when he entered Jairus' house and raised Jairus' daughter from the from the dead. He had them with him in the Garden of Gethsemane when he went apart from the other disciples and he prayed. prayed with Peter, James, and John. And uh and and uh he seemed to he had them with him here on the Mount of Transfiguration. They were uh brought into the uh uh the holy of holies, you might say, with the Lord Lord Jesus. It was Peter, James, and John who were with him on the mountain, and Luke tells us that Jesus was transfigured before them as he was praying. Mark doesn't mention that, but Jesus was in prayer. When they saw his clothes become glistening, his face become shining, and he was literally transfigured before them. The Greek verb is that from which we get our word metamorphosize. Jesus was changed. He was metamorphosized. We think of a caterpillar changing into a butterfly. He was metamorphosized in their presence. His clothing was exceedingly white, like snow shining, Mark says, and Mark probably received that description from the Apostle Peter. No launderer on earth could whiten them like that. And Luke says his robe became white and glistening. That's how he put it. And Matthew said, Christ's face shone like the sun. Matthew describing this event says his face shone like the sun, and his clothes were as white as light. All of this, no doubt, they learn from James, Peter, James, and John. The prophet Daniel, you'll remember, described the vision that he had. He said, I watched till thrones were put in place, and the ancient of days was seated. His garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool. Daniel 7, verse 9. And of course, as an old man exiled on the island of Patmos, John, the same John who was here on the Mount of Transfiguration Saw the glorified Christ, and he described him this way. His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. You know, I mean you can't use words with any more power than that. His countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. And when I saw him, he says, I fell at his feet as dead. Just as we would if Christ appeared to us in all his majesty and glory. Revelation chapter 1. So it seems clear that Peter, James, and John were permitted to get a taste Just a taste of the majesty and glory of the Son of God, the august King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the eternal second person of the Trinity. even as every eye shall see him when he returns in power and glory. Bishop J. C. Ryle put it this way. way. The transfiguration was meant to teach the disciples that though their Lord was lowly and poor in appearance now, he would one day appear in such royal majesty as was befitting the Son of God. It was meant to remind them that though reviled and persecuted now, because they belonged to Christ, they would one day be clothed with honor and be partakers of the Master's glory. And then the disciples who saw Jesus in this majestic state saw Moses and Elijah appear talking with Jesus Verse 4. Moses, of course, the lawgiver, representing the law, Elijah the prophet, no doubt representing the prophets , both of whom, that is the law and the prophets, both of which pointed forward to Jesus. Now Moses and Elijah are on the mount speaking with Jesus. We're not told how the apostles recognized these two men. I don't suppose they had labels. on, but they recognized them. They knew who Moses was, they knew who Elijah was, somehow it was revealed to their spirit. They immediately perceived this. And Luke reveals to us what Mark does not mention, which is what Moses and Elijah and Jesus Jesus were speaking about. Wouldn't it be nice to know? Well, they were speaking about his uh his death that was soon to be accomplished in Jerusalem. Jerusalem. They spoke of his impending sacrifice, which was, of course, foreshadowed in all those ceremonies and rites of the Old Testament. many of which Moses wrote about, and and as he was uh prophesied in the prophecies of of the Old Testament prophets. They spoke of his decease which he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem Luke chapter 9 verse 31. Now think about this. Put yourself in Peter's place or James or John's place. You're brought up on this mountain with Jesus. You're going to get a chance to be with him as he prays. You're you're separated from the other disciples and you have this wonderful opportunity to be alone with Jesus, and then you see him transfigured before you and and his clothes become bright like light and and his face bright and shining. And then you see Moses and Elijah appear out of nowhere. They're on a mountain. They didn't climb the mountain. They just were there. And they're speaking to Jesus about his his impending death. And it was it was an incredible moment. There are moments in life that are so momentous that nothing needs to be said. Nothing should be said. Moments that should just be taken in. Should just be absorbed. This was one of those moments. But we read nonetheless. Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it's good for us to be here. Let's make three tabernacles. One for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah, because he didn't know what to say. For they were greatly afraid. Now a tabernacle is just a little shelter, perhaps made out of branches, whatever they could find. on this mountaintop, a temporary dwelling place. Peter was saying, hey, this is really something. This is really neat. This is wonderful. You're here, Moses and Elijah are here. I I wish we could prolong this moment. I wish we could prolong this event. Suppose we made some shelters. Maybe we could stay up here for several days. You uh I'll make one for you, I'll make one for Moses, I'll make one for Elijah. He didn't know what to say because they were greatly afraid. Well, of course they were greatly afraid. As every mere human is greatly afraid in the presence of the supernatural. They didn't know what to say. He was, you might say, babbling unnecessarily , an infraction uh of which even I have sometimes been accused Wrongfully, of course. Look at look at verse uh seven. And a cloud now after Peter blurts this out, Lord let I'll make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, Elijah, a cloud appears over them. Verse 7. overshadowed them and a voice came out of the cloud saying this is my beloved son hear him uh I believe it's Matthew who uh both Matthew and Luke reveal uh The father also said, In whom I am well pleased. This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear him Now, if you think they were frightened before, can you imagine the cloud? Mount Sinai was covered with a thick cloud at the giving of the law. Exodus 19. It was a pillar of cloud that led the Israelites by day through the wilderness, Exodus thirteen. And just after it was completed, it was a cloud that covered the tabernacle in the wilderness, and the glory of God filled the tabernacle, Exodus uh four uh forty sorry so imagine their fear now when the top of the mountain is covered with a cloud and a voice comes out of the cloud clearly the voice of the father this is my beloved son in whom I am well Pleased hear him. Wow. Luke says they were fearful as they entered the cloud. Well, I guess so. Luke 9, 35. Matthew says, when the disciples heard it, the Lord's voice, they fell on their faces and were greatly afraid. It looks like they were at least standing before that point. When God spoke, they fell on their faces and were greatly afraid. And apparently Peter stopped babbling. Look at verse 8. Suddenly, when they looked around, they saw no one anymore, but only Jesus with themselves. Moses and Elijah were gone, they left as suddenly as they appeared, and Jesus was there alone. Verse nine. Now as they came down from the mountain, he, Jesus, commanded them that they should tell no one the things they had seen till the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept this word to themselves. Apparently didn't even share it with the other disciples. Tell no man. They kept it to themselves, yet questioning what the rising from the dead meant. Now, just as Jesus did not want those who realized that he was the promised Messiah to make that widely known prematurely. Presumably because, as we said, he had many more things to accomplish. Even so, he didn't want Peter, James, and John to tell others what they had seen and heard upon the mount until after he had written Now they were puzzled by these words about the resurrection. Think about it. The Jews expected a general resurrection at the end of the age. Remember, Job says uh that I I know that after b after I my departure, after uh I die, uh yet in my flesh I shall see God. They knew there was going to be some general resurrection But uh a a personal resurrection uh of the of the Messiah? Uh just as they had been taught by the scribes that the Messiah uh I'm sorry, just as they had not been taught by the scribes that the Messiah must suffer and die. They hadn't heard that. Scribes weren't teaching that. Well, in the same sense, the scribes weren't teaching that the Messiah was going to rise from the dead. If there's no death, there's no necessity for a resurrection, they thought that the Messiah was going to come and and assume David's throne and reign eternally, and their enemies would be destroyed and and all things would be uh uh consummated there. But that was not God's plan. They uh they they didn't know about the resurrection and they pondered, what is he talking about? He's gonna die in a Well we're all gonna rise at the end of the age, but why is he gonna rise at the end of the age and they they thought about what he had told them. Now, before we begin our descent from this mountain and try to make some application to ourselves, We need to address this cryptic first verse of the chapter. Look at it again. And he said to them, Assuredly I say to you, that there are some standing here who will not Now, by placing this verse in chapter nine, along with the transfiguration, this we believe him to be a thirteenth century. Christian scribe who gave us our chapter and verse divisions must have believed that Jesus, when he said this, was alluding to the transfiguration. generation. Why else would he put those two things together that way? And therefore that when he said there are some standing here who will not see death till they see the kingdom of God come with power or present with power, he was referring to Peter, James, and John, who would within six days see him on the Mount of Transfiguration. And perhaps the scribe was right. But chapter nine, verse one certainly seems to be clearly the the closing words of the discourse that Jesus had begun in chapter 8. Look at uh chapter 8 verse 38 for whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sin sinful generation. Of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. And he said to them, the same ones he was talking to, Assuredly I say to you , There are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. So if we were making chapter divisions, we'd probably make a chapter uh Verse 2, the very first verse of chapter 9. It seems like a new thing now. It's six days later. So maybe that's what Jesus was was referring to. But you gotta remember, his words were spoken not just to the twelve, but to the others who were present. Go back to verse 34. When he had called the people to himself, remember we mentioned last week that wherever Jesus went, apparently there were lots of people who went along with him. I mean, if we were there, we would go along with him, wouldn't we? And even though we weren't maybe of the twelve, he had a lot of followers, a lot of disciples , in the general sense of the word. uh learners of him. And so he had he apparently as as he walked walked and taught, he had his twelve around him and they and they would he would walk and and teach them and they would listen. and and try to remember all that he said. But then there were others who maybe stayed back uh uh ten, twenty yards beyond them and followed him. Look, get up, he's going to Caesarea Fa he's going north, let's go with him. And let's see what he does, let's see who he heals, let's see what he says, let's listen to his teaching. Of course we would follow him if we could. If we lived in in Israel in his day. And so here we read in verse 34, he called all of them together, and then he sent to them all those words about taking up your cross and following him. And then he says to them, to that larger group, Assuredly I say that there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. Now, think about it, it was only six days later that he took the the disciples on the Mount of Transfiguration. It seems unlikely to me that what he was saying was some of you are still gonna be alive six days from now. Uh what? Well yeah, we're probably all gonna be alive six days from now. Uh no, when he said there's some standing here who will not uh taste death until they see the kingdom of God present with power, I think he was probably referring to the resurrection. Remember, he was beginning to instruct his disciples in the resurrection, and we all we we know that at least one of those disciples, Judas, wasn't still alive at the time of the resurrection. And so uh and and And maybe others in that group did not survive until the resurrection. I think that's maybe what he was referring to. You know, the scripture says he was declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. He was declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. So if you witness the resurrected Christ, then you s saw, in a sense, the kingdom of God established and coming with power. And he said, I think there's some Well, he didn't say I think he said there there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see uh the kingdom of God with power. And he was declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead, Romans one four. Now he could have said there 's one of you who will not uh uh see death. Uh uh I mean uh there's one of you who will see death. He could have said it that way. All but one of you will live to see this. And and of course what what are they gonna do? Well is it gonna be you, is it gonna be me? And that would put 'em all in a quandary, I would think Uh but uh in any event, Jesus was beginning to teach his disciples about his resurrection. They had no idea. And and first he had to get 'em to see that he was going to suffer and die, because otherwise the resurrection is Utterly meaningless. Now let me drive home just a few things. First of all, think about it. If Peter, James, or John had any doubt about Christ being the promised Messiah, Well, this experience should have removed it altogether, right? He's transfigured before them. They hear the voice of the Father. This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. Pleased hear him. No longer uh could they doubt this. Uh and uh all the miracles they saw certainly would have lended to that conclusion as well. So if a few years uh later , uh just as a few years later God was going to do this with the Apostle Paul, remember, uh Apostle Paul, who was going to face severe trials and tribulations and deprivations and the attacks of the enemy, and the and he had the great burden of care for the churches he planted. What did God do for Paul? He gave him a foretaste of heaven, didn't he? He I was caught up into the third heaven. I heard unspeakable things and I saw all this and I don't know whether I was in the Spirit or out of the Spirit. I don't know what was going on, but I saw and I heard this. I was in heaven. He had a glimpse of heaven. Well, if you have a glimpse of heaven, it's going to help you to persevere here. You know what's awaiting you. Do to be whatever you will. You would have stoned me. That's great. Stone me To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. I've already had a taste of it. I know what it's like. I want to go back. I have a desire to depart and to be with Christ, he said. It's just far better than remaining here. So what a wonderful thing. What a blessing. Paul experienced it, and here Peter, James, and John got a taste of it. They got to see the Lord in glory. They got a little taste of the glory of God. And and and that would no doubt sustain them through trials. You know, if ever the the uh Satan c cast doubt in their minds, could we have somehow been mistaken about Jesus? Did we have Remember John the Baptist question when he was in prison. Are you the Christ? Or should we look for another? Even John questioned Did we ascribe to him too much honor, too much glory? Did we go too far by declaring him to be God's anointed son? If ever those doubts crept into their minds, they would be banished. By this experience. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty, Peter said. For he received from God the Father honor and glory when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And we heard this voice from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. Second Peter chapter one. So it sustained them through the trials that were no doubt coming. Now you might say, yeah, I wish God would do that for me. If I had such an experience as that , If I could be caught up to heaven as Paul was, if I could see Jesus metamorphosized in my presence , as Peter, James, and John did. If I could see Moses and Elijah talking to Jesus, if I could see him in his resurrected glory, how firm my faith would be. And no doubt it would be firm. But don't forget, there is a special blessing awaiting those of us who walk by faith and not by sight. Remember Jesus' words to Thomas after the resurrection, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have Believed. Christian, that's you. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. There's a special blessing for those of us who have not seen yet have, by the grace of God, believed. And then secondly, at the glorious sight of the transfigured Jesus, speaking with Moses and Elijah, the Apostle Peter is We said it would have been wise to simply hold his peace and and absorb the moment. But there was truth in what he blurted out. He was afraid. He didn't know what to say. He felt like he had to say something. It's good for us to be here. That's true. This brief glimpse of Christ in his effulgent glory was so fulfilling to Peter that he didn't want to leave. He wanted to extend the moment. He would do whatever was needed. We'll make three booths, three tabernacles. It's a little cold up here, it's kind of like it is here. And let's let's build little tabernacles and and that way we can extend our stay on the on the top of the mountain. Now you may, when witnessing a glorious sunset or sitting beside a sunset a a beautiful forest stream or overlooking a a lovely mountain valley, you may want that moment to continue. You may want that feeling to be prolonged. You might even say, I could stay here forever. Never said that or thought that, man, I could sit here forever on the beach or wherever. Well, imagine that feeling multiplied a thousandfold. Imagine being in a place where the glory of God is present, where all trials and burdens have been removed, where your joy is at its fullest. Your sinful inclinations have once and for all been completely removed and destroyed. Imagine loving and being loved with complete fullness. Untainted by pride or selfishness or jealousy. That's what, by the way, that's what Wing Gay is experiencing right now. He didn't know it this week that That would be his last week. But absent from the body, present with the Lord. Peter, James, and John got only a brief foretaste of glory on the mountain. It wasn't heaven, but it was as close to heaven as they would come for a while. And it was good for them to be there. And if you've been drawn to saving faith by the Spirit of God, think about it, you are just a heartbeat away from that. Right now. You're just a heartbeat away from glory. Something so wonderful that words cannot do it justice In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. And there's a particular place there reserved for you, Jesus said. In my father's house are many dwelling places, many money, many we translate it mansions, but it's places to live. In my father's house there are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. He would have told us if it weren't so. And I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you He may be also, you can take it to the bank. go. He's preparing right now a place for you. It's an amazing thought. Isaac Watts put it this way, my thoughts surmount these lower skies and look within the veil. There springs of endless pleasure rise. The waters never fail. There I behold with sweet delight the blessed three in one. And strong affections fix my sight on God's incarnate Son. His promise stands forever firm, His grace shall ne'er depart. He binds my name upon his arm, and seals it to my heart. Lighter the pains that nature brings, how short our sorrows are, when with eternal future things the present we compare. I would not be a stranger still to that celestial place where I forever hope to dwell near my Redeemer's face. It's awaiting every single believer. You wonder how it is we get bogged down in the trials of this life when that is awaiting us and it's it's right around us. corner. Finally, we began this message with a reminder of the Lord's warning to Moses at the burning bush that he was on holy ground. When Moses asked how he should answer the people, when the people said to him, Uh, Who is it that sent you to us? What is God's name? What does he call himself? What did the Lord say? I am that I am. Thus shalt thou say to the children of Israel I am has sent me unto you. He used the term Yahweh or Jehovah, clearly referring to himself as the Most High God, the Eternal One, the self-existent one. But let me remind you that Exodus 3 says it was the angel of the Lord who appeared to Moses in a flame of fire. From the midst of the bush. It was the angel of the Lord. It was the messenger of the Lord. That's what angel means. It was the messenger of the Lord. This one who is called Jehovah or Yahweh who called himself I am, was also called the angel or messenger of Jehovah. This was the very same messenger of Jehovah that Peter, James, and John saw glorify on the Mount of Transfiguration. This is my beloved Son. He who has seen me has seen the Father, Jesus said. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. We cannot exalt Christ too highly. You can't exalt Christ too highly. We cannot give him all the glory he is due. No launderer on earth could make his garments any more pure, any more spotless, any more glorious than they are. Let us all fall before him, as the apostle Thomas did, and declare, My Lord and my God. Let us cry out as the angels around the throne, the living creatures, the elders, ten thousand times, ten thousand, and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. To receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. That's the Savior we serve. The glory, a second person of the Trinity. The self-existence. And creator of all things. Let's pray. Oh Lord, thank you so much for preserving for us this little insight. into your transfiguration on the Mount. And as Peter, James, and John experienced it, Lord, we experience it too vicariously. Lord, thank you for preserving this testimony. But Lord, we know that we will see you as you are. You're going to come in majesty and power and glory, and and if we die before that, you've told us to be absent from the bodies, to be present from the bodies Lord, we look forward to that moment when you take us into your presence. What a joyful day that will be. A sad day for our loved ones still behind, but a joyful day For us. Lord, we rejoice in your majesty and your glory. Hear our praise. Accept it, Lord. We offer it through Jesus Christ. Amen.