If you would please let us stand together as we hear the Lord bring us his word to the Gospel of John chapter 21 verses 15 through 22 When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Truly, truly I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go And this he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who also had leaned against him during the supper, and said to him, Lord, who is that is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he will remain until I come, what is that to you? You Follow me. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the reading of your word, the hearing of your word, and the hardest part of all, the obeying of your word. And so we ask that the Words of our mouth, the meditation of all of our hearts, would be acceptable in your sight. I pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, we're going to look at John 21. We're going to look at this passage today. I think a lot of you know, and if you don't know, you're about ready to know. I love history. I love the Old Testament historical books. I love the Gospels. The gospels and the history books are full of didactic material, teaching material, but you know you can learn a lot through the lives of people, can't you? Just like our kids learn a lot through our lives each day. And so for some of you who like history, you should know that today's April 14th. This is the day Lincoln was shot back in 1864. You should also know that if it's the year 1912 and you're on the Titanic, things aren't going to go too well for you because it's going to hit the iceberg later on this evening. But I look at this passage here in John 21, and it's a continuing unfolding of a drama, a historical drama in the life of a very well-known apostle named Peter. And in the weeks following Easter, I've been dwelling on this passage in John It's a passage that is based on what has been going on earlier, beginning with Good Friday, you might say. Much to Peter's sorrow, but also it's a chapter that's a culmination of three years of verbal history between Peter and Jesus. This fireside chat, which we're going to look at before us today, is merely the conclusion of what has gone on before. And it's also the beginning of all that is to come. What we have heard over the prior three years from Peter's impetuous mouth are many things, and most of those actually have gotten us here today. If you think of some of the things that Peter said, start with Matthew 16, verse 16. An answer to the question of Jesus: who do people say that I am? Peter says, well, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And then three years later, posed by a question from a servant girl, With regards to his relationship with Jesus, he says, I don't know him. Luke 6, Jesus is choosing his 12 apostles, including Peter. And Mark 14, 69, again, with the servant girl in the courtyard, this man is one of them. He says, I am not. We often think about the denial that Peter has of Jesus. Peter denies his own brothers, his own fellow apostles. The people he has spent three years with. I don't know him. I don't know them. I'm not a part of him. I'm not a part of them. And of course, there's more. Matthew 26, 33, though they all fall away, I will not fall away. Twenty verses later, after Jesus had rest, we read, then all the disciples left him and fled. Now we know that later Peter followed at a distance, but at the time they all fled. Luke 22, verse 3, Peter says, I'm ready to go with you, both to prison and to death. Matthew 26, 35, even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. Lastly, John 13, 37, I will lay down my life for you. And Jesus' direct response to Peter is, will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you. The rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. And then Luke tells us the most poignant thing I think of the whole gospel story of this time in Luke 22, 60. Luke follows up by saying, and immediately while he was still speaking, Peter with his third denial, it says the rooster crowed, and the Lord turned and looked at Peter. Peter. And then Peter went out and wept bitterly. Imagine that look. A look I'm guessing that Peter never forgot. You would not have either. Penetrating to the deepest roots of Peter's heart and his soul. You know, that's an interesting word in the Greek for grief. It's used sometimes for childbirth, which indicates a lot of pain. It's also the word that is used in the Gospels, uh, believe it or not, when Herod has just been told he has presente John the Baptist's head on a platter. He was sorrowful. It it grieved him Peter wept bitterly and he left. So we ask ourselves, where did Peter go? Between Friday afternoon and Sunday morning, where did he go? Did he go home to his own house? Did he go to Andrew's house? Did he go in a sailboat? Did he go to a friend's house? Actually, if he had any friends left. Did any of the twelve look for him? Seek him out. Did John, who'd been in the courtyard with Peter, possibly heard this whole dialogue? Did John go after him? Did Mary Magdalene? Maybe Jesus' mother. They all knew each other. You wonder, where did he go? for those thirty-six hours. He was gone basically as long as Jerry Jesus was buried in the tomb. Where where would where would you and I go in a situation like that? If that was you and you had denied somebody or had abused somebody or rejected somebody's friendship or over, where would you go? Where would I go? Where do you go to hide? Another question. So what's going on inside of Peter? We don't know where he is outwardly, but what's going on inside of him? He's the rock, Jesus said, and now we see him broken to pieces, scattered on the ground. So what's he feeling? Sorrow? Sure. Pain? Anger? Shame? Deep regret? for publicly denying Jesus that he even knew him , that he was a close confidant of his And according to Luke, again, publicly in Jesus' hearing and in Jesus' line of sight, he has denied him. I don't know, can you identify with that kind of a sorrow, that kind of regret, maybe in your life where you you said something or you texted something? Or you emailed something to somebody, deep regret, deep sorrow. I have. The only way you get peace through something like that, of course, is through repentance being offered and forgiveness granted. Peter is a broken man. But in that 36 hours leading up to and beyond Easter, there there is repentance. Forgiveness is sought, and the rebuilding of lost trust we will see. And that's all because the Church of Jesus Christ will ultimately be built on this rock, Peter's proclamation, Peter and the Apostles. What do we now see of Peter? Well, Peter, for now I will never see again a boastful man. His boasting is gone His pride, which of course hastened his fall, along with being afraid in that courtyard, it's all dismantled. His confidence in himself has vanished. A lot of those verses I read to you, you notice how boastful, arrogant, and confident they were? But when the rubber hit the road, it just evaporated. But then Easter morning comes. And when Easter morning comes as a new day, start of a new week, start of a new life for Peter and the Apostles. Jesus begins to appear to so many other people, to Mary Magdalene first. Other women, the disciples. And now here in John chapter 21, John tells us it's the third time he gathered with the disciples. We see that in John 21 , They're all back together again. Back together on the Sea of Galilee, where this all started back in the beginning of all the gospels, when Jesus says, follow me, I'll be fish, you'll be fishers of men. Now they're on the Sea of Galilee because eventually he's going to make them be feeders of sheep. But we're back on Galilee. They're plying their trade as fishermen. Their vocation, the vocation they were employed in before Jesus called them. You have to wonder, how was Peter accepted back? So quickly by his fellow apostles. After the night of nights that he spent grieving We'll never know, but there must be a whole lot of mercy, a whole lot of grace that went on before he was accepted back. And here they are together. And you know what he he even says to them earlier, and we didn't read that, but in the chapter he says, Okay, I'm going to go fishing. He says, they say, We'll go with you. He's already a leader. They're already following him to go fishing, even after what he has just done. against them and against their Lord. So suffice to say, when they were gathered together again, there were probably a lot of tears, a lot of apologies, a lot of sorrow. Some understanding, and then finally forgiveness is extended. And after they finished breakfast It was time for a fireside chat. Some of you are old enough to remember that FDR made popular firesight chats, they called it. On the radio, first president to do that. And on the radio, he would have these short little dialogues, 15, 20 minutes long Radio broadcasts, they were in the 30s and the 40s, they talked about current events. Began with the Great Depression all the way up to like 1944, World War II, but they were called fireside chats. And here we're going to have a fireside chat. You know, it's interesting in the courtyard when Peter was denying Jesus, he was warming himself by the coals by the fire. It's interesting that here during the fireside chat a little bit of the same imagery and symbolism is going on. And here Jesus is going to take command of the conversation. So he says, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? Jesus addresses Peter by his original name. As he did at the very beginning of Peter's calling. As if at this time he has forfeited the name of Peter through his denial. Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? What's he talking about? It's a question that biblical scholars and commentators have been looking at. Who are the these in the these? Do you love me more than these other fellows love me? Or is he asking him, do you love me more than you love these other fellows? Or is he asking, do you love me more than you love these fishing accoutrements? To which you have apparently returned to Peter. Your boat, your tackle, your hooks, lines, and sinkers, and your nets. Or is it a combination of all the above? Because Jesus wants to know that ultimately his affection is for the great shepherd if he's going to shepherd his flock. And look at Peter's answer. The only thing that Peter can plead before Christ is that Christ knows him better than he knows himself. Earlier he would have said, I love you more than they love you. But now he can't even bring himself to say that He can't even bring himself to say that he knows himself perfectly. He knows that Christ knows him. Christ is omniscient. Knows him better than he knows himself. Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. In other words, the only thing Peter can plead is the heart of Christ. No longer boasting about himself or putting down the character or the loyalty of others. He strictly relies on Jesus. Do you love me? Yes. Do you? Yes. Do you? Yes. Okay, now go ahead and be the leader of my church. It's surprising Jesus puts the feeding of the flock into the care of one who has failed so miserably. But now he's ready to lead. And also too, I think, ministers throughout the history of the church Are encouraged by this frail, fallen, and yet restored Peter. Peter gives the rest of the ministers an opportunity to sigh with relief. Because he is a sinner like they are. Matthew Henry summarizes the point by saying that no one can be qualified to feed the sheep and the lambs of Christ who does not love the good shepherd. more than any earthly advantage or object. You know, verse 19 ends with Jesus' command to follow him. But the lessons, it would appear, for Peter is not quite finished yet, is it? For what he does next. He turns around, sees John following. As they're walking along, what he thought was alone and maybe having an intimate conversation. He turns around and looks. And he says, Lord, what about this man? I think that's got to be one of the most hilarious comments in all of Scripture. What's Jesus' response? Is it a good point, Peter? Now what about him? No, his point is his comment is actually What is that to you? And then he says, what? You follow me. It's sure a lot easier to look at others. It really is. Jesus abruptly refocuses Peter's attention away from John, away from himself, directs it fully on himself, Jesus Christ. He says, you follow me. I am your mission. I am your allegiance. Follow me. And yet Peter said is turned around. You know, the last time I remember reading in the Bible where somebody was concerned about other things who turned around and looked back and took their eyes off the path that was before them, it wa it was Lot's wife. If I remember correctly, that didn't turn out too well either. And for Peter the same would be true if he lost his focus and took his eyes off the path that Christ had laid before him to follow him and thereby become an under -shepherd. for Christ's Church. To be fair, was Peter concerned about John? About John's future? Was his future going to be hard? Would John meet a cruel end, as it seems Peter might be, with that little dialogue that Jesus had with Peter about his future? Was he sensitive and concerned about John? Or was Peter jealous of the disciple whom Jesus loved? Who was even now following them, maybe listening in to their intimate conversation? Well, I find myself in agreement with many commentators who see here in Peter an unhealthful and unhealthy preoccupation with other people. Their situations, their status, and their lives. Comparing ourselves against others is rarely helpful rarely healthy and rarely a holy occupation. And maybe I shouldn't use the word rarely. Maybe I should use the word never But isn't it an easy trap to fall into? We've all fallen into it And the world we live in and the culture we live in seeks to suck us in and entraps us, to compare and then to conform. Preoccupied with others, why? Because we are just dissatisfied with ourselves. We fall into the sin of discontentment. Being discontent of one's lot and life began in the garden and has been with us ever since. What is Jesus' correction? Simple? Peters, would you please stop focusing on John? Can you focus on me? Can you give me your full attention now? And Peter, what about this man? Jesus, he's none of your business. Your business is before you. Follow me, feed my sheep. And of course, if you know the book of Acts. Peter was pretty obedient to following Jesus after this. But trust me when I say, this trap of comparing ourselves with other people, it's easy to fall into. And like I said, it's very unhelpful, very un unhealthy, and very unholy. I mean, are any of you in sales? If you're in sales, you do it. I'm in sales, I do it. You can take the positive approach and say, well that's because that's good for motivation. Uh-huh. Well, usually what it means is if you're in sales and you're comparing yourself, you're wondering where their s what their numbers are for the month or for the years. It it's really hard when you're in sales because you constantly are comparing. Are you in ministry? Pastor Lear is. Do you think these guys, when they gather for General Assembly or Presbytery, ever talk about their churches? their size, how many people are in the new Bible class, the new membership class, which is very cool. We have 13 people, by the way. Do you think pastors talk about their churches that end up talking about size? So pastors do it too. They're not perfect, and if you don't know that, stick around, but they do too. Because when they begin to talk about churches, sometimes they can fall under the fallacy of beginning measuring their success and then measuring their ministry. And measuring their self-worth because they're being unhealthy and unhelpful and comparing themselves to others. Are you a mother? I'm not, but this is what I've understood and observed. I lived someplace a while back in another state and the I I knew a mother who had six kids. And I could tell she was comparing other mothers by how many kids they had Now you might think, well he doesn't know what he's talking about. Well that's very obvious maybe but about motherhood, but I'm thinking that probably happens. Ladies, and I don't expect you to say yes, but I mean don't we compare ourselves in the oddest ways. So what about him, you might say? What about her? What about them? Jesus? What about this fellow over here? Martin Luther, who is the star of the Reformation, I think he's helpful here. And of course he's humorous because he's Martin Luther He says, moreover, it is a common plague that no one can be satisfied with his own lot. Whoever is a merchant praises the lot of a mechanic. Then he sits at home and rests while he must wander around the country On the other hand, the mechanic praises the lot of a merchant because he is rich and is out among the people. Everyone is tired of his own light and sighs for a change. Is one married, then he praises the state of the one who has no wife. Has he none? Then he praises the married state. Is he in a spiritual calling then he likes the secular? Is he in a secular calling then he prefers the spiritual? And so it is impossible for God to deal with them so that they are satisfied. Luther goes on to say, if we serve God in the lot God gave us, it would be neither bitter nor nor heavy for us. Hence, we must not think of changing our lot, but of changing our spirit Discont. Cast aside and change your restless spirit, Luther says, and the lot of one would be like that of another, and all would be prized. alike. Isn't that what Paul talks about in Corinthians when he talks about the body and individual members? If everybody is exercising their member According to why God has blessed them and led you and led me, we sure can function really well as a church. And then we have a functioning body with a functioning head. We have a great great preacher, great pastor, pastor Larry. But all of us as individual members, we are to accept Work on the lot, the vocation God has given us, and then go full steam ahead in following Jer Jesus. When I read the story of Peter and and his failings and fallings, it brings all this home to To me, it just shows us we worship a God who graciously extends to us a second, a third, a fourth chance. The greatest verse in the book of Jonah is when it says, and the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time. So just in closing, I just want to say that you and I, like Peter, we have our own calling. A calling that you and I are to live out each day as we follow Christ. In the business world, in the secular world, the educational realm, the scientific realm, we have a calling. That God has given each one of us. So we ought to live it out to the fullest each day. And in doing so, there's no reason to turn around and to compare yourself to another. Again, as I said, the book of Acts shows us the power of following Jesus and him alone. I agree with Alistair Begg. When he says that for each one of us, that there is a work for Jesus that no one else can do but you I think that's true of every single one of us in here today. You know, I was thinking, I won't mention names probably, but I was thinking we have multiple people who greet. Okay, Charlotte, for announcing. We have Charlotte, we got my wife, we got Catherine Byrd, we got Frank, we got all these different people. Do you think they all greet in the exact same way? The answer is no. Okay, they can say good morning, but they they greet, we're all different in how you greet. The ushers are all different I think it's great. I mean, would you want ten of me at the door? No. I mean, it's great that we're all different. You need to praise it and celebrate it. So again, I agree with Alice here. There's a work for Jesus that no one else can do but you, you, and you. And so my hope that after looking at the life of Peter, yeah, we understand Peter denied Jesus, and of course, so have we many times by omission. If not outright commission. But we look at his life, we say, you know, there's a little bit of Peter in me too. And look what Jesus did to a little bit of Peter, right? He raised him up, put him on a firm foundation, and Peter and the apostles took off, and we are the blessing of that early church when Jesus said, You come, you follow me. Let us pray. Heavenly Father , what a task these early apostles had. Mere men, mortals, frail, sinful, forgetful, feeble. And you dare to raise up men and women like this to build your church. We are so thankful For the 2,000 years of the history of the church. And so we ask, Lord, that now you would build your church on our shoulders. That we would follow you. That we would not compare our mission or ministry to anybody else's Help us to be wholeheartedly focused on you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.