Bibles, go ahead and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, as we stand for the reading of God's holy word. We won't be reading the whole chapter, but we will only be focusing this morning on the first three verses. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 1 to 3. Paul, called by the will of God, to be an apostle of Jesus Christ and our brother Sosthenes. To the Church of God that is in Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Both their Lord and ours, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God, you may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with prayer Heavenly Father, we do come before you again this morning to thank you, O Lord, for giving us your holy word in the Scriptures. Lord, even hearing in Sunday school this morning uh about a missionary that we're supporting who's working on making an audio translation so that your word might be accessible to the people to whom they minister. Lord it is so important for us. to have your word in our heart language and we thank you for it this morning. Father, as we look at this short passage, Lord, it is so easy to skim over. And maybe not pay as much attention to things like this, the greeting, uh the short greeting of a letter. We pray, O Lord, that you would open our eyes, open our ears to see and hear, open our minds to understand in our hearts. Oh Lord, to receive what you have for us this morning in this important passage. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, many of us have heard before the phrase, there is no such thing as a perfect church. And I would maybe add in parenthesis this side of eternity. There is a difference between what theologians and historians have called the church militant and the church triumphant. The church militant is the church in the world that God is ever working in and through to accomplish his purposes. The church triumphant are the saints that are gathered in the presence of the Lord at this point in time, the saints who have passed on into glory and have left this world. Obviously, the Apostle Paul is writing to a church that is in this world, writing to the church of Corinth, and it was by no means a perfect church. In fact The Corinthians, both letters, among the New Testament books, were known as being a church full of problems. And if we're honest and we take a look at it as we work through this over the next several months together, I think we're we'll realize that both individually and corporately, we have a lot in common. with these saints to whom Paul is writing in the Church of Corinth. In fact, as I said in the prayer, these greetings are so easy to just skim through, read quickly, and miss. the rich content that God has for us today. And so the main idea of this particular passage is simply this This greeting reveals our need for the authority of God's Word to speak to the issues that sanctify us as a church, leading to God's grace and peace. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning or this is your first time, you'll notice on page 5, immediately after the liturgy, you'll see that sermon idea printed there for you to follow along. Let me just repeat that, because that's what we're going to unpack this morning in this short greeting. This greeting reveals our need for the authority of God's Word to speak to the issues that sanctify us as a church leading to God's grace and God's peace. And so as we unpack this, I want to begin with our first point here in verse 1, the greeting of authority Or a greeting of authority. We see first the authority of an apostle of Jesus Christ. Take a look at how it begins again. Paul called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. Now most of these epistles, particularly the Pauline epistles in the New Testament Begin with the same generic format. It's a format that was common uh in the Greco-Roman world of about 2,000 years ago, and we see the same thing here. It gives the name of the author. It tells you who he's right he or she is writing to, in this case Paul writing to an audience, and then it ends with a blessing of or a greeting of some kind. Now what is interesting is most of the New Testament epistles follow this this kind of threefold pattern. You know, author, audience greeting or blessing of some kind. And yet it's the little details that are thrown into those little uh those three elements that give you a hint of what is coming in the rest of the letter. And then it's the same thing here. Now it begins looking at the author being the Apostle Paul. It's the first word, Paul. called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus. Most of us know who the Apostle Paul is. If you don't, that's okay. The Apostle Paul was formerly a man named Saul in his quote unquote previous life. Most of us know he was a Pharisee of Pharisees, a Hebrew of Hebrews, an Israelite of Israelites, according to Philippians chapter 3, verses 5 and 6. When he's giving his resume spiritually, he's talking about all these things he has in the flesh as a Jew You know, um he was a Pharisee, a zealous Pharisee for the tradition of the elders of his people. In fact, if you know anything about his story reading the beginning of the book of Acts, we know that his zeal burned so hot he went from city to city to city, persecuting and arresting Jewish Christians, bringing them back to Jerusalem so that they can stand trial, and so that they can perhaps be flogged and be condemned and thrown out of the synagogue. And so that's what he was doing in Acts chapter 9 when we see his conversion when the Lord Jesus Christ appeared to him on the road to Damascus. By the way, as an aside, I've always found it really interesting when you look at Paul's calling in Acts chapter 9 and what he was doing, going city to city, persecuting uh the Jewish Christians. He really wasn't doing this to Gentiles. Jewish Christians and bringing them back to Jerusalem. Isn't it ironic in the providence of God that God would in redeeming him send him city to city, not to persecute, but to plant churches, and that what as the flow of the book of Acts continues on, Paul is the one who is then bound and brought to Jerusalem. Isn't that interesting how God works in his redeeming of Paul? Now the primary reason that Paul was considered an apostle was because he did see the resurrected Lord Jesus who appeared to him on that Damascus road. In Acts chapter nine You know from Acts chapter 1, anyone who was going to be called an apostle when they were replacing Judas had to have seen the resurrected Lord. That was a key factor of being considered one of the apostles. You had to see the resurrected Lord. And Paul saw him on the Damascus Road. However, this posed a problem for Paul. Paul, you know, everywhere that Paul went, he had his apostolic authority in ministry questioned. Why? Because he was not one of the original twelve. And because he did not see the resurrected Lord before His ascension in Acts chapter 1, verses 9 through 11. He saw the resurrected Lord after his ascension in Acts 9. And therefore people would reason, well, if you're not one of the twelve, you're not you're not on par with Peter per se, per se, or James. Or John, the pillars of the church, according to Paul himself, in Galatians chapter 2, verses 9 and 10. So if you're not on on par with them, we have right to question your authority. And so Paul has to defend his apostolic authority in many places in the New Testament. He does it in Galatians chapter 1 and 2. He does it later in 2 Corinthians chapters 10 through 12. He's defending his apostolic authority against the what he calls the superapostles. who are rising up and and challenging his authority to speak to the issues. And that's why Paul addresses himself and describes himself here in verse one, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Jesus Christ. The what reason he adds that detail to to that aspect of this greeting in identifying himself as the author is he is establishing his authority. This is an authority that comes from a call from the Lord. When he was called to be an apostle by the will of God, he's establishing his right and his authority to speak to some very complex and some very difficult issues that he has to work through as a pastor, as an apostle, in the Corinthian church. I remember being in seminary and and one of my pastoral theology professors saying to us as a class, he said, there is going to be situations you will run across in ministry as you become pastors. There will be sensitive issues that you will be called to speak to that really only you as the pastor have the authority to do And some of those are very awkward, which is why I prize myself of being the king of awkward. I I don't doesn't really bother me. You have to have a thick skin. But you also have to know by what authority you speak to these issues. And that's what Paul is establishing here in this particular And we know he gets that authority because we know in Acts chapter 9 he was called where the resurrected Christ appeared to him. That's why he says explicitly, by the will of God. Paul does not derive his authority from himself. Paul does not derive his authority from even the other apostles. He makes that point in Galatians chapter 1. When he talks about how I didn't even go to Jerusalem right away. I went later. He knew his authority didn't come from Peter, James, or John. It came from the Lord Jesus Christ. But what's interesting is in speaking to the in speaking as the one who has authority to address the issues he's about to address in this book, he doesn't just name himself. We find another name, don't we, in verse 1. We see, and our brother Sosthenes. What's interesting here is by Highlighting Sosthenes, I really believe he's pointing to the authority of a changed life. In other words, it's not just Paul, who was a zealot and a Pharisee for the traditions of the elders, who was transformed by the grace of the Lord. He actually doesn't highlight his own transformation in this. He highlights the transformation of someone else. Our brother Sosthenes, or in the Greek it actually says the brother, highlighting the concreteness of this man's testimony. And our brother Sosthenes, you know, it's normal for Paul to add his traveling companions. You might recognize the names like Timothy or Titus or Silas. as he writes other letters. This is the only time in the whole New Testament that Paul mentions Sosthenes. He doesn't mention him anywhere else in his letters. And this is only one of two times the Sosthenes is found or named in all of the New Testament The only other time we find someone by the name of Sosthenes is in Acts chapter 18. By the way, as a caveat, you know, if you want to read the history of how the Church of Corinth was started and planted, go back and read. 1 Corinthians, or I'm sorry, Acts chapter 18. It's in that that history of this church that we find Sosthenes. Now, I'll just summarize the whole point there. When Paul was in Corinth, he went there after leaving Thessalonica, after leaving Berea, and then after leaving Athens. And if you remember what happened in those churches in Thessalonica, Paul uh faced extreme resistance and persecution to the point where he had to flee to Berea Where he did the same thing he did in Thessalonica, which he the same thing he does in Corinth, he goes to the synagogue first. That's his his method, right? He goes to the synagogue on the Sabbath He reasons from the scriptures with the Jews that Jesus is the Christ. Well, the same thing happened in Corinth, probably to the same degree, I would guess, that happened in Thessalonica. Paul had extreme um resistance and faced Persecution. In fact, it this the resistance was so extreme and I gotta imagine that it probably worked Paul's last nerve When after several weeks he's he's in the synagogues reasoning, they resist him, they're arguing with him, they begin blaspheming the name of the Lord, and they throw him out, and what does Paul do? He walks out And it says literally he kicks the dust off of his feet. Which in the ancient world is is it's the strongest way of saying, I'm washing my hands of you, I'm done, your blood is on your own heads. You can almost imagine the frustration coming out of Paul as he kicks the dust off his feet and he says to them, I'm done with you, Jews. I'm going to the Gentiles. And he does. But what's really interesting is in Acts chapter 18 you find that the ruler of the synagogue named Crispus gets converted under Paul's preaching. Now you've got to imagine if you're a non-believing Jew and this guy comes into your synagogue and all of a sudden your synagogue leader who's supposed to be the guy you look up to Uh to know the scriptures and to lead you spiritually, and he's walking out with the guy converted, that's gotta really demoralize you a little bit. And if your heart if your heart is hard, that's gotta harden it even further. Christmas leaves and a new synagogue ruler arises by the name of Sosthenes. He's like the replacement, right? I don't know if they had a search committee, I don't think they did it that way, but they called Sosthenes and he's the new synagogue ruler. Now, something really interesting happens in the the persecution and the resistance and the trial and tribulation that Paul and the other believers go through in Corinth. What happens is they ended up getting dragged to court, the civil court before the tribunal of the proconsul whose name was Gallio at that time in Corinth. This is a Gentile. He's he's not concerned with Jewish religious squabbles. And something happens that is really difficult to actually determine with certainty what exactly occurred. Now what we find is Galio is not interested in these squabbles, and he drives the Jews away. from the tribunal essentially refusing to hear this legal matter that the Jews brought to his civil court that was of a religious nature. He doesn't want anything to do with it. He drives them away. And what we find is Sosthenes is taken and beaten. Well the question is, one, who takes them and two, who beats them? We're not quite sure. There's one of two ways this could have gone. When answering the question, who seized him? Was it the Gentile Roman magistrates? You know, perhaps after being driven away, it's possible the Sosthenes, in his zeal for his Jewish religious heritage, continued to press the case. Which then earned him a beating by the Gentile magistrates. That's a possibility. Or was it the Jews who seized him and beat him? Some commentators suggest this may have happened. And the idea would go like this. Perhaps after being perhaps um after him failing to bring the charges against Paul and stop him from preaching, maybe they're so fed up with him and his failure that they take him. And they beat him, even though he's supposed to be their synagogue leader. The text is not clear, but what is clear is Sosthenes was beaten. What it is clear is that he was a Jewish religious leader who was just as zealous as the Apostle Paul before his conversion. And what is equally evident, and I think it's reasonable to assume that because this is the only other time we have Eastosthenes mentioned in the New Testament Outside of Acts 18, I think it's reasonable to assume that this is the same man, Sosthenes, who was previously the synagogue leader in Corinth, who somehow, after this beating, was converted uh to Christianity, the Lord got hold of his heart, he repented of his sin, and embraced Jesus as his Messiah. And now he's in Ephesus with the Apostle Paul as Paul writes this letter to Corinth. Why would Paul mention him? Because of the power of a transformed life. And the power of a transformed life of an individual that these people as the Corinthian church would have known very well. They would have remembered what happened to him. And to know that transformation and to see it, and now to hear that he's with Paul. There to address some very difficult issues in their congregation, I think would have carried a lot of weight with them. He had the authority to speak because he had the power of a transformed life. So what do we learn by way of application here about Paul's authority and how that applies to us today? 2,000 years later here at Liberty Church. Well, I think the idea is this. Paul's authority in this greeting reminds us that God's word has the authority to speak to things that we need to be sanctified in the most. We see the authority of God's word to say hard things to us. And none of us in this room are exempt from needing to be told hard things. at certain times in our lives. And what makes those things so hard? Well it makes, as we'll see later as this letter opens up before us in weeks to come, we will see that these hard things are always rooted in where our hearts really are We all have strongholds. We all have things that we need to work through. None of us is a completed project in this room. We all need God's grace and yet I don't have the authority, even as a pastor, to just speak my own opinions to you Your elders on the session don't have the authority to just come up with any idea off the top of their head and just demand that that's how things have to be. That's not where our authority comes from. You know, we're certainly not the Apostle Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit to write holy scripture, but where does our authority come from? It comes from the same spirit that indwelt Paul and empowered him for his apostolic ministry, but it really comes from God's word. That is why in this church we really stand and value what's called expository preaching. What is expository preaching? It's just simply taking God's word, explaining it in its own context, and then turning around and based on what it meant to the original context, turning around and applying it to believers today. That is the most authoritative way to preach and bring God's word to bear upon his people. And by the way, That's why I would encourage you to bring your Bibles on Sunday morning because it is important for you, as I'm up here preaching, or Pastor Jared, or anyone else who preaches in this pulpit. It's important to you to be following along with what I'm saying. Does it square? Does it square with God's word? My authority is only my authority is it's tied to God's word. Other than standing on God's word, we as leaders in a church have no right To be overbearing upon the body of Christ. And what you're going to see as we unpack this letter in the weeks to come, Paul is not, even in his authority, is not overbearing. But he is bearing with God's people as he patiently, as a pastor, corrects them through hard things that they need to hear. But we rest on the authority of God's word to say those hard things. But I also want to highlight again the power and authority of speaking from a changed life. And that's where the example of Sosthenes comes to bear upon us and is instructive for us today. Because as believers, within the body of Christ, we have the responsibility to correct our brothers and sisters around us who may be in sin in some way. And it kind of goes back to saying hard things, but making sure that you say those hard things and that you are rooted in the scriptures. Because even as we work through issues with one another, we must be careful to examine our own hearts first. And that's where again Sosthenes and his life of being transformed by his faith in Jesus brings such power and gives him the right to speak. This is the same thing with us today. You know, when somebody comes and tries to correct me, but I see that their life is an absolute mess and they're not walking with the Lord. Guess what? I'm not going to put a whole lot of stock in what that person has to say. And I don't think that's pride. I think that's being discerning. But if someone who I have observed really takes their walk with the Lord seriously, and I know and can see that the Lord is at work in their hearts and that they love God's word. And they want to pursue a holy life to please the Lord. Well, if someone like that comes to me and says, you know, Aaron, I I see that there's this issue in your life. I'm gonna pay attention to what they say. But here are some things I want you to think about as we talk about applying the power and authority of a changed life to speak into the lives of others. Two passages, and these are going to be very familiar to you, I think. But Matthew chapter 7, verses 3 through 5. This is immediately after Jesus says, Do not judge lest you be judged. He follows it up very importantly, saying, Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye? But do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your own out of your eye when there is a log in your own eye? And Jesus has a very hard thing to say there, talking about hard phrases. He says, you hypocrite. First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. The Apostle Paul speaks along the same lines in Galatians chapter 6. And again, Galatians is another church full of problems, different problems than the Corinthians had, but full of problems nonetheless. And in Galatians chapter 6 verse 1, speaking of coming alongside of struggling brothers, he says, Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Or we keep that in mind. Spirit of gentleness. Why? Because he says, keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted. We may have the authority from a changed life to speak to the issue, an issue in the life of another believer, but we must do so, brothers and sisters, with gentleness. knowing that you and I, whatever the issue we're trying to address, we're sinners too, and we have the tempt we we can fall to the same temptations that we're trying to address. That brings us to our second point in verse 2, a greeting to the church set apart. So it's not just a greeting of authority, but it is a church to agree a greeting to a church that is set apart. Look at verse 2. This is the longest part of our greeting. To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together. with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours. Okay Well, there's four things in that greetings, like laying out who the audience is. There are four things that we need to look at to better understand what Paul is going to authoritatively speak to. in this letter. And the first one is very simple. It's just that he identifies the church of Corinth as his audience. And, you know, we c we can ask the question here, what do we know about the church at Corinth? We get the backstory as I've kind of already given in Acts chapter 18 where the Apostle Paul planted that church. What I didn't say is he took a year and a half to plant it. And one other thing that I did not actually share in the first part, given the background, this part of chapter 18 of Acts Is that as Paul is reasoning in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearing Gentiles to convince them that Jesus is their Messiah , What I didn't mention is that when the resistance became so fierce, Paul actually had a vision of the Lord Jesus Christ who appeared to him to encourage him. Why? Well what the Lord Jesus Christ said was do not be afraid. Do not close your mouth. Continue to speak. Why? For I have many people in this city. And if you know anything about the r uh reputation of Corinth, even among the Gentiles in the wider pagan Greco-Roman world, you would know that it might be akin to something like Las Vegas in our mentality today here in the United States. When you think of Las Vegas, you think of Sin City. You think of gambling, you think of legal prostitution, and it's rampant I've only been to Las Vegas once and I didn't go to gamble. We were actually driving through it to get to my brother in Los in Los Angeles because they had their first child. This was thirteen years ago now. But we needed gas and then you don't want to s not get gas and then drive through Death Valley. And so we stopped in Las Vegas. And it was one of the most awkward situations I've I've had in a long I had had in a long time. My mother went to the bathroom, my dad went to pay for the gas and I stayed out by the car to put the gas in the car And as I was out there, some guy approached me with cards inviting me to a brand new strip club that they were opening that night. Right there at the gas station. That's Las Vegas. That's my impression of Las Vegas. Corinth. You can imagine Paul not just facing the judgment, rejection, and persecution of the Jewish, Jewish people in the synagogue, but also wondering how are these Gentiles going to receive the preaching of the gospel? They needed Christ as much as anyone in their sin. And Paul's fear was such that Jesus Christ had to appear to him in a vision. And directly encourage him not to be afraid, but to keep on speaking. These are the people that he's writing to And we know that we know several details. Christmas left the synagogue to follow him. Many did follow him. He got dragged into court. Which didn't work, by the way. But this is the church that he's writing to. It sounds kind of dysfunctional. Sounds pretty bad. But what else does he say about them? It's not just the first thing that they're the church in Corinth. The second thing he says about them is to those who are being sanctified in Christ. Now this is where the rubber meets the road. This is where the details that he adds into these little elements really become important for us. To those who are being sanctified. In Christ. The question we have to ask is, what does he mean by being sanctified here No, there's two ways that we can take it, and I I don't think we have to say it's one or the other. I think it really is both in, but let's lay them out. What's the first thing? Sanctified in the larger sense. Okay, when I say the larger sense, I include the whole package of salvation. It's the idea that those who are set apart from the world to God as his people through every part of salvation, whether you're talking being built being born again and regeneration, whether we're talking about justification. Adoption, what we normally think of as sanctification, the whole package, God's people set apart from the world and separate from the world. I think that that's definitely what he's getting at here. We're trained to think of sanctification only as a process, and I understand why. The Bible certainly does say that. But the Bible also uses the word sanctification in the sense of being set apart. That's why we read from Exodus 19 earlier, God is telling Israel to be set apart. And if you keep my covenant, you will be my treasured possession among all the peoples of the earth. Set apart. Sanctified. We see the same idea in 1 Peter chapter 1 as he's greeting the churches that he's writing to there. To those elect exiles who are foreknown by God the Father, who are sanctified by the Spirit. Peter also uses the term in terms of just being set apart. That's the broader sense. The more narrow sense is more experiential. It's what we normally think of when we talk about sanctification. It's a process that we all go through of dying more and more unto sin and living more and more unto righteousness. To use Westminster shorter catechism 35. What's interesting here is Paul uses what is called a perfect passive verb. Now I'm gonna just, you know, try to cut down the details just to say what is the what does that highlight? It highlights a completed action with present results. God has already set these people apart. But that setting apart that he has already done in calling them and in their faith and belief has continuing results. In other words, they have a new identity that is still true and ongoing. But he also uses it as a participle, which I ideally means that This was something that was continuously applying to their lives. Now, I think both of these are important because as we get into the problems that these people have in this letter, and he also does the same thing in his second letter. I want you to understand why that is important. He still deals with them as people in whom God is still working. Think about the pastoral quality there. He is not scolding them as God forsaken in their sin. He's dealing with them as people in whose lives God continues to work. That's important. Important. Why? Because the third thing he says, he says to those who are called saints. You know, I that could actually be translated to those who are called to holiness. John Calvin says in his commentary this. He says, what immediately follows, called to be saints, I understand to mean as you have been called to holiness. What is the purpose of being set apart in terms of sanctification? It's holiness. To be a saint in Scripture means to be set apart not just for holiness, but for God's holy use. That's what it means to be holy. In other words, Paul is laying out an expectation here in that this work as the work of sanctification takes effect in the lives of the Corinthians. They will be more and more holy as a result. And he writes to them according to what they will be, rather than according to their present faults. That kind of goes hand in hand with dealing with them as those whom God is at work in their lives. Not just simply castigating and scolding them as God forsaken. No, he actually deals with them In their sin, according to who they are and what they are called to be as holy And then that leads to the last thing he says, the fourth thing here in verse 2, to those who call upon the name of the Lord. The last thing, by the way, that he indicates here. He indicates the main problem that we're going to see throughout the Church of Corinth. Notice he says, um, uh together with all those who in every Place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours What is one of the main problems that we're going to see over and over and over again in this book? It's division in the body. Division over a whole lot of things. Some of them doctrinal, some of them personal. Division. What is it that is supposed to bind them together? The fact that they call upon the name of the Lord. That's an Old Testament phrase. You see it even at the end of the book of Joel, after the Spirit is poured down, all those who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. What binds us together is God's people. What bound the Corinthians together in all their divisions as one people of God is the fact that they trust on the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the basis of unity in the ultimate sense among God's people. And I want you to think about it. This unity is not just simply among believers. among believers horizontally, but it's grounded in the fact that there is unity between believers vertically and Christ. We are in union with Christ our head. To borrow the language of 1 Corinthians 12 and the language of the body. If we are in union with Christ, then guess what? We are in union with one another, whether our flesh likes it or not. Right. For better or for worse, to use matrimony language. We are united in Christ. And we are united with one another in Christ. And so, what an interesting way to highlight with truth a deep application. How does this description inform us today? I'll be brief with this application, but the description of the Corinthians, the Corinthians as the audience, reminds us that despite our problems today, and we have problems individually, we have problems corporately as a church. God is at work in us and is calling us to holiness, which then results in unity. That's kind of a big idea, right? God is at work in us, calling us for holiness, which results in unity. And I want to remind you, God's work of sanctification is not done yet Yes, it's a done fact that we are set apart from the world. The implications of that, there's that perfect tense of that verb, are still ongoing. It's not done. And I want you to think about how that should affect the way we see ourselves individually, and as how we see ourselves as a local church, not to mention the church at large. By the way, that's why we pray for one of our sister churches in the pastoral prayer every week. We pray for a different sister church to remind us we are intimately connected with other churches. God is not just at work at liberty, he's at work in the body. But we're all going to wrestle with some form of sin, some form of dysfunction. And that's why I love the way that Paul addresses the Corinthians as those within whom God is at work. That should affect the way we deal with one another, brothers and sisters. That should affect the way we relate to one another. We're working with someone, regardless of the problem, the sin or the challenge, we're working with someone in whom God is at work in their lives, despite how bad a situation on the surface might seem That's why when as we encourage one another, as we address sin in one another's lives, as we Instruct one another as we come alongside of others who need help or maybe are lonely in our midst. We need to deal with one another as those with whom God has already begun a work and is continuing into it. When we step into that situation, we are stepping into a situation in which God is already doing something. That should be our main assumption in our mind. When we encourage, when we rebuke, when we correct, when we instruct one another, we must understand that we are merely being used by the Lord as a instrument of redemption. in the lives of our brothers and our sisters. And one of the great goals of this life, this side of eternity, is growing more and more into holiness or Christ-likeness. As the saints of God who call upon the name of the Lord. And I just want to say, that last thing he mentions about together with all those who call upon the Lord, If if you are in Christ, it doesn't mean that the details Oh, the lives of unbelievers don't matter. They do, because God even uses them to carry out his plans. But we can be confident. And it is safe to say based on this that God's redemptive work is for his people. It is for those who call upon the name of the Lord. If you are in Christ, I hope that that truth comforts you this morning. That regardless of how bad a situation may be, whether it's issues in your marriage, issues parenting, dealing with schools and friends and c and co-workers at work or uncertainty with your job, whatever the c or health or whatever the case may be, the issue is that the issue the details of your life matter to the Lord and he is working through those when you call upon his name. And he's doing that to sanctify you, to make you more like Christ. For those who are not in Christ, maybe you're sitting here this morning and you have not called upon the name of the Lord, this is an implicit call to come to faith in Christ, to know that whatever the situation you're struggling with or you're in, The Lord can still work through that and redeem it and bring glory to a situation that may seem dark to you. That leads us to our last thing here in verse 3. Our last point is a greeting of grace and peace. The last part is very simple. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, typical of a Greco-Roman letter, at that time in history, Paul has a greeting. that focuses and hinges on two things and then coalesces into a third. First, he gives us the greeting of grace. Grace to you. By the way, Grace was a very common way to speak even in among the Greeks at that time in the Eastern Roman Empire. But large, I would say much broader or bigger or more important than just following cultural convention. I think there's a deeper meaning here that goes beyond custom. The focus on grace stands central because we're looking at a church that is divided over many issues and in some ways dealing with sin in the body. How are they to continue to be sanctified as God's people and set apart for his glory? That's an interesting question. How do people get sanctified? How do people get transformed? Grace. Grace is the key. The greeting reveals that grace is to characterize how they deal with one another. And he does this from the outset. To show them grace is where we're going to begin. Working through whatever issues we have as a church, whether doctrinal, whether personal, or anything in the middle, grace is the key But we also see a greeting of peace, don't we? He adds peace to the greeting. That was a very common way that Jewish people spoke to one another and still do. You may have heard Jews say something like, shallom. In fact, if you've ever heard Muslim people say Asalaam alaykum, it's really kind of the same thing as an Arabic version of Shalom. They're just saying, peace be upon you. It's a common Middle Eastern greeting. Again, think about Going beyond convention and custom here, I think there's something we draw out of this by putting a common Greek or Gentile greeting and a common Jewish greeting. Remember, Jews and Gentiles did not mix at that time. But showing that they're both being greeted in the same way as one group of people, a church that has Jewish believers and Gentile believers, the dividing wall of hostility to use Ephesians 2 language, broken down, one body in Christ. Now while he doesn't well while he Doesn't say it specifically. I believe he's highlighting the unity among the body that we're called to have, even in the way he greets them. If Jew and Gentile can find unity, Then anything that is dividing them in Corinth should be small potatoes, and they should be able to work through it. How so? Well, look at how he ends. Where's this from? Where does grace come from? Where does peace come from? From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice you have two people, two persons. God the Father and God the Son. But you have one preposition from governing both. Meaning that grace and peace come from The unity of God the Son and God the Father, as well as, he doesn't mention it here explicitly, but he will later in the book, God the Holy Spirit. You know what this tells you? This tells you that sanctification, unity, uh and and as opposed to division Grace and peace, all of these things among the body of Christ, are the work of the triune God. It takes the united work of the triune God to bring unity to a fractured body. And if we present ourselves as we do every Sunday in the presence of a triune God, what should the result be? Unity among the members of the body. So how does grace and peace relate to the point of sanctification that we saw in verse two as we work this out Sanctification builds when we are gracious with one another, which then leads to peace in the body. In other words, grace and peace go hand in hand with how we apply the gospel to the nitty-gritty of life as a church. As we think about the various things that could divide us today at liberty as a church, I believe the message of the gospel requires us to actively and intentionally live out the reality of grace that we've been shown by God to then turn around and show the same grace to others in our midst. And let's face it, we are living in a sinful world. There are going to be things that we in this room may not see eye to eye on. Now some of those things are okay. Some of those things are not okay. Right? We have to deal with our sin. But there are some things that we may not see eye to eye on. We may not be on the same page. But And when that happens, how does this tend to work out in the world? We tend to break into cliques, parties, groups, things that we divide over. The problem often enough, if I'm reading scripture correctly, and I think that I am I think the problem at the heart of it is a lack of grace for those who are not exactly like us, or those who don't exactly think like us, or those who don't exactly See things in detail the same way that we do. However, when we begin to let grace permeate our own lives, having received it from God, that should transform our hearts That should transform our thoughts and the way we think about others. That should transform our attitudes towards others. That should transform our lives and how we actually relate. to others by wanting to show grace to those around us. What's the result of that? Peace. By the way, does peace mean that we always see eye to eye on every little thing this side of eternity? No. My opinion is I think that when we get to eternity we're gonna see how petty and foolish some of the things we, you know, divided over really were. But peace is the result. And so the question we come to at the end of this greeting. What are you going to do in response to this this morning? What are you going to do with the how are you going to respond to the authority of God's word in your life? How are you going to respond to the fact that God is at work in your life as well as the lives of others maybe you don't agree with or like How is this going to respond the way that or affect the way that you respond to God's grace in your life? Are you going to seek peace and pursue it? Or are you just going to isolate yourself? These are the things that this letter is going to unpack for us as we work through it, and it brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? This greeting reveals our need. for the authority of God's word, my need for the authority of God's word, to speak to the issues that sanctify us as a church that brings God's grace and God's peace among us. Let's pray. Lord, we long to be a people that are characterized by grace and peace. We long to be a church, O Lord, that when visitors come in here, they just implicitly sense your grace, your peace, and your work among us. Father, we pray that you would take these things and by the power of your spirit Take your word, write it on our hearts, put it on our minds as the people of the covenant, as you promised in your new covenant. Apply your word. For the glory of Jesus Christ in our lives today, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.