And if you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter six? Yeah, your Bible or your Bible app. Matthew chapter six. Let's uh begin at verse sixteen and read through the end of the chapter. The Lord Jesus is speaking, of course. Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites. with a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to be fasting. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting, but to your Father, who is in the secret place and your father, who sees in secret, will reward you openly. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and roughs destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, the whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other. Or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and manna. Therefore, I say to you, Do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory Was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so closed the grass of the field which today is and tomorrow was thrown into the oven, Will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added to you. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow For tomorrow will worry about his own thing, its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we do ask for your help now as we open up your word. Lord, you know that our hearts are prone to wander. You know that our minds are prone to wander. And so we ask for you to help us to focus upon your truth. I pray, Father, for those of us who know you, that we will be exhorted, encouraged, strengthened, convicted. edified this day. I pray for those who may be here who are still without the assurance of everlasting life. Some who may be here who aren't sure. What will happen to them when they leave this earth? They know the time is coming, but they don't know what it is that's coming. And so I pray for your mercy upon them, Father. As you graciously opened our hearts, I pray you would graciously open the hearts of unbelievers this day. Draw men and women and boys and girls to yourself. We pray through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, it's been a while since I've given you a pop quiz, so if everyone could please take out a clean sheet of paper. Now actually uh you can do this in your head I'm going to read several passages and I want you to determine in your mind which of them are from the Bible and which are not. Those who desire to be rich should claim whatever they want, and then command God's angels to cause it to come. Or, here's another, those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and to snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition All right, that was A and B. Alright, here's A. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where they are of no use to you here and now. But lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, that you may enjoy a lifestyle befitting a king, which of course you are. For where you are, there your treasure should be also. Or B, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. That was B. Alright, one more. A. How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. For it's easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God or be. How hard it is for those who have no riches to enter the kingdom of God. For you're more likely to find a camel in your sewing basket than a poor man in the kingdom of God. Now, this quiz may seem easy to you, but listen, it would not be easy for every professing Christian, everyone who claims to believe in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. One popular preacher and author reportedly said, he had a conversation with God, a segment of which he recorded as follows. The Lord continued You say, Satan, take your hands off my money, because it's Satan who is keeping it from coming to you, not me, God says. Claim it because it's down there on earth and Satan has the most control of it because he's the God of the world, of this world. Say I claim blank, naming whatever it is you want or need Now the preacher interjected here. People will argue, well, I can believe that God will meet our needs, but that's getting too far out when you start talking about wants. And that's just what I I said to the Lord. Now Lord, I can believe that you want to meet our needs, but our wants He replied, You claim to be a stickler for the word. In the 23rd Psalm that you quote so many times, it says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. It says in the 34th Psalm, the young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord will not want any good thing. Claim whatever you need or want. Say, Satan, take your hands off my finances. And then say, go ministering spirits and cause the money to come. End of quote. Preacher Kenneth Copeland's wife Gloria got the message in a passage taken from her book, God's Will is Prosperity. She writes of a particular house that she wanted. I began to see that I already had authority over that house and authority over the money that I needed to purchase it. I said, In the name of Jesus, I take authority over the money I need. I called out the specific amount. I command you to come to me in Jesus' name. Ministering spirits, you go and cause it to come. And then she goes on, speaking of angels, when you become the voice of God in the earth by putting his words in your mouth, you put your angels to work. They're highly trained and capable helpers. They know how to get the job done. South Korean pastor Yonggi cho wrote a book called Salvation, Health, and Prosperity. After pointing out that we're citizens of heaven, he wrote, If we are kings, shouldn't we have majesty, honor, and material things befitting kings? This is our natural inheritance. It is a legacy which we can claim by showing the proper credentials. These are our treasures. which we can claim as easily as we would draw money from a bank in which a generous amount of money had been deposited in our name with our account number on it. Well, apparently this message is rather well received. The church that he founded and which he continues to serve as senior pastor, the Yoido Full Gospel Church. is recognized as the largest church in the world with reportedly over one million members back in 2007. I imagine they have many more now. One million members. You think you have trouble remembering members' names? The material prosperity that Yang Gi-Cho believes to be the natural inheritance of every believer is attained by visualizing it. He wrote, We should always try to visualize the end result as we pray. If you have not visualized clearly in your heart exactly what you hope for, it cannot become a reality for you. I'm sorry, a reality to you, he said. We have taught our people how to visualize success. Through visualizing and dreaming, you can incubate your future and hatch the results. You incubate your future, you hatch the results. Author William Fessler, in his book Imagine, picks up that thought. He writes, In Galilee a man called Christ imagines a few fish and loaves of bread are many, and he feeds a multitude. His faith, his belief becomes reality. The thought is father to the deed. The image always precedes the manifestation. At a hospital in L. A. , a young woman with cancer imagines her white blood cells are knights in shining armor, vanquishing cancer cells, which she pictures as rotten hamburger. Much to the staff's amazement, the cancer disappears. First mind, then matter. Matter is the materialization of mind. And the two are inseparable, mind and body, energy and matter are one. This concept, adopted by some of the world's most prominent Christians, has, as you know, permeated our culture. Bumper stickers urge us to visualize world peace. If we could just get everybody visualizing world peace, we'd have it, because the vision will become the reality. Uh Dave Hunt and T. A. uh. McMahon, I'm sorry, in their book The Seduction of Christianity, cite a motivational message by Amway Crown Direct Distributor Bunny Marks. The message is called, what you see is what you'll be. So the first thing we must do if we wish to achieve and live the life of success, the life of plenty and happiness, is therefore To visualize it. We actually create reality by what we visualize. The picture you hold in your mind will develop the same way a film develops If you start visualizing what you desire, you shall have it. You can have anything you desire if you want it badly enough and begin to visualize it. Then he gave us a cute little saying to remember this by. So the picture, the picture's the secret. That is the key. For the picture you hold is the picture you'll be. Did you get that? You might want to jot that down. So the picture is the secret. That is the key. For the picture you hold is the picture you'll be. I got that verse on our fridge. Along with a along with a picture of the new lunacarpet that we're going to have one day. Some of you people aren't wealthy because you're not holding in your mind the picture of your being wealthy. A photo, of course, won't develop properly if you open the door to the dark room and let the light in. You've got to keep your mind dark to develop that picture. In particular, you don't want to let in the light of God's Word. Or your visualization picture will immediately be overexposed, exposed for what it is, in fact, covetousness. Last week we began to look at the tenth commandment. You shall not covet We noted that the Tenth Commandment is unique among all laws in that it attempts to regulate not just our behavior, but our thoughts We saw that the Tenth Commandment does not mean, of course, it is wrong to provide for oneself and one's family. In fact, the scripture makes it clear it's wrong to fail to provide for oneself and one's family if we are capable of doing so. He who provides not for his own is worse than an infidel. The Tenth Commandment does not mean it is wrong for us to acquire property or to store up for the future. A good man leaves an inheritance for his children's children, Proverbs 13, 22. The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their food in the summer. Knowing that the winter is coming, in other words. Proverbs 30, 25. We saw last week that the word covet suggests a strong desire, a lust, a passion for something or someone. To covet is to want what belongs to another, or to be consumed with gain. It is a stretching out the hands, literally, towards someone or something. As our shorter catechism puts it, the tenth commandment forbids all discontent with our own estate, envying or grieving at the good of our neighbor, and all inordinate motions and affections. to anything that is his. We saw that covetousness is not confined to the rich. Poor men may covet And it is possible to be wealthy and not covetous. We notice that this commandment is a door that can lead to the breaking of any one of the other commandments. For the love of uh let me finish that thought. It can lead to idolatry , can lead to uh swearing, uh sabbath breaking, dishonoring father and mother, murder, adultery, theft. Line. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. 1 Timothy 6. 10. We saw that we, as a society, may be particularly prone to covetousness because, first of all, we rub shoulders with those whose incomes far exceed ours. Secondly, we're bombarded with advertisements. Some estimate maybe as many as 1,600 a day through uh billboards and and newspaper ads and computer ads and TV ads and radio ads, etc. And then thirdly we noted there's tremendous pressure in our culture, a tremendous emphasis, I should say, on youth and beauty. So you covet uh uh the beautiful or the you covet the handsome We saw that symptoms of covetousness include when you find virtually all your thoughts are taken up with the things of this world. When virtually all your talk is of this world, when almost all your labors are for this life, when you'd rather part with your honor than your money , when your giving to Christ's work begins to lag. And when you start to swallow the line that it is God's will that all of his children be materially wealthy. Well this morning let's try to drive home some of these truths about covetousness, particularly the love of money, before we leave this commandment. The Tenth Commandment requires full contentment with our own condition and a right and charitable frame of spirit toward our neighbor and all that is his. We cannot be fully contented with our own condition while we are desiring wealth. Those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. 1 Timothy 6. Labor not to be rich, for the rich for riches certainly make themselves wings. They fly away like an eagle toward heaven. Proverbs 23:4 So one biblical principle concerning wealth is we are not to strive for it. We are not to strive for it. Give me neither poverty nor riches, feed me with the food allotted to me, lest I be fool and deny you and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. Proverbs 30 If you then were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For you're dead, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Colossians 3. Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Hebrews 13, 5. Paul said, having food and raiment, having food and clothing, let us be content with these. 1 Timothy 6. Now, Paul, of course, had learned that lesson himself. I have learned in whatever state I am, he said, therewith to be content. I know how to be abase, I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I've learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. Philippians 4 The Apostle John wrote, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Don't love it. Don't love them. Paul said, godliness with contentment is great gain. Godliness with contentment is great gain. 1 Timothy 6. Is not the thrust of Jesus' words from Matthew 6 that we should not trouble ourselves over our food and clothing and such things? Because the Lord knows what we need And he will provide for us just as he provides for the flowers of the field and the birds of the air. Jesus said, in effect, look, your Father already knows what you need. So don't try to manipulate him as the heathen do with vain repetition. Rather, seek his kingdom and seek his righteousness, and all these things, all these other things, all these lesser things, will be added to you. He says, set your affection on things above, in effect. Be content. Rest. Trust. Can you imagine anything more antithetical to Jesus' words and the whole counsel of God concerning our relationship to this world and its things? Than to say that we should be visualizing anything we want: cars, boats, jewelry, houses, floor coverings. Bigger offices, uh broken fire sirens, and then command God's angels to bring it to us. Can you imagine anything more antithetical To what Jesus says. What Bible are they reading? Is it possible for me to be content with what I have, as the Bible exhorts me to be? While at the very same time, I'm ordering Gabriel or Michael to drop whatever it is they're doing and go get me a new Lexus. Command those ministering spirits to bring it, bring it to you. And what makes me think I can order God's angels around? I thought they answered to a higher authority than me. So principle one is we are not to seek wealth. The second principle concerning money we can derive from scripture is God gives it to whom he pleases. God gives wealth as he pleases. Remember Hannah's prayer from 1 Samuel 2. The Lord kills, the Lord makes alive. He brings down to the grave and brings up. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and lifts up. He raises the poor from the dust. He lifts the beggar from the ash heap. We read in Ecclesiastes, there is an evil which I've seen under the sun, and it is common among men, a man to whom God has given riches and wealth and honor, so that he lacks nothing for himself of all he desires. Yet God does not give him power to eat of it, but a foreigner consumes it. Ecclesiastes 6. Whatsoever the Lord pleased, that has he done in heaven, in earth, in the seas, and all deeps. Psalm 135, 6. Our God is in the heavens, he has done whatsoever he pleased. Psalm 115, 3. Who makes you to differ from another? What do you have that you did not receive? 1 Corinthians 4:7. A man's goings are established by Jehovah. Psalm 37, 23. You remember James corrected those who made their plans to get gain without thinking about God's providence. We ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. James 4:15. Ephesians 1 says, he works all things after the counsel of his own will. Deuteronomy 8 says, it is he that gives you power to get wealth. Third biblical principle about wealth is along with wealth comes great danger. If wealth comes, along with it comes great danger When I have brought them to the land flowing with milk and honey, of which I swore to their fathers, and they have eaten and filled themselves and grown fat. Then they will turn to other gods and serve them, and they will provoke me and break my covenant. Deuteronomy 8. Let that be a warning to us Wealth can be a great stumbling block to the unsaved. How hard it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Matthew 19. Disciple says, What? Who then can be saved? Jesus said, with man it's impossible, but not with God. With God all things are possible. The Lord speaks of the deceitfulness of riches. The deceitfulness of riches. He says they choke the word and make it unfruitful. How are riches deceitful? Well, they can deceive us into thinking that we have everything we need when we may still be lacking the most important thing of all. This was the message of the parable of the rich fool who determined he had so much, so much abundance, his crops were doing so well, he would pull down his barns and build bigger ones, and then he would have enough to to just relax for the rest of his life And Jesus said he laid up treasure for himself, but he was not rich toward God. A wealthy man can be tempted to oppress the poor. There's another one of the dangers of wealth. A wealthy man can be tempted to oppress the poor. Ezekiel 28:5, the prophet rebukes the prince of Tyre. Your heart is lifted up because of your riches. James warns believers not to show partiality to those who are rich. He reminds them, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him? Do not the rich oppress you and drag you into the courts? Do they not blaspheme that noble name by which you are called? James 2 And James rebukes the rich in chapter 5 of his letter. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You've heaped up treasure in the last days. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you've kept back by fraud, Cry out, and the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury, you've fattened your heart as in a day of slaughter, you've condemned, you've murdered the just. He does not resist you. I don't know about you, but it doesn't sound to me like James was encouraging all Christians to strive to be wealthy, whether by visualization or incubation or incantation. So prevalent was the oppression of the poor by the rich in that day that James suggested that to be rich was virtually synonymous with being oppressive. The early church was so far from believing that gain was godliness that they willingly parted with what they owned. When thousands of Jews who had traveled to Jerusalem for the Feast of Pentecost came to hear the gospel proclaimed by Peter and the other apostles, and they came to faith in Jesus Christ as the Messiah. They weren't prepared to remain there for months and months and listen to teaching and be confirmed in their faith. I think that may have been why the Christians began to just freely give what they had to others. Now, all the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. Neither did anyone say that any of the things he possessed were his own, but they had all things in common. They had all things in common. The early church fathers often warned against the dangers of wealth. Not just in the scriptures, but the early church fathers, the leaders of the early church. Hermas, mid-second century, wrote of those who have faith. But also they have the riches of this world. And he wrote, When tribulation comes, they deny the Lord on account of their riches and their business. As a result, those who are rich in this world cannot be useful to the Lord unless their riches are first cut down. Clement of Alexandria, late second century, warned that, quote, wealth can single-handedly puff up and corrupt the souls of those who possess it and turn them from the path of salvation. He described wealth as a weight that ought to be removed and taken away as though it were a dangerous and deadly disease. Cyprian of North Africa was a wealthy man who gave many of his goods to the poor on becoming a Christian. He lived somewhere between 200 and 258, scholars tell us. I mean those are approximate dates. He wrote, He who had nothing in the world would not be overcome by the world. He would follow the Lord unfettered and free, as the apostles did. But how can they follow Christ when they are held back by the chain of their wealth? They think that they own when actually it is they who are owned. They are not the lords of their money, but rather the slaves of their money. Now, since we're talking about what the early church believed, it may interest you to know that they did not believe in a gospel of health Any more than in a gospel of wealth. A Cyprian, we mentioned earlier, discussed the fact that some Christians were disappointed when they suffered from a severe plague. It disturbs some that the power of this disease attacks our people in the same way it attacks the pagans, as if the Christian believed in order to have the pleasures of the world and a life free from illness. instead of enduring adversity here and awaiting a future joy. Uh I let me read that again. I don't sh I'm not sure I emphasize it right. As if the Christians believed in order to have the pleasures of the world and a life free from illness instead of enduring adversity here and awaiting a future joy. As long as we are here on the earth, we experience the same fleshly tribulations as the rest of the human race. although we are separated in spirit. So when the earth is barren and an unproductive with an unproductive harvest, famine makes no distinction. When an invading army captures a city, all are taken as captives alike. When the serene clouds withhold rain, the drought is alike to all. We have eye diseases, fevers, and feebleness of the limbs the same as others. So as we've seen We are not to strive for riches. Secondly, the Lord distributes wealth as it pleases him. And thirdly, we saw that wealth brings with it dangers. It lulls us, it can lull us into total self-reliance. It can tempt us to oppress the poor. Fourthly, if God brings you wealth, the biblical principle is do not trust in it. If God brings you wealth, don't trust in it. Apostle Paul told Timothy, charge those who are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Fifthly, those who have riches have with them an increased responsibility. Charge them that are rich that they be rich in good works. Ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. 1 Timothy 6. But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? Now, what are the effects of covetousness? Well, first of all, it chokes the word. He that receives seed among the thorns is he that hears the word and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word. And he becomes unfruitful. He becomes unfruitful. Have you become unfruitful? And because of a love for this world? No man that wars entangles himself in the affairs of this life, that he may please him who has called him to be a soldier. Covetousness, secondly, dishonors Christ. You see, money is the world's master. If a man of this world sees Christians bowing down to his master , He reasons, you know, there's nothing to this Christianity. Money's the only true God. Even Christians realize that. So how many have have turned in disgust from Christians and the Christian church because of all the crappings of wealth? Thirdly, money ultimately doesn't satisfy. That's why Jesus referred to it as the deceitfulness of riches. Andrew Carnegie reportedly said, millionaires who laugh are rare. My experience is that wealth is apt to take the smiles away. A covetous life, fourthly, brings no comfort in death. Some would have us believe that he who dies with the most toys is the one that wins. But many have found their wealth to be of little comfort as the time of death approached. You may remember the account of the young woman who visited a friend of her father's, who, like her father, was approaching death. but who, unlike her father, was not a Christian. He said, yes, you wonder why I cannot be as happy at quiet, too. as your father. But think of the difference. He is going to his treasure, and I I must leave mine It said that Alexander the Great asked to be taken to the grave with his hands unwrapped, that all could see that he was taking nothing with him. How do we guard against covetousness? Well, first of all, be generous in your giving to others. It's hard to be covetous when you're freely giving. And you could respond, yeah, well it's hard to freely give when you're covetous. So uh It's just circular reasoning, Pastor. But I think there's a truth here. Blessed is he who considers the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. Psalm 41. Open your hand wide to your brother. Consider that generosity may be one of the best legacies you can leave your generation. It's said that in Warwickshire, England. Near an ivy-covered church is a stone with this inscription. Here lies a miser who lived for himself and cared for nothing but gathering pelf. Now where he lives and how he fares, nobody knows and nobody cares. The moral is you might want to leave some money to the fellow who writes your epitaph. I might just write my own, I think. That man may breathe but never lives, who much receives but never gives. Whom none can love, whom none can thank, creations blot, creations blank. So be generous in your giving. You want to avoid covetousness. Be generous. When you hear about a need, give, give, give, give, even though it may hurt a little bit. Give. Beware of envying what another has or receives. Let me ask you this. How do you feel when you hear that a young man has signed a contract worth tens of millions of dollars to play football, basketball, baseball? Do you begrudge that man his money? Do you think someone should step in and take money away from the wealthy and give it to the poor? Do you think it's not fair that some have wealth while others are poor? Do you think the federal government should come in and redistribute wealth? God says we're not to envy. We're not to covet. There's a great difference between a man of wealth making a conscious decision to share his wealth with others and to use his wealth for good. As so many of them ultimately do, setting up foundations, as Bill Gates has done, as Warren Buffett has done, and many other wealthy philanthropists have invested great uh gobs of money in trying to uh uh solve uh uh social ills and and uh uh and bring uh relief to those suffering from diseases. There's a great difference between that and an individual or a society determining to confiscate his wealth to use for some other purpose. The first case is called generosity, it's called charity. The second case is called theft. The early Christians willingly shared with one another. Their prosperity, or I'm sorry, their property was not confiscated. By either the church or the government. Remember Peter's words to Ananias: while the land remained, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not in your control? Ananias, you remember, who lied to the church, said he sold a piece of land for, let's say, ten thousand dollars, when in fact he sold it for fifteen. He brought the $10,000 to the apostles and said, Here are the proceeds, all the proceeds from the land I sold, when in fact he kept back a portion. And Peter says to him, It was your land. He says, uh, while it was yours, was it not your own? After it was sold, was it not in your control The early Christians certainly didn't demand that funds be taken from the rich and given to the poor. They were content to be poor in this life. God 's answer to the covetousness to covetousness is for us to be content with what we have. Enjoy your family and your friends. If you're blessed with a wife, rejoice with the wife of your youth. Enjoy in moderation your possessions, remembering that it is God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. But set your affection on things above, not on things in the earth. Covetousness may be the root cause of many sins, but the root cause of covetousness is surely a life not surrendered to Christ. I imagine it's impossible for a genuine believer to be consistently covetous. We could fall into it, I suppose, but to be consistently covetous, that's idolatry. As Thomas Watson put it, faith not only purifies the heart, but satisfies it. It makes God our portion, and in him we have enough. Amen? Covetousness may merely be symptomatic of a much more basic problem. You may be living for yourself instead of living for God. The covetous man, God says, is an idolater. The remedy is repentance and faith. Repentance and faith. We sinned against the holy God. And our sin demands his justice. And his justice demands the death of the sinner. The soul who sins, he must die. The wages of sin is death. But the gospel message is God's love for lost sinners was so great that he provided a way for us to be forgiven. He sent his own dear son to the sinful earth. He lived a perfect life. He kept the law that you and I have broken. He never coveted, never lied, never stole , never uh uh dishonored father or mother. Never took God's name in vain, never violated God's Sabbath day. He was pure, spotless, holy, separate from sin. And then you know what happened? He went to the cross. As if he were a sinner. As if he were a criminal. And he died there, not for his sins, but as a substitute. He died as the Lamb of God who came to take away the sins of the world. And the wonderful message of the gospel, the reason we have a church, the reason we gather together on the Lord's Day, is that death did not hold and he Rose again from the dead, God accepted his sacrifice, and then Jesus told his apostles, his astounded apostles, you go into all the world and you proclaim this good news. What's the good news? Well, I'll tell you, it's not, well, if you'll do your best and try hard to keep every single one of those commandments, every single day of your life. You may get to heaven. That's not the good news. You can't perfectly keep God's law. You're a sinner by nature and by practice The good news is God provided a substitute, the sinless, spotless Lamb of God. And if you put your faith in Him, transfer your trust from yourself to Him. Stop trusting in Russ to get Rust to have a And trust in Jesus to get Rust to heaven. The sinless, spotless Lamb. The God man. All your sins will be forgiven. You'll have everlasting life. You'll be with God in heaven. That's the message of the gospel. Friend, if you've got a problem with covetousness, it may well be you're outside of Christ. That's where to start. God forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. I believe in Jesus Christ. I want him as my Lord and Savior. You come to God that way. Boys and girls, young people, men and women, come to God that way. Empty-handed. Nothing in my hands I bring. As a little child, not proud and puffed up, not trusting in your accomplishment, and you just put your faith in him. I believe. Lord, I believe. That's the gospel. That's the way of life. Let's pray Oh Father, I do pray, we do pray, that those who may be here this day outside of Christ Would come to him now. Would cry out to him, God forgive me, God save me. We pray this might be the day of salvation for some. Draw those souls, Lord. Have mercy upon them as you have mercy upon us. And Lord help all of us to set our affection on things above, not on things on the earth. I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.