Thank you, Susan. If you have your Bible with you, and I trust that you do, turn please to Luke chapter 2. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the we ones for the wonders of worship downstairs. And uh welcome those who are with us uh who maybe haven't been with us for a while. I think I see Nancy Hammett out there. Nancy, good to have you here. Uh is uh Hannah Kate here? Is Hannah was gonna be with us I think. Is Hannah here? Where? You're pointing in this direction. Over there? Over there? Oh, I'm getting warmer. There she is, there. Good. Good to have you with us. And uh thank Erica Watkins was back uh last Sunday. She's with us again this week. Anyone else here from college? You haven't been here in a while? Uh Glenna's here. Glenna's over there. Right. I saw it. Yeah. Well welcome. This is Curtis, right? Glenna's over there. Alright, never mind. I you get me all confused now. I saw Glenna earlier. Luke chapter 2, let's begin at verse 1. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus. That all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Quirenius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling cloths, and laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. So it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger. Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. May God bless this precious fortune. of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we pray for your Holy Spirit to help us now as we approach your word Lord, open our eyes, speak to our hearts. I pray for your children who are here that they might be encouraged and nourished. That they might be built up, edified by your word. And I pray for those who are here who may yet be outside of Christ. Those who have not yet made their peace with God. May this be the day of redemption for them. Lord, please have mercy on them as you've had upon so many of us. Open their eyes. Take away those stony hearts. Give them hearts of flesh. May they know the true joy of Christmas this year. We ask in Jesus' powerful name. Amen. It was late December eighteen eighteen, December twenty-third, historians tell us. A roving band of actors was reenacting the story of the birth of Christ in villages in the Austrian Alps. Their presentation so impressed the pastor of St. Nicholas Church in the little town of Obemdorf, near Salzburg. That instead of going home by the most direct route, he took a long, slow pass that would allow him to overlook the village As he meditated upon Christ's birth and looked at the peaceful, snow-covered village that night, he remembered a poem that he had written a few years before And he thought it might make a good carol to sing for their Christmas Eve service, if only it could be set to music. It would have to be a simple tune because the church organ wasn't working. This was uh of course back in the day when things in churches tended to break down the The pastor Joseph Moore brought the words to Franz uh Franz, I guess it would be, Gruber, the church organist, and in a few hours he wrote a simple melody that would require only a guitar accompaniment. And the carol was first sung at their Christmas Eve service that year. Silent night, holy night. All is calm. All is bright. Round yon virgin, mother and child, holy infant, so tender and mild, sleep in heavenly peace Silent night, holy night, shepherds quake at the sight. Glories stream from heaven afar. Heavenly hosts sing Alleluia! Christ the Savior is born Silent night, holy night, Son of God, loves pure light, radiant beams from thy holy face, with the dawn of redeeming grace. Jesus, Lord and The carol might have remained an obscure alpine song if not for the organ repair man who got a copy of it and began sharing it with others. Soon touring groups began to sing it in concerts, and today it's among the most beloved of all carols. I think uh new Liberty uh worshippers, Eric and Rose Hoffman, I don't are they here today? I don't see them here today Today. But Silent Night was not, of course, the first Christmas character. Harold. John Francis Wade made his living copying manuscripts by hand. In 1750 he slipped a hymn written in Latin into a manuscript that he was copying for the English Roman Catholic College in Lisbon, Portugal. The Duke of Leeds heard the hymn sung in England and included it in the repertoire of his own singing group. Which helped to popularize the song in England. Some believe that singing group was called Duke Joe and the Lead Family singers. Featuring Duchess Vonnie. But there's no historical evidence of this. The the words that John Francis Wade wrote, translated into English, were O come, all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant. O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem. Come and behold him, born the king of angels. O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord. Sing, choirs of angels, sing in exaltation, sing all ye citizens of heaven above. Glory to God, all glory in the highest. O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord. But of course, Odeste Fidelis was not the first Christmas carol. Over a thousand years before that carol was written. This carol was written, attributed to Gregory the Great of the 6th century, translated into German by Luther and included in his hymn. It reads this way in the English All praise to thee, eternal Lord, clothed in a garb of flesh and blood, choosing a manger for thy throne, while worlds on worlds are thine alone Once did the skies before thee bow, A virgin 's arms contained thee now. Angels who did in thee rejoice, Now listen for thine infant voice The carol ends with this verse, All this for us thy love hath done. By this to thee our love is won. For this we tune our cheerful lays. and shout our thanks in ceaseless praise. As I said, the carol dates from the sixth century, but even it It's not the first Christmas carol. It could be said that the very first Christmas carol is the one first chanted or sung by the angels as recorded for us here in Luke chapter 2. Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. We don't know the notes this angelic chorus used as they sang or recited in unison these words. If angel choirs are anything like human choirs, they would have had to have prepared for this big day and big moment. You couldn't very well leave the wording of the news to whatever any individual uh angel chose to say. You'd have a cacophony of sounds that no human could possibly understand. But they came and they spoke in the language of the shepherds, and though there was a great multitude of angels, perhaps many thousands of them Filling the sky, they sang these words together. And we can be comfortable calling it a song, although it may have had but one heavenly note It was a choral anthem recited by an angelic choir. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. Now I know that some Greek manuscripts have the angels saying, peace toward men of goodwill, but I'm inclined to the familiar version, which places the emphasis on what God is freely doing for all sinners, for all men. Not just men of goodwill. The trick would be trying to find them. This was good news for the whole world. Good tidings of great joy, which will be to all the people, is the way the angel uh said it, presumably Gabriel. To the startled shepherds. As we consider a few moments the first Christmas carol, I'm indebted to C. H. Spurgeon's sermon of the same name preached in 1857. Many of these thoughts are those of Spurgeons to whom I often turn when I need to prime the preaching pump and help me proclaim God's truth without falling into my well-worn patterns of thinking. As you know, there is in our day a fascination with angels. Watch a few Christmas films on the Hallmark channel, and you'll see angels in all shapes and sizes. Usually intervening to bring uh couples together or get people out of a s out of serious problems and bring them to a a snowy Christmas Eve. and uh uh happy and and healthy and caring enough to send the very best. The uh Frank Copra classic, It's a Wonderful Life, which uh still causes me to tear up when I see it. It is among my favorite movies. Has a a subplot, as most of you know Of an angel Clarence trying to earn his wings by helping George Bailey realize that he's actually had a wonderful life and he's dearly loved by many people. His life has had a huge impact. And he has been in those things that really matter a great success. And it would be foolhardy to throw it all away over a temporary financial reversal. But the film, as well done and as heart-tugging as it is, nonetheless reinforces the false impression that many have that people become angels when they die. and come back to earth then to watch over those they love, or do good deeds and earn their wings. But the scripture is quite clear that angels are not humans, nor have they ever been humans They are spiritual beings in the service of God, and in the service of God, they are therefore in the service of man. They are ministering spirits sent forth to minister to them who shall be the heirs of salvation. And whenever they appear to us, whenever they appear on earth, they appear in the form of men. The idea of angels having wings comes from the very few biblical references to cherubim and seraphim. which are other heavenly creatures, not commonly called angels. But when angels appear in Scripture, there's no mention of wings. So remove that image from your mind. Do not forget to entertain strangers, for by so doing some have unwittingly entertained angels. Hebrews 13, 2 If angels had wings, it would be hard to entertain them without realizing it. The wings would be sort of a dead giveaway. Nice set of wings you have there, Mike. Where did you say you were from? Although we're not, of course, to worship angels. When you think of the constant service that they render to the Lord and that they render to us, those created in God's image, we should certainly hold them in high regard. Even if their appearance to the shepherds was the only account of angels that we had in Scripture, and of course it's not, it would be enough to unite our hearts to them forever. Consider, first of all, how free they are from envy. How free they are from envy. Christ didn't come from heaven to save their fellow angels when they fell. They're reserved in chains and darkness until the last great day. Yet there's no indication of envy here. These angels seemed utterly free from envy and utterly free from pride. I'm convinced they told these shepherds the good news of Christ's birth with the same experience of joy. And rejoicing as if they were speaking to the Emperor Augustus himself and all the uh the elite of Rome. They brought their message not as if it were a matter of no interest to them. They didn't bring their message with no emotion. It seems they sang it out with joy and with gladness. We bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be for all people, the angel said. For unto you was born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this shall be the sign unto you. To find the babe wrapped in swaddling claws on the Lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. They were excited to share this good news. The heart of sympathy, said Spurgeon, makes good news to others, good news to them. The heart of sympathy makes good news to others, good news to These are the ministering spirits who keep watch over God's children every hour. What a blessing to know that they're not mere impartial objective observers. Of mankind, but rather they seem genuinely concerned for us. And they rejoice with us. I suspect they also weep. with us. Consider their song. They were, of course, singing about the glorious birth of the second person of the Trinity, the Lord Jesus Christ, man becoming flesh, the Messiah, come to earth. All those Old Testament promises now fulfilled. And what did they say about this momentous event? They said it glorifies God. Glory to God in the highest. I think they were glorifying God themselves as they said that or sang that. And they were calling upon the shepherds, and through them, they were calling upon all mankind to glorify God. As well. Glory to God in the highest. Glorify God with us. Glory to God in the highest. Spurgeon said the angels were present at creation when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. They have seen many a planet fashioned between the palms of Jehovah and wheeled by his hands through the infinitude of space. They had sung solemn songs over many a world which the Great One had created. But this time When they saw God stoop from his throne and become a babe hanging upon a woman's breast, they lifted their notes higher still and reaching to the uttermost stretch of angelic music. They gained the highest notes of the divine scale of praise, and they sung glory to God in the highest. Their highest praise they gave to him in the highest act of his Godhead Spurgeon imagines if there's indeed a hierarchy of angels, and we have reason to think there is, rising tier upon tier in magnificence and dignity. When the intelligence was first communicated to those angels that are to be found upon the outskirts of the heavenly world, he said, When they looked down from heaven and saw the newborn babe, they sent the news backward to the place from which the miracle proceeded Saying, angels from the realms of glory, wing your flight o'er all the earth. Ye who sang creation's story, now proclaim Messiah's birth. Come and worship, come and worship. Worship Christ, the newborn king. And as the message ran from rank to rank, at last the four cherubim that perpetually watch around the throne of God took up the strain. and gathering up the song of all the inferior grades of angels, surmounted the divine pinnacle of harmony with their own solemn chant of adoration, upon which the entire host shouted The highest angels praise thee. Glory to God in the highest. There's no mortal that can ever dream how magnificent was that song Amen. Clearly, salvation is God's highest glory. When you think about it, every every blade of grass, every flower in the woods Even those that bloom and wilt without ever being seen by man glorifies God He's glorified by every ocean creature, by the song of every bird. He's glorified by the beauty of the snow. He's glorified by the power of the storm. He's glorified by the mighty waterfall. He's glorified by the mighty river, by the volcano and the geyser. God is glorified by every planet. God is glorified by every star. But as Spurgeon put it, though creation may be a majestic organ of praise, it cannot reach the extent of the golden song incarnation. There's more in that than in creation. More melody in Jesus in the manger than there is in worlds on worlds rolling their grandeur round the throne of the Most High. In other words, there's nothing in all creation that glorifies God more. Glorifies his holiness, glorifies his justice, his His mercy, his compassion, his love, than this little baby born in a manger. Glory to God in the highest. And then the angels go on to say, and on earth peace. Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace. The angels didn't sing that in the garden, though there was peace in the garden. It just didn't seem to be something worth singing about at that point. But now that we've fallen, now that our whole history is one of warfare conquerors, colonizers. The Akkadians, the Babylonians, the Egyptians, the Hittites, the Romans, the Mongols, the Spaniards, the Vikings, the Turks, the Greeks Wars for vengeance, wars for territory, wars for pride, wars for harbors, wars for gold, wars for oil, wars for slaves, wars for uh uh tribes Genocidal wars, wars of religious zeal, wars of independence. We even had a war to end all wars. That one didn't go so well Now the angels sing peace on earth. The swaddling band of the newborn king is a white flag of peace. He's not yet brought peace between man and man. Although that day will certainly come, but he has brought peace between man and God. You see, the manger is where that peace treaty was signed. Where else can true peace be found but in the message of Christ Where else can you find it in this world? But in the message of Christ. The legalists may strive for peace by tirelessly endeavoring to keep rules and regulations and laws as Martin Luther did for so long. But he won't find peace there. The religious ritualists may seek peace in the rote performance of religious ceremonies, as the Pharisees did. But you won't find peace there. The man or woman who comes to Christ is the one who finds peace. The peace that passes all understanding. The sacred peace that comes when a sinner knows he's been forgiven. The sinner knows he's been forgiven. That great weight that was upon his shoulders has been taken away. He knows he'll be able to stand before a holy God and not fear. Because Christ has taken his place. The angels sang of peace. And then they sang of good will toward men. Glory to God in the highest. On earth peace. Goodwill toward men. What glorious news is this? God has goodwill toward us. If God had no good will toward sinners, toward rebels, we would have no hope. But There's goodwill toward men. Would he have parted with his only son if he had no good will toward men? Would he have given him over to such humiliation if he had no good will toward men men? Would the Father have permitted Jesus to endure rejection, suffering, and death if he had no good will toward men? You may have denied God. You may have ignored God. You may even have cursed God. But he has not fulfilled his curse on you. He has good will toward you, though you may not have good will toward him. If you doubt the master's love, listen again to the angel song. Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace. Good will toward men. Now if the angel Angels ushered in the Lord with singing, shouldn't we proclaim this good news with singing? Shouldn't we live with singing and die with singing? I was blessed this week to be at the service for Carolyn Bauer's sister. This is her sister, Eileen, who had suffered from dementia for some time. And uh but she was trusting in Christ and the the the funeral this past week was uh a a time of reason. Rejoicing, a time of singing, a time of great joy. That's what a funeral for a believer ought to be. A time of great joy. The long suffering is over. He or she is even now in the very presence of God and will be with him or her very soon. Ours is not a religion of mourning. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, rejoice. It's been well said, the damned are miserable. Let the saved be happy. The damned are miserable. Let the saved be happy. Why should we not anticipate the joys of heaven and begin to sing here that song that we'll be singing there forever and ever? Those of you who are at the concerts, hell last week Weekend will long remember uh the way the St. Abrams uh praise team, which I would call a choir, every bit a choir, uh uh rejoiced in God uh with uh Uh those songs that Emmanuel, how did that one go? I always say Emmanuel Immanuel That's it. Imaniel Immanuel That was incredible and then they just kept going higher and higher and you got a little f uh little foretaste of uh what it'll be like around the throne. Thankfully you're not gonna be too close to the throne. Where there and uh bring the earplugs just just in case. Glorious. Uh that's what we're gonna be experiencing. Uh in in the very presence of God. But think about it, the way the angels shared this good news. Uh the way they brought it, I bring you good tidings, great joy which will be for all people. If some dark, oppressive uh creature should have come to man with a frowning countenance and a solemn tone saying, uh been sent to tell you God's Son has come to earth, then you would either not believe him, or you certainly wouldn't believe this to be some good news. Imagine a friend that knew you to be in some great financial need that came to you and said, Hey, uh uh Jim, by the way, I just saw in the paper uh that uh uh uh I just on the paper that your name was listed, uh, you know, something about Maryland uh lost property, blah, blah. And it said uh uh it said you have a lot of money awaiting you and uh Uh yeah, I I don't know exactly how much it was, but it it was like uh it was in the category of a hundred thousand dollars uh and up it was in that category that So uh you know you might want to check it out. Now Jim uh hearing that, he's gonna say, What? Come on, you're not serious. Because if I were serious, and I really knew Jim to be in some are you in some financial trouble, Jim I noticed you're sitting up here in the front. I thought maybe So uh you know if I knew Jim to be in this great financial need and I had this wonderful news I'd I'd be excited. Jim, I got great news. You won't believe it. Guess what I saw on the paper And it listed your name, had your address, it's gotta be you. So, you know, if the angel had come uh to the uh to the shepherds, uh Excuse me guys, I I have some news for you. Uh uh uh you uh uh uh y in uh that uh city uh over there, what's you gonna call it, uh Uh City of David, uh I guess I'm supposed to tell you that uh your savior's just been born. You'll find him in one of those troughs that you people feed the cattle in with And uh oh yeah, and please initial here saying, you know, that you got this message. And have a nice day. Alright, I'm done, I'm done. Keep that choir. Uh they wouldn't have believed it And we certainly wouldn't have reason to believe that the angels really care about us and really are aware of what's going on here, and that the message was really true. I wouldn't be surprised if before that night, think about it, one or more of these shepherds doubted that God really loved him. Think about it. I wouldn't be at all surprised to find out that before that night one or more of these shepherds really doubted that God cared about him. Remember, they were on one of the lowest rungs of society. They were not admitted into polite society. Their word was generally not trusted. It wouldn't hold up in a court of law. In a time when personal hygiene was generally wanting. and thus highly valued, they would have always had the odor of sheep upon them. Does the great shepherd of the sheep really know me? And care about me? Just as I care for the sheep? I know that's what the psalmist says. But they could never ask that question again after God sent his angels to them with such momentous news. I have good news for you. This very day in the city of David, a Savior has been born, Christ the Lord. And you'll find them there. Go find the trough. They knew where to find the feeding trough. Go find the feeding trough. That's where you'll find the child. They could never ask that question again after what they heard. Glory to God in the highest on earth. Peace. Good will toward men. Let's celebrate Christmas as the angels did. And as the shepherds did after they heard this good news, not with gluttony and drunkenness, but with singing and with joy. families. As the angels declared good will toward men, let us reach out to others this year, our employees, our employers, our fellow workers, our classmates. Our friends, our neighbors, our extended family, with this good news. We've got good news. It's the most wonderful news. And it may seem like people don't want to hear it But they're going to want to know one day that you cared enough about them that you brought this message of Christ to them. That you didn't think so uh lowly of them that you didn't take the time to tell them who Jesus is and what he's done for them. As the angels gave glory to God in the highest, may we do that as well. Now with angels round the throne, cherubim and seraphim. And the church which still is one, let us swell the solemn hymn, Glory to the great I Am! Glory to the Victor Lamb Blessing, honor, glory, might, and dominion infinite to the Father of our Lord, to the Spirit and the Word, as it was all worlds before, is and shall be evermore. It was uh 43 years ago, uh the week before Christmas, perhaps 43 years ago today, that uh God showed me that I was a sinner. He convicted me of my pride and my selfishness. He showed me that if I perished, uh if I died, that I would perish forever without Christ, because I was the sinner who had broken God's Holy loss. He brought me to my knees. He caused me to believe that Jesus is in fact the Messiah who who lived that sinless life came to to earth born of a virgin who Who did not inherit our sinful nature, who lived a perfect life in in our place and then went to the cross and died as our substitute. Life that you gave my brother Doug, who had been witnessing to me and to my family. God save me. Give me this new life. And that evening, back in December of nineteen seventy one. My sins were forgiven. And that burden of sin was off of my shoulders and it's never been there again since. Pray God. About a week after God brought me to faith, uh my wife Donna, we'd been married about six months at the time, uh, put her faith in Christ, sitting in a Sunday school class. In the Orlando Bible Church, it was called and still is. And a few months later, she had the joy of leading my mom to faith in Christ, for which I Those of us who know Christ, our prayer for you, if you're here outside of Him, is That uh this would be the day of salvation for you. That uh this Christmas wouldn't be like all the others, uh some sort of a meaningless celebration. But that you would would know the one uh we celebrate and what it's all about. And and that that you'll have uh the most uh joyous Christmas because you know uh the Christ who came, the one whose birth we celebrate. Our prayer for you is that you'll put your faith in Christ. God, I'm a sinner and I know it And I know I can't save myself, but I believe that you lived that perfect life and died on the cross and rose again from the dead. And I want you as my Savior. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer, mean that in your heart. On the authority of God's word, I can assure you, you will have everlasting life. Jesus said it. He who believes in me has everlasting life. I and the resurrection and the life, he said. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, how we thank you for these good tidings of great joy, which are for all people, for unto us was born that day. In the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Lord, we do lift up those who might be still outside of Christ. Give them no peace. Lord, until they find their peace in you. There's no rest until they find their rest in you. Draw them by your spirit. And give those of us who know Christ. That precious joy that only you can give. We pray in Christ's name. Amen