12 28 to 34, just to give the broader context of what I want to focus on this evening with the second greatest command. Hammond. Just want us to see the big picture. Uh beginning in Mark twelve, verse twenty eight And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he, being Jesus, answered them well, asked him, Which commandment is the most important of all? Jesus answered, the most important is here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. The second is this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding. And with all the strength and to love one's neighbor as oneself is much more than all burnt ho whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that, no one dared to ask him any more questions This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a quick word of prayer, of blessing. Our Heavenly Father, we come to these passages and oftentimes for many of us who are here every Sunday and and just have been Christians for a long time, these are very familiar passages. Lord, we ask that you would open our eyes to see your Son and his beauty and his glory with fresh eyes. Open our ears to hear of the majesty of Christ and the gospel with fresh ears. Open our minds, O Lord, to understand and our hearts to receive. Receive with joy the word that you have for us this evening. And Lord, we ask for your blessing during this time. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, for the last several months, Pastor Jared and I, as many of you know, have been going through the Ten Commandments one by one. And as you know, the Ten Commandments contains two tables, one through four on Table 1, and then 5 through 10 on Table 2. And after we finished the first four, we summarized it uh with part of this passage which Jesus gives as the greatest commandment. And now that we finished the five through ten on the second table of the law, what we're doing here is summarizing What the second table is all about with the second greatest commandment, which is simply this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. If you look at the bulletin, you can see our evening sermon idea. This is probably the most creative thing I've ever come up with. It simply says the second table of the law can be summarized as loving your neighbor as yourself. Very creative. Sometimes you just have to get right to the point, and that's exactly what this is. I want to unpack this basic commandment for us this evening. It's basic in how it sounds, but there's a lot of depth to this commandment. So I want to look a little deeper and closer at this second greatest commandment, but I also want to do so with an eye to understanding how this points Points us to the transformation that comes in the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, we talk about in the scriptures law and gospel, as Martin Luther would always uh say about the Bible. He would divide it between law and gospel. The law is always meant to point forward to the gospel. We want to do that this evening. Now, I do want to begin selectively here. I read this thing for the whole context, but I want to focus on the second greatest commandment in verse 31. The second is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these Now that's a really interesting thing. We want to understand this commandment in its context. And the way that 31, verse 31 ends, uh really captures that idea. when he says, there is no other commandment greater than these. Now those who are really in tune with things like grammar and syntax will tell you that is not a grammatically proper statement in English, but that is a faithful rendition to what it says in Greek. Notice commandment is single is singular, and then these is plural. And what that tells us is that the second greatest commandment is intimately tied to the first greatest commandment. In other words, the second greatest commandment must, logically as well as grammatically, follow the first. And simply what I mean is this second greatest commandment is going to make no sense for us as Christians in trying to define what it means. If we divorce it from the context of the first greatest commandment to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, and with all our strength. It is interesting how that first commandment is laid out. If you were to go back and read the original greatest commandment in Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 3. 4 and 5. 4 is actually the beginning of Hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, followed by you shall love the Lord your God. And it gives three things in the original Hebrew. with all of your heart, with all of your soul, and then with all of your might or your strength. Jesus here in in Mark uh bronze it out the four things heart, soul, mind, and strength. And Mark is contextualizing what Jesus is saying, what the scriptures are saying for his Greek Roman audience. But we must love God first if we're going to love our neighbor in a way that is consistent. with what Jesus is saying is the second greatest commandment. Why is that? Well, if you really stop and think about it, this is because our neighbor, whoever that neighbor may be And let's broaden this out that our neighbor is not limited to just believers. It includes all people around us. Our neighbor is made in the image of God. We find that very clearly in the Old Testament scriptures, Genesis 1. 27, for example, in the way we are created. All of our neighbors are made in the image of God, and so it stands for reason that if we are going to effectively love those who are made in God's image, then we must first know what it means. to love God. And Jesus lays that out in the greatest commandment, which you can then extrapolate out from that, the first four commandments of the ten. But the other thing I want you to see here about the context of the second commandment is that the second greatest commandment is all pervasive. I kind of already just alluded to this. After telling him the first commandment, he gives him the second, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Where does Jesus get that from? Well, he gets it from, I guess what we would say, from our 21st century American perspective, maybe from the least likely place that we would pay attention to in our Old Testaments. From Leviticus of all books, chapter 19, verse 18. And that's part of an area of that book called The Code of Holiness. And if you don't know anything about The book of Leviticus that lays out all of the sacrifices and what's required in in chapters 1 through 9 and then in 10, the installation of the priests. Chapters eleven through fourteen or fifteen lay out the laws of cleanliness, and all of this is designed to get us to see how pervasive sin is. And then interestingly enough, you get to chapter 16, and you find the laws around the Day of Atonement. And really, if you think about it, that's the centerpiece of the whole law of Moses from Genesis to Deuteronomy. The centerpiece is the Day of Atonement. That's what it all focuses on. And then after the Day of Atonement, when the people are cleansed of their sins once a year, pointing to Christ, then you have what's called the Code of Holiness. What does it look like for those who have been saved, who have been cleansed of their sin? to live with God. And part of the summary of that code of holiness is to love your neighbor as yourself. Now again, I do think in the Old Testament context, the idea of loving one's neighbor was probably limited in scope to talking about fellow Israelites. But the New Testament broadens this out. Jesus broadens this out when he illustrates this in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Remember, he gave another parable about uh one publican and and a Pharisee. That were in the temple, and one went home justified. And there was a scribe sitting there in the crowd, and he asks a very snide question. Well, who is my neighbor? Okay. Jesus goes into sharing this parable about the good Samaritan to lay out the fact that anyone that you come into contact with is your neighbor. Now, I do think that the way that this commandment is laid out, and it's laid out this way in the Old Testament as well as the New, it's a the second greatest commandment is made very personal. Because notice how Jesus says this in verse 31. You shall love your neighbor what? As yourself. In other words, he gives you a starting point to launch from in how you understand this commandment. Most of us know by nature and implicitly what it means to love ourselves. That's why what makes this commandment a personal appeal. How do we know that most people know what it means to love themselves? Well, think about how we take care of ourselves. We make sure that our bodies are fed when we get hungry. We tend to look out for opportunities for ourselves, sometimes to a fault where we take it a little too far and we we only look out for number one. But implicitly, we know what it means to love ourselves. And Jesus takes what is implicit in our nature and uses that as the launching pad to just get us to understand this commandment calls us to take what we implicitly do by nature and just extend that to other people around us Now, I don't know if you've ever thought of this. When I was preparing this message, I was thinking about what does it mean to love my neighbor as myself? What are some of the hindrances to doing that? Because if I'm saying that we implicitly understand what it means to love ourselves, and then Jesus says, take that and extend it outward, well, what are the obstacles, at least in my life, as I look at my heart, to doing that? Well, I'll tell you what the obstacles are, and I know they're the same ones for you. There are times that people around you are just not lovable. They don't seem to deserve your love in how they're treating you or talking to you. I remember when I was in a seminary. Um, I worked at a credit union that dealt with um people living in the inner city, often paycheck to paycheck, and many of them in poverty. And oftentimes 'cause I was a different color than them and with my skin color I got treated very differently than other coworkers. And and some people got really nasty to me. And I remember it got to the point where every day I would drive to work and my prayer would be, Lord, help me to love the unlovely. Because I don't think these people deserve my love. But this commandment doesn't leave that open to us, does it? It just simply tells us to love uh our neighbor as ourselves. And my point here that may not have occurred to you is while this is a command, it often requires a great measure of grace towards other people. in order to put it into practice. Again, I I could say it harshly. People don't always deserve the love that we're called to show them, and yet we're called to do so anyway. And many of us know implicitly what that means because of the families that God has placed us into, right? Whether it's your marriage or your kids or extended family, uh it maybe maybe it's us. You know, we're not always lovely towards other people ourselves. And yet we're called to love them graciously despite that. And so there's an interesting connection between law and grace right there. Before I jump to my application, I do want to move to my second point. So the first one was just simply laying out the second greatest commandment. In verses 32 and 33, I want to look at the second greatest commandment and sacrifice, which is interesting. Because you talk about loving people that don't always act like they deserve it, which requires a measure of grace. Sometimes that requires sacrifice on your part, and that's the transition I'm going to look at here. Sacrifice for an exclusive God in verse 32. Take a look at that. The scribe is very clear. He says, You are right, teacher. I mean, Jesus answered his question. You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one and there is no other besides him. We see that all throughout the Old Testament laid out over and over and over again that in in in contrast to the pagans around them who worship multiple gods, Israel's to have one God. God's people are to have one God. Now Mark would have included that because of his Gentile Christian audience in Rome, to whom he wrote this book, most likely, who would have been accustomed to thinking that there was multiple gods. But he goes a step further, and the call was for Gentile Christians to forsake the idols that they were accustomed to worshiping. And so there's one God, but we have the idea in verse 33 of sacrifice and love. Don't miss that. And this is where I want to camp out for just a moment. Take a look at verse 33. Now the scribe does. Phrase the commandment a little differently in how he's responding to Jesus, and that deserves our attention. He says, and to love him from all the heart and from all the understanding and from all the strengths. And to love one's neighbor as oneself, don't miss this, is much more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices. Now in my notes I kind of put that italicized, that last part, about loving God and loving one's neighbor as oneself is much more than all burnt whole burnt offerings. and sacrifices. That's because in Mark's gospel, Mark is the only one that includes the scribe actually saying that. And I think that's important. And we want to pay attention to that for just a minute. Because the Old Testament itself lays out in several places that loving God and obedience to his commandments, one of them is to love our neighbor as ourselves. is more important than sacrifice. And I want to give two examples that I think are going to drive the application to this passage for us this evening and how we apply this to Christ and then through Christ to us. The first example I want to give is in 1 Samuel 15. 1 Samuel 15. This is a passage that has come up over and over and over again in our study of Esther in Sunday school, which we finished last week. Week. You might remember God commanded King Saul to go and destroy the Amalekites. And he commanded them to do that because when Israel came out of Egypt in the Exodus, in Exodus 17, actually immediately after drinking from the rock, the spiritual water that was provided for them, which we talked about this morning, the Amalekites went and attacked the rear guard of God's people as they were traveling through the wilderness. And those people happened to be the weakest and most vulnerable among them. Women and children and older people who were largely defenseless. So God commands King Saul to destroy the Amalekites in judgment upon them for what they did. And what was Saul to do? He was to destroy all the people, as well as the oxen, the sheep, the donkeys, and the camels. And if you remember the story, if you go back and read it, he did not do that. Now, instead of doing this, he did destroy all the people, but he kept the animals alive. Why did he do that? There's a really subtle nuance to his disobedience here. If you go back and read that passage, when Samuel the prophet comes and And confronts King Saul, what is the this bleeding of sheep that I have in my ears? What does Saul answer? He says, Well, I did fulfill the commandment of the Lord, but I kept these animals alive, the best of them, in order to offer a sacrifice to the Lord your God. Isn't that interesting? Now, from one center to another It's hard to judge his motive on that. He wants to offer sacrifice to the Lord. That would seem like a good thing. But what's wrong with it? He didn't realize that by wiping out all the animals along with the people was the sacrifice of judgment that God had required against the Amalekites in the first place. So even in his best motivation, he was disobedient to the word of God for the purpose of offering sacrifice. Now if if you take a step back and you and we want to be very careful in how we do this, but I think we can, if you really look at what was wrong with that motivation, it prioritizes sacrifice over obedience. And Samuel will tell Saul as he rebukes him, don't you realize, Saul? That obedience to God's word and his commandments is more important than sacrifice And so because he ends up disobeying the commandment, it rendered his sacrifice useless. Interesting. The second example comes from the prophet Hosea, chapter 6, verse 6. Again, the the prophet centuries after First Samuel fifteen, he's dealing with an unrepentant Israel. They are constantly worshipping idols, they are constantly doing wicked things. And it says this. God says through the prophet, for I desire steadfast love And not sacrifice. The knowledge of God, and by the way, that's relationship, not just head knowledge. I desire the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. What was the problem in Israel? This might hit a little closer to home for us today. They were trapped in dead ritualism. Hmm. They could go, and they often did, to offer the sacrifices and to keep the feasts and the fasts. That the law and the scriptures had prescribed to them. They could go through the motions. You go and read Isaiah chapter one. It is all about that for the southern kingdom of Judah. And God God says through Isaiah, and he says it through Amos , look, I'm paraphrasing Lucifer. Look, I am so sick and tired of your feasts and your fasts and your sacrifices. They wait they weary me out. Why? Because you go through the motions and then you go and live your lives the way you want to in unrepentant sin. You can offer sacrifice all you want, but you ignore obedience to my word And so it's the same point, Hosea 6, 6. I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. And so because they had no living real relationship with God, their relationship was a dead formalism of going through the motions. Their sacrifices, much like Saul, end up being useless and a burden to God Now these are just two Old Testament examples that make the point. But this particular scribe that is in conversation with Jesus in Mark chapter 12 is a very careful scribe. And the question that we want to ask really quickly before we get to our application is why is this true? Why is obedience more important or preferable to God than sacrifice? Well, I think it's the idea that love, because all the commandments boil down to love, love of God, love of neighbor. First greatest commandment, second greatest commandment. All of these commandments lead to love, and the idea of love is that love will keep one from sinning against the Lord. If you love the Lord, you will not sin against him. If you love your neighbor, you are not going to sin against them. Just go through the second table of the law. If you love your parents, you're going to honor them, not dishonor them. If you love your neighbor, you're not going to steal from them, you're not going to murder from them, you're not going to commit adultery with their wife, or if you're a woman, with their husband. If you love your neighbor, you're not going to go to court against them and bear false testimony and false accusation to get something out of them. If you really love your neighbor, you're not going to covet the things that they have in your heart. The idea is that if that love will keep one from sinning against the Lord And sinning against our brothers and sisters and our neighbor. And if we don't sin, that precludes the need for sacrifice in the first place. That's the logic And if we want to apply the second greatest commandment, brothers and sisters, we need to first apply it to the Lord Jesus Christ. Because in the Lord Jesus Christ, you see this concept of love and you see this concept of sacrifice meet in the middle in a way that fulfills this law and then turns around and allows us through the strength of the Spirit to apply this commandment and to live it out in our own lives. And that's the application here. Love relates to the sacrifices of the law in that love is the prerequisite of all sacrifices that point us to Christ. And so as I unpack that for you this evening for application, I want you to see that Jesus Christ Himself models love in a sacrificial way, and he does it In two particular manners. Now I know I'm supposed to be focusing on the second greatest commandment, but I said from the beginning, you can't divorce it from the first greatest commandment. Loving God and loving neighbor. How did Jesus fulfill this in the gospel? Let's think through this together. Christ models what perfect love for God looks like. And he does this by being willing to submit himself to the Father and go to the cross. It was this love, if you think about it, that led Jesus to say Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Let this cup pass for me, but not what I will, but what you will. Again, looking at Mark, but chapter 14, verse 36 this time. And so for for the love of his father, I I was going to say for the love of God, but that sounds a little strange. For the love of his father He was willing to go to the cross in obedience. Paul talks about disobedience in Philippians chapter 2, right? He was obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. But it was also for love for his neighbor, in order to redeem his neighbor from their sin that he went to the cross. Jesus says in John chapter 15, verse 13, Greater love has no one than this That he lay down than that he lay down his life for his friends. Now, in the Old Testament, it seems to differentiate obedience from sacrifice, but in Christ they meet in the middle. It is in the obedience of Jesus Christ that he goes to the cross to offer the final sacrifice And that it is in the final sacrifice, which is motivated by love that is perfect, that we can turn around and in the strength of Christ And because we are redeemed by his love and have received his love, we can turn around and love others as well. I love the way John writes this in 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 and 8. Beloved, I love that term by the way. When you talk about other believers. Beloved, let us love one another. Why? For love is from God, and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. The one who does not love has not known God. Again, why? For God is love You see, brothers and sisters, this means that every day, for those of us who have already come to Christ, this means that every day we must come to the cross and look to Jesus. in order to experience and receive what true love in its fullness is for us, the gift that God has. Love seems to be one of the main ethic ethics of the world today. You see statements like Love is love. I saw a really interesting meme today on Facebook, which I usually don't like to look at Facebook on Sunday, but I couldn't help myself There was this meme and it showed um a progressive pastor with all these rainbow things and all the you know progressive quilts around them on banners. Um Um love is love was printed on the front of the pulpit and in the side in the wing, you see Jesus walking in. Second commandment violation, I understand, but you see Jesus walking in preparing a whip. Cleansing the temple. Love is love. Main ethic of the world. The problem is the world's concept of love is self-serving. Right. Jesus takes in the second commandment what is self-serving, and he turns it outward. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. And so we have an opportunity to share love in a way that can transform the world as Christians. How do we do that? Well, I want to submit to you first and foremost by offering up ourselves as a living sacrifice. Where do I get that from? I get that from Romans chapter 12, verse 1. If you know anything about Romans, he spends the first eleven chapters laying out very, very heavy doctrine, and then he turns around. and tells you how to apply it in twelve to sixteen. He says, I urge you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. My question is, how are you doing with that this evening? How am I doing with that? Well, I'll tell you, it's hard. This is a call not only to faith, but it's a call to holiness. And holiness is the manner by which our love to God and our love for others is expressed first. When we are willing to offer ourselves as a living sacrifice, that will naturally lead us to a place where we are willing to love others sacrificially in the same manner in which Christ did when he went to the cross. This is what it means to be filled with the Spirit and to walk in the Spirit and to be locked in step with the Spirit. It is so fascinating to me that in Galatians chapter 5, verse 13 and following, you know, Paul talks about for freedom, brothers, we have been set free. There's that theme again, right, from our 1 Corinthians. Sermon series, Freedom in Christ, 8 through 11. For freedom you have been set free, only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but what's the opposite? But through love serve one another. And then he kind of gives a warning there in Well, first he says, for the whole law is summed up in this one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There's your second greatest commandment. Then he warns people, you know, watch out that you are not, you know, if you're going to bite and devour one another, watch out that you're not consumed by one another. And then he goes into, but I say Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Then he goes and he contrasts, I'm not going to get into it in detail, but he contrasts the works of the flesh with the the um fruit of the spirit and what is the first fruit of the spirit love love love Let me ask you something this evening, and don't answer this out loud, and we'll end on this point. If those closest to you, whether it's your family, those you work with, so on and so forth, maybe people at church, If someone were to ask them about you, is he or she really a loving person? What would they say? And then the answer to that, as you examine your own heart, what does that say about the love of God in your life? How are we to love others as ourselves? Look to Jesus this week, saints. And take your strength in him, especially when we're called to love those whom we would deem unlovely. Let's remember that we were unlovely when Christ loved us first. And let's take strength in that this week. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you and we thank you for your word. Sometimes these commandments are hard because when we examine ourselves, even our motives and our hearts with the lens. In the mirror of Scripture, we realize that we fall short. But Lord Jesus, we thank you that your love for your Father, your love for us, your fulfillment of all ten commandments was perfect. And Lord, we rest in that perfect love tonight And we ask that it's not that you could ever love us more than you already have, Lord, but we can, as we grow in our Christian life, we can certainly Grow in our capacity to receive more of that love, and we ask that you would help us to grow in that capacity so that we can turn around and love those around us. Strengthen us to do that this week, Lord. Give us more of yourself that we might pour out you to other people around us. And so we ask this in Jesus' precious. And lovely and beautiful name