In the third month, after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on the same day they came to the wilderness of Sinai. For they had departed from Raphedim, had come to the wilderness of Sinai, and camped in the wilderness. So Israel camped there before the mountain. And Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel. You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now, therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, Then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. So Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before them all these words which the Lord commanded him. Then all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. So Moses brought back the words of the people to the Lord. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in the thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and believe you forever. So Moses told the words of the people to the Lord. Then the Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes. And let them be ready for the third day, or on the third day, the Lord will come down upon Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. You shall set bounds for the people all around, saying, Take heed to yourselves that you do not go up to the mountain or touch its base. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death. Not a hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot with an arrow. Whether man or beast, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come near the mountain. So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people. And they washed their clothes. And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not come near your wives. Then it came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunderings and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of the trumpet was very loud, so that all the people who were in the camp trembled. And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was completely in smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire. Its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly. And when the blast of the trumpets sounded long, it became louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him by voice. Then the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai on the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up And the Lord said to Moses, Go down and warn the people, lest they break through to gaze at the Lord, and many of them perish. Also let the priests who come near the Lord consecrate themselves, lest the Lord break out against them. What Moses said to the Lord that the people cannot come up to Mount Sinai for you warned us saying, set bounds around the mountain and consecrate it Then the Lord said to him, Away, get down, and then come up, you and Aaron with you. But do not let the priests and the people break through to come up to the Lord, lest he break out against them. So Moses went down to the people and spoke to them. May God bless to our hearts this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Almighty God, it is with some fear and trembling that we approach your law this day. We pray that you will speak to us by your Spirit. Lord, that you will consecrate us, that as we come, we will come focused upon you, focused upon your word, having confessed our sins. coming before you to hear what you have to say to us. So help us, Lord, this day. We need your presence. We need your power. We need your help. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. It's been over a decade since authors James Patterson and Peter Kim Conducted what they declared to be at the time the largest survey of private morals ever undertaken in any country Their goal was to unearth and quantify the personal ethics, values, and beliefs of our nation in our time. They compile their findings in the book that they call The Day America Told the Truth by assuring those who responded to their questions that no one would ever connect their answers to them as individuals. And by questioning a broad sampling of Americans, and I think uh as I recall they actually reimbursed people for their time so they would take time to carefully answer. They believe they received honest answers that revealed what Americans really believe and how we act when we're not in public. Their book begins this way. It's the wild, wild west all over again in America. But it's wilder and wooler this time. You are the law in this country. Who says so? You do, partner. There's absolutely no moral consensus at all. Everyone is making up their own personal moral codes, their own Ten Commandments. Unquote. If ever a nation needed to hear and understand the laws of God, it is our nation and our generation. Yet sadly, even many Christians are ignorant of God's law According to pollster George Barna, half of all professing Christians, that is, half of all those who declare themselves to be Christians , cannot name even four of the Ten Commandments. Three months after he brought his people out of bondage in Egypt, manifesting his power over Pharaoh and his army, God led the people to camp before Mount Sinai in the Arabian wilderness. There he revealed to them his ten commandments. I would like us as a church to camp before Mount Sinai for the next several months. Asking the Lord to speak to us through his word, and uh and hopefully asking the Lord to apply to us uh individually the implications of each commandment. As we begin this series, it's important that you understand my perspective, that is what I believe about the place of the Ten Commandments within the broader category of God's law. There are, as you know, a great many laws which God gave his people. In fact, God's law is so prominent in the first five books of the Bible that they're often described as the law or the Torah. Hebrew word which could be translated law. The term the law or the law of God was often used in this broad sense to describe the five books of Moses. Jesus said, the law and the prophets were until John. Luke 16, 16. And when he appeared to the apostles on the evening of the resurrection day, Jesus said, All things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms concerning me. Luke 24 So here Jesus was speaking of the law in the broad sense, which would include all those five books of Moses. And speaking of the law in its broadest sense includes all the regulations that God gave to Israel as a theocracy. That is not a democracy ruled by the people, not an autocracy ruled by a leader at the top or several leaders at the top. Not a republic, as America, ruled by elected representatives of the people, but a theocracy, a nation ruled by God. When Israel was ruled directly by God, he gave them their national laws. He performed the role, in other words, of a legislative body, such as Congress or Parliament. These laws included what should be done to those who commit specific crimes. Regulations concerning weights and measures, the cities of refuge. For example, what's the consequence to the owner of an ox if that ox gores someone? What happens? How do you What what happens to the owner? Is it his responsibility? What happens if a man uh strikes a servant? What should happen if a man steals his neighbor's sheep? How is he to be punished? Is he to be put to death? Is he to be put in jail somewhere? Or is he to repay the sheep that he stole and give others? It was this aspect of the law to which the scribes and Pharisees referred when they brought to Jesus the woman caught in the act of adultery. Now, Moses in the law commanded us that she should be stoned. But what do you say? John 8, verse 5. Such laws are commonly referred to as the civil laws, the laws that God gave to Israel to govern their society. They would compare in our system of government to what laws come out of Congress. what laws come out of Washington or what laws come out of state capitals. In its broadest sense, the term the law of God also refers to all those regulations concerning feasts and sacrifices, purification rites, holy days, circumcision, the tabernacle, the temple, clothing restrictions, food restrictions, etc. All those ceremonial laws which over time became so burdensome to God's people. This was the great weighty body of the law that was satisfied by Christ's sacrifice. Look at Colossians chapter 2. Or listen as I read it. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, chapter 2. Verse 13. Yeah, that's what I have to do every time I find it. Colossians 2. 13. And you, being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh. He has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. So, let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come. But the substance is of Christ. I believe it is this aspect of the law, the law in its broadest sense, that Paul was addressing in Galatians 3. 21. Here in the Colossians, turn back a little bit to Galatians chapter 3. Verse 21. Is the law then against the promises of God? Certainly not. For if there had been a law given which could have given life, truly righteousness would have been by the law. But the scripture has confined all under sin that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. But Before faith came, we were kept under guard by the law, kept for the faith which would afterward be revealed. Therefore, the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ that we might be justified by faith. But after faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. The process of raising a child, as many of you know by experience, is one of gradually granting freedom. In infancy, of course, the little one is never alone, never apart from someone's oversight. Even in sleeping at night, we try to keep baby monitors on the child so we're aware of what's happening When you're a young child, say four or five, you continue to operate under close supervision with a great many restrictions But you have a bit more freedom than you had as an infant. Perhaps you're able to play alone in your bedroom or in your in the backyard. By the time you reach nine or ten, your parents may let you go on a sleepover or uh off to summer camp for a week When a child reaches adulthood, he is no longer bound by the restrictions of his youth. However, he is expected to make individual choices consistent with the truths that he's been taught and the lessons that he's learned. Well, for God's people, the ceremonial law was like a tutor to give them direction until the time of Christ. But now that Christ has come, Paul says, now that the embodiment of the ceremonial law has come, fulfilling that law. Wiping out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was a burden to us, right? Imagine trying to keep all those laws and rules that can I wear these clothes or what can I do? And this is this now it's time to go up to Jerusalem again for another feast time. All those that great burden of the ceremonial law was was a great weight for God's people. Now that Christ has come, God's people are no longer under a tutor They no longer need the ceremonies pointing to Christ. However, out of the great body of the law, which included civil law, as we said, ceremonial law The Ten Commandments stand unique. They stand out dramatically from the rest of God's laws, even as Mount Sinai stands out dramatically in the Sinai wilderness. Now, what is unique about the Ten Commandments? Well, we just read Exodus chapter 19. The preparations. Consecrate the people. Warn them not to touch the mountain. Tell the men to abstain from normal marital relations. And then there were thunderings, lightnings, the sound of a trumpet, the quaking, the smoke. The Ten Commandments are unique because of the preparations therefore. The Ten Commandments were unique because God spoke them, wrote them on tablets of stone. They were to be kept in the Ark of the Covenant. They were repeated before the people entered Canaan. The commandments are unique in that Jesus held people responsible to keep them. And the woman at the well was confronted with violating the seventh commandment. Go call thy husband and come here. Sir, I have no husband. Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. The woman taken in adultery was told to go and sin no more. Jesus held people accountable for keeping the commandments. The rich young ruler was confronted with them. You know the commandments, Jesus said, do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, etc. The commandments are unique in the way the apostles referred to them, as principles that we are to keep. Romans chapter 13 Verse eight Owe no one anything, Paul says, except to love one another. For he who loves another, or he who loves another, has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, you shall not covet, and if there's any other commandment, all are summed up in this saying, namely, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no harm to a neighbor, therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. Ephesians 6, 2. Honor your father and your mother, which is the first commandment, with a promise. Paul said. And John wrote, By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. The Ten Commandments are unique in that we are encouraged to carefully consider the full implications of each one of them. By the way, the Lord Jesus in Matthew 5 dealt with two of them. Let me read from Matthew 5. And verse 17. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets, Jesus said. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches man so shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. You've heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you, that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Reka shall be in danger of the council, but whoever says, You fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. And then in verse 27, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. Thou shalt not kill also means thou shalt not hate. Thou shalt not commit adultery, also means thou shalt not lust. We should learn from Christ's words to carefully consider the full implications of each commandment. Not only what behavior we should avoid to keep from breaking the commandment. But what positive steps we should take in order to help us to keep the commandment. I believe the commandments differ from the rest of the great body of God's law in that they represent enduring Principles which reflect God's character, which all people everywhere are called to obey It's always wrong in every culture, in every place, amongst believers or unbelievers, it's always wrong to murder. It's always wrong in every culture to steal. It's always wrong to take God's name in vain , to dishonor one's father or mother, to labor incessantly without days of rest. It's always wrong. The Ten Commandments differ from the civil and ceremonial laws in that they convey eternal moral principles. Pastor A. W. Pink put it like this. When we had miserably defaced the law of nature originally written in our hearts, so that many of its commandments were no longer legible. It seemed good to the Lord to transcribe that law into Scripture. Now what does the law do for us? Well, first of all, it reveals sin. You could say the very first purpose of the law is to reveal sin. Just as a mirror reveals dirt on our face. How many of you used a mirror this morning? I imagine even if you don't remember, you probably did. You probably glanced in it. Uh I know I I try to you know comb my hair before I get up here. And usually by the time I walk up that hallway it's all messed up again. But uh uh we use a mirror to show us. Uh-oh, I got a big splotch on my face. I got a piece of uh cream cheese here from breakfast. We use a mirror to reveal uh our face. Well, that's what the law of God does. It serves as a mirror to reveal sin. By the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Romans 3. Through the law comes the knowledge of sin. I would not have come to know sin except through the law, for I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, You shall not covet. Romans 7:7 So, first of all, it reveals sin. Secondly, it prepares us for salvation. The law prepares us for salvation. Remember the apostle, remember John, not the Apostle John, but John the Baptist, or John the Baptizer, as Presbyterians like to call him, came preaching repentance. To prepare the way of the Lord. J. Gresham Machin said men would have little difficulty with the gospel if they had only learned the lesson of the law. Reformed Baptist pastor Walter Chantry wrote, Hosts of Christians have a dreadful fear of God's law, as if it were the useless relic of a past age, the use of which in our day would keep sinners from the grace of God Our Savior used the law as a primary tool of evangelism. He knew that preaching the Ten Commandments was the only way to teach a sinner his guilt and thereby stir within him a desire for God's grace. The woman at the well must have the seventh commandment applied to her conscience, or she would never be converted. This nobleman must have the law personally preached, or he would dwell in constant confusion. Talking about the rich young ruler. Every true saint would have to agree with Paul, who attributed his own conversion to the agency of the law. I had not known sin but by the law. It is God's law that convicts of sin. Until its condemnation of particular evils is forcefully pressed upon a sinner, he will not flee to Christ for mercy. At best, you can only ask, what is it that I need for eternal life? What do I have to do? What are the requirements? The man who understands the law clearly knows that only God's grace can help him. What the sinner must do is beg for mercy. The Ten Commandments help Christians know how to live, the third purpose of the law. First of all, they reveal sin. They drive us. To the Savior. They cause us to seek salvation. They prepare the way of the Lord. And then they teach Christians how to live. I'm called to love God, right? You're called to love God. Well, what does that mean in practical terms? Some people seem to have the idea, well, since we're saved by grace, we're free to live without any regard to law We're not under law, we're under grace. Dr. D. James Kennedy said when he met such people, he asked them Having accepted Christ and been saved by his grace, is it not your desire to please Christ and to show your love to him out of gratitude? Oh, absolutely the answer. My next question is, he said, can you name one thing you could do that would please God more than obeying his commandments? That question is always met with silence, he wrote. What does it mean to love God? Well, among other things, it means I'm not to put other gods before him. Before his face. I'm not to worship statues or images. I'm not to take his name in vain. I'm to keep his day holy. I'm called to love my fellow man. What does that really mean Well, for one thing, it means I'm to honor my father and my mother. It means I'm not to murder my neighbor or hate him. Means I'm not to commit adultery with my neighbor's wife. I'm not to steal from him. I'm not to lie about him or to him. I'm not to covet what is his. That's why Paul said, love is the fulfilling of the law. For the Christian, the commandments show us how to live. So we talked a little bit about what the law does for us. Now, what does the law not do for us? Well, it does not and it cannot empower us to keep it. The law does not, the law cannot empower us to keep it. Dr. Donald Gray Barnhouse explained it this way. The law of God is like a mirror. Now, the purpose of a mirror is to reveal to you that your face is dirty. But the purpose of a mirror is not to wash your face. When you look in a mirror and find that your face is dirty, you do not then reach out and take the mirror off the wall and attempt to rub it on your face. As a cleaning agent, the purpose of the mirror is to drive you to the water. And hopefully some soap. Knowing I should not covet does not empower me to resist covetousness. Get me thinking about other people's things. The law does not provide a way of salvation for us. Secondly, the law does not provide a way of salvation for us. By the works of the law no flesh will be justified. Galatians 2. 16. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them, Galatians 3 10. Now we can say uh If you keep the Ten Commandments perfectly, you'll go to heaven. We could actually say that. I think we could declare that. If you could perfectly keep God's law, you would not be a lawbreaker. You would not be an offender. And and and you would not therefore deserve the wrath of God. The problem is you cannot, because of the fall of man, because of our sinful nature, because all we like sheep have gone astray, we turned everyone to his own way You cannot perfectly keep God's law. But and that's why Paul says that nobody was ever saved by keeping the law, because you'd have to keep the whole law. Because cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Did you honor your father and mother every single day of your life? Did you never take us in vain? Have you never coveted what belongs to some someone else? Have you never gotten angry in your heart? Been so mad at somebody you want to swear at him or her or throw at something at him or her? Have you never violated God's law? You see, if we could keep the law perfectly, then presumably we could live, but the weakness of our flesh prevents us from keeping the law. Perfectly. However, the scripture says, what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending his son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of sin, he condemns sin in the flesh So, the ultimate goal of the series is not simply to drive home to each heart the true meaning and practical implications of each commandment. The ultimate goal is that each of us understand how deep and broad God's moral law is. That each one of us understands individually how deep and how broad God's moral law is, that each of us understands that He's violated that law. And that, as Jesus said, unless you repent, you will perish. Unless you repent, you will perish, Jesus said. Luke 13 The ultimate goal is that each of us would truly, sincerely repent of his or her sin, turn from it in disgust, recognizing Jesus as the sinless Son of God who perfectly kept the law in the place of sinners. paid the debt that we owed upon the cross. I'm the good shepherd, the good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. Now, of course, I understand many of you, most of you I trust, have already a trembled before Mount Sinai. You've already lost that great weight of sin. You left it there at Calvary. What benefit then can this series have for you? Well remember, the law not only reveals our sin and prepares us for salvation, the law shows us how to live. It shows us how to demonstrate love for my God and for my neighbor. Now, as I draw this brief introductory message to a close, let me try to make something clear. There is always a danger in preaching on the law of God because so many people have a misunderstanding, a misconception. They think that Christianity consists in doing certain things and not doing certain other things, keeping certain laws or rules, be they golden or otherwise. This is, of course, the way that seems right unto a man. You ask the average guy, the individual who's not been redeemed. Uh uh what does the Bible say about how we inherit eternal life? Oh, you gotta be good, you gotta go to church, you gotta join the church, you gotta keep the Ten Commandments, you gotta keep the uh uh golden rule, whatever. It's the way that seems right unto a man. It's the way I thought before God saved me. I suspect it's the way many of you thought salvation was to be attained before God saved you. It's been said that the teachings of most of the religions of the world can be summed up by the little word do. Keep these laws, do these things, avoid these things, and all will be well. There's a balance, there's a scale. If only you'll have you'll do more good than evil, all will be well. Well the message of the gospel is not due. It is done. Done. There's nothing you can do to deserve salvation, nothing you can do to merit God's favor. Christ has already done it The message of the gospel is done. It is finished. It is done. The great transaction is done. As the late president of Moody Bible Institute, Dr. William Colbertson put it, every pagan religion in the world sings this hymn, something in my hands I bring. Only Christianity says, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. The law never saved anyone, and it will not save you. It could be said you don't need the law as much as you need a lawyer. That is an advocate. A unique, particular advocate, not any lawyer will do. A unique, particular advocate. The one who came and perfectly kept the law that you broke. The one who went to the cross and paid the debt for his sheep, dying for the sins, for the debt that his sheep had accrued. If you'll come to him by faith. If you'll come to him by faith, come to Christ by faith, the sinless, spotless Lamb of God. You'll know the joy of sins forgiven, the peace of reconciliation with God, the promise of everlasting life. Let's pray. Well Father, drive home to our hearts the the truth that there's none righteous, no, not one. That uh we've all gone out of the way, we're all together become unprofitable. There's none who does good. No, not one. There's no one here, there's no one anywhere on this earth who has perfectly kept your law. every single day, every single moment. We are violators. We've broken these tablets. We have uh cast them down and shattered them. And we know that we therefore cannot be saved on the basis of our own works. It's not by works of righteousness which we have done. But according to his mercy that he saved us. By grace are you saved through faith, it's not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Lord, drive home that truth to every heart here. Pray for every young person. for every child. Lord, as they're as they're raised in Christian homes and they're taught not to lie and not to steal and to be obedient and to say yes, sir, and yes, ma'am. They can somehow uh misunderstand and think that it's by doing such things and not doing certain bad things and doing certain good things that they are somehow uh meriting your favor. Lord, help them to understand that they're sinners who are in need of a Savior. And it's not what we do, it's what Christ did. May they simply cry out to him, Jesus, forgive me. I know I do bad things and sometimes I disobey mom or dad, but Lord, I I understand that Jesus came and and lived that perfect life that I can't live. And then he went to the cross and he paid the debt that I owe. Lord, I thank you for Jesus. I want him as my Savior. Lord, I pray that that would be true. uh not only every child, but every young person, every adult who is here, that we would come to you and cry out to you in simple faith. Lord, save me. I believe that Jesus lived that perfect life and died for me. Save me, Lord. That's our prayer. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.