Exodus chapter twenty, verses eight through eleven. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day. And made it holy. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and we are thankful, O Lord, for this day that you've given us one day in seven. To set all things aside and put our hearts, our minds, our attention, our affections, and all things on you And Lord, we thank you, as we heard this morning from 1 Corinthians chapter 3, 18 to 23, that all things are ours. And that includes, Lord, all the blessings that come with the Sabbath. And we pray, O Lord, that this this evening you would give us an understanding mind and a heart that receives your word from Exodus. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, this is a pretty difficult message to prepare this week because it seems to me that no command of the Decalogue or no command of the Ten Commandments. has fostered more disagreement among good, solid, Bible-believing Christians than the Fourth Commandment, which we read this evening. There are all kinds of views of the Sabbath, those that believe it still has binding force today, and those that believe it has no binding force today, as New Testament Christians. You know, I mean if you're looking for me to get through all the labyrinth of the arguments one way or the other, I'm going to supremely disappoint you this evening. My purpose is not to explore all the rabbit trails of disagreement that there are, and by the way, that could be a profitable exercise, but Our purpose tonight is to simply state what the command clearly and unequivocally says here in Exodus chapter 20, and to trace the command through to the message of the gospel. In fact, our main idea this evening is this: the Sabbath calls us to rest from our work because of God's work and rest in creation and redemption. We have that printed at the bottom of page six in the bulletin if you needed that to follow along, but it's a simple enough idea, I think. The Sabbath calls us to rest. from our work because of God's work and rest in creation and redemption. And so I wanted to begin very quickly looking at just the bare command itself in our first point, which we find in verse 8. The Sabbath as an enduring command. Take a look at verse 8 again. It says very simply, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now that's an interesting way to begin a commandment. The other commandments up to this point are you shall not or you shall not do. This has got a positive tone to it. And there's a few things I think are worth mentioning before we seek to apply this today and how we understand the Sabbath today. First, we need to understand this is a command to remember, and the command is timeless. When you read it in English, we tend to put that word remember in an imperative or a command kind of form in our language. It's not rocket scientists. science, these are the Ten Commandments. So that kind of makes sense. But interestingly enough, in the original Hebrew, Moses uses what is called an infinitive Which carries the notion of technically being an apersonal word or a temporal And you can simply gather from this very intentional choice on Moses, where he could have used a command format in Hebrew and doesn't. He uses a word that communicates something that is atemporal, atemporal, however you want to pronounce that. He uses that to communicate that the Sabbath here is a timeless and enduring command. Very interesting. And the command is accomplished by making the day holy. Notice that. Very, very On the surface there, remember the Sabbath day, why? Or to do what? Or by doing what? By keeping it holy. He uses another infinitive there and he's really essentially saying this is how you remember the Sabbath. Remembering the Sabbath requires that you make it holy What does it mean to make something holy? I don't know about you, but normally when I read the scriptures and I think of like making something holy, I'm thinking of God Himself making something holy. You know, the the question is, can we make something holy as human beings, even as God's people? And the answer in this case is yes When he says to make something holy, he means keep it separate. Set it apart is different. And because he's talking about a day And we're setting a day apart is different, different from the other days of the week. So this highlights the result, this holiness of what God intends for the Sabbath day. The last thing I want to say by way of observation on this, just the bare commandment in verse 8, is that this command concerns our relationship with God. Well, what do you mean? Well, we talk about two tables of the law, right? Commandments one through four tend to be what we call the first table of the law. Commandments Five through ten contain the last six and are the second table of the law. We talk about the first table being commandments that have to do with our relationship vertically uh with God as his people. And then the second table, the commandments horizontally of how we relate as God's people to one another So it again it's not too difficult to understand. You take the first commandment, you shall have known that God's before me. The second command, don't make any idols. I shorten that, of course. The third command, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Those characterize what our relationship with God is to be. And the Sabbath comes in that That first table of the law, that's the last one, it's the capstone of what our relationship with God is supposed to be like. Right? And so we see that this is an enduring command. It's meant to be set apart from all the other days, and it is it is a command that that kind of really capstones what our relationship with God is to be characterized like. And so What I see here by way of application is that this command calls us to relationship with God specifically on the Lord's day. Now, the command means, therefore, not neglecting to meet together. And for this particular part of the application, I'm simply drawing from Hebrews chapter 10, verses 23 through 25. And this may sound really familiar to you, but this is what the author of Hebrews said. to the Hebrew Christians, uh the Jewish Christians in the first century, who were tempted to walk away from the Christian faith and revert to Judaism because of how hard it was to live a Christian life under persecution. He writes that in that context, he says, let us hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering. Why? For he who promised is faithful. Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near By the way, that day that he's talking about is is the day of the Lord, the second coming of Christ, when he will come and return and bring a great judgment, but also bring our final redemption. And so this command is realized when we meet together as a body on the Lord's day for worship. So how can we apply that? The obvious in front of me is that many of you have kept the Lord's day today. Many of you have kept the Sabbath. You are here. But how can we continue to apply this in a way that really builds up our neighbors around us and builds up this body of Christ? Well, sometimes people go through seasons of life where they may stop going to church for a while or maybe they were here and then they're not. I mean, this this might be an opportunity for application for us to reach out to those maybe we haven't seen in a while. And just check up on them. Because sometimes people don't make it to church for all kinds of reasons. Maybe they're sick or they're shut in and nobody bothered to check up on them and figure out what's going on. Maybe somebody's going through a hard time. Maybe somebody got burned or hurt in a relationship at church and they're afraid to come back. When I was in Illinois a few weeks ago, one of my friends who's a deacon at Westminster Press was telling me of a situation of a woman who had a hard time coming back to church and Um, part of her tremendous fear was she she had been away for some time and she really was terrified that she was going to be judged by people when she came back in the door. And that par that fear paralyzed her from coming back to church. And um I I think it was last week he told me they finally got her to come back to church and people welcomed her with open arms. But sometimes taking note of those who are not as consistent in coming to church and being a part of the the worship in the body of Christ on the Sabbath day might give us cause to reach out to them and check up on them because you never know what is going on in people's lives. That brings us to our second point here. Our first point was the Sabbath is an enduring command. The second point is the Sabbath It comes by rest from work. And we see that in verses 9 and 10. We see in verse 9, the beginning of verse 10, the pattern of Sabbath rest It's pretty pretty key there. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. Now the contrasts are obvious. There's a pattern between six days on the one hand and seventh on the other. That's pretty obvious. One day we're do we 're given to the Lord our God. But the other part of the pattern is the difference between work and Sabbath. Now, it's really interesting. We often miss that contrast between work and Sabbath because we often think of the contrast being between work and rest. Pastor, don't you mean rest? No , I said Sabbath. The word for work here, by the way, is the same word that's used in Genesis 2. 15. When it says that God took the man that he had created and he put him in the garden to work it and to keep it. And so we can get the idea here that God's talking about our careers. our vocational work that we have to do during the week. And the contrast of that work is Sabbath. And that comes from a Hebrew word that does mean to cease, to stop, or to be at a standstill. And you can see the contrast there, I think, between working and stopping. And so we see the pattern of the Sabbath. You know, six days of work, one of rest. But we see in the second part of verse 10 the scope of the Sabbath. This is really kind of fascinating. Take a look at what it says there. On it It being Sabbath, you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. Notice that within a commandment on the Sabbath, which is on the seventh day, by the way, at least in the old covenant, we have seven categories of beings that are meant. for the Sabbath to apply to. The Jewish commentator Humberto Cassudo, who's a rabbi, um in the late 1800s, early 1900s, said that this was to underscore the importance of the number 7. And the which is a number representing completeness, right? And the point is that the scope reveals that the Sabbath applies to everyone without exception. Notice that. The first six categories named. Isn't it interesting? Just like you have six days to work and then seven to rest, and that's the pattern. In this Sabbath rest, the scope, you see the same thing. Six categories that are represented under the father and his household. Which he's ahead of. And then there's a seventh one that stands kind of separate, but is also very important and not to be missed. The six are obviously, you know, him, his son, his daughter, his male, female servant, even his livestock are to enjoy a rest from their work But notice what the seventh is. The seventh category, who is not under the covenant authority of a father as the head of his house, is the sojourner. Why is the sojourner included? In this commandment of Sabbath rest for Israel in old covenant redemptive history. I think it's to get at the idea that the sojourner is still made in the image of God. And as an image-bearer Despite the fact that he is a sojourner, being among God's people, he is also subject to receiving God's blessing on the Sabbath. What a kind of foresight or forethought that is to the Gentiles one day being included in God's covenant people in the new covenant. And so we ask ourselves again, what does this pattern and scope look like in the New Testament now that Christ has come? Well, the seventh day of Sabbath rest has moved from the seventh day, the last day of the week, to the first day of the week in light of the resurrection of Christ. Now, I'm going to be brief with this part of the application to get to our third point here, but the Sabbath pattern in the Old Testament anticipates the fulfillment in Christ. I don't know if you've ever paid attention to this. I'll be honest with you, I did not until I was preparing for this this week. But it is really interesting that in the book of Leviticus Oftentimes um the different feasts will happen, whether it's Passover, Pentecost, um uh the feast of booths. But it's really interesting that right after those feasts it says, on the first day you shall have a holy convocation. In other words, a gathering of public worship among God's people. on the first day after those feasts that pointed forward to the ministry and the life of Christ. They anticipated a time when this Sabbath principle and concept would shift from Saturday, the seventh day of the week. to Sunday, the first day of the week, in light of something redemptive that God was going to do, which we know was Christ. And the Sabbath to the Lord's day comes in light of the resurrection of Christ, which is the capstone of what all of these feasts in in ancient Israel were pointing forward to that was like the the pinnacle of God's redemptive work through his son It was in the light of the resurrection of Christ on the morning of the first day of the week that led the early church, which we see several times in the book of Acts, to begin Meeting on the first day of the week for worship rather than just on the seventh day And again, it's interesting that even moving it to Sunday, we still have a pattern of at least one day that is committed to God, which is given for rest and worship and that holy convocation of believers Which we meet for Sundays today, but there's still six days for us to do our work. And so the point is the same moral force of the Sabbath command still applies today, on the Lord's day. And that brings us to our third point in verse eleven. The Sabbath is because of creation and redemption. Don't miss those two twin themes. Creation. and redemption. Let's look at verse eleven. We see the Sabbath is grounded in creation. He says, For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. By the way, that that really is kind of just a repeat of what God said in Genesis chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. The word four at the beginning of the sentence tells us that Moses is explaining why we do this Sabbath. And he and he goes back to creation. to establish this. It is a creation ordinance. And that that builds on the first point, the first idea that I made that the Sabbath is enduring. And timeless because it is tied to creation, and we are the capstone of God's creation as his image bearers But that's not all, because we know that there was a fall in Genesis 3. There had to be a redemption. And so we see that the Sabbath is grounded in redemption. Now for this, I'm going to have to jump outside of Exodus chapter 20 to explain this, but I'm going to go to Deuteronomy 5, verse 15, if you wanted to turn there. Deuteronomy 5, there's two places in the Old Testament where you have this list of ten commandments. They're the same commandments. The one is in Exodus 20, at the beginning of the wilderness wanderings, right when they come out of Egypt, Deuteronomy 5 , Is at the end of the 40 years wilderness wanderings, that first generation died out. The second generation is about to go in and take the promised land. And so Moses uh standing on Mount Nebo, I believe it was, um, is giving them the law again in Deuteronomy chapter five. Now in Deuteronomy five It doesn't give creation as the reason for the Sabbath commandment. It gives redemption. This is what it says. Everything prior to this is the same thing as Exodus, word for word, but then it changes in 515. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt. And the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. Notice the difference there. In Exodus, he points to creation as the grounding and the reason for the Sabbath. Now he points to God's redemptive activity in redeeming Israel. from slavery as as the ground for which they were to keep the Sabbath. And by the way, this is kind of interesting, although it's not an exact one-to-one correspondence here, but The pattern is that their work, six days of during the week, seems to correspond to their work in slavery. Their freedom in the Exodus redemption corresponds to their rest from their work. And so we can summarize the point that the Sabbath is grounded in the realities of both creation and redemption. By the way, I think that really just undergirds again why the Sabbath command is enduring and timeless. And since both creation and redemption continue to apply, so does the Sabbath. But we still have to ask here, as we look to wrap up our application this evening, we have to ask, what does the Sabbath Still have for us today who are in Christ Jesus The Sabbath today is grounded in the fact that in the redemption of Christ, we are a new creation set free from the slavery of sin to rest in Christ. for eternity. This is where the gospel begins to come in and have a bearing on how we understand the Sabbath Let's unpack that really quickly. The redemption of Christ is a greater redemption than the Exodus redemption. We talk about that. The great redemption in the Old Testament was the Exodus event. The corresponding event in the New Testament was Christ. I mean, even Moses and Elijah on the Mount of Transfiguration were speaking to Jesus about his coming Exodus in Jerusalem. I believe that's Luke 9, 23, but somebody could fact-check me on the verse there. But Luke uses that word, Exodus, the corresponding events. So the question I want to ask is: we often talk about how Christ fulfills the whole law for us on our behalf, and he did. But how did he specifically fulfill the Sabbath for us? In his work and ministry in life. Well, I want to just take as an example of that, to answer that, just look at the final week of Jesus' life, which we often call the Passion Week. From Sunday, when he entered Jerusalem, which we call Palm Sunday, until Good Friday, when he went to the cross. His work was completed on that cross when he uttered the words, it is finished. Notice the pattern in that passion week. Six days you shall labor. And do all your work. That is what Christ did Sunday through Friday under the strictures of the old covenant in fulfillment for us. He labored those six days for the redemption of the world. That was the work that God had given him to do. And by his dying on Friday and remaining in the grave on Saturday, he kept the Sabbath rest. Even as his body rested in death in the grave. Isn't that fascinating? I never thought of it until I started digging into this this week. And it makes the beauty of Christ all the more sweet as we see how he fulfills the Sabbath rest for us. And then of course he didn't stay dead in the grave on the Sabbath. He resurrected from the dead the very next day, the first day of the week. The week in which Leviticus points forward to, you shall have a holy convocation after these Sabbath festivals The first day of the week. And because of the resurrection of Christ, our second part of our application is that we are a new creation in Christ. The Apostle Paul fleshes this out for us in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and I'm just going to narrow down for the sake of time on verse 17. He says, therefore, if anyone is in Christ, He is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. Just as the Sabbath was tied to the old creation, it's also a pointer to the new creation. And by the way, this is what the author of Hebrews in chapter 4 gets is arguing along the lines of, when he argues that even though Joshua had given rest , to the people of Israel when he brought them into the land of promise and settled the twelve tribes. God still speaks in Psalm 95 in David's time. exhorting God's people to enter another rest which will come on another day. And that's interesting because the author Hebrews is like, look, if Joshua was the one who gave them final rest. There would have been no need centuries later in in Psalm ninety-five for the psalmist to say and exhort God's people to Don't fail to believe the promises of God. Make sure that you enter into the rest that God offers And that rest on that other day is the rest that comes with the eternal inheritance that you and I will receive in the new heavens and the new earth because of the finished work of Jesus Christ. And so we can see this, again, the same twin themes of creation on the one hand, redemption on the other, coalescing even in the New Testament understanding of the Sabbath. That leads us to the part that I think is the present hope that the gospel offers for us today is that we are set free from slavery to sin to rest in Jesus Christ. Jesus says this himself in John 8, 34 to 36. By the way, when he's locked in debate with the Jewish religious leaders. He says, truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. Boy, that's an interesting thing to say to the religious leaders. You guys are slaves. The slave does not remain in the house forever. Son remains forever. So if the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed. And he has set us free by redeeming us from the house of slavery to our own sin, that we might rest in him as the Lord of the Sabbath. And that's a term he uses for himself in Matthew 12, 8 and Mark 2, 28. It's the same event. But Jesus says the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. In other words, he is the one who has the power to give rest to whom he wills. Again, the author of Hebrews says in Hebrews 4, 8-10. For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest. has also rested from his works as God did from his. What's the point? Now aside from the idea of there being an eternal inheritance and an eternal rest for us In the presence of Christ. The present reality is that when we put our faith in Jesus Christ, we are no longer trying to work for our own righteousness. We're no longer trying to work for our own salvation. We don't keep working good works looking forward to the time when we might have rest spiritually. We're given rest today. Because we are given the righteousness of Christ through his faithful keeping of the law, through his active and passive obedience and righteousness that is given to us as a free gift. Some of you here this evening might be weary laboring at your own good works in order to feel like you can feel saved. Or to pick yourself up by your own bootstraps. Brothers and sisters, if that's you and your soul is heavy and you're you're just not quite sure if the Lord really will give you rest. The call and the hope of the Sabbath command this evening for you is to come and to rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. to rest in his finished work on the cross, to rest in his resurrection life, and to trust that he is sufficient to give you rest, not just for your body, but for your souls. as well. And I'll end by saying this. This is what Jesus said, and this was our call to worship this morning if you were here. Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest For your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Is the Sabbath a command? Yeah. But we also miss the fact that the Sabbath is a promise. And it's a promise for us to rest. Now, does this sermon answer every single question or debacle or debate that comes up when we discuss the Sabbath and the meaning of it today? No, admittedly it does not. You couldn't possibly try to capture all that in one 20-minute or half-hour sermon. But it does bring us back to the main idea of our passage this evening, which is that the Sabbath calls us to rest from our work. Because of God's work and rest in creation and redemption