If you are able to stand, please let's stand for the reading of God's Holy Word. If you have a copy of God's Word, I encourage you to keep it open. We're going to be in Mark chapter 12 this morning. Mark chapter 12, we're looking at the first 12 verses, the parable of the vineyard. God's holy word for you, God's holy people. And he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it, and dug a pit for the wine press, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. And they took him and beat him. and sent him away empty handed. Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head, and treated him shamefully. And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others, some they beat, and some they killed. He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally, he sent him to them, saying, They will respect my son. But those tenants said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to others. Have you not read this scripture? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And they were seeking to arrest him, but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told the parable against them. So they left him and went away. This is the word of the Lord. Please pray with me. Gracious Lord, in your mercy you have revealed yourself to us in your word You have preserved it through the ages that it is trustworthy. You have given us your people faith to believe the truth of your word. And so we ask you, Father, that your Spirit would enlighten us, speak to us through this, your holy word, and use it to make us more like our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, my rock, my redeemer. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I wonder if any of you are familiar with decision paralysis. You ever experienced that? I experience it every time I go to Baskin Robbins. Over thirty flavors is just too many flavors. I grew up with three flavors. Chocolate, vanilla, strawberry. It's easy to make a choice. It's always chocolate. It has to be chocolate. But when there's that many choices, what do you do? How do you make a decision? How do you s decide what you will do? How do you know what's expected of you? Now at a Baskin Robbins, it's not that important, is it? I don't think many people are there taking notes, oh mint chocolate chip. But in life, there are far more options than Baskin Robbins, aren't there? God in his design for human beings has given us so much agency. We have all these decisions that we get to make. Where will we work? Where will we go to school? What color socks will I wear today? Now some of those decisions can be trivial. But as you probably know, and I can tell by some of you that you have been through quite a lot in life. You've had to make some very difficult decisions. When we're making decisions, it really comes down to one basic question, doesn't it? Who do you serve? Do you serve yourself? Or do you serve the God who created the whole cosmos? The God who has given you all of these decisions to make Well, here in our passage, I think you'll see that God has been showing us how important it is that we know who we serve. Now in the rest of the Gospel of Mark, up until this point, I've been thinking of this gospel as a a series of like snapshots or photographs, as though we're looking through a picture album. That's the way Mark writes. Everything's very clean and quick. Everything happens immediately in Mark. But every single one of those pictures, do you know what he has been showing us in the gospel? He shows you that Jesus, born to Mary, who grew up in Nazareth, that Jesus, the son of a carpenter. Is none other than the Son of the living God, the Messiah, the Christ. If you're familiar with the Gospel of Mark, you know that from the very beginning he is showing this. With the miraculous voice of God declaring him his beloved son at his baptism in the very beginning. And everything that Jesus has done from that point on proved that he alone is God. He's done things that only God can do. He's cleansed lepers. Nobody can do that. He's healed the paralyzed. Some people might pretend to be able to do that, but do you remember what Jesus said? That you would know that I have the power to do this? First, I'm going to forgive his sins. And that you know that the Son of Man has power to forgive sins, I'm going to tell him, take up your mat and walk. Jesus has been doing so many wonderful and amazing things. And not only what he does, but what he teaches has been amazing. Everyone has recognized he teaches as one with authority. Something very different about this Jesus fella. Well, immediately before this. Starting in chapter 11, we have that triumphal entry where Jesus comes into his city. He's the son of David. That's David's city. Jerusalem is his. And it so happens that God ordered all of that to be on that special day of the Passover ceremony when the Lamb was set apart. That was the day that they would take that lamb into their home, that lamb without blemish, and they would care for it and love it until the day that they sacrificed it. it as the Passover lamb. That is Jesus coming into his city. And you remember he sees that fig tree that looks like it should be bearing great fruit. And when there's no fruit on it, what does Jesus do? You remember? He curses it and it withers. And it withers in Marken fashion immediately. It doesn't take much time at all. And then he comes into the temple, he cleanses the temple. He's doing amazing things to show that there is something about this Jesus that's different than any other teacher that's ever come. And immediately before this passage, the Sanhedrin, the ruling, the elders and the scribes. And the chief priests, they come to Jesus and they have a question for him. And you can see it there if you still have your Bible open. The question is: what are you doing? What gives you the right? By what right do you come in here and shake all this up? Who has given you this authority? And Jesus In a riddle , asks them a question that he knows they would not answer honestly. He asks them, okay, he says, I'll tell you I'll tell you by whose authority I do these things. If you tell me the baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Oh, he knows their hearts. And after their deliberations, what do they do? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. We haven't known. And he says, I'm not going to tell you. And then he turns right around and he gives this parable. And he delivers this parable as he has been teaching through parables. to everyone present, not just those in the Sanhedrin, but all the crowd that had been following him. He gives this parable because he wants them to understand what they are doing, what they are doing in questioning him. They are rebelling against him. And so this passage, I hope, brothers and sisters, the Spirit will show us. That rebelling against God is the most self-destructive thing that anyone can do. Rebelling against God is the most self-destructive thing that you can do. And we're going to look at this passage together in two headings. First, we're going to look at the progress of rebellion, and we'll see this in verses 1 through 8. And then we'll look at the result of rebellion in verses 9 through 12. So let's just jump right into it. And look at the progress of rebellion. Starting in verse 1. And he began to speak to them in parables. Now, when we look at this verse, what we see as the first part of the progress of rebellion is a denial. And it is a denial of God's authority. And that's where Jesus starts. They've been questioning his authority, and he shows in this parable that it starts with a denial of God's authority. And the first thing that we see in verse 1. Is that it's a denial of God's authority as designer. Look at what Jesus tells them. A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a pit for the winepress and built a tower. And leased it to tenants and went into another country. As we heard in that Isaiah 5 reading, this is what God has done. He has created a vineyard. It's his. And he's designed it very, very well. He's the Lord of this vineyard. He takes great care with it. He gives it a fence or a hedge A hedge of protection. It says that he he gives it a tower, he builds a tower. Why do they need a tower in a wine press? Or in a in a vineyard? They need a tower so that somebody can be up high and see if there's any raiders that are going to come to try to raid the vineyard or if there's animals that are coming to destroy the vines. It's for their protection. It's because he cares about the vineyard and even about the vineyard workers, those tenants. God is the designer, and he has the authority to design what he wants. Did you notice there that it says he dug a pit for the winepress? Back in Jesus' day, this would have been a very, very costly thing to do. A wine press was made out of a single giant block of stone. And to dig it out, it would have taken a great deal of work. They had to dig that impression. So that there could be all the stomping of the grapes and all the collecting of everything that came out of it. You don't just do this. You don't just go through that effort of making a wine press unless you have a purpose for it. Unless your design for your vineyard is that it produces vines. And wine, the fruit of vineyard. God is the designer. He has the authority to design everything so that it fits the way that he wants it to fit so that it accomplishes what he wants it to accomplish. And that's how we see in verse 2 that the progress of rebellion goes from denying God's authority as designer to denying God's authority as the designer. Definer. He gets to define what a thing is and what a thing should do. And so look at verse 2. When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. He's taking great care that while he is away in another country, in a very far country, that those tenants that he's leased this land to would be accomplishing his purposes. He's defined their work and defined their role. It says that the time has come. This is the vintage time. This is when anyone who has a vineyard would be expecting the fruit of the vine. And as the definer, he has a right to require that fruit, doesn't he? He has a right to expect that what he has put you on this world to do, you would accomplish for his glory. And he put those tenants in that vineyard, that they would make wine, and when the time came, he wants some of it from them. Perhaps he wants to sell it. Perhaps he just wants to judge it. He's the Lord of the vineyard. He gets to judge the produce He gets to do what he wants. And so he has designed this vineyard and he has defined its purpose. And we see the progress of rebellion in denying his authority as designer, denying his authority as definer. And then lastly, we see in verse 3 that the progress of rebellion denies God's authority as a delegator. Look at verse 3. They're talking about the servant. And they took him, the servant, and beat him, and sent him away empty-handed The head of the household is able to delegate his authority to others, isn't he? To give tasks And to expect that others in his household will respect that delegated authority. So he sends these servants, his servants Do you realize something there? This man who was sent to gather the fruit of the vineyard Is in exactly the same position as those tenants. They are peers. They serve the same master If they, in serving their master, reject his delegated authority, we have to ask the question: what master do they really serve? So the progress of rebellion, it begins as a denial of God's authority, his authority as designer, his authority as definer. And his authority as a delegator. And it proceeds then into a rejection. It proceeds from denial of God's authority to a rejection of God's mercy. We see this in verses 4 and 5. Look there with me. Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully. And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others, some they beat, and some they killed. We see in verse 4 that this is an undeserved mercy. Do you see that? They've already rejected Their master, those servants, those tenants, they rejected the authority of their master when they rejected that servant that he sent. And for him to send more , What great mercy is it? It's so undeserved. Let me ask you, if you owned a company and you hired somebody to paint a wall, And they didn't paint the wall. Are you going to go back to them and say, um, here's your paycheck for the wall? I'll give you another paycheck if you actually paint the wall this time. No. He doesn't have to send more servants. In fact, if the Lord of the Vineyard were anything like you or like me, he probably would have sent The troops. Right? Oh, you don't work for me anymore? Well, you don't work anymore. You're done. We also see that it's a long-suffering mercy. It's undeserved, totally unmerited. But it's long suffering. He keeps sending servants. He keeps giving these tenants the chance to repent. They send away the first servant empty-handed. They harm the second servant, treat him shamefully. If at any point they would have said, you know what, this is really stupid, guys. Let's just give a let's just give our Lord, our master, the fruit that he's expecting. Maybe there would have been some consequences. We don't know. Jesus doesn't go into that detail. It's a parable. It's not a thesis. They would have been received. The Lord would have received the fruit of their labors and would have been pleased by it. But what do they do? They don't turn from their sin and their rebellion, do they? They have denied his authority. They reject the Lord's mercy And it all culminates in hatred. The progress of rebellion goes from a denial of God's authority to a rejection of his mercy to finally a hatred. And we'll see that it's a hatred of his love. Starting in verse 6, he had still one other, a beloved son. And finally he sent him to them saying, They will respect my son. He loves this son. It's his only son. And this is this this boggles my mind. It is literally incredible, unbelievable. That after the way they've treated these servants, the Lord of the vineyard would send his only beloved son. And why does he do that? Because he loves. Because he loves. You don't need to turn there, but I'm going to read a verse from 2 Peter 3, verse 9. Why does God do this? This is what he tells us from Peter. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness. But is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. This is the God who has made you. This is the Lord of the vineyard. He's not tarrying. He's not slack in justice. He's so merciful, so very merciful, and so very loving that he sends even his son And it's not like they could pretend they didn't recognize him. Look at what happens in verse 7. But those tenants said to one another, This is the heir. They recognize him. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. Do you recognize the satanic thinking going on in these servants? It's diabolical. They recognize that it's the son of the Lord of the vineyard. And then they have some really strange logic. As though if they were to kill this son, suddenly the vineyard becomes theirs. All that was his by rights as the Son of the Lord would become theirs? That makes no sense Kind of like a serpent telling Eve, right? Oh, he doesn't he doesn't care about you. He just wants you to have a hard time finding fruit. This tree's really great. Go ahead. These servants reveal who they serve. They serve themselves. They think about what they can get. They think about what they want. They want the inheritance. They want the vineyard to be theirs. They don't give the fruit of the vine to the Lord because that's just not fair. This is all of our hard work They're serving themselves. And we know that when we serve ourselves, who are we actually serving? We're serving the enemy. We are doing what he wants and rebelling against our God. And so the last thing we see in verse 8 is that the beloved Son Of the Lord of the Vineyard is rejected. And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard They kill him. They hate him And what do we know about hatred? If we hate the Son, we hate the Father. If we hate those whom the Father sends and has sent to us, how do we feel about the Father? They show that they do not care about the Lord of the Vineyard. They do not serve the Lord of the Vineyard. In fact, they hate him because of the way that they treat his son This is the progress of rebellion, brothers and sisters. We begin by denying God's authority, then we reject his mercy. And all of it culminates in a hatred. Hatred of his love. Hatred of his son. Now for you and I that's going to be different than for an unbeliever. We who have confessed Christ. Our rebellion Lord willing, we'll never get that far. But you and I can be in a rebellion against God even as Christians, can't we? If you deny his authority to design how your life will go, that is a bad first step. When things happen outside of our control, when a brother needs to go to the hospital on a Sunday morning. Does God not have the authority to design our lives and to make it happen exactly as he wants it to be? When we start to question that design, and to deny that He has given us great protections And given us great and wonderful works to accomplish for his glory when we deny that and his authority to give that and design that. We proceed to rejecting his mercy because he will. He loves you. He chastens those he loves. And he will send his servants. And he'll send them to you. Expecting the fruit of you believers. And what is the fruit that God expects from Christians? Faith. Love. Hope. He expects you to have the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, all of it. That's what he's expecting from you. And when he sends one of his servants, who's been given his authority to speak into your life and to challenge how you are in rebellion against him, how do you treat them? Kettos, how do you treat those servants of God called mom and dad? When they have to redirect you from your rebellion, do you wound them about the head? Do you treat them shamefully? And of course, this can be applied to the church. God has delegated his authority to the officers of your church, to the pastors and the elders and the deacons. When they come to you, how do you respond to them? When the deacons come stirring up the generosity in your heart, telling you what they have been called by God to accomplish for his glory here at Liberty, how do you respond to them? When the elders call you to repentance, how do you respond to them? When your pastor, when Pastor Aaron is up here preaching, how do you treat him? Do you treat him as a servant sent by God? Who deserves your respect? Who deserves your attention? Or are you sometimes feeling like, hmm? Maybe uh maybe I could do that. Doesn't look that hard. Maybe I could uh maybe I could have this vineyard If you know your Bibles, you know that this is not just a parable that Jesus plucked out of thin air. This is the whole story of Israel's history. And I'm so glad that we read that passage from Isaiah 5, because it shows us that Jesus knew that. Shows us that it's important that we recognize that this is how God has always dealt with his people. He has given them great protection. He has designed and defined their purpose, given them wonderful things to do. And what did the Israelites do? They rebelled. And all those servants are the prophets of the Old Testament who have been sent time and time and time again. And I won't go into all the gory details about how the Israelites treated the prophets. I'll simply say they did not treat them well. So that's the progress of rebellion. Now let's move into examining the result. And we see it starting out for us right there in verse 9. What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to others. And the first thing we notice about the result of rebellion is it's a just result, isn't it? This is justice. They need to be destroyed. They rebel against the Lord. What else is a fitting end for them? I want you to also notice that there's a replacement that happens. And it's not a replacement of the vineyard, is it? He doesn't just Decide, uh, I'm done with this vine stuff. I'm done with this wine thing. I'm not gonna do this anymore. Do you remember when uh they were wandering in the wilderness? And he goes to Moses and he says, I'm done with these people. I'm going to wipe them all out. And Moses says, may it not be. Then the nations will see, and they will think you are a certain way. They won't see that you're a merciful God. They won't see that. They will think you just brought us out of Egypt just to destroy us. That's not a merciful, loving God. He pleads with God. And in a way, God says, You have answered wisely, Moses. You are correct. I'm not going to do this. This is my beloved people. He doesn't get rid of the idea of having a vine. He doesn't get rid of the idea of having a people because his people rebelled against him. And it's the same for us. We are that new set of tenants, aren't we, as Christians? The people of God are no longer bound to their race or their ethnicity. We are now the people of God. We are now the tenants of his vineyard. What do you think he'll do if you rebel against him now? We see it in this country all over the place. Churches with signs out there that they ought not have. Churches embracing agendas that they ought not embrace Churches denying the authority of Scripture, denying that Jesus Christ is the only way for salvation. What do you think God's going to do to those churches, those vineyards? He won't destroy those churches, but he will give the care of them over to others, to new servants. He will never get rid of his church. It will last. It will last. And it's the only thing that will last. The church will last from now through to forever. And that's always been God's plan. Look with me now at verses ten and eleven. We've seen the justice of the results, and now we see that it was Intentional. And we see the intentionality of it. God has always been planning to do this. And he says, Have you not read this scripture? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing. And it is marvelous in our eyes. Now your Bibles probably tell you that he's quoting from Psalm 118 In Psalm 118, and it's the same Psalm that was quoted as the people are singing his praises, shouting, Hosanna, save us now, O Lord. I want to read the extended quote. This is just verses 22 and 23 that Jesus quotes in the parable, but starting in verse 19 of Psalm 118, it says, Open to me the gates of righteousness. that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you That you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day. That the Lord has made, let us rejoice and be glad in it. When Jesus uses these verses in that parable. All those scribes and priests and the elders who should know their Psalter really well. In fact, they would have been looking at this psalm because it was used during the Passover. They would know exactly what he's saying. He is the cornerstone. They are questioning his authority, Jesus' authority, and he himself is the one upon which all the vineyard of God is built. It is marvelous, isn't it, to consider what the Lord of the vineyard is doing He always knew that his chosen, his son, his beloved and anointed Christ, his Messiah, would be rejected. It's not a surprise to him. His plan has always been that that one who is rejected, who is humiliated And be certain, Jesus was humiliated. Beaten? Flogged? Dragged around from one False court to another, from Pilate to Herod back to Pilate. He was humiliated in that the people, God's people , Clamored for a murderer to be released rather than for this beloved son of the Lord of the Vineyard. And yet he will be exalted. Always God's plan that the one rejected would be exalted, and he would become the judge. The judge of the living and the dead. And he is coming. The Lord of the Vineyard is coming. And that's exactly what it says would happen He would come and he will do these things. And the final thing that I want to point out to you is the reality of this result. Look at verse 12. And they were seeking to arrest him, but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told the parable against them. So they left him and they went away. The result of rebelling against God. Will be that God will remove all restraint from your sin. They were going to kill Jesus The only thing that kept them from killing Jesus is their master. Because they serve themselves. And they are their own masters. And the worst possible thing that could happen to them is that this crowd of people, whom they feared, would stone them because these people recognized Jesus. Jesus. They recognized that John the Baptist was indeed a real prophet. And they heard these guys saying, We don't know what John the Baptist was, and I'm sure a bunch of them started going in the crowd. Who are you? You're not clear about John the Baptist? Aren't you a scribe? Don't you like to have the whole Bible memorized? You don't think he's a real prophet And the last thing that Jesus teaches in this parable really is what's what Mark is recording for us about what they've done. Is they remove themselves from his presence. They remove themselves from relationship with Jesus. And this is why I say rebellion against God is self-destructive. You will remove yourself from him. Because you don't want to be around him. Because you want what's his. And so I asked you, brothers and sisters, whose vineyard do you serve in? Coming back to this idea of decision paralysis, there's so many things in our lives that we need to make decisions about. As we get older, it just gets more and more and more complicated. So, little ones, while your decisions are will I obey mom and dad or not, rejoice in the simplicity of your life. And I encourage you, obey those servants of God. But as you get older, where will I go to college? Should I go to college? Will I get married? Who will I marry? What will I do for work? How will I support a family? As you come into these questions and all these decisions have to be made, if you know who you serve, those decisions are made for you. Do you serve the Lord of the vineyard? Do you love the Lord of the universe? The God who's made all of this? Who's made you and made your life? Who's designed it and defined it? If you serve him, then there are so many things that are already decided for you. I don't know all of your individual situations, so I'm not even going to try to particularly apply this to every one of you, but you know what I'm saying. There are some things that you just can't look at if you're a Christian. There are websites you just can't visit if you're a Christian. It's not even a matter of making a decision. If you serve the Lord, you don't do it. You can't do it. And if somewhere in your calculus and in your logic and thinking you start to say, well, maybe I can. You're starting the path of rebellion. You are denying God's authority to tell you what you can and cannot do. You are denying it. And though you may fail. If you are in rebellion against God, you will reject the mercy that He sends to you when He sends an officer of the church. to confront you in your sin or a brother or sister in Christ. Think about Matthew 18. What's that first step when somebody has offended you? You go to them And you point out their offense, not you you kick them in the shins and tell them they're a meanie. You point out that they are sinning. And we know from Psalm 51 that when we sin, who are we actually sinning against? We are sinning against God and God alone. So if you love your brother or sister and they've sinned against you, you point that out to them that it would point them back to Christ. That they would confess and repent of the sin that they've committed against God, not just against you. I close us with a final warning, a warning that comes from Romans chapter eleven. In Romans 11, Paul is teaching, and he's teaching the church, and he's teaching them about their special position. And he's teaching against those who in the church would somehow think that they are better than Israel. Better than those earlier servants who rebelled against him. In other words, those who think that rebellion is not even possible for them. This is what he says in Romans 11, starting in verse 17. But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others. And now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree. Do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. Then you will say, Branches were broken off so that I may be grafted in. That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief. But you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you Note then the kindness and the severity of God. Severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in his kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off. And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut from what is, by nature, a wild olive tree and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back into their own olive tree? Brothers and sisters, let us not somehow think that because we are the New Testament church that we are superior to the Old Testament church. We're going to be tempted by Satan to rebel against God in all the same ways. Tempted to believe that somehow this is ours. It's our vineyard to do with as we please. And that is not the case. It is the Lord's vineyard. You are the Lord's vineyard. Your life is his vineyard. He's designed it and defined it, and he's expecting fruit from it. And so I pray. That all of us, myself included, would love the Lord of the vineyard, would cease from our rebellion against it, and when we begin to deny his authority over us, Stop and pray. And cry out to God in heaven. Cry out to that spirit that dwells within you to give you the power to turn it all down. To stop the denial, to not progress into rejection and hatred as those who do not love God do. Brothers and sisters, I exhort you, love the Lord of the vineyard, serve the Lord of the Vineyard. Do not rebel and serve yourself, because that is self-destruction. Love God, serve God, glorify, and enjoy Him. Please pray with me. Almighty God in heaven, we thank you. We thank you that You care so much about us that you have sent your son. We thank you that Your son did not come into the world to condemn the world, but that we would be saved through him. Give us new obedience, Lord. Give us a joyful obedience. If there is something happening in our hearts and in our minds or in our lives that are drawing us , Into this denial. If someone is trying to convince us that we don't have to do what your word says, we beg you that you would have such great mercy on us that you would never stop sending servants. No matter how badly we treat them, to shed your light into our life and to love us out of our rebellion Please, Lord God, we we do not ever want to hate you. And so when in your design For our life, things happen that we would put in category bad. We pray that you would strengthen us And keep us from moving into wicked thoughts about you. Wicked thoughts that move us to think we need to take control of this life. We need to get what we have decided we need. And we pray, Lord God, that you would bless your church, the whole church visible, and this church in particular. Would you bless Liberty, Lord, to be faithful to you? No matter what the world is doing around us, no matter what the communities around us turn toward or tell us we need to do or think or say that we would be perceived as loving, we pray, Lord God, that we would be firm on the rock. That you would tie us into the cornerstone, tie us into Christ, that we would never need to be replaced as the tenants in your vineyard. O Lord God, please hear our prayers. Not for anything in us. There is nothing in us that deserves you to hear us. But hear us for the sake of your son, for your great love for him and the love he has shown us. Hear our prayers for Christ's sake. Amen.