Thank you, Choir. You have your Bible with you. Turn please back to the Gospel of Mark. Gospel of Mark, chapter one This is uh I believe the third of our messages in the Gospel of Mark. And uh Jeff, I think we're still getting some feed, Jeff, I think we're still getting some, I don't know if you can do anything about that. Mark chapter 1, let's begin at verse 9. It came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And immediately, coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the spirit descending upon him like a dove. Then a voice came from heaven You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased Immediately the spirit drove him into the wilderness, and he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered to him Now, after John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. And as he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of manner. They immediately left their nets and followed him When he had gone a little farther from there, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him Then they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And immediately his fame spread throughout all the region around Galilee. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now for your presence, for your spirit to move in every heart and life here. Lord, some in our midst may not yet know you, I pray especially for them. That you would graciously open their hearts, open their eyes, give them sight, breathe upon those dry bones that they might live And for those of us who are yours, Lord, fill us with your spirit. Teach us once again as we meditate upon the life of our Savior. Uh speak to our hearts, accomplish eternal things within each of us. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. The evangelist Mark wasted no time in his book getting to the good news of Jesus Christ. Jumping into it in his very first words, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in the prophets. He then recounted the prophecies about the forerunner of the Messiah. He described John's ministry and the baptism of Jesus. And he continues on with his story at a breakneck speed. He alludes to Christ's 40-day temptation in the wilderness almost as an afterthought. That incident to which Matthew devotes 11 verses and Luke 14 is covered by Mark in just two. Verse 12, immediately the spirit drove him into the wilderness, and he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered to him. Matthew tells us that Jesus had been led into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil. It's as if this battle had to be waged by Jesus before he began his public ministry. The battle, of course, consisted of three specific temptations that we know of. The first was an enticement to use his miraculous gifts to meet his own physical need for food The second was to demonstrate that he was in fact a son of God by jumping off the pinnacle of the temple and depending upon his father to protect him. The third was to bypass the cross, to bow down and worship Satan, the God of this age, in order to receive power and dominion through him. Now, each of these temptations, just as each temptation that comes to each of us, could be answered and overcome by the Word of God. And that is exactly how Jesus answered each temptation and overcame Satan. Now you'll note that the first Adam succumbed to the temptation of Satan, the temptation to be as God, to seek his own will as opposed to the will of his heavenly Father. The second Adam resisted that temptation and gained the victory. One thing that Mark does note that Matthew and Luke did not is that Jesus was, quote, with the wild beasts, verse 13. Our first Adam in the garden communed with God in a place where animals were tame and posed no threat to man. But our second Adam comes to a fallen world. Not into a garden, but he's communing with his father in the wilderness among wild beasts. It was, of course, that very fallenness that necessitated his coming, if we were ever to be redeemed. And following his temptation, we see Jesus now preaching, calling, teaching, and casting out demons. Look at verses 14 to 15. Now, after John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God and saying, The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Now exactly why John was put into prison will be described by Mark later, but now he simply wants to emphasize that after that happened Jesus came to Galilee, where John had been ministering, basically the area of Palestine surrounding the Sea of Galilee, the area that includes the towns of Capernaum, Besseda, Cana, Tiberius, and Nazareth An area that extended to Phoenicia in the north and Samaria in the south, and then what we would call the Mediterranean Sea to the west. No sooner had John been removed from the scene than a greater than John picks up the theme. Jesus came preaching the gospel, that is the good news of the kingdom of God. Verse 14. For centuries, God's people had longed for God's kingdom to come and be established on the earth, particularly during the years of the banishment and captivity. And during the years of occupation and tyranny, the people of Israel yearned for the Messiah to come and set up his throne, for the Lord to do what Psalm 2 says he will do, hold the kings of the earth in derision. For him to set up his king on his holy hill of Zion, the king who would uh break them with a rod of iron, dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel How they hope to hear the Lord say to their adversaries, Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish from the way when his wrath is kindled but a little. And now, wonder of wonders, after hundreds of years with no prophetic word from heaven, John bursts upon the scene saying, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 3. 2. John, however, is imprisoned. And what happens then? The one that he had pointed to is the Messiah, the one he said was mightier than he. The one whose sandal he said he was unworthy to loose, he comes to Galilee preaching the same message. Repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. In other words, the Lord's promised one, the Messiah, is at hand, is at the door. Repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. The Son who will reign upon the earth. And then we see Jesus revealing himself not only as King, and he does in these next few verses, exercising power even over the spirit world. But we see him come as prophet, preaching God's word and recruiting disciples to follow him. Consider, first of all, his prophetic ministry. The scripture says he came preaching the good news of the kingdom of God, saying the time is fulfilled, the kingdom is at hand. Now how were the people supposed to respond to that message? They were to repent and believe in the gospel. To repent is literally to perceive afterwards, to change your mind or purpose. And as it's used here, it's to change your mind about your sin, to see it for what it really is. Rebellion against your Creator. The word occurs numerous times in the New Testament. For example, Luke uses the verb repent 14 times in his gospel, and in Acts And uh in his gospel and in Acts, and then John uses it twelve times in Revelation alone. It is, as we've seen, an integral element of the gospel message Until one sees the seriousness of a sin, he will not, in sincerity, turn to Christ for deliverance. He cannot. The apostles preached as John preached, and as Jesus preached, repent. Believe and be baptized. Jesus said, Repent and believe in the good news. What was the good news? Well, that the kingdom was at hand, that the Messiah had come, that God's Son had arrived, that you could have eternal life through faith in him. Look at verse 16. And as he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. Then immediately, or they immediately left their nets and followed him. And when he had gone a little farther from there, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. Here we see Jesus calling the one we know of as Peter, and his brother Andrew. And then James and John to come and follow him. Now, it it may seem odd to think that some man they didn't know walked up to them and said, Follow me. And they just dropped everything, walked away from their jobs, and did so. But that is not in fact what happened. Mark probably assumed that his readers were aware of some history between Jesus and these men. The Apostle John gives us some insight in his book, John chapter 1, verses 35 and following. He tells us that Andrew, Simon's brother, was a follower of John the Baptist. Now that doesn't mean that he necessarily forsook all to follow John. It seems clear from Mark's gospel that he did not, as he was still working as a fisherman. But he no doubt took a keen interest in John's ministry, influenced by John's preaching, and persuaded that he was a true messenger of God, Andrew probably devoted as much time as possible. Listening to John's public preaching and private teaching. He was a follower of John. It appears as we look at the full picture, revealed by harmonizing the various gospel accounts, that Andrew told Peter about Jesus And one or both of them told their fellow fishermen, James and John. But they did not leave all and follow Jesus the very first day they met him. although I suspect they were probably ready to do so. They may have been waiting for Jesus' word and perhaps looking forward to that call. And then at the appropriate time Jesus approached them as they were about the business of catching fish, and he said to them, Follow me. And I will make you become fishers of men. In other words, the time has come. Leave the catching of fish to others, follow me, and we'll catch those that are far more valuable. We'll catch men. Now look at verse 21. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. These men went with Jesus to Capernaum on the northwest corner of the Sea of Galilee. Evidently that's where Peter and Andrew lived. uh we saw f fr from earlier in the chapter. And on the Sabbath Jesus entered the synagogue and taught. Now synagogue worship at this time included, we're told, public prayer, usually with the congregation standing, the repetition of particular scriptures, such as Deuteronomy 6, 6-9, and the reading of lengthy portions of the law and the prophets. And then one Bible dictionary puts it, the last part of the service was the expounding of the scriptures and preaching from them to the people. This was done either by one of the officers of the synagogue, that is, or by some distinguished person that happened to be present. Now, whether Jesus had been invited to speak or he simply arose and began expounding God's word, the fact is that the scripture says his teaching astonished those who were present. It astonished them because it was so unlike the teaching of the scribes. Evidently, this is what the people were accustomed to hearing, something like The venerable Rabbi Aaron ben Eli believes this verse alludes to Lamech's lament to his wives Ada and Zillah. Rabbi Eli ben-Aaron agrees with him. On the other hand, Judah ben-Simeon pointed out the prophet may have been referring back to Noah's curse of Canaan. And the honored scribe Joshua Bar Nunn concurs. So we may never know. May Jehovah be praised. But when Jesus unfurled a scroll and began to expound God's word, things were much different. He spoke with authority and not as the scribes who simply referred back to someone else all the time because they had no personal authority. And if his teaching in the synagogue was anything like his preaching in the open air, he would have been calling the people to repent, to personal repentance and faith. Rebuking them for worldliness, selfishness, religious formalism, self-satisfaction. Those present would have felt that he was speaking directly to them. This would have been particularly shocking because if they knew Jesus at all, they knew him simply as a carpenter from Nazareth. One who had not, as the scribes, devoted his life to the study of God's law. Who is this? What sort of teaching is this? And if that wasn't astonishing enough, look enough, look at verse 23. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit. And he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. There are, as you know, numerous references to men and women being tormented by demons, by unclean spirits in the New Testament. It seems to me that either this is, in fact, the normal state of affairs on this fallen planet, in which case there are many more people indwelt by demons than we might suppose. Or Satan was particularly active in that culture, in that time frame, knowing or sensing the proximity of the promised Messiah. The demon-possessed man was in the synagogue. Now that's interesting. Perhaps it is where he normally worshiped And nothing much ever happened there to stir up a response from the unclean spirit within. But now the very presence in his synagogue of the Son of God was simply more than he could take. The demon, that is, to have the Messiah himself stand and proclaim God's word, driving it home to the hearts and minds of those present was too much for this demon. If sin cannot bear the scrutiny of God's pure light, then no doubt unclean spirits are extremely uncomfortable in God's presence. And this demon took about all he could take, and then he cried out, using the vocal equipment that was available to him, that of his unwilling host, let us alone! What are we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. Jesus rebuked the Spirit, be quiet and come out of him. The unclean spirit, like a handcuffed prisoner struggling as he's led away, convulsed his host. Cause him to jerk and perhaps fall on the ground and writhe and finally cry out with a loud voice, leaving him in peace No doubt his first real peace since that indwelling began. And as you would imagine, those who witnessed this were amazed. They've never heard such teaching. They've never seen such power manifested before their eyes. With authority, he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. They would have gone and told their friends and their family and their neighbors, and immediately, perhaps that very day, the scripture says his fame spread throughout all Galilee. Now let's think about what we've seen today. First of all, no sooner had John been put in prison than another preacher comes upon the scene, one far greater than John, far greater than any. Preacher. Herod thought he was silencing God's message by putting John in the dungeon. But the Lord had other plans. No king, no dictator, no government, no demon, not Satan himself, can stop the spread of the gospel of God. They can hinder it for a time. They can imprison or even kill those who proclaim it. But the king of the universe will prevail. God's word is like a fire that can't be stamped out. You try to stamp it out here and the sparks spread over here and it smolders and then it flames up again. You can stamp it out in North Korea, but in South Korea it's going like crazy. You stamp it out in one place, flames up in another. It's flaming up in China now. It 's hacking in North America. It flames up in South America. Flames up in Russia. Flames up in Ukraine. Satan's fighting a losing battle. Is not my word like a fire, says the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces? Secondly, note that when Jesus came to Galilee preaching, he preached repentance. He came saying, repent and believe the gospel. And J. C. Ryle wrote, This is that old sermon which all the faithful witnesses of God have continually preached. From the very beginning of the world, from Noah down to the present day, the burden of their address has been always the same. Repent and believe. The Apostle Paul told the Ephesian elders when he left them for the last time that the substance of his teaching among them had been repentance towards God and faith towards our Lord Jesus Christ. Acts 20, 21. He had the best of precedents for such teaching. The great head of the church had given him a pattern. Repentance and faith were the foundation stones of Christ's ministry. Repentance and faith must always be the main subjects of every faithful minister's instruction. And so I ask you, have you repented unto everlasting life? I know you're aware you're a sinner. I'm not asking you that. Have you repented unto everlasting life? Have you seen your sin for what it is? Vile Rebellion against the Holy God. Have you turned away from it in disgust and fallen down before Jesus and said, Lord, have mercy upon me? Have you turned to him as a thief on the cross and said Who said to the other thief, Look, you and I deserve to be here, but this man has thus done nothing worthy of death. And he looks to Jesus and says, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Have you repented of your sin? And I want you to notice something else. We saw in this passage the calling of whom? Simon and Andrew, two fishermen, James and John, two other fishermen. We're reminded once again that when it came time to bring to himself those who would be his disciples and his chosen witnesses, Jesus did not turn to the learned nor to the mighty. He didn't choose from the scribes, he didn't choose from the royalty. These men didn't leave their temple duties nor their thrones. They left their nets and their boats. Not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, Paul said, first Corinthians 1. 26. And then notice I want you to think of this. God has called you, Christian, even as he has called those fishermen. To do something. He's called you to do what he calls all his disciples to do. Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. Christian, Jesus didn't call you simply to feed you with his word to the point that you're fat and satisfied. He called you and me, as he called Simon, Andrew, James, and John, to make us fishers of men. Sometimes even those of us who regularly feast on God's word can forget this. We were able to do a little fishing uh in November on our study leave in uh Cape Cod or Cape Cad as it's called there, where we were staying in a little house, uh a little house owned by a cousin We were talking to a waitress in a diner about the Lord not far from that house, and she was thumbing through a tract that we had given her as we talked, and uh and then she said something uh rather disheartening. She's summing through the track and I'm sharing the gospel with her, and she stops and says, oh, evangelical. Most of the time when I get pamphlets, they're from Jehovah's Witnesses. And I thought, uh, well that's a sad state of affairs. This is one of the East Coast's most popular vacation destinations A waitress is surprised to get a tract from an evangelical. And that uh little interaction was borne out by others that we had while we were there, including a man apparently my age, about my age, it would be 60s, who told us after we briefly explained the gospel, that he'd never heard it that way before. Although we had a lot of interaction, he said, with religious people. We left him with a Bible and encouraged him to read the Gospel of John. He assured us that he would. Christian, God has called you and me not just to feed and fatten sheep. Nor just to eat and grow fat ourselves, but to fish for men. You shall be witnesses, Jesus said. Witnesses to me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. I was interested to read in World Magazine that during the recent protests in Kiev, in their what they call Independence Square, a number of Christians handed out copies of the Gospel of John in Ukrainian. 10,000 of them were given to protesters and riot police, and eventually 90,000 more were passed out. One witness said people were grabbing them and kissing the scripture. One Christian leader said, people understand this is a critical time If the gospel light is dimming in America, we need look no further for the cause than to the fact that too many believers Seem to think God has saved us and put us on an all-inclusive pleasure cruise. When in fact He saved us and put us on a working fishing boat. And then notice something else that we would perhaps easily pass over. The demons knew Jesus. This demon-possessed man, the demon spoke from this demon-possessed man, and he knew Jesus. He knew he was the Son of God. The demons even know that one day he will judge them. Have you come to destroy us before the time? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. Evidently, the demons know they're on the losing side. Have you come to destroy us before the time? They're doomed to failure, yet they persist. What madness is this? Could it be that some men persist in their sins, even though they know on some level that they will one day suffer the wrath of a holy God for them? Yeah, I may end up in hell, but I'll have a great ride getting there. Satan has deceived his demons into thinking that the ride is somehow worth the price. Perhaps someone here has been similarly deluded. Let me remind you that the Bible says it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Not only are you setting yourself up for experiencing God's holy wrath, you're rejecting the glories that God has reserved for his children here and now. And that are awaiting us to come. Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things that God has prepared for them that love him. You're missing out on the here and now. The joy of sins forgiven. Peace of God. The peace that passes all understanding. An abundant life with Christ. The abundant life that he grants to his children. I'm come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. And furthermore, the pleasures that Satan offers don't satisfy. There's always bitterness at the bottom of the cup. Relationships destroyed, health shattered, only the accusations of a guilty conscience as your companion in the end. The way of the wicked is like the troubled sea, whose waters cast forth mire and dirt. There is no peace. Peace, saith my God, to the wicked. Doesn't need to end that way for you. The time is fulfilled, Jesus said. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. Let's pray. What a glorious message Jesus came to proclaim. What a glorious messenger you sent. Father, thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, his holiness, his justice, his mercy, his compassion. Lord, I pray that if anyone's here still outside of Christ, Let this be the day of salvation for that one. May there be joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Even this day. We ask you Christ our Lord, Amen.