Alright, if you would please stand with me and we'll read from Luke 15, verses 1 through 10. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he told them this parable, what man of you, having a hundred sheep? If he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the one that is lost until he finds it. And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. Just so I tell you, there'll be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance. Or what woman having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligent until she finds it? And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost. Just so I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the time that we have together. May the words of our mouth, the meditations of all of our hearts, be pleasing in your sight. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. The theme of shepherding and specifically the emphasis of God being the shepherd of his people. is a recurring theme throughout the Bible. We first come across it in Genesis chapter 48, verse 15, as Jacob on his deathbed summarizes his life by declaring that God had been his shepherd. all of his life to this day. Or in Ezekiel chapter 34, verses eleven through sixteen and twenty-three, as Ezekiel prophesizes regarding God bringing back the exiles from Babylon, For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out. As a shepherd cares for his herd in the day when he is among his scattered sheep, so I will care for my sheep. I will seek the lost, bring back the scattered, bind up the broken, and strengthen the sick. And then the promise of a future shepherd, and I will set over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them. He shall feed them and be my shepherd. And God, being all-wise, I believe, chose his motif or theme of shepherd, because he knew that his people are so apt to act like sheep. As is Isaiah 53, 6 reminds us that God's people and sheep are very much alike. We are prone to wander. It's a part of our sinful nature and DNA. And in Psalm 23, we read of David's litany of attributes. So the shepherd in this context, in this context is God. The attributes of nourishment and refreshment and guidance for his sheep, that's what the Good Shepherd brings. And in regards to providing guidance of interest here is that in the Middle East Sheep are not driven like they are in the West due to differences in the terrain. For the most part, in the Middle East, the shepherd goes ahead of the sheep. And then you fast forward to the New Testament, of course, it was to shepherds in the field at night that the news of Christ's birth was first revealed. And then finally in John chapter 10 to continuing the theme, we are presented with Jesus' discussion of himself as being the incarnation of the Good Shepherd. A good shepherd who gives up himself sacrificially on behalf of his sheep, he is willing to ignore his own needs and focus only on his sheep. Which calls to mind the hireling of John 10, who comes only to steal, kill, and destroy, and of Jesus' scathing rebuke of the Pharisees in Matthew 23. As well as is not so subtle rebuke here in Luke 15 and the parables of the lost sheep and the lost coin. I'll focus more on the sheep than the coin, but the application is the same. Parable of the lost sheep, parable of the lost coin, and the lost sons, both sons. Or Jesus is not so subtle rebuke to the scribes and the Pharisees, their accusation that he receives sinners and tax collectors, and he eats with them. The accusation is based on the fact that the tax collectors and sinners were gathering around Jesus to listen to his teaching and to share a meal with him, because he did not despise or reject them. The Pharisees and scribes are appalled and they're disgusted that Jesus would associate with such rabble. They themselves would not soil themselves with such as these. And who are the undesirables, this rabble in Jesus' day that he would spend time with? I will list a few to you who are the unclean, the unacceptable, the rabble in Jesus' day. Camel drivers, sailors. Herdsmen, shopkeepers, prostitutes, tanners, weavers Barbers and butchers, tax collectors , sellers of purple wool, maybe like Lydia in the book of Acts. Dung collectors or manure collectors, that one I can understand. And physicians Rabbi Judah said, the best among physicians is destined for Gehenna. Present company accepted, Michael. But did you notice the backhanded compliment from the Pharisees? This man welcomes and receives sinners and eats with them. But Jesus is probably saying, thank you very much. Of course. This is exactly why I came. Luke 19, 10 tells us that Jesus had come to save the seek and the lost. Those in need of a position, a savior, a true shepherd. So the Pharisees are speaking truth. They see it, but can't recognize it. You know, but it was especially with the eating of such people that really disgusted them. It got their gall, tax collectors and sinners. Because by eating with them it applied acceptance and recognition. This was so scandalous that the Jewish skeptic Celsus actually used this as evidence against Jesus Because Jesus had scum like Matthew for disciples. Now the rabbis agreed that God would welcome the penitent sinner. But this was a new idea, a new dimension, that God is a seeking God, a God who takes the initiative. And it is this seeking God that Jesus describes in these parables of the lost sheep and lost coin. Seeking people like tax collectors. and sinners and people like you and me. By the way, I was struck by the fact as this opened up in this passage Once again, there's something about Jesus, isn't there? That sinners, crowds of sinners are attracted to him They gather round him. They draw near. They huddle up with Jesus, as it were. You've seen football games or rugby matches or whatever other matches there may be where teammates huddle around one another? These people are huddling around Jesus. And you know what they're hearing is not a message like your best life now. What they're hearing is sin and repentance, sacrifice At the end of Luke chapter 14 before our passage, Jesus has been teaching them about the cost of following him to count the cost. And those who heard, it says, they drew near. It's amazing to me that the message of the cross, rather than to repel this crowd, actually attracts them to Jesus. Now granted, later as Jesus' passion approaches, some of those folks leave. But there was something about the counting the cost of the cross that attracting the people to Jesus And I think about that. And you know, it's a reminder to me that preaching the cross is the only way ultimately to win people's hearts and souls. For eternal life. It's what Jesus preached, it's what the apostles preached It's what the Reformers preached. It's what the Puritans preached. It's what the PCA has been preaching and needs to continue to preach throughout the history of this church. It's what this church liberty has preached over the years, the cross of Christ. It's what it's preached now and needs to be and better be preached in the future. The cross of Christ is the doorway to salvation. Jesus alludes to this in John chapter 12, 32. He says that when he is lifted up, on the cross, when he is lifted up from the earth, I'll draw people to myself. He's not even lifted up yet. But in the message of the cross with these sinners, they're already drawing near to him. But one day he would be lifted up. And people would be would be drawn to him. So Jesus asks, well, so what man of you, if you had a hundred sheep and you lost one, would not leave the ninety-nine to find the one The inference is plain. Of course, you would all go in search of the one. Why? Because to seek and to find and bring back that which was lost, whether a sheep, a coin, or a sinner, is what were true joy. is found. Jesus' interest, his overarching concern for the lost, was in stark contrast to the religious authorities of the day. Yes, the shepherd goes to seek, the woman sweeps to find. And in the seeking and the finding, Jesus says, is true joy. Have any of you ever searched for something long and hard? Maybe you'd lost a ring. Or a photo. Maybe you you spend a lot of time on Ancestry. com trying to find a relative. That actually may never existed, but you're not sure, so you're gonna look anyway. Have any of you ever looked for something long and hard? So I get accused often by the the men who love me in session that I don't listen and hear too well. That's because I didn't have anything worth saying. No, I'm kidding. Um I get accused of not hearing too out, like I don't wear my hearing aid, like I don't wear it now Because I can't put this contraption in. But what I'm really good at is looking for things, right? So one of my specialties is not hearing, but it's searching for lost contact lenses. They end up in the most unbelievable places, and they're not mine. You you search the floor, you search in armchairs, you empty out vacuum cleaner bags. It's painstaking, it's thorough, it's time-consuming work, just like anything you've ever looked for. And often we do find it, not always, but often we do find it. And trust me, there is great joy over finding that contact lens. And I say 50 bucks, and I have to get it replaced. But the joy of the finding supersedes laborious search. It makes the effort worthwhile. I bet some of you have experienced that very thing. So of course, you leave the 99 and search for the one. That's what the good shepherd does. But what about the bad shepherd? What if your shepherd is a hireling? Why might the hireling or the bad shepherd not go after the sheep? Especially in the south of Judah, in the Judean wilderness, in the Negev, even as far down as the Arabah. A hireling might not go look because of wild beasts. And you think, what do you mean, wild beast? Mark describing the temptation of Jesus is the only one who says that he was out with the wild beasts And I thought, well, that's cool. So what does that mean? Asiatic lions, Asiatic bears, jackals, hyenas, snakes? Wild goats? Today in Israel, badgers, foxes, jackals, wolves, there may still be a few leopards left. and multiple venomous snakes. So if I'm the Bad Shepherd and I'm the hireling, I might think too dangerous for me? Sheep is probably already dead. It's okay to lose one. Terrain. Cliffs. Deserts. Rocks. I mean, I've walked through all of this. He might be thinking, huh, getting late, come to dinner. If I go walking in some of these terrains of the southern of the southern part of the of Judah. What if I fall? What if I stumble? Like maybe my stupid sheep already has. Nah, too dangerous for me. It's okay to lose one. He might think, I would think, why would I leave the 99? What if I leave the 99 and one of those wild animals comes into the 99 and starts attacking them No , it's okay to lose that one sheep. And then what about the one sheep? Stupid sheep. Always wandering. Never listening. Straight off again, have we? Good riddance, better off without you, I can easily afford to lose you. And he doesn't go So there'd be a lot of good reasons for the shepherd not to go. And when you read the story, you don't understand that it's I mean it's a real cute story, it's a quick story, it's a it's pretty pretty brief. The summary is sweet and nice and it comes back rejoicing. But there's a whole lot involved with going out for that sheep. Implied, obviously, in the parable, is that the shepherd will not spare himself. He does not focus on the danger. He does not focus on the hardship. He focuses on the one who is not okay and will not be okay. till he is found and brought back to the 99. So he goes and he finds the lost sheep. So the woman goes and sweeps the floor for her lost coin. Finding the sheep, the shepherd rejoices with his friends. Finding the coin, the woman rejoices with her friends And you read this, and of course we understand it's not ultimately about the sheep or the coin, but about people. The sinners who drew near, Christ as the good shepherd, seeking and saving the lost, that the Pharisees had no time for, and they were surrounded by them. throughout their country. You know, from the call of Abraham to the call of Levi, who was a tax collector. God is a seeking God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. From the call of Abraham to the call of Levi, God is always seeking A commentator by the name of Norval Geldenhue says this, in no other religion does one come to know God as the one who in his love seeks the lost person. to save him or who her through grace. In the writings of all other religions, we see how man seeks for God. But in the Bible, we see how God in Christ seeks men and women to save for all time. The true shepherd, not the false shepherd of Ezekiel 34 or the hireling in John 10, the true shepherd counts the cost. and is willing to pay the price, no matter the risk, to find even one so that there will be rejoicing. And he brings the lost sheep home, carrying it in his arms, Jesus tells us. Lost because it wanders, lost because it strays. lost because it wanted to go its own way. Did you notice that was repeated twice in the confession that we've read this morning? That was really an excellent confession that Pastor Lear selected. It talks about wandering twice, talks about the great shepherd. And I thought that is that is us. We can kid ourselves that we're just talking sheep here. We're talking us. And so we move from the lost tax collector in this story in the in the sinners. And I think we ultimately have to move to you and me today. Let's not presume that any of us here was not once lost and dead in sin. Until we were found by the Good Shepherd. Every one of us were lost and dead in sin until we were found by Him. And the means that God uses to find us vary greatly. So forgive me if I tell a little story and I've talked about it before, but I think it's going to be okay and I'll make it through So my family moves to Maryland in August of 1969. My brother is killed in Vietnam one month later. Life would never be the same again. Time stood still. We were unchurched We had no friends. They lost their firstborn, and I lost my older brother. We, as a family, were lost. And then one day, I don't remember the day, and then one day a neighbor lady came down our house. We lived in Tausford. invited my mom to Christian Women's Club, club that had, I guess, in the late 60s, 70s, and expressed her condolences and all that. And then And and after a few meetings with the Christian Women's Club, my my lost mom heard the gospel and was saved. That's not the real miracle, because the real miracle is the next point in the story. So why that same lady and her husband Who lived up the street would let their son associate and play with my brother and I amazes me. Thinking back, it amazes me. So my twin brother and I were, let us say, so foul mouth, 14-year-old sports fanatics. We were unchurched and very uncouth, which I had to look that up. It means lacking refinement. Any refinement I've attained up to this point in time has nothing to do with me but to somebody else who renames doesn't want name mentioned. But anyway, we were I can't so anyway, we were really bad. Anyway. That boy, he was allowed to play with us sports. Later, of course, went to the same high school. So he eventually invited my brother and I to Central Press in Tausa, where Steve actually went to, not too long around the time I did. But we didn't know each other. But he invited Central Presbyterian Church. And again, I don't know if I've told this story before. And David used the classic EE line with me, if you were to die tonight. No, he didn't. He said, We have a lot of pretty girls. I'm not making this up. So it just shows me that God moves in mysterious ways. So off we went, of course, my brother and I, Peter. We went to the youth group, and we heard the gospel which we had never heard before, and sometime along the way, to use a 70s turn, we were born again. Meanwhile, my sister's at University of Maryland just starts school two weeks after we she he gets killed and in time she's reached out to by somebody and she eventually becomes a member of Wallace Presbyterian Church and becomes a Christian. So God does move them a serious ways, but all because that family, and I think of this personally, all because that family and that young man would associate and eat with my brother and me. Sinners, teenage boys, and they do go hand in hand, but in particular, teenage boys who we were, and sinners. And I have to tell you, I'm afraid I would have shielded my kids from me. I probably wouldn't have let my kids play with me. But they did. And if my friend David had not come down, what would my life have been? Would God have sent someone else later to my brother and me? Sure, he could have. For Jesus knows who are his, but he didn't send somebody else. He sent David to seek and to save two lost boys. who were clueless to the fact that they were lost. Like the Pharisees were clueless to the fact that they were lost. So do any of you here know any two lost boys? Two lost girls? Two lost men? Women, friend, neighbor, colleague, relative. Do you know anybody who's lost? You know, it would be interesting, wouldn't it? I think it would be if if one day we could share experiences of who it was What it was that led you, sought you to come to Christ. Was it a parent? Was it a friend? Was it a pastor? Was it Billy Graham? And my church in Waldorf, PCA Church, met with one of the elders there. He and his wife were watching Billy Graham, I think it was in the 60s or the 50s, preach. When he gave the call to come forward, they got on their knees in front of the TV and accepted Christ and became a outstanding elder over the decades. So you never know What might draw you to Christ. It could be a family tragedy. So there are many ways and many means at God's disposal to seek and to save the lost. And more often than not. The means that he uses comes down to you and me. And as I look through this chapter or this passage we looked at at the shepherd, you know, the image that I love best is that image of the shepherd carrying his sheep over his shoulders rejoicing. And it's an image drawn from the Old Testament and the New Testament. So located around the Euphrates River in modern Syria, today lies the ancient city of Dura Europa. It was founded around 300 B. C. And then about 500 years later fell to the Persians in 256 A. D. Its population was deported, the city was abandoned, and with the passage of time was covered by sand until Dura disappeared. It remained buried under the sands of time for nearly 17 centuries until it was discovered, or better yet stumbled upon. By accident, by British soldiers digging a trench in 1920 during World War One. And and by the way, that's how many of the great discoveries in Israel and in the Middle East are made. They're made by accident. Maybe you don't know that, but it's amazing what these men stumbled upon. You've heard of the Dead Sea Scrolls. I have so many stories. I'm just going to tell you this one. You know how the deaths these girls were discovered? 14-year-old boys run run around those cliffs of rocks in the Judean desert, outside of Qumran, not far from Asada. And like any 14-year-old boy, he's throwing rocks. I threw rocks. We used to have rock fights and throw them at each other. We were so stupid. That's why I lived in the Midwest. We had no sense. But anyway This boy is he's looking for a lost sheep. Don't make this up. That's what the parasite 's looking for. He's throwing a rock in a cave. Here's something break. He goes up the rocks, goes in the cave, and there's this jar. And inside that jar in 1946-1947 is the beginning of the greatest archaeological discovery of the century, and that was the beginning of the Dead Sea squirrels just by accent. But during excavations in the 1930s at Dura Europa, under the sands they discovered many structures. Two in particular, one being the oldest preserved Jewish synagogue in antiquity, dates to about 244 A. D. And the other is possibly the oldest house church place of worship ever discovered. and 235 A. D. The oldest house church probably ever discovered is in Doria Europa, 235 A. D. They're both fascinating and both worth your further study. Inside the house church was discovered some of the oldest known artistic representations of New Testament saints. Peter walking, sinking on the Sea of Galilee, the healing of the paralytic, and then Jesus as the good shepherd It's an artistic representation. It's a painting over the baptismal fount. And that may well be the oldest representation of Jesus that has yet been discovered. This painting is of a shepherd carrying a sheep on his shoulders. It's both a simplistic picture, but it's fascinating. But but as I think about it, maybe it's not so surprising. Since if there's one image or picture that the early church needed to sustain itself over the early centuries, With the buildup of increasing persecution was a reminder that Jesus was the good shepherd. The same thing we need to hold tight to today in autopsy. Turvy world. And come to think of it, is there any other picture or image in all of Scripture as comforting, as encouraging, or as hopeful to us today as it was to the early church? Than of Jesus as a good shepherd. Especially when you and I, or a family member or friend, Walk through the valley of the shadow of death, which I know some of you have, and know people who have as well. The Good Shepherd offers hope, comfort, and encouragement. But that painting of the shepherd at Duriaropus carrying that sheep on his shoulders is what Jesus described here in this passage. By the way, you can see these different paintings at the Yale, the Yale University Art Gallery. Sadly, ISIS came in around 2011 to 2015 and destroyed most of Durian. Europa and as I close, I want to leave you with this quote from Charles Haddon Spurgeon As he concluded one of his sermons on this parable, he says, the one thing I want to leave with you is is how our gracious Lord seems to give himself up to his own redeemed. How entirely and perfectly every thought of his heart, every action of his power goes toward the needy, guilty, lost soul. He spends his all to bring back his banners. Let us love him with all our heart and soul. Let us feel as if we saw nothing, knew nothing, loved nothing. Save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we are grateful that we can turn throughout the Scriptures And see you as the great shepherd of your sheep. And Father, as we confess this morning, oh boy, do we wander. We wander as teenagers, we wander as adults. We wander as church officers. We wander as colleagues in a corporation. Father, we are a wandering group of people and we thank you so much that not only your word can draw us back to yourself, but that you always go after us. You never ever let us go. Because once we are yours, no one can and take us out of your hand. And I pray that for our church here, that anyone who needs to grasp on tightly to you as the good shepherd as they walk through. the valley of the shadow of death. I pray that they will find you and draw close to you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen