Amen. Thank you for that. We return this morning to our study of the Gospel of Mark. If you'll turn, please, to chapter 9. Gospel of Mark. Chapter nine. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. Gospel of Mark chapter nine. Let's begin in verse thirty Then he came to Capernaum, and when he was in their house, he asked them What was it you disputed among yourselves in the road? But they kept silent, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest And he sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all. And servant of all. Then he took a little child and set him in the midst of them. And when he had taken him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. Now John answered him, saying, Teacher, we saw Someone who does not follow us, casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow us. But Jesus said, Do not forbid him, for no one who works a miracle in my name can And soon afterward speak evil of me. For he who is not against us is on our side. For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in my name, because you belong to Christ, assure you. Assuredly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck. And he were thrown into the sea. If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off It is better for you to enter into life maimed rather than having two hands to go to hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched. Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame rather than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched, where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye rather than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire. Fire, or their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched. For every one will be seasoned with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt. Salt is good, but if the salt loosen Its flavor, how will you season it? Have salt in yourselves and have peace with one another. Let's pray. Oh Father, as we approach this solemn subject, we pray for your Holy Spirit to help us Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit will help me as I speak to speak only those things that are true and in keeping with your holy word. And I pray For each one of us, as we heed, that your Holy Spirit will bring great conviction of sin , that your Holy Spirit will edify, will build up will accomplish things that will last forever in hearts today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I do not suppose that any of you believe that you will spend eternity in hell. I sincerely hope Dr. John MacArthur recently cited a poll of Americans indicating that although sixty percent of us, over sixty percent of us, believe it. So ninety nine out of a hundred Americans do not believe they will be in hell. After death. Hell is not something that we like to think about, so it's presumably not something that we enjoy hearing about But some of the things that we need the most are not enjoyable, like dental work or radical surgery That being the case, I'm fairly confident that you will not enjoy this sermon. So if you wandered in here looking for entertainment, Or mild amusement, you may want to slip out now. Find a place where your ears can be tickled. When we last preached from the Gospel of Mark, we considered the incident described In verses 33 and following in chapter 9. On the way to the town of Capernaum, the disciples of Jesus had argued among themselves over which of them would be the greatest, presumably the greatest later in the kingdom of God. After that Jesus taught them with an object lesson, or more accurately, a subject lesson, that they would be unlikely To ever forget. He took a little child in his arms and brought him into the midst of the disciples, no doubt with the permission of the child's parents, or Caretaker. And Jesus said to his disciples, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And whoever receives me receives him who sent me. Jesus was teaching his disciples and us this lesson. If you want to be first, be the servant of all, even those you might imagine to be least deserving of any. Any special honor those like this little child. This emphasis on humility brought something to the mind of the Apostle John. And he wondered now if he had handled it properly. Verse thirty eight. Now John answered him, interrupting Jesus' teaching in effect, saying, Teacher, we saw someone who does not follow us casting out demons In your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow us. He is in effect asking Jesus, Did we do the right thing? But Jesus said, Do not forbid him, for no one who works a miracle in my name can soon afterward speak evil of me. For he who is not against us is on our side. Jesus said, in effect, even though he may wear a different uniform, even though he may May not be numbered with us, that doesn't mean that he is not on our side. If he's trusting in me, if he's working miracles in my name, Jesus said, he is with us. He's serving the same commander-in-chief, even though he may be in a different branch of the service. Having addressed John's question, Jesus seems now to go back to his theme. Perhaps still holding this child in his arms, he continued. You remember he had been saying, if you receive a little child such as this in my name, you are in effect receiving Me. He goes on to say, verse 41, for whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in my name, because you belong to Christ, assuredly I say to you, he will by no means lose His reward. Now that is the good news. But this coin has two sides. Just as one might honor A child and do him good out of love for Christ, one might harm such a child. Look at verse forty-two. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. Now this verse should cause me to ask, How might I cause one of these little ones who believes in Jesus to stop? How might I cause one of these little ones who believe in Jesus to stumble? Well, two ways come to mind immediately. I could do that by my practice, that is, by my How many little ones who believe in Jesus have been deeply scarred or made to stumble by the actions of parents or grandparents or stepparents or family acquaintances or ministers or Teachers or other authority figures who abused them or neglected them. But of course, harm may come to the child's faith through less Direct means. For example, a parent who talks about the importance of honesty, who is subsequently revealed to be dishonest A parent who talks about the importance of faithfulness to his spouse who was revealed to be unfaithful to his spouse. Hypocrisy is no doubt a major cause of stumbling among little ones who believe in Jesus. And by the way, I don't think one has to be a child to be viewed by Christ. As a little one who believes in him. There's a sense in which any new believer is a little one who believes in Jesus. So you can cause such a one to stumble by your practice, that is, by what you do. As a professing Christian, and you can cause such a one to stumble by your doctrine, by what you teach. Is from a book which was required reading for young men training for the ministry in a major Protestant denomination. But one should read it, the Bible, also as one would study any other Great book for an understanding of its total structure, its message, its contribution to truth. But this is not to say that every word or passage comes directly from God and is therefore not to be questioned. The authors who wrote the Bible, and many persons had a hand in writing parts of it, were human beings like ourselves and as prone to make mistakes. mixed with the truth that came from God. Ah, but God says all scripture is given by inspiration. Of God. All of it is God-breathed. And all of it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Jesus said: Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Here's another example. This one from an adult student Sunday School publication. We want the world to be religious, but there are many ways to be religious. And Christianity is only one of them. Multitudes of other people believe in God. Other religions teach their adherents to worship God. But there are many different ideas. As to what God is like. We offer the world Christ as the best interpretation of God, and we teach people to worship a God who is Christ-like. But Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. Jesus said, All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. Jesus said, Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. I'm the door. If anyone enters by me. He will be saved. John 10. I can cause a little one who believes in Jesus to stumble by casting doubt in his or her mind about the truth of God's word, or the deity of Christ, or the authenticity of his miracles, or his virgin birth, or his resurrection, or the exclusivity of his claims. Every day in our seminaries and our ostensible Christian colleges, writes R. C. Sproull, students come in excited about Christianity, only to find their faith systematically attacked day in and day out in the class. Classroom. Sproul says, I had this experience as a college freshman. And then again, when I went to seminary, where the professors told us that if we believed in the substitutionary atonement of Christ, we were fools. We saw the Orthodox faith systematically attacked every single day. I dread to think of the future of those teachers and leaders who go about this task. Of trying to undermine the faith of believers in Christ. Jesus said, It would be better for you to have a millstone Now a millstone Stone in Jesus' day, and I guess a millstone today is a huge round stone weighing usually hundreds of pounds, which was in his day turned by manpower, or perhaps by a donkey, or an An ox to grind grain, forming flour, which could then be used, of course, for baking. For ancient Israelites who viewed the sea as a place of terror and chaos. And it's not a particularly pleasant prospect 2,000 years later. Why in the world would such a fate be better than causing a little one who believes in Jesus to stumble? Well, I I would say for at least three reasons. First of all, the damage this person is doing would cease immediately if he were cast into the depths of the sea with a millstone hung around his neck. Hard to cause a little one to stumble when you're in the bottom of the sea. Secondly, the person who was causing a little one to stumble would, if he were cast into the sea, no longer be heaping up judgment for himself. Jesus warned us, for every idle word men may speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Matthew twelve. Thirdly, as undesirable as it may be To have a millstone hung around your neck and to be cast into the sea, it is more desirable than the judgment that awaits you if you cause one of Christ's little ones to stumble. Jesus continues the theme as if to say, while we're on the subject, let me give you some examples of some other terrible things which are not as terrible as my father's wrath. Verse 43. If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed rather than having two hands to go to hell into the fire that shall never be quenched. I do not need to convince you that to have a hand cut off would be a severe trial involving both excruciating pain and A debilitating constant disability. But even that, Jesus said, is better than to To use that hand to continue to sin and ultimately be consigned to hell in punishment for that sin. A place where Where Jesus says the fire is never quenched. Look at verse 45. And if your foot causes you to sit Cut it off. It is better for you to enter life maimed rather than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched. It would be a great trial. To lose a foot, to have to hobble through this world lame, but it would be better than having two feet to be cast into hell. Hell where the fire is never quenched. Yes, the pain of losing a foot would be severe, and the hardship would be onerous, but it would only be for a few years or a few decades, if the Lord gave you that But if you continue in that sin, facilitated by both your feet, and you do not repent of it and turn from it, you will die with your body still intact. But you'll be cast into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched. Verse 47: And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye rather than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire. Now I don't know about you, but there are a few trials that I can imagine. And the thought of plunging in a knife and removing one of my own eyes is ghastly, and the image seems certainly at First glance, more befitting uh Edgar Allan Poe or Stephen King than the Lord Jesus Christ. But as repulsive as the thought is and as repulsive as we would appear if, in fact, we carried it out, Jesus said, if your eye is causing you to sin, if you're using it, in other words, to covet or to lust, if you are very uh If you are in fact today indulging in pornography or some other sin, it would be better for you to pluck it out rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell. fire. Now I want you to notice that some New Testament manuscripts, you may have a note in your Bible, some New Testament manuscripts in Include a reference to the very last verse of Isaiah several times in this passage, verses forty-four, forty-six, forty-eight. There, in the very last verse of Isaiah, the Lord declares That the descendants of the true Israel, quote, shall go forth and look upon the corpses of the men who have transgressed against me, for their worm does not die, and their fire is not quenched They shall be an abhorrence to all flesh. If Jesus did, in fact, cite that verse, as as I said, as recorded in some of the the ancient manuscripts, it would only serve to deepen the horror of his words about hell, which words are already quite terrifying. Verse forty nine says, Every one shall be seasoned with fire. It seems to be a reference to the final judgment. Paul said, Each one's work will become clear, for the day will declare it, because it will be Revealed by fire, and the fire will test each one's work of what sort it is. First Corinthians three thirteen. Now some of Us would be happy to never give a thought to the topic of hell. But those of us who read and believe the words of our Savior simply do not have that on Option. It is described in numerous frightful terms as a place of outer darkness , a place of gnashing of teeth, a place of thirst, a lake of fire, a place of torment, a place not unlike Yehennah, the city dump outside of the city of Jerusalem in the first century. Proverbs teaches us that the correction of a child may be instrumental in delivering his soul from hell, or literally from Sheol. Proverbs 23, 13, 14. Jesus said, we are not to fear one who can kill the body, like a Pontius Pilate Or a Herod. We're not to fear one who can kill the body. We're to fear the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Matthew 10, 28. Jesus said, at the end of the age, the angels will come forth, separate the wicked from among the just, cast them into the lake of fire, into the furnace of fire, he said. There will be wailing and gnashing. Matthew 13 , 49 and 50. Jesus said, As the tares, that is the weeds, are gathered and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the air. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Matthew 13, 40 to 42 In the parable of the talents, as you may remember, Jesus said, The unprofitable servant will be cast out into outer darkness, into the outer darkness, he said. There will be weeping and nagging Matthew 25, 30. In his story of the rich man and the beggar Lazarus, he describes the rich man in torments in Hades. Luke 16. twenty three. The prophet John, the forerunner of the Messiah, said of Christ, He will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. Luke 3. 17. The Apostle Paul said that the time would come when the Lord Jesus would be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These, he says, shall be punished with everlasting destruction. From the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Second Thessalonians one. Revelation fourteen refers to any who do not worship the beast I'm sorry, to any who worship the beast in his image. And it says, he or those who will not who will worship the beast in his image image will drink the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out in full strength into the cup of his indignation. It says he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the Lamb. It says the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever, and they had no rest day or night It is the teaching of Scripture and particularly of the Lord Jesus Christ that hell is not reserved for only the most wicked sinners who happen to escape Judgment here, the Hitlers and the Stalins, and the serial killers, and serial molesters. When a tower fell and killed 18 people in Jesus' day Seemingly at random, the Lord Jesus asked the people, Do you think that these were worse sinners than all other men who dwell in Jerusalem? You think that's Why that tower fell on that? I tell you no, but unless you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Luke 13. 4 and 5. Jesus said, Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction. But and and there are many who go in by it. But narrow is the gate, difficult is the way that leads to life. And there are few who find it. Matthew 7. It is the teaching of Scripture and of the Lord Jesus in particular that hell is the just punishment. for creatures who have rebelled against their Creator. For all who have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 23. It is a just punishment for all we who like sheep have gone astray. All we who have turned everyone to his own way. The Bible is clear that the judgment will be more severe for some than for others. Jesus said it will be more tolerable for Sodom, as wicked as that city was. In the day of judgment, than for the people of Capernaum, who saw his mighty works and did not repent. Matthew 11. But judgment, according to Jesus, is awaiting each of us as As each of us has sinned against the Holy Father. Clearly, the biblical writers and the Lord Jesus in particular were under the impression Impression that there was a real place of eternal punishment to which unrepentant sinners would be consigned and at which they would remain confined after death. Now, we must not judge Jesus too harshly for this outmoded view. At the point in time he speak Spoke in the first century, he had not yet had the opportunity to read the works of enlightened modern scholars who have debunked this idea of eternal No judgment for sin. In an article titled The Disappearance of Hell, published in the February 2014, Tabletalk magazine, judge John MacArthur noted, even the most conservative evangelicals don't seem to take hell very seriously anymore. He notes that several years ago now The Los Angeles Times featured a front page article titled Hold the Fire and Brimstone, pointing out that many style conscious evangelical church leaders We're purposely omitting the theme of divine retribution. In churches across America, hell is being frozen out as clergy find themselves increasingly Hesitant to sermonize on a storyline that no longer resonates with churchgoers. The article cited religious historian Martin Marty, who said This once pop evangelism went into market analysis, hell was just dropped. In other words, market analysis, we interview you people MacArthur continues, years of indifference finally paved the way for open hostility. In the emergent church declared war on the biblical doctrine of hell. The groundswell seemed to crest a couple of years ago with the publication of Rob Bell's best-selling book, Love Winds. Bell argued that it's absurd to think a loving God would ever damn anyone to eternal punishment. He portrayed God's love as a force that clashes with and ultimately eliminates the demands of justice. In the storyline, Bell envisions, God requires no payment or punishment for sin. The divine response to evil is always remedial, never punitive. Furthermore, the wages of sin are mild, temporary, and reserved only for grossly malevolent villains, mass murderers, child rapists, tyrants. Who engineer genocide and one supposes, MacArthur says, Christians who tell unbelievers that they should fear God. When it's all over, everyone will be together in paradise. Now, as I said, we must not judge the Lord Jesus too harshly for his antiquated views on hell. He wasn't speaking with the authority of a well-trained, popular, modern pastor. His sole authority on this controversial subject seemed to be his own first-hand knowledge as the second person of the Trinity. The Alpha and the Omega, the light of the world, the water of life, the one by whom all things were made, who is described as wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father. The one who is called our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, Titus 2. The one who said, Before Abraham was, I am, John 8. The one who said, If you've seen me, you have seen the Father, John 14. With no formal seminary degree, no megachurch, no TV broadcast, no publishing contract. Jesus seemed to think that he had authority to speak on such matters because his father was going to raise him from the dead and set him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Far above all principality and power, might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. Jesus seemed to think that he had the right to speak with authority about hell, because the Father put all things under his feet and gave him to be head over all things in the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all All in all Ephesians one. Now to put it bluntly, when it comes to a topic as fraught with difficulty as this question, what happens To sinners who die without salvation, who will you trust? Who will you trust? The one whose sole authority seems to be his position. as the infinite, eternal, omnipotent, omniscient, creator and sustainer of all things, declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. Seminary train and who tells you what you don't want to hear, or a popular 21st century pastor and best-selling author who's actually been to seminary And who tells you precisely what you want to hear? Outer darkness Everlasting chains, weeping and gnashing of teeth, a place of thirst, a place of torment, a furnace of fire, a bottomless pit, fire and brimstone, a place where there's no rest day or night. Friend, I ask you, could God have made it any more clear? What more could he say to warn you? You're driving in your car to a place you've never been. You're driving along a route you've never taken. You have family members and friends In other cars along that same route. It's a large eight-lane highway. You approach a point in the highway where there are huge signs Do not proceed this way. Danger ahead, highway ends, death and destruction await. Bottomless pits. Unquenchable fire. There are alarms. There are flashing lights. There are warnings on loudspeakers. There's a huge arrow pointing to an exit. This is the way. This is the way of life This is the only way to life. Go this way. You look that way, it's a single-lane exit It's got very few cars on it. Uh in fact, most of your family and friends are still on the main eight lane row. They don't seem at all inclined to take that lead Little exit. They're all remaining on the main highway. They seem to be proceeding past the speakers, the signs, the warnings, as if they're not there. Well, you think to yourself, perhaps they know something? I don't know Anyway, uh I'm way over here in the left lane. There's eight lanes of traffic. To get off that exit, I would have to maneuver all the way over to the right lane. That's going to be somewhat inconvenient. Not gonna be easy. May not please the drivers in the adjoining lanes. And anyway, I can't help but notice that most of the nicest cars to be in MW's, the Mercedes, the Cadillacs, they're on the main route. The ones the few I see over here getting off on the on that uh exit. Uh they They don't have uh alumni stickers from the best universities. They're older model cars. They have bumper stickers. What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? Could the designer of the road have made it any more clear? Are there any words of warning that would have arrested your attention more than everlasting destruction ahead? A bottomless pit, a furnace of fire, weeping and gnashing of teeth, smoke and burning and torment? No rest day or night. What more could he say? If you choose to remain on the eight-lane highway instead of taking the narrow exit Do you think you'll have grounds to say one day when you stand before the Creator, I didn't know? It's not my fault. You didn't make it clear. I wasn't aware. I had insufficient warning. What do you say? Wait a minute. Pastor, isn't all this talk about about bottomless pits and furnaces of fire and gnashing of teeth and outer darkness, isn't that just symbolic language? Isn't it just metaphorical? Listen, if so So it is symbolic of something so horrendous that Jesus uses the most graphic language imaginable to warn us against going there. What does the reality of hell teach us? It teaches us, first of all, that God is holy. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. God is holy. He's so holy. He must punish sin. His justice must and will be vindicated. And it teaches us that sin is much more vile than most of us imagine it to be. Sin is much more vile than most of us imagine it to be. Think about it, even with our own skewed sense of justice since the fall, we still recognize that one moment of greed or hatred acted out one day in an otherwise law abiding Which has been utterly free of violent crime, just one bank robbery, just one uh explosive backpack placed At the end of a race, just one act of violence is worthy of a lifetime of incarceration. The Lord The Lord's warnings about hell teach us that a lifetime of sinful rebellion here will result in a lifetime of punishment beyond the grave. We sinned against an e Eternal God. Not once, but thousands of times. And once was enough to keep us from His holy presence. I can't believe you may be thinking I deserve God's wrath. I can't believe it. Have you coveted? Have you ever lied? Have you ever taken God's name in vain? Have you ever placed other people or things before Him? Have you ever been angry with a brother in your heart? Have you ever cheated? Have you ever stolen anything? Have you ever murmured or complained? Ever disobeyed some authority that was placed over you? Have you ever been jealous or proud or selfish or envious? been impure in your thoughts or actions? You ever been anxious or fearful? You ever been stubborn or lazy? Do you understand that as much as God loves you as a creature made in his own image, his holiness demands that sin be punished? He is a purer eyes than to behold evil, he cannot look upon iniquity. In fact, the scripture says there is a sense in which it can be said God is angry with the wicked every day. Psalm seven eleven. Now It may be that some of you are thinking, I may not say this publicly, but the fact is I could never believe in a God who punishes people for their sins. For all eternity, in a place described as a furnace of fire, a place of weeping and gnashing of teeth. Listen, Jesus says you will believe in such a God one day. Not only that, unless you repent, you will perish. You'll be experiencing weeping and gnashing of teeth. Luke 13 So clearly on this matter you and Jesus disagree. If you disagree with this, then clearly you and Jesus on this matter the issue of hell disagree. So the question you must ask yourself is, of the two of you Which one has more authority to speak of life beyond the grave? Which one has more intimate knowledge of the holiness of God? God? Which one has a clearer view of God's justice? Which one of you came down from heaven? Which one of you is going to judge mankind? You or Jesus? Well, uh okay, that's a good point. Maybe one day I'll give these matters some serious consideration, but not today. I got a lot more fun to have before I ever think about repenting. How do you know, O sinner, that this is not the last warning sign along that route before destruction? How do you know that you are not today driving past the very last exit? The last exit to life Will you presume upon God's patience? Will you presume upon God's patience another day? Will nothing awaken you from your stupor? Do you think God is somehow obligated to give you more time to think about it? You remember The way Jonathan Edwards put it, I've quoted it before. He said, The bow of God's wrath is bent, and the arrow made ready upon the string, and justice bends that arrow at your heart, and it strains the bow. And it is nothing but the mere pleasure of God and that of an angry God, without any promise or obligation at all, that keeps that arrow one moment from being made drunk with your blood. And he goes on to say, thus all you that never passed under a great change of heart. By the mighty power of the Spirit of God upon your souls, all you that were never born again and made new creatures and raised from being dead in sin to a state of new are in the hands of Hands of an angry God. But friend, there is good news. The best of news. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God's love for us was so great, He sent His Son into this world. Jesus lived a perfect life. He didn't deserve to die. He kept all the laws that I broke. And then he went to the cross and he bore the punishment that I deserved. He said, in effect, Father, punish me and let my sheep go free. He gave his life for his sheep. He died for his bride, for the church, for his own. He gave And he says, Come to me. Come to me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come let us Reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they should be as white as wool. Though they'll be red like crimson, they'll be as white as wool, as white as snow. Come to me, he said You can come today. Now I know Satan will get at your ear and say, you've got plenty of time to think about this. Let's not be foolish. Let's not be Presumptive. But the Lord says, Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is Let's pray. Lord, I pray that even now, even today Some here will cry out to you, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I know I've broken your holy laws. I know I'm on that broad road that leads to the I know I deserve your wrath. I haven't lived a perfect life. I violated your holy laws. But God, I believe that you Sent your son Jesus into this world. He lived the perfect life. He died upon the cross as a substitute. He rose again from the dead. He sent his disciples into all the world. Go and preach this good news. Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Forgive me my sins. Save me. For Jesus' sake. Amen.