If you have your Bible, would you turn please to First Corinthians chapter six And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship. The Trocks. Dave and Aaron are going to be leading that this month. So uh children who would like to hear the word of God on a level they can understand a little easier are welcome to go downstairs for our wonders of worship program. First Corinthians chapter six, let's begin at verse nine Apostle Paul says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers. Nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. All things are lawful for me, but all things are not helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Foods for the stomach and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both it and them. Now, the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. And God both raised up the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. Or do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her, for the two, he says, shall become one flesh But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him. Flee sexual immorality. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? For you were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God 's. May the Lord bless this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we do ask for your word to take root in our hearts. Lord, it is living, it is powerful, it is sharper than a two-edged sword. May you wield it today and accomplish things that will last forever. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. In our first two messages on the seventh commandment, we centered our attention on the philosophy of this world system that helps make sexual immorality. Such a pervasive sin in our culture. If a man does not believe that he has a creator and that his creator has spoken, He's much more likely to violate social conventions as well as his own conscience and engage in sexual activity outside of marriage As he continues such behavior, his conscience can become jaded, defiled. He can end up like natural brute beasts, 2 Peter 2, made to be caught and destroyed having eyes full of adultery that cannot cease from sin. The Book of Jude speaks of Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Jude verses 6 and 7 It should be obvious to us that a philosophy of meaninglessness does not lend itself to marital faithfulness or sexual purity outside of marriage. But even those who acknowledge our Creator, those who claim to have trusted in Christ for salvation are, according to much social research, as likely to succumb to sexual temptation as the unbeliever. Why is the seventh commandment so frequently broken by professing Christians? Well, the first reason I would cite is one that we have hit hard in the last few messages on the topic and throughout the years since the Lord brought me here, or us here. First of all, many professing Christians Have somehow adopted the prevailing philosophy that there are no absolutes. We've cited several times the alarming statistics. Two-thirds of all Americans, according to research, agree with the following statement. There is no such thing as absolute truth. Different people can define truth in conflicting ways and still be correct. According to social research, two-thirds of Americans agree with that statement. Let me say it again. There is no such thing as absolute truth. Different people can define truth in conflicting ways and still be correct. Now, I hope you understand that the statement itself is illogical because it violates the law of non-contradiction. It speaks of defining truth in conflicting ways and both being true. In other words, you say the light is red, I say the light is green. Conflicting ways, but they're both true. You say the gun is loaded, I say the gun is unloaded. Most truth. You say the pool is full of water, I say the pool is utterly empty of water. Different people can define truth in conflicting ways and still be correct. Now here's the thing, over half of those who gave evidence of having been born again, it's very hard for any researcher or any one of us to discern who's truly born again and who's not, right? We can't do it, it'll be done in the final day. But uh by asking certain questions, you can attempt to determine that. And so over half of those who give evidence of having been born again And over half of those who worship in evangelical churches such as this one agree with that statement, according to research. Now Think about it. If I embrace the idea that all truth is relative, then I'm much more likely to violate any of the commandments, not just the seventh commandment. But what makes us so prone to violating the seventh commandment is the tremendous pressure from our sex-craised culture. Randy Alcorn describes the current situation in his book, Restoring Sexual Sanity. He says, the moral ice age is over. Exit the dogmatic dinosaur of sexual repression. Enter the sensuous sirens of sexual expression. We live in the age of sexual enlightenment, presumably but a few years from sexual utopia, he says, of course, disapprovingly of the prevalence of this sin in our culture Well, we'll have more to say about our compromise with our culture later, but the point here is just this. If I embrace the idea that all truth is relative , then I'll be able to find a way to justify my personal violation of God's law. Well I'm in love. We're in love. So it's okay. I'm engaged. We're engaged. We're going to be married. My husband is cold and distant, so I can find affection in someone else's arms. My wife is preoccupied with the children. She's thrusting me into this position. Secondly, the second reason Christians are falling into sexual immorality in our generation is we have not viewed it as the serious sin that God declares it to be. We have not viewed sexual immorality as the serious sin God declares it to be Can a man take fire in his chest and his clothes not be burned? Can a man take fire to his chest and his clothes not be burned? Can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be seared? So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife. Whoever touches her shall not be innocent. Proverbs 6. In our scripture reading from 1 Corinthians, God says, don't be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, etc. will inherit the kingdom of God. Evidently, it's possible for us to be deceived. Right? Don't be deceived. We've even changed the terminology when referring to marital infidelity or adultery to make it more palatable. The late D. James Kennedy recounted a talk radio show that he heard on which the subject of the day was adultery. The host of the show said, I'm quoting from him, the host of the show said, we'd like for any of you out there who have committed adultery to call in. Let's discuss that experience on our show today. The host and his guest speaker waited and waited. The phone lines were silent, as if they were dead. Finally, the host rephrased his invitation. This time he said, if any of you out there have had an affair, call and let's discuss it. Immediately the lines lit up Dr. Kennedy observed, you see, the word adultery convicts people, but the concept of having an affair has become acceptable to people. When people called in, They insisted that what they had done was no big deal. They felt good about themselves as if they'd done something daring or heroic. Call it what you will, he writes, adultery is adultery. But by changing the term, it has come to mean something acceptable. Corinth, as you remember, was given over to sexual immorality. The Corinthian believers were dwelling in the midst of a pleasure-seeking culture that was not so much unlike our own. The Apostle Paul wrote to them, do not be deceived. Do not assume, in other words, that sins of the flesh are somehow less serious than sins of the spirit You can't sin in the flesh without sinning against the Holy Spirit, who indwells you. If you engage in such practices, Paul says, you will not inherit the kingdom of God. Christians are breaking the seventh commandment because we have not viewed sexual immorality as the serious sin God declares it to be. Flee sexual immorality, the scripture says. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Matthew Henry expounds on this point. Every other sin, every external act of sin, is outside the body. It's not so much an abuse of the body as of something else. Or somewhat else, as of wine by the drunkard, or food by the glutton, etc. Nor does it give power of the body to another person But in this sin, in sexual immorality, he points out, the Christian sins against his own body. He defiles it, he degrades it, making it one with the body of that with whom he sins. I think the third reason Christians tend to be prone to violating this commandment is that We break the commandment, concluding that sin is acceptable because God is forgiving. Professing Christians break the seventh commandment because they conclude That sin is acceptable because God is forgiving. We serve a loving, merciful God. A God who says, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool, right? This is a glorious truth, and it is to be declared with compassion to all those who genuinely repent. All those who are genuinely repentant, seeking God's forgiveness, the good news is, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they're red like crimson, they shall be as wool. But that is not a license to sin. The Apostle Paul wrote in Romans, where sin abounded, grace abounded much more. In other words, as horrible as sin was, God's grace was superabundant, able to overcome it through Christ's sacrifice. Paul then follows this line of reasoning with the question: what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Now wait a minute, think about it. If God's grace is manifested more the more we sin, then shouldn't we sin more so God can manifest his grace more? If God's grace is manifested when we sin, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Paul responds, certainly not. Certainly not. He says in the Greek, Megin oito. It's strong language. May it never be. How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? For he who has died has been set free from sin Reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body that you should obey its lusts. Romans 6 That's why, and that's how the Apostle John can write: whoever abides in him does not sin. Whoever abides in him does not sin. Whoever sins has neither seen him nor known him. He who sins is of the devil, he says. If we say we have fellowship with him and we walk in darkness, What? We lie and do not practice the truth. Now, of course he doesn't mean that anyone who falls into sin Swears in a moment of anger, he gossips in a moment of weakness, he temporarily lies to avoid punishment. Certainly he's not saying that anyone who falls into sin doesn't know Christ When he says whoever abides in him does not sin, he's speaking of a lifestyle of intentional, premeditated sin. In other words, I know God commands me not to steal, but I've concocted this method of defrauding people. It's not going to fail. And I know God's a forgiving God. Right? You may have heard me uh tell this story uh when uh our daughter Grace was uh in high school and then entering college She had a friend from high school who was a professing believer from a Christian family in an evangelical church who had also gone off to college, and when they got together subsequently after being in college for a while Grace's friend told her that she was in an intimate relationship with her boyfriend. She acknowledged to Grace that it was wrong, she knew it was wrong, to continue that behavior. But she justified it by saying that she knew that God would forgive her, and all she had to do was ask his forgiveness after each night she spent with her boyfriend. Grace came to me, you know, uh and expressed it to or to us and said, I I think with the idea of help me to say, what can I say to her? Well, how can I help her? Well, I'm afraid her friend's attitude was precisely the one condemned by John in his first epistle. If you claim to be a Christian But you presumptuously, intentionally walk in darkness, you are lying, John said Whoever has been born of God does not sin, he said, for his seed, God's seed, remains in him, and he cannot sin because he's been born of God. 1 John 3. 9 The person who's born of God doesn't say, I wonder how much I can get away with. The person who's been born of God has a hatred of sin. He hates it. It's heinous to him. It's defiling. He knows what it's done to the world. All you have to do is open your eyes. All you have to do is open a newspaper. He knows what it did to his savior. He hates it. He doesn't want to sin. He wants to avoid sin. Now he stumbles at times. He may lose his temper. He may lie. He may feel selfishness or pride. He may be tempted to lust or to covetousness. And he may even stumble into grievous sin, as Peter did when he swore that he did not know the Lord. The very night that he had been so close to the Lord Jesus and said, Though all men forsake you, yet will I never forsake you, a few hours later, he swears that he didn't know the Lord. What about David when he took another man's wife? God had blessed him, God had raised him up, God had given him so much. He covets another man's wife, he sons for her, he commits adultery with her, and then he seeks to cover his crime and ultimately takes the life of her husband. Even a genuine Christian can fall into grieve of sin But the genuine Christian does not presumptuously commit sin walking into it with his eyes wide open with the idea that he'll simply ask forgiveness later. He recognizes sin as vile and ugly and heinous and something that's horrendous and and killed his Savior and demanded that horrendous sacrifice of Christ for our justification and for the sin uh burden to be removed And he doesn't want to walk into it. He sees it as evil. Fourth, Christians are violating the seventh commandment and succumbing to sexual temptation because We have not appreciated the full extent of the commandment. This commandment forbids all manner of sexual immorality. Jesus said we violate it by lusting after a woman. The Greek term for all manner of sexual impurity is pornea, from which we get our word pornography. The shorter catechism says, this commandment forbids, listen to this, all unchaste thoughts, words, and actions. And it requires the preservation of our own and of our neighbors' chastity in heart, speech, and behavior. We are to preserve our own and our neighbors' chastity in heart, in speech, and behavior. This commandment forbids all unchaste thoughts, words, and actions We violate this commandment when we entertain lustful thoughts. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness Let it not be once named among you as is fitting for saints. Ephesians 5. 3. It shouldn't even enter our vocabulary. It should be so far from the lifestyles of Christians, in other words. Pornographic literature, pornographic videos, websites, phone services, anything that the mind of man can devise to titillate his sexual appetite is a violation of this command. Job said, I have made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I look upon a young woman? Job 31, one Jesus said, you don't have to physically commit the act of adultery in order to violate this commandment. Just as he said, you don't have to physically, literally, murder someone in order to violate the sixth commandment. Hating someone in your heart violates the spirit of the sixth commandment, and lusting after someone in your mind or your heart violates the spirit of the seventh commandment. Now, note this, there is a difference between recognizing a man or woman to be attractive and lusting after him or her. You have been designed by God to find members of the opposite sex attractive. If you did not find members of the opposite sex attractive, you would be short-circuited somewhere in your system. But you are called by God to respond to your natural attractions in a biblical way, in a spiritual way, in a Christ-like way. Martin Luther illustrated the difference between general desire and lust. This way, familiar to many of you. He said, you can't prevent the birds from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from nesting in your hair. Right? You can't prevent the birds from flying over your head. You're gonna see attractive people. Attractive people are gonna see you. You're gonna see people and you're gonna say, whoa, that person's attractive. See the birds fly over your head. You're going to see them on television. You're going to see them on billboards. You're going to see them in magazines. You're going to see them Oh, those are birds flying over your head. Let them go. Let them fly You can't prevent the birds from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from nesting in your hair. Jesus wasn't talking about the natural, healthy attraction to the opposite sex that he gave us That he no doubt experienced himself. He was a man who had the same temptations as any other man. He was created. He was the God-man, God in human flesh. He wasn't talking about the natural, healthy attraction to the opposite sex that he gave us, that he created in us, the attraction that he no doubt experienced himself. When he said, whoever looks upon a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart. Here's someone who's looking upon a woman with the intention, with a purpose of lusting after her. That sounds an awful lot like a 2,000-year-old description of pornography. What is pornography but looking upon a woman to lust after her with the intention of lusting after her? She becomes an object Jesus was warning against mental adultery, encouraging, inviting the birds to come and nest in your hair. Right? You men, I think you know the difference between seeing birds fly and inviting them to come and nest in your hair. Some of you have taken the drastic method of cutting off all your hair Which is similar to what Jesus said, right? If your IFN you fuck it out. Theologian Jonathan Gersner put it this way. It's not a general sexual appetite that is forbidden by Jesus, but the intention to commit adultery. The inner disposition to sin. It's an inner disposition. A pastor's wife and author, Johnny Ortland, I think it's pronounced Johnny, J-A-N-I, Ortland, put it this way. This commandment forbids our looking at another and imagining the sexual possibilities. It forbids lusting after the attention of a man who is not my husband. It forbids lusting after the attention of a man who is not my husband. It forbids flirting. It forbids cultivating my primary emotional support structure with a man who is not my husband. cultivating my primary emotional support structure with a man who is not my husband or with a woman who is not my wife, right? Clearly, God's standard of sexual purity can be violated by our thoughts. And then God's standard of sexual purity can be violated by our speech. The scripture warns us against corrupt communication, Ephesians 4, filthiness, foolish talking, and coarse jesting, which are not fitting Well, that sounds like uh a a two thousand-year-old description of uh modern television, uh modern sitcoms. Filthiness, foolish talking, coarse jesting, which are not fitting. Ephesians 5. 4 As I said, you can find it in the most popular uh television comedies, you can find it in in films, you can find it in popular music. Crude humor, suggestive language. It's defiling to the believer. It grieves the Holy Spirit within us. We can therefore violate this commandment commandment by our speech and listening to the speech of others. We can violate this commandment by our dress, by our attire You are not only to refrain from lust yourself, you are to desire that very same thing for your neighbor, for others. Women, you are to desire that for men, that they refrain from lust. You are not not to put a stumbling block before them by the way you dress. It's possible for women to dress in such a way that at the very first glance To use Luther's metaphor, the man finds the makings of a nest in his hair. Suddenly there's a bird nesting in his hair. The scripture warns against, quote, the attire of a harlot. Women are exhorted to, quote, adorn themselves in modest apparel with propriety and moderation. 1 Timothy 2. 9. So this commandment covers our thoughts, it covers our speech, it covers our dress, and of course it covers our actions. Just as God's prohibition of murder forbids beating a man within an inch of his death. Right? Thou shalt not kill doesn't mean you can beat a man to within an inch of his death and walk away as the Pharisees might and say, I haven't broken the commandment. What we're saying is that this commandment forbids all sexual contact outside of marriage, but also it forbids all those things that lead up to it. All contact which God intended as a prelude to marital relations. It's to be reserved for marriage. Westminster Seminary, California Professor Michael Horton wrote Like those of our Lord's day, many Christians today think of sin in legalistic technical terms. It's something I did on such and such a day. Growing up in fundamentalism, we would sometimes tell each other about teenage sexual exploits with the caveat. Caveat, but we didn't actually have sex. Alas, we didn't cross that technical line from clinical virginity to immorality When I went to an evangelical college, I heard the same stories. Where do you think the line is? We would ask each other. And most often we would offer the answer that happened to coincide with the limits of our own experience. Legalists are concerned about lines, whereas Scripture regards sin first and foremost as a condition and only secondarily as an act. The question you need to be asking yourself in your relationship with those of the opposite sex is this. Is this something that the Lord Jesus would do with someone to whom he was not married? And of course he was not married. So is this something the Lord Jesus would do with a woman, with a young woman? Paul urged Timothy to treat older women as mothers and to treat younger women as sisters with all purity. Now, this wasn't some special rule just for pastors. This is the way Christians are to treat one another. Treat younger women as sisters with all purity. There's the pattern. You want to know what the pattern is, you want to know where the line is, there it is. That's the pattern the Lord gives you. There's an answer to the question: how far am I to go in my interactions with my girlfriend or boyfriend or fiance? You are to treat him or her as you would treat your brother or your sister with all purity Fifth, the fifth reason that professing Christians sometimes violate God's standards of sexual purity is one to which we alluded, and we won't hit too hard on this one. We've been compromised by our culture. Patterson and Kim, authors of the book The Day America Told the Truth, were alarmed by the trend of the loss of innocence among our youth. Now they, Patterson and Kim, who wrote this book, Which uh d uh involved uh surveying Americans all over the country in one day and actually I think paying them for their time so they would sit down and and and write full, complete answers, completely anonymous And it was all scientifically done, etc. And I don't believe they were believers, uh, Patterson and Kim, but they were nonetheless alarmed by the cultural trends they saw. One out of five children in the United States, they noted, is losing his virginity before the age of 13. One out of five. Here's what they wrote. There's a beautiful girl named Danielle at a birthday party. She's wearing tight pants, a designer blouse, and dangling earrings. She's gyrating to rock music. I want your sex. I want your body. suggests a song from George Michael. Danielle wins first prize in the contest for sexiest performance. Danielle is in the fourth grade The statistics are mind-boggling. Forty-three percent of all our young women in America are becoming pregnant at least once by the age of 20. 43%. 69 % of teen mothers are unmarried. Might as well say 70%, close enough. Approximately 70%. Of our teen mothers are unmarried. Over $30 billion a year spent on families started by teens. That figure is probably higher now. Sexually transmitted diseases are rampant. The average age for entry into prostitution is reportedly becoming younger and younger, with the average age of minors now 13 And from time to time, alarms are being sounded in our culture, not always by Christians. The Parents Television Council sounded an alarm just last week. You may have seen it in the paper. After analyzing the content of scripted television during the November and May sweep periods in 2011 and 2012, it takes them a long time to compile all the information. They found a dramatic increase in sexual exploitation depictions in television. And they defined sexual exploitation as any actual or attempted abuse of a position of vulnerability, a position of power or trust for sexual purposes, including, but not limited to profiting monetarily, socially or politically from the sexual exploitation of another. So here they narrowed their focus, and they were looking just at sexual exploitation. Think of sex trafficking, pornography. Prostitution, right? Sexual exploitation. The exploitation of a minor by an adult or someone in power, someone in authority. They found this. The likelihood that a scene would include sexual exploitation was higher if the female characters were young adults or younger. 37 % of all sexual exploitation they observed was intended to be humorous. In other words, jokes about pornography, jokes about sex trafficking, jokes about prostitution. It's all a big joke now. Parents, do you know what your children are watching? Do you know what your children are watching? Are they being conformed to this world or are they being transformed by the renewing of their minds? Are you keeping your own mind pure and focused upon Christ? How then can we maintain sexual purity in a sex-craze culture? First of all, resist the prevailing philosophy that all truth is relative. I trust none of us here have bought into that. Secondly, recognize sexual immorality as the serious sin God declares it to be. Don't have some sort of dichotomy in your mind There are real bad spiritual sins, like you know, taking God's name in vain or or uh worshiping other gods, but and then there are you know fleshly sins. that are not as bad. Don't have that dichotomy in your mind. Remember what God says about the serious nature of this sin. Thirdly, don't swallow Satan's lie that it's okay to choose to sin because you can ask God's forgiveness later. That's a lie of Satan. A genuine Christian, if you're really born again, you don't want to sin. You're not looking for excuses to sin. Ways out of it. Fourth, remember that the commandment extends to our thoughts, to our speech, to our dress, and to our actions. And fifth, don't allow yourself to be conformed to this world. In other words, you have to purpose in your heart, as Daniel did. I purposed in my heart that I would not defile myself. The time to determine that you're going to be pure is not when you're out on a date with somebody It's long before that. Let me close with some wise words from Jenny Ortland, we uh cited her before, from her book, His Loving Law, Our Lasting Legacy She said this, the best guard against adultery is a deep love and satisfaction in Jesus Christ alone. Let me say that again. The best guard against adultery is a deep love and satisfaction in Jesus Christ alone. This is true for both married and single people. The soul that is drinking deeply from his fountain of life is not going to crave drinks from lesser joys. The question for each one of us should never be how far can I go with a relationship either in fantasy or reality before it becomes a sin. The question should always be, how can I go so deep with Jesus Christ? The sexual purity is the glad outworking of my joyful satisfaction in Him. Ultimately, adultery like all sin, I'm still quoting her here, ultimately adultery like all sin is a heart issue. This is where it begins. And the only one in the universe who can satisfy the desires of my heart is God, through his Son Jesus Christ. Even the best of men, she says, and I'm married to one of them, she adds, will fail us. And we will fail them. The reason people seek after sinful pleasure is that they have not experienced real pleasure in Christ. How about you? Do you know the real pleasure in Jesus Christ? Do you have a real living relationship with Christ? Do you know the love of Christ which passes knowledge? That's what will keep you pure. The love of Christ. Let's pray. Oh Lord , you know that we are uh men and women of unclean lips. We dwell amongst the people of unclean lips and we are tempted. Uh we are uh much like the uh Corinthian believers, we're living in a culture uh that is seems to be uh focused upon sexual immorality. and is focused upon pleasure at whatever cost. So we we certainly need your help. We need reminders from your word. We need to continue to go back to your truth that we might not be conformed to this world. We rather seek to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. That we may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Help us, Father, please. We need that help. And if there be anyone here outside of Christ, Who doesn't know the joy of knowing him? Oh Lord, give them no peace, give them no rest until they cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I know I've broken your holy laws, but I know that Jesus lived that perfect life and died upon the cross and rose again. And I want him as my Savior. Draw souls to yourself through your powerful word and your Holy Spirit. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Would you stand with me and let's close our