Amen. Thank you, Linda. As you uh turn in your Bibles to First Timothy chapter six, uh let me remind you that Lift up uh Pastor Barry uh today. Today's the day he he departs taking his mom down to uh South Carolina where she'll be settling in to uh assisted living facility there. It uh it happens to be uh uh one that is uh supported by the PCA. It's a PCA uh assisted living facility and as it turns out it's within uh I think fifteen miles of Barry's uh sister's house so uh uh Barry's mom will be able to be uh to see her her daughter uh uh quite often and And it seems like a wonderful uh fit and she's uh accepted that uh uh at this stage and and so uh but it's nonetheless gonna be difficult to make that uh That transition. So he'll pray for her and pray for Barry and the family at this time. Alright, 1 Timothy 6 Let as many bondservants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor. So that the name of God and his doctrine may not be blaspheme. And those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they're brethren, but rather serve them because those who are benefited are believers. and beloved. Teach and exhort these things. If anyone teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, And to the doctrine, which accords with godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing, but is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words from which come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth Who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. From such, withdraw yourself. Now, godliness with contentment is a great gain for We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out, and having food and clothing with these, we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. But you, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, gentleness. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, to which you were also called and have confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. I urge you in the sight of God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate. That you keep this commandment without spot, blameless, until our Lord Jesus Christ's appearing, which he will manifest in his own time. He who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen. Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches. But in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Let them do good that they may be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share Storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. Oh Timothy! Guard what was committed to your trust, avoiding the profane and idle babblings and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge. By professing it, some have strayed concerning the faith. Grace be with you. Amen. May God bless this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Oh Father. What a blessing it is to have your word in our own language, to be able to meditate upon it, to be able to draw truth from it, to compare scripture with scripture. Lord, we we take it for granted, but we know there are people around the world who do not have access to your precious word. So Lord, may we make use of it, may we feed upon it. May we be blessed in our souls as we read it and as we hear it proclaimed. Help us, Father. Speak to hearts this day. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. In the world-famous Paris Museum, the Louvre, there stands an eight-foot-tall black stone obelisk discovered in 1902. Which scholars agree predates the Ten Commandments. It contains the Code of Hammurabi, who ruled the kingdom of Babylon about 1700 years before the time of Christ In fifty-one columns of beautiful cuneiform characters, the code contains nearly 300 legal provisions regulating such matters as banking. The punishment for theft or adultery or homicide, as well as the responsibilities of a husband toward his wife and children. But in all these rules and regulations, there's nothing there that regulates the thoughts of men. There's no law, for example, forbidding a Babylonian man from imagining an adulterous act with a Babylonian woman who's not his wife. No law there, no regulation that would prohibit a man from uh lusting after his neighbor's chariot. I suppose in America there are hundreds of thousands of laws on our books, both at the local state and federal levels, but I would venture to say that none of them attempts to regulate our thought life. There's no law, for example, that says it is illegal to think that your governor should find another line of work. It is illegal to imagine that your neighbor's loud, annoying, moonlight-braying Doberman is going to have a tragic accident. Or to bring it closer to home, it is illegal to imagine nefarious ways of permanently disabling the volunteer fire department siren That wakes you up at all hours of the night, including Saturday nights The siren that continues to blare despite the fact that the technology has long been available to awaken with beepers and cell phones only the tiny percentage of those Within hearing distance of the siren, who happened to be first responders. It's a good thing for some of us that there is no such law Why don't we have laws regulating our thoughts? Surely we would all agree that if a man never thought about, for example, murdering someone, he would be much less likely to ever commit the crime. Well, the obvious answer is we don't legislate against thoughts because there's absolutely no way to determine if and when such a law is being broken. Yes, it would be nice, uh perhaps, if banks had brainwave detectors that could sound an alarm if a person entering the bank had thoughts of robbing it. But of course we have no such technology yet, as far as I know. Some of you here may be working on it. And it's a safe bet that the ancient nation of Israel had no such technology. And yet, the tenth commandment declares, you shall not covet. What striking evidence of the fact that these commandments were given by an omniscient being who's concerned not with our words only or our actions only, but with our thought life. What does the Tenth Commandment really mean? What does it forbid? Well, obviously it doesn't mean that it's wrong to provide for yourself and your family. If a man provide not for his own, he's worse than an infidel, the scripture says. If a man will not work, neither should he eat. Secondly, it doesn't mean that it's wrong to acquire property and possessions and to store up for future needs. Go to the ant, you sluggard, consider her ways, and be wise, which having no captain, overseer, or ruler, provides her supplies in summer and gathers her food in the harvest. Proverbs 6 If there was any doubt about it, the fact that God commands us not to steal from our neighbor, and not even to covet what belongs to our neighbor That's irrefutable evidence that the Lord intended us to have private property. That during our brief time on earth He intended us to have things that belong to us clearly and not to others. A society of shared property violates not only our natural proclivities, but the clear sense of God's law. The word translated covet in Exodus 20 is the Hebrew word comad, which has the primary root meaning of to delight in. It suggests, as it's used in that commandment, a great delight, a great desire. It's sometimes translated as simply desire. As in Isaiah 53, when God's servant the Messiah is described, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He's despised and rejected of men. In the recounting of the commandments in Deuteronomy before the people entered the Promised Land, Moses used the Hebrew word avva Which has a primary root to wish for. It means to greatly desire, to long for, to lust after. There are several Greek words translated covet or covetousness, of course, in the New Testament, which was written originally in Greek. Epithumeo from thulos, passion. Or guia to stretch out the arms for, to stretch out the arms for, to set the heart upon, see, to lust after. Or Philargoros, Philargoros, literally a lover of silver. A lover of silver. To covet, then, is to have a desire for things, especially a fervent desire, a longing, a stretching out the arms for, a lasting Particularly for things that belong to another. When you covet, you have allowed your natural acquisitive instinct to get out of hand Such a desire, of course, can become an all-consuming, overpowering desire. You'll note that Potiphar 's wife may have Noticed in perfect innocence that the young Hebrew slave who was given authority in the household by her husband as a steward over the household possessions and s and other servants. happened to be gifted and wise and handsome. Her sin was to set her affection on him To think about him, to long for him, to covet him, literally to stretch out the arms for him. When the scripture says Joseph was handsome in form and appearance, it is simply stating a fact. A fact that presumably Potiphar's wife, as others in the household, could recognize The problem was, the scripture says, she cast longing eyes on Joseph. And she, of course, said to him, lie with me, Genesis 39. You are not coveting simply to recognize that your friend's home is more spacious than yours, or her vacuum cleaner more efficient. You're not necessarily coveting when you determine to work hard and save your money so you can buy a more efficient vacuum cleaner someday. But when your desire to have a more spacious house or a more efficient vacuum cleaner becomes overpowering, or when you desire to have your friend's home or your friend's hoover or your friend's hubby, then you have crossed a line. According to our shorter catechism, the Tenth Commandment forbids, quote, all discontentment with our own estate envying or grieving at the good of our neighbor, and all inordinate motions and affections to anything that is his. And it requires full contentment with our own condition, with a right and charitable frame of spirit toward our neighbor in all that is his. Now, we often think of this commandment in terms of wealth. When you think of covetous people, sometimes, anyway, we think of people that have a lot of money. Of course, a covetous man may, in fact, become wealthy. If someone sets all his desire upon something and works hard for it, oftentimes he acquires it in this life. So a covetous man may in fact be wealthy. The rich farmer that Jesus spoke of, who remember, had so much produce that he decided, what am I going to do? I got so much I can I can just Pull down my barns and build bigger ones, and I can just eat, drink, and be merry for the rest of my life. I have all that I need. And he had no thought for God. He had no thought for how long am I going to live and what is my life all about But, of course, the scripture gives several examples of wealthy men who were not covetous. Abraham, for example, Lot, Job, Solomon. And the scripture gives examples of poor men who were covetous. Elisha's servant Gehazi comes to mind, Judas Iscariot. Do not assume that you can't be covetous simply because you have few possessions. The late Dr. G. James Kennedy noted, covetousness is not the same thing as ambition. The God-given desire to be the best person you can possibly be. Covetousness is the inordinate desire for the things of this world. Who is the covetous person? He who spends his whole life muck raking in the mud flats of materialism when God created us for the stars. It is the person who never seeks anything beyond the shiny, ultimately worthless baubles of this life. Writer and conference speaker Janny Ortland wrote, covetousness is a spiritual problem. Our lives aren't full enough or fun enough or good enough God isn't answering our prayers in the way we want Him to for that husband or for that expanded budget or for that much-needed vacation. We live in a consumer culture and consumption has become a way of life. Whenever we think, I wish I had her blank, we are dealing with this heart sin of breaking the Tenth Commandment. And this doesn't just apply to material possessions, clothes, houses, furniture, cars, vacations. It can also apply to intelligence, family connections, energy levels. Oh, I wish I had her energy level. It can apply to invitations, to events, to control over the lives of our grown children, to musical talent, career recognition, influence, power, beauty, you name it, the list is endless. The Tenth Commandment does not forbid, she writes, the desire to improve our lot in life. It forbids envying my neighbor's ability to improve his lot in life. It condemns the comparison game. Why did she get that? I'm just as deserving. Perhaps at times you can detect in your heart not only a desire to have all the fine things that your neighbor has. But a desire that your neighbor should have fewer fine things than you. The classic example is an Aesop fable in which an envious and covetous man was granted any wish he desired You may have any wish you desire, however, whatever you receive, your neighbor will receive twice thereof. Unable to bear the thought of his neighbor receiving double of any good thing, he wished that he might lose one eye. I think I lost one contact doing that. Note the importance of this commandment. It's a door to the violation of every other commandment. This commandment is a door to the violation of every other commandment. Consider the first two commandments. The idolatry that is forbidden in the first two commandments. I am the Lord thy God, thou shalt have no other gods before me. And you shall not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything, heaven above, earth beneath. The scripture says, For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater Has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God? Ephesians 5. 5. A covetous person is by definition an idolater. Why? Because he's putting other gods, people, money, power, possessions, beauty, whatever, before God 's face. Just as a coin held close enough to the eye will block the sun, any object or person clutched close enough to your heart will block the Son of God. What about the third commandment? Can covetous lead a person to violate the third commandment? You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Are we not tempted to curse God when we don't get what we desperately want? Or when something we really value is lost to us? One of my first jobs out of high school, I think it was out of high school at the time, was working at uh a little uh blueprint shop in Winter Park, Florida. And if you ever I don't know if you've ever been in a blueprint shop. I don't even know if they're they have blueprint shops anymore, but I guess somebody has to make blueprints. And uh I know there was a lot of ammonia involved in a very uh I I still remember the smell of the blueprint shop, but I remember there was a great deal of cursing in that blueprint shop whenever the press the blueprint press would break down. Like a $5,000 uh blueprint press. Yeah, covetousness or a love of money, or in this case a love of uh or desire to have your business prosper, can lead you to taking God's name in vain. Covetousness can lead to a violation of the fourth commandment. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And Nehemiah 13, In those days I saw in Judah some people treading wine presses on the Sabbath, and bringing in sheaths, and loading donkeys with wine grapes, figs, and all kinds of burdens which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, and I warned them, Nehemiah says. Pastor Leslie Flynn wrote of a movie theater in a little Pennsylvania town. A town in which Sunday movies were prohibited, and the theater had a motto, I guess they put it on their sign from time to time, go to church on Sunday, attend movies during the week. But uh you probably already guessed, when a referendum to permit Sunday movies was proposed, the theater scrapped the motto and lobbied for passage. Yeah, of course, covetousness can lead us to break the fourth commandment. What about the fifth commandment? Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God gives thee. Yeah. Uh how many parents and their memories have been dishonored by children fighting over their property uh uh at d at their death? How many parents have been neglected and not cared for by their children in their old age, in their time of need, because the children uh uh are are uh uninclined, disinclined to part with their money to provide uh for their parents. Can covetousness lead to murder? Well, as Ahab's greed and Jezebel's deceit led to the murder of Naboth, yes, of course. How many wars have been fought, how many lives have been needlessly sacrificed in order to satisfy someone's lust for land or for uh harbors or for oil reserves The story is told that once uh when Frederick the Great of Prussia was about to declare war, he instructed his secretary to write the proclamation. And the secretary began, as I guess uh nor he normally would, whereas in the providence of God, etc. etc. Frederick thundered, stop that lying! Simply say Frederick wants more land. You ever become angry with someone over money? Have you ever lost your temper with someone over money or stuff? And you may have been violating not only the sixth commandment, but the tenth commandment. What about the seventh commandment? Has covetousness, do you think, ever led to adultery? Of course it has. David lusted after Bathsheba. First he saw her. He saw a beautiful woman, but then he he lusted after her, then he sent for her, then he committed adultery with her, and then the crime, as you know, continued to multiply. It is difficult to imagine an act of adultery that doesn't first involve coveting. Well, that's not the only way covetousness can destroy a marriage, of course. Couples can covet and go into debt by buying a house that's much more than they can afford, or compiling huge credit card debts, right? Of course, uh coveting coveting can lead to theft, right? That's the first one that comes to mind. You covet something and then you you're tempted to steal it As God brought his people into the promised land, they were commanded to destroy the property of the Canaanites. But Achan later confessed, When I saw among the spoils a beautiful Babylonian garment, Two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold, I coveted them and took them. Joshua seven. What about uh the ninth commandment? You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor Ananias and Sapphira lied to the apostles and to the to the Holy Spirit, to the Lord, saying that they sold a piece of land for less than they actually sold it for. Covetousness, of course, can lead people to lie. Lie about their income. Lie about their education. Lie on their resume. Lie about their accomplishments. Everyone, everywhere, is no doubt tempted to covet. But in this place, in America, at this time. We may be particularly prone to this sin. First of all, we often rub shoulders with people whose income far exceeds ours. We rub shoulders with people whose income far exceeds ours. I don't know if that's always the case. In some agrarian cultures, virtually all your association might be with people from the same income strata. It's certainly not the case here. And then, of course, we're bombarded with advertisements between newspapers, television, billboards, radio, magazines, direct mailings, calls on your telephone. Ads on the internet. It's estimated Americans may be exposed to something like 1600 advertisements on an average day. I think the majority of those may be for floor coverings. Take seven, seven, two, four. And then there are the latest uh tablets, smartphones, and other technological advancements that uh that boggle the mind. And so even Christians can find themselves thinking that they can't live without something that wasn't even created five years ago. Didn't even exist. And then I think we may be particularly tempted to covet because of the emphasis in our culture upon youth and beauty and personal appearance. This makes it obviously easy to be dissatisfied with our own appearance or with the appearance of those closest to us. The New York Times reported several years ago that over 80% of youth who responded to a survey saying they were overweight actually were not. 80% of youth who responded to this uh this questionnaire or whatever, I don't know how they did it, but they said they were overweight, but in fact they were not by uh you know the standards of the American Medical Association or whatever However, that was their perception as they lived in this culture with its emphasis upon beauty and appearance. And then we may be particularly tempted to covet in our culture at this time because of our emphasis upon wealth and prosperity in America. Did any of you hear about the multi-state uh lottery uh mega jackpot last week? Did anybody hear about that? Sure you could 45-year-old Paul White of Minnesota, who won a third of the latest uh big lottery payout I saw him a little clip on television. He seemed like a pleasant enough fellow. But I was sorry to read in the paper that he reportedly say, you know, I've been t I I've let me quote it here, I've totally been waiting for this day my entire life. He said he had often daydreamed about how he'd spend the winnings if he won. And uh it causes me to wonder if this money will in fact give him the satisfaction that he has so long Anticipate. Imagine spending your whole life waiting for the day when you win a bunch of money, and the odds of that happening are uh you know infinitesimally, there's a word there, small. And and I say this n not just because uh uh Paul White hasn't returned any of my phone calls. I I was hoping he might help me out and get some flooring. Apparently I'm the only one in the whole area here that doesn't have new flooring. There's uh There's no doubt that our culture is particularly prone to covetousness. It's all around us. Yet we may not always be conscious of violating this commandment. Dr. Kennedy, I mentioned earlier, in his book on the Ten Commandments, noted this. One Roman Catholic priest said he had been listening to confessions for fifty years. But he had never heard anybody confess to having broken the tenth commandment. And a Protestant pastor from a congregation where sins were confessed openly at prayer meeting stated that he had never heard anyone confess to the sin of covetousness. Professor and author Michael Horton notes that the majority of evangelical Christians, according to pollster George Barna, say they, quote, completely follow the Tenth Commandment. The majority of us, evangelical Christians, say we completely follow the Ten Commandments. Yet his same polling data That is Barnes, reveal this. Ample evidence of the bankruptcy of the commonly held worldview of Christians. It is undeniable that as a body, American Christians have fallen prey to materialism. to hedonism, to secular humanism, and even to a jaded form of Christianity that rejects much of the commitment required of faithful servants. A recent national survey discovered that no fewer than 7 out of 10 Christians are prone to hedonistic attitudes about life. Further, about two in five evangelical Christians deny the possibility that pain or suffering could be a means of becoming a better, more mature individual. Do you catch that? Two out of five of evangelical Christians deny the possibility that pain or suffering could be a means of becoming a better more mature individual. As a final example, three out of ten Christians agreed that nothing in life is more important than How would you answer that? Nothing in life is more important than having fun and being happy. And more than half of the Christian public believes they never have enough money to buy what they need. Now that is sad So what are some of the symptoms of covetousness? Is there a covetousness alarm, a covetousness siren? will go off and wake you up. Is there a covetousness alarm? Well, first of all, when you find virtually all your thoughts are taken up with the things of this world I'd say that's an alarm. You don't think about much less pray for world evangelization or even the salvation of your niece Or your friend at work. Your dreams, your aspirations are not about enlarging God's kingdom, but being or being a blessing to other people. But your dreams and aspirations are of financial independence or comfort or fame or beauty. As a man thinks in his heart, so is he. The covetous alarm may sound when virtually all your talk is of this world. John 3. 31, he that is of the earth is earthly and speaks of the earth. He that is of the earth is earthly and speaks of the earth. God's people, of course, are urged to talk together of the things of God, to encourage one another, to edify one another, to support one another. Warn them that are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak, be patient with all. When Peter warned himself at the high priest's uh In the high priest's courtyard the night before the crucifixion, it was said of him, Your speech betrays you that you're a Galilean. Your speech betrays you. Does your speech betray your covetousness? Thirdly, beware when virtually all your labors are for this life. When all your labors or almost all your labors are for this life. Thomas Watson, the great Puritan pastor, wrote, After the Gauls, the ancient people of France, had tasted the sweet wine of the Italian grape, they inquired after the country, and they never rested till they arrived there. And so, a covetous man, having tasted the world, will not rest until he thinks he has all it offers. You're so busy with the affairs of this world that you can't find time to pray? You can't find time to tend your own soul? You can't find time to tend the souls of your family, those placed in your charge? Can't find time to look in on a Christian brother or sister? Can't find time to serve your master in some way? Fourth, beware when you would rather part with your honor than part with your money. When making a good business deal is more important than honoring God, Jesus said, you cannot love God and mammon. You can't. You've got to pick which one you love. Beware when your giving to the Lord begins to lag. Now, you may know how this works. You you begin to resist the idea that that first portion of everything you receive should re be returned to the Lord. You begin to think, wait a minute, I 'm having a hard enough time getting by on my portion. If I use God's portion too, I'd have more to get by on. He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. If you don't faithfully, joyfully, liberally give to God's work when you make twenty thousand a year, You're not going to faithfully, joyfully, liberally give to God's work when you make uh sixty thousand a year. And then The covetousness alarm should sound when you start to accept the idea that it's God's desire that all his children should be wealthy, materially wealthy. You know, it's hard to imagine, but there are people that teach that. It's God's desire that all his children be materially wealthy. The scripture says the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. As we've noted before, there are churches and pastors that are teaching right now that Jesus and his apostles were men of wealth. Men of great wealth and prominence. Well, after all, uh Peter and Andrew, his uh brother, were fishermen, James and John, they were partners. So they had this fishing conglomerate. They were executives of this fishing conglomerate, provided food for all of Galilee. They were captains of industry, we're told. And even if that were the case, what did they do? They left their nets to follow Jesus. Now, we can't judge the motives of those who have developed such a message, but we can question their biblical exegesis, and we can suggest they're not properly interpreting and faithfully declaring God's inspired word And here's the thing, knowing my own heart, I would not be surprised to find that some of those who are attracted to that message are attracted to that message, not because it agrees with their own study of scripture. But because it agrees with their own desire for material wealth. In other words, if you see your pastor's got a Rolex and fancy doodads and drives a big old Mercedes and and uh flies around in a private jet, and he's telling you This is the way God wants you to live. Amen. Right on. What do I have to do? Well, you just have to give a little more so I can keep flying my private jet. It's not cheap to fly my private jet. It's crazy. How far removed have we come from the early church? How far removed have we come from the early church? In his book, Will the Real Heretics Please Stand Up, historian David Burkott, B-E-R-C-O-T, wrote The early Christians didn't just talk about poverty, they were poor. And the Romans ridiculed them for it One Roman taunted the Christians. Many of you, in fact, by your own admission, the majority of you, are in want, are cold, are hungry, and are laboring in hard work, and yet your God allows it Admitting the truthfulness of this accusation, the Christian lawyer Felix answered by saying that many of us are called poor. This is not our disgrace, but our glory As our mind is relaxed by luxury, it is strengthened by poverty. Yet who can be poor if he does not long for anything, if he does not crave the possessions of others, if he is rich towards God? He rather is poor who, although he has much, desires more. That's good Godliness with contentment is great gain, Paul wrote. For we brought nothing into this world. It's certain we're going to carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, then let's be content. But those who desire to be rich, he went on, fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. Well, we'll think more about this commandment, Lord willing, next Sunday. But for now, just uh I want you to leave remembering Jesus' words. What shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? We as Americans are wealthy, of course. We are among the wealthiest. I don't care whether you're uh you consider yourself a wealthy American, you are compared to most of the people on this planet, most certainly most of the people who have ever lived on the planet. But I want you to think about uh What's far more important than your wealth here? Jesus said, what shall a profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? There he was giving us an indication of the uh of the inestimable value of your soul. Friend, if you're here today and you don't know for sure that should you die today on the way home , that you'll be in heaven with the Lord, if you're not certain of that, Listen, you can be certain in that. The Lord wants you to know that. That's why Jesus came and died and rose again. Send his apostles into all the world. Go tell people, go bring them this good news. They don't have to die alone and pay for their own sins. I came to live that perfect life that you can't live, to die upon the cross, to be your substitute, to be the spotless Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Why should you bear your own sins when I, the sin bearer, have come to bear those sins? Friend, if you'll recognize your sins as vile and ugly and heinous , I see it, I see my covetousness, I see my pride, I see my selfishness. And I don't like it, but I can't stop it. But Jesus Christ, the sinless Son of God, came to be my substitute. Lord, I believe that. I want him as my Savior. Maybe you don't have enough faith. Where does faith come? Faith comes by hearing the word of God. Go to the Word, begin to read it. Read the Gospel of Mark. Sixteen little chapters. Read the Gospel of John. What is it? 21, 22 chapters. Read the Gospel of John. 21. In a week, you get through a third of it. In three weeks you're done. If you just read a chapter a day, God show me, reveal this to me. Is Jesus truly the Son of God? Can I have eternal life through him? You come to God that way as a little child and trusting in Jesus alone. And he promises you everlasting life. You'll be with him in glory. Something far more valuable than all the baubles of this life. At thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. In thy presence is fullness of joy. That's what He's offering you. How? By simple faith. Lord, I believe it. I believe. You come to God that way. He'll forgive your sin. He'll give you this eternal life. It's a glorious message that He's called us to proclaim. Let's pray. Oh Lord, I do pray that there be someone here this day, a man or woman, boy or girl. Who's never cried out to you, God, forgive me and save me. Lord, may this be the day of salvation for that one. Work in that heart. Draw that soul to yourself, just as you've done for so many of us here. And you, Lord, will receive all the glory for it. In your precious name we pray. Amen.