Thank you, Choir. Continuing our study in the Gospel of Mark, if you'll turn please to uh Mark chapter twelve. And we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders and worship downstairs. We have a new little one with us today for the very first time. Uh Joe and Breeze uh little one uh Genevieve. Jenna, they call her, is here. So welcome if you uh have a chance. Welcome little Genevieve. Born uh born before Christmas, a pre-Christmas baby, pre-Christmas gift Are any other babies we have a uh Brandon and Grace Allen? Are they uh they had a little baby on Chris are they? You got the baby? Yep, the baby's here? Well the Christmas Day baby over there Great. Um Mark chapter twelve And let's uh let's begin in verse uh twenty eight. Then one of the scribes came and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, What is the first commandment of all? Jesus answered him, The first commandment of the first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, like it, is this you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher, you have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but He. And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding, with all the soul, with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices Now when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him , You are not far from the kingdom of God. But after that, no one dared question him. Let's pray. Oh Lord, it is a uh solemn thing to open up your word and to attempt to proclaim it, and so we need your help as we do it. These are your people. They are Many of them hungry for your truth. Some of them are weary, heavy laden, some of them are anxious, troubled. We just pray that you will take your word and use it in hearts this day. Forgive us our sins as we come. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As we continue to proceed verse by verse through the Gospel of Mark. We come this morning upon some words of Christ that we have in fact considered before, but they're words which we could, I believe, consider with profit every year, perhaps every month. Or every week or every day. A scribe, one who studied and taught God's word, heard Jesus answer the question that was posed by the Sadducees. Remember the question that attempted to uh make ludicrous the whole concept of the resurrection. There were uh seven brothers, uh each had a wife, the wife uh brothers died, etc. etc. Now whose wife will she be? uh in after the resurrection or in glory. Well, perceiving that he had answered them well This scribe, who overheard that conversation, proposed a question of his own to Jesus. Now If you were a scribe living in Jesus' day and you studied the word and proclaimed it, taught it, And you had an opportunity to ask Jesus any question, you might very well choose this one. Of all the commandments, of all that the law says Of all that the the God says in his word, which was of course what we now call the Old Testament, of all of God's word, of all his commandments, which is the greatest Which is the uh uh of which is of most importance, that is, uh which is foremost And we might have expected Jesus to respond: Well, the first commandment: I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Surely Jesus might have pointed to that as the greatest of the commandments, or we might think, well, the most important commandment, what's the most important commandment? We might say, thou shalt not kill. What could be worse than that? Murder, or even thou should not commit adultery, or honor thy father and thy mother. But Jesus turned instead to a commandment That is not even included in the Decalogue that is in the Ten Commandments, but one which was very dear to the Jews, recited every morning and evening, actually kept in written form, in little pouches or Boxes, they called them phylaqueries, that were tied to their arms or their foreheads. And here it is. Hear, O Israel. The Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. You'll notice, first of all , that in this that Jesus called the greatest of commandments, the Lord God is declared to be one. It begins, you might say the preface of the commandment is: the Lord our God is one. There's not a sun god and a moon god. There's not a rain god and a god of the forest and another of the sea. There's not an elephant god and a monkey god There are not three gods, God the Father over here, God the Son over there, God the Holy Spirit. There is one God. The scripture teaches this one God exists in three persons, Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. And it's very hard for humans to wrap their heads around this, isn't it? Because apart from the Lord, everyone we know exists in one person. We don't know any other Trinitarian beings. And yet Jesus could say, He who has seen me has seen the Father. And you could also declare that the greatest of the commandments indicates that the Lord our God, the Lord, is one. Now, as hard as it is for us to understand the first part of this commandment, what we might call the preface or introduction , The more difficult challenge may be in fulfilling the commandment itself. As reasonable as it may appear to a believer , Clearly, this commandment makes it abundantly clear that it's God's desire that we should love Him. It's God's will that his people should love him utterly and completely Now, to uh drive home this point, let's consider some verses from the book of the Bible that speaks more directly about Our love for God than any other book. Which book is that? Anybody want to hazard a guess? The book of the Bible that speaks more directly about our love for God than any other book of the Bible. At least by my uh uh uh recollection. Anyone? By the way? Psalms? Oh that's a good guess. First John, first John I would have I would have guessed. What? What I'm sorry. Gospel of John would be another. Right. Actually, I think you'll find if you if you look at passages that speak of our love for God, uh the book where most of those passages are found is not one that you would guess, which is why I I offered the quiz. It's uh uh it's Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy. Listen to some of these passages. Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy persons, and now the Lord your God has made you as the stars of heaven in multitude. Therefore you shall love the Lord your God, and keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments always. Deuteronomy ten And it shall be that if you earnestly obey my commandments, which I command you today, to love the Lord your God and serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. Then I will give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil. Deuteronomy eleven If you carefully keep all these commandments which I command you to do, to love the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, to hold fast to him. Then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you and will dispossess greater and mightier nations than you yourselves. Deuteronomy 11 And now, Israel, what does the Lord require of you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him? To serve the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, to keep the commandments which I command you today. Deuteronomy 10. Author Leon Morris points out that 27 times in the Old Testament we read commands or exhortations to love God. 27 times. It's a clear evidence of our morally degenerate state that this commandment of God should be thought by any human to be unreasonable. You know, in my unregenerate state, I am liable to ask, well, why should I love God? What has he ever done for me? Well, apart from creating you by his gracious hand, placing you in this beautiful world of his design, giving you the ability to see and to hear to uh touch and smell and taste and talk, granting you mobility, strength to labor, a mind to reason Apart from being the sounds from which has sprung every pleasing experience, every pleasant sound, every enjoyable evening, every comforting thought Apart from upholding you moment by moment by his inexhaustible power and granting you a thousand other gracious gifts, I suppose you may say that he has done little for you. But it would still be a foolish thing to say. Now, we addressed this before in our series on worship, but it is worth reconsideration. Granting the fact that our Creator deserves our adoration, I think certainly all believers would acknowledge that, it might strike some of us as uh odd or somehow inappropriate for God to exhort us to love and glorify Him. To uh over and over again in Scripture, we just looked at a few places, exhort us or command us to love him. Now I presume that you want to be loved by uh your family and friends. But you don't continually exhort them to love you. You don't sign every greeting card, don't forget to love me. Right? Or see that you love me, uh one reason is it would be counterproductive. Your family and friends would uh soon grow tired of it. If every time you close the phone conversation, you said, don't forget to love me, love me, love me, bye-bye. Then you know when they saw it was you calling, they'd uh not pick it up It would be counterproductive. Why? Because focusing attention on other people loving you reeks a pride and vanity, self-centeredness, insecurity. And yet, continually in his word, God exhorts us, reminds us, encourages us to love him. To worship and adore him. Now, why is it right for him to do what we all realize would be wrong for us to do? Well, the dilemma is resolved when we consider that since God is the only being in the universe who is infinitely pure, righteous, loving, just, merciful, holy Glorious for us to uh love him supremely is the best thing. It's the right thing. It's only right for us to love him supremely, and it's wrong for us to fail to do so. He must exhort us to do what is for us the supreme good. Each of us will in fact love something or someone supremely. It will be a girl or a guy or a child or a job or a sport, a hobby, business, a dream. Some ambition, it might be the love of comfort, love of pleasure. Each of us will love someone or something supremely. We'll take precedence over all others. And whoever that person is, or whatever that thing is, if it's not the supreme good, then it is therefore by definition Idolatry, right? We're putting another God before him. It's by definition idolatry. So, if the object of our greatest love is not the Lord Himself, then we are idolaters. John Piper writes: God must love and delight in his own beauty and perfection above all things. He must because he values what is most valuable. This is why the manifestation of God's glory is of paramount importance, taking precedence even over what may seem to us to be in our best interest The scripture says all things were created by him and for him. I think we got the buy him part down. But We don't seem to understand that all things were created for him. Piper goes on, God's ultimate goal, therefore, is to preserve and display his infinite and awesome greatness and worth. That is his glory. God has many other goals in what he does, but none of them is more ultimate than this. They are all subordinate. God's overwhelming passion is to exalt the value of his glory. To that end, he seeks to display it, to oppose those who belittle it, and to vindicate it from all contempt. It is clearly the uppermost reality in his affections. He loves his glory infinitely. This is the same thing as saying he loves himself infinitely, or he himself is uppermost in his own affections. God would be unrighteous, just as we would, if he valued anything more than what is supremely valuable. If he did not take infinite delight in the worth of his own glory, he would be unrighteous. Piper 's book Desiring God. So God exhorts us, even commands us to love Him and adore Him, because He is, above all others, worthy of love and adoration. But another question may come to mind at this point. Okay, granted that God is supremely good and thus worthy of our love, can that sort of thing be commanded? Can you command us? Can he command us to love him? Can love be commanded? We commonly use the term in reference to an automatic, uncontrolled emotion. In the view, of course, of our contemporary Western culture, love is something that we tend to fall into. A command to love sounds foreign to our ears. We view love as something that is drawn from us by the loveliness or lovableness of the object of our love. Or else as something based on that natural relationship between the two parties, such as the love of a mother for her child, or of a child for her mother. But such love, whether it's the one or the other, springs from us. It doesn't respond to command. And yet that's what we are considering here. A commandment. Which is the greatest commandment? And Jesus was asked. Of all the commandments God has given us, which one is foremost? Which one is primary? Which one takes precedence? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind and strength The Greek verb used to convey what Jesus said is agapa. It's used in the New Testament to describe God's attitude toward his son, his love for his son, agape love. It's used in reference to God's love for mankind in general, and it's used in particular in reference to God's love for his elect, for his sheep, for his bride, for his church. And it's used to convey to us how we are to feel and act toward one another. Adapa'o love, then, according to Greek scholar W. E. Vine, is not an impulse from the feelings It doesn't always run with the natural inclinations, nor does it spend itself only upon those for whom some affinity is discovered. Love seeks the welfare of all, it works no ill to any As used of God, it expresses the deep and constant love and interest of a perfect being towards entirely unworthy objects, producing and fostering a reverential love in them towards the giver. and a desire to help others to seek the giver. Now, the other New Testament verb translated love is Phileo And it's distinguished from Agapao in the in this that Phileo more nearly represents tender affection. It's never used as a command to men to love God. It's never uh that Phileo love is never commanded of us to uh ascribe to God. As as a feeling from our heart to him. So a convenient then pastoral response to the question: how can God command us to love him? would be this. Well, the kind of love God is asking for is not uh a feeling, it is a doing It's putting the other person first. It's sacrificing oneself for another. It's loving service that springs from a commitment to somebody. Which is why the Lord can command husbands, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. Ephesians 5. 25 But I think you see that if we distill agape love down to just actions Apart from all emotion, if we make it all mind and no heart, then we might as well just drop the facade and declare ourselves to be Pharisees. Because that's what we'd be. If agape love is only doing without any regard to feeling, then what did the Apostle Paul mean when he said, Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor? And though I give my body to be burned, but have not agape, right, have not love, it profits me nothing. As we noted before, a husband who surprises his wife with uh uh a card on their anniversary, and inside the card it says we're gonna take a uh uh uh cruise to the Bahamas Uh if you know, she jumps up and hugs him and uh thanks him and then he says, Well think nothing of it. I'm just doing my duty. Uh It's what I'm obligated to do, nothing more, nothing less. What? Better hope that deposit is refundable. Because the forecast calls for rough seas ahead. Maybe maybe even an iceberg. So we're all called to love the Lord. Remember this, not just with our mind, but with all our heart. Soul , strength. It certainly sounds like feelings and emotions are involved. Such love is, of course, ultimately A supernatural gift. Ultimately, that kind of love for God is a supernatural gift. It's bestowed on us by grace. The selfish, depraved sinners do not naturally love God. What do we love? We love pleasure, we love comfort, we love our sins, we love our lusts, we love the world, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. For us to truly love God, we have to be changed on the inside. The love of God must be shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost. That's how Paul put it in Romans 5:5. The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. So it could be said, God is exhorting us, calling us, commanding us. To aspire to something that can't be done apart from his sovereign work in our hearts. Right Moses told the people, The Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. Deuteronomy 30. The Lord will do that. First Corinthians eight, if anyone loves God, this man is known by him The evidence that this man is known by God is the fact that he loves God. He wouldn't be able to love God if God didn't know him. Paul prayed that the Lord would direct the hearts of believers into the love of God and into the steadfastness of Christ. Direct the hearts of believers into the love of God. 2 Thessalonians 3:5. He said to Timothy, God did not give us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and of love. Where did that spirit of love come from? God gave it to us. God gave us the spirit of love. 2 Timothy 1:7. And Jesus said to the Jews in when he spoke to them, it's recorded for us in John 8. He said, if God were your father, you would love me. John 8 42. If God were your father, you would love me. Hey, we're the children of Abraham. We're God's children. No, if God were your father, you would love me. Jesus said. He said to unbelievers, I know you that you do not have the love of God in you. John 5 42. So those who truly love God have been regenerated by God's Spirit. Enabling them to do so. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And unless we're born again, we can't love God. They've been born from above. They are new creations. But as you know, although every person born of God's Spirit and given a new nature by God loves God to some degree, right? Whom having not seen you love. That love may be deeper in some Christians than in others. Hence the exhortations. For example, Jesus indicated that those who are conscious of having been delivered from many sins tend to love the Lord more. than those who are not conscious of having been delivered from many or many grievous sins. Luke 7 And then some have trouble relating to their heavenly father because they didn't have a healthy relationship with their earthly father, right? And note that our love for God, even the love that believers have for God Even if it's a healthy love, we are truly thankful. Our love for God may ebb and flow over the course of our lives. And sometimes it wanes, you know, like when the tide recedes Jesus said to the church in Ephesus, I have this against you, that you have left your first love. That doesn't mean necessarily that they've forsaken Jesus, gone after some other God, but That first zeal you had, that first joy you had, the the uh fervency in your in your zeal and and and your love for Christ, that's that's waned. You've left your first love. You don't have it You've lost that first love that you once had. That's what I think he meant there. Their zeal, their devotion as new believers, as a young church. It's It's waned. Their early seasons of prayer, their first halting steps of service, their pouring over scripture, the fire of their witness to uh the non-believers, etc. Now sometimes our love wanes because we think God has failed us, right? We swallow that teaching that if we have sufficient faith in a loving God, he'll not permit severe trouble or heartache to befall us. So when it comes We're devastated. We think God's uh violated the contract. We must be continually reminded that God did not promise that we would not have trouble and heart again. God God did not promise no trouble, no heartache. He said, In the world you shall have tribulation. Just on the contrary. But he did say, there shall no evil happen to the just. Proverbs 12, 21. No grave trouble could be translated, will overtake the righteous. Wait a minute. Paul was shipwrecked, robbed, beaten, stoned, left for dead. Joseph was sold into slavery by his brothers, falsely accused by his master's wife. John the Baptist was beheaded by Herod, the disciple James, slain by one of Herod's descendants. And in our generation , As many here can still recall, a 17-year-old girl paralyzed from the shoulders down in a diving accident And yet we read, There shall no evil happen to the just. How do we reconcile these things when these things happen to believers? Well, Paul said the things which happened to me have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel. Joseph became prime minister of Egypt , was instrumental in saving the people of Israel. Saving his own father's house. John the Baptist, James were suddenly ushered into the very presence of God And the glories of heaven. And of course, Johnny Erickson Tata watched God turn her tragic accident into an opportunity to develop a worldwide ministry to those with disabilities. There shall no evil happen to the just. What we may think of as evil is not necessarily evil in the eyes of a loving father. It isn't evil in the eyes of a loving father. You see, God looks at the world through a wide-angle lens, you might say, that sees the big picture. And we look at the world through a narrow lens of our own painful experiences. So I wonder has something soured your love relationship with God? The loss of a loved one? Loss of your health? Breakup of a marriage Of course you've had troubles. The question is how have you responded to those troubles? John Payton of Scotland was converted at the age of seventeen. He worked for years as a city missionary among the slum children of Glasgow. At the age of thirty-two he determined to reach the cannibals who were living in the New Hebrides in the South Pacific. He married in March of 1858 and he sailed for the New Hebrides in April. One year later, his wife Mary died of fever. Three weeks later, their infant son died also. Peyton buried them himself and wrote, But for Jesus I'd have gone mad and died beside that lonely grave. But he didn't give up, and hundreds of the indigenous tribesmen eventually put their faith in Jesus Christ. Yeah, but what about his wife who died so young? Here's what she said as she suffered with the illness that took her life. I do not regret leaving home and friends. If I had it to do over, I would do it with more pleasure. Yes With all my heart. Sometimes circumstances steal our love, but they don't have to. So, Christian, have you lost your first love? Here's a simple test. Why do you worship? Why do you worship? Out of love for God? Or out of force of habit? Why do you worship? Why do you pray? Why do you read God's Word? Do you read God's Word? Why do you serve? The Church of Ephesus had right doctrine. They were very busy. They were very active, but they had left their first love. Now what can I do if I realize I don't love God as I should? Obviously I must have some control over it, right? The sovereignty of God and the human responsibility of men, somewhere they they uh come together because God exhorts us, commands us to love it. It wouldn't be necessary to do if we had no part in it. So I I must have some control over it. There's a reason why God commands it. There are steps I can take to revive it. First of all, I can meditate upon his glorious attributes. You feel like you're you don't love God as you once did, maybe? Or you you recognize that you don't love God as you ought? Take some time to meditate upon his glorious attributes, his holiness, his justice. His goodness, his truth, his mercy, his wisdom, his grace. Meditate upon him. Be still and know that I am God. And then meditate upon his glory in creation. The incredible wisdom of his design. It's all around us. We're bombarded with it every day. The incredible intricacies of his creation. The wisdom and design of it all. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Uh Elaine Collins sent me something the other day that describes some of the things that the human body does every day while we're going about our business. Now you've heard all this before, but every day your heart pumps about two thousand gallons. of blood. 2,000 gallons. And it beats more than 100,000 times. You breathe about 17,000 times in a day. It's estimated that 50,000 thoughts, somewhere between 50,000 and 60,000 thoughts, run through your mind in a day Many of those while the pastor is trying to get you to think about something else. Scholars tell us. Researchers tell us, no And then you shed more than uh one million skin cells every day. Well I've been shedding skin cells up here. One million. And of course they're all replenished, thankfully. Or you'd have no skin. And then uh listen to this. This is a direct quote. The brain and mouth work together to allow us to speak an average of around five thousand words a day. Well that's if you're a woman. Because studies suggest that men only speak two thousand words Yet yet I'm quoting Elaine Cullen. Yet Both sexes utter 500 to 700 words of real value. That is, words that get a job done or provide useful information. You know, like I can't find a remote or uh somebody's diaper needs changing. You know, the men just get right to the point Don't blame me. I'm just trying to provide some useful information here. I've only got five hundred words left today, so let me hurry. Now So how can we try to increase our or revive our love for the Lord? Meditate on his glory and creation. Have you do you know what do you know about the cuttlefish? Have you people been told about the cuttlefish? Or is this a secret? You go home and look it up, cuttlefish. If I had a cuttlefish here today and I dropped it on the carpet In about three seconds it would turn the color of that carpet. And you would you you you'd lose it. If I put it on the on the uh what is this put it uh on the communion table, it would turn red, just like this Uh if I put it on the Bible here, it would somehow try to uh make form little uh i whatever, uh it would start to look like the Bible. It's just an it's an incredible thing. It's it's amazing. If if that's all we have is one cuttlefish, we have the evidence of an intelligent, uh incredibly uh uh resourceful uh designer. Think about the Lord's blessing to you personally. You want to revive your love? Think about his blessings to you personally, your home, your family, your friends, your church, your country. You're not in a war-torn land. You're not a refugee. You have shelter. You have warmth. Think about his great love for you manifested at Calvary, most of all. How deep the Father's love for us, how vast beyond all measure, that he should give his only son to make a wretch his treasure. Now, if you're disappointed at times as I am by what you perceive as a lukewarmness in your personal love for God, here's a word of encouragement. If you are his child, that will not always be the case. John Piper summarizes it this way. He said, the main reward of the kingdom The reward above all others and in all others is that in the kingdom we will behold the glory of God and enjoy that glory with the very pleasure of God. One of the great frustrations of this life is that even when we're granted a glimpse of the glory of God, our capacities for pleasure are so small that we groan at the incongruity between the revelation of heaven and the response of our heart. Therefore, the great hope of all the holiest people is not only that they might see the glory of God, but that they might somehow be given a new strength to savor it with infinite satisfaction. Not the partial delights of this world, but if possible with the very infinite delight of God Himself. And we'll be like Him, right, when we see Him as He is Finally, if you look at your heart and you don't detect any love for God there, but rather an ambivalence or a distaste, or as Luther experienced before his conversion, an outright hatred. of God, then you need to take a long drink of the sweet nectar of God's mercy and God's grace. And you need to spend time Drinking that nectar from his word. You need to see the love of Christ manifested on the cross. God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believes in him is not condemned. And God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Need to drink deeply. of that sweet nectar of God's love for you. And then your heart will respond with love for Him. Let's pray. Lord, uh there is much here, much more we could consider about this commandment. What does it really mean to love you with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength? Who has done that? Who can do that? What examples do we have in Scripture of those who do that? But Lord, we've touched on these things today. We do pray that You would help us, Lord. Those of us who feel like we don't love you with the same zeal and love we once had, we pray that you will increase that love. And uh Lord, uh those of us who are attempting to love you that way, we we do pray that nonetheless it would deepen day by day, month by month, year by year. And we do pray together for those who might be here outside of Christ who don't yet know this love. Lord, that same mercy that you bestowed upon us, we pray that you will bestow upon them. Open their eyes, give them saving faith. Bring them from darkness to light. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.