Well, please rise for the reading of our sermon passage this morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Hosea chapter 3. We'll be reading verses 1 to 5. Hear now the word of the Lord. And the Lord said to me, Go again. Love a woman who is loved by another man and is and is an adulteress. Even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins. So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver, and a homer, and a lethic of barley. And I said to her, You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore, or belong to another man, so will I also be to you. For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods. Afterward, the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God and David their king, and they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days. This is the word of the Lord. Amen. Please be seated. And let's pray together. Lord, we thank you, Father, for giving us your word in written form and in the person and the work of your Son, Jesus Christ. Lord, this morning as we hear your word read and preached I pray that I may decrease and you alone may increase. In your son's name I pray. Amen. Well, good morning. After about a week and a half of vacation, it's really good to be back with you this morning. This passage is pretty interesting, and perhaps it would make a little more sense when read within the context of the rest of the book of Hosea, and certainly when read within the larger context of redemptive history of God's people. If you look at this passage closely, you'll see a basic structure here. In verse 1, God gives Hosea a command. In verses 2 and 3, Hosea obeys God's command. And in verses 4 and 5 at the end of the chapter, God explains this command. This is almost a miniature version of the events detailed in Hosea chapters 1 and 2 In those chapters, God also instructs Hosea to go marry Gomer. He does it, and then God explains his command to him. The question remains though, why exactly does God command the prophet Hosea to marry Gomer, a prostitute? And then why does God command Hosea to go back and redeem Gomer once again after she runs off? We know from history and from the scriptures that Hosea was the last prophet in Israel before the northern kingdom fell to Assyria around 722 BC. Hosea was the last cry extended by God to his people before their coming judgment God sent Hosea to go back and redeem Gomer as a picture of what he would do in the future for his people. In Hosea chapter 1, verse 2, God first commands his prophet to go out and marry Gomer. And in that verse, Hosea 1. 2, it says, When the Lord first spoke through Hosea , The Lord said to Hosea, Go, take to yourself a wife of whoredom, and have children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord. I know that's not the typical thing you hear preached on a Sunday morning, but here we see God drawing the comparison between his people, Israel, and a whore or a prostitute. In the autumn of Israel and Judah, what were God's people doing in the decades and centuries before their fall? They were whoring themselves after all manner of abominations. Foreign gods, idol worship, child sacrifice Yet even in this state of rebellion and sin, God promised to redeem his people and gather them back to himself. And that is what God is having Hosea picture here in this chapter, in this book. And this brings us to the main point for today's sermon. God first redeems his people, and then he sanctifies or perfects his people. So let's get into the first point here. God redeems his people, and you see this in verses 1 and 2 of the passage. The passage opens with an instruction. And the Lord said to me, Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins. Dr. Richard Phillips calls this chapter a drama that powerfully depicts what Jesus would come to do So by this point in the book, in Hosea, the prophet Hosea has already married the prostitute Gomer and has had several children by her. Throughout Hosea chapter 2, God describes the unfaithfulness both of Gomer and of Israel as a whole, drawing a comparison between the two. God speaks of how Gomer pursued other lovers, how she played the whore, how she pursued worldly things like fine food, fine wine, and fine clothing. Now we do not know how long Gomer was pursuing these things, and we do not know if she was separated from Hosea during this time or if they were still living together. We just don't know that. But what we do know is that Gomer was off pursuing all manner of worldly things. And this is where we find ourselves at the beginning of chapter 3 here. God instructing Hosea to go back to Gomer and to love her. Think of the patient and forgiving love which Hosea shows for his wife Gomer here. Hosea had sworn a vow to be faithful to his wife, even if she was unfaithful to him, which of course she was Verse 1 calls Gomer an adulteress. And the Hebrew word, if you look in the Hebrew text here, it uses the PL verb stem, which implies that the adultery was ongoing and still continual, and not just in the past. Gomer was actively involved in adultery at this time. Now think about this. Israel, throughout all of its history, had constantly turned to idolatry, just like Gomer. But despite this, what does God do over and over and over again throughout the scriptures? He remains faithful to his covenant people God certainly levies judgment upon them for their unfaithfulness, but he never leaves them or forsakes them. So God tells Hosea here to go love this woman in adultery, and it says, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins. This is a little bit of a strange phrase here. This is not saying you cannot eat cake or raisins or a combination of the two. It's not saying that. But you can, you know, you can certainly eat foods like that. But there is a poetic sort of significance to this phrase when she talks about, or God talks rather, about the cakes of raisins. For Gomer, if you look at Hosea chapter 2, verses 5 and 12, you see that she pursued lovers who gave her things like fine food. Now like I said a minute ago, food like these cakes of raisins, they're not sinful in and of themselves. We actually see in 2 Samuel 6. 19 that David, King David, handed out cakes of raisins to the whole nation of Israel. to celebrate the return of the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem. But most biblical scholars believe that foods like these raisin cakes were commonly used in pagan worship. And in particular, pagan worship of the Baals, which is something that Israel loved to pursue at this time in their history. These raisin cakes were commonly offered to Baal, this pagan god, and then eaten by the people as a sort of fertility blessing. Now, when you think about that context, this makes sense when it's taken with the rest of the ending of verse 1 in chapter 3. They pursued other gods and loved cakes of raisins. Meaning that they pursued other gods and the pagan sacrifices and beliefs and practices associated with them. They loved it. They didn't just tolerate it or allow it to happen, they loved it. Now what exactly does this mean? Remember here that God is the one speaking to Hosea here in this verse. God is making the point that his people of Israel and Judah were so consumed with worldly things that they were going after cakes of raisins rather than the living God. Think of how ridiculous that sounds. Does that not sound absurd? You have salvation held out to you, offered to you by God the Father, and you say, no, I would rather have cake. God 's own people were whoring themselves out to pagan gods for cake. Christian, what are you whoring yourself after this morning? What are you pursuing while you forsake the salvation and sanctification held out by Christ? Is it career success? Is it the money you make working overtime? Is it sex? Is it reputation? Is it desiring a nicer house than your friends or family? What is it? What are you whoring yourself after today? By asking these questions, I hope to provoke your conscience and make you a little uncomfortable. That's the whole point. Take this time to make an honest assessment of your life and pray that God reveals these blind spots to you. That's the whole part of sanctification. Now, what does Hosea say in verse 2? He says, So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver, and a homer and a lethock of barley. So Hosea goes out, he receives God's command in verse 1, he goes back, he finds Gomer, he pursues Gomer from whatever situation she had found herself in. And he purchases her. He per purchases her purchases her from the slave auction block. Now, some scholars think that Gomer had gotten herself into a situation where she had become a slave to pay off some debts, or perhaps she was under the control of this illicit lover that's mentioned in Hosea 1 and 2 Or maybe Hosea had kicked her out, had sent her out of his household after her unfaithfulness, and she had turned to slavery or prostitution in order in order to survive. We don't know the exact circumstances that brings her here, but the fact that remains is that Gomer was in need of redemption. Just like all of you were in need of redemption at some point. All of you were enslaved by sin and were in need of a savior to purchase you and redeem you. Now, we also don't do not know exactly how much a Homer and a Lethic were when it talks about the uh the barley here, but scholars believe that a Homer was about six bushels. or about 200 liters of barley and a lethic was about half a homer. Hopefully you're tracking there. You can do the math. So in total, this would be about 300 liters of barley. That's a pretty decent amount of barley. I mean we don't normally buy that much grain at the grocery store every week. And interestingly enough, the value of that 300 liters of barley would have come to approximately 30 shekels of silver. Which if you read Exodus 21 was the price that God prescribed to be paid for the life of a slave. So this was not an exorbitant amount of money. In fact, it was a rather le uh meager amount, just the price of a slave in that culture. But the fact remains that Hosea did pay a price to redeem Gomer. Hosea paid for his wife with silver and barley. But the Lord Jesus Christ paid for you with his life and his blood. That was an exorbitant amount to pay for your life. And he paid it to redeem you. In Luke 5, 31 to 32, Jesus says, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Brothers and sisters, the Lord Jesus came to redeem you. You have been bought with an exceedingly great price. God has called you by name, and you belong to Him. If you're here today and you're not a believer, and you think that anything else deep down will save you. I would like to relieve you of that incorrect burden that you've placed upon yourself, because nothing will save you apart from the life and the blood of Jesus Christ. Trivial things like these cakes of raisins, career success, money, sex, any of it, none of it will save you. The only thing that will save you is Christ's death upon the cross and placing your belief and trust in Him by faith. Now, what do you do with all this? After hearing of what Hosea did for Gomer, what God did for Israel, what God did for you, what do you do this, or what do you do with this in your life? If Christ has redeemed you at a great price, what do you owe to him? I'm about to make a nerdy Lord of the Rings reference, so hopefully you guys get it. Um, you may remember in the Fellowship of the Ring movie uh when the people in the party of the Fellowship of the Ring were gathered at Elrond's house in Rivendell for a council? And one of the characters, Legolus, stands up and tells another character, Boromir, that one of the men present is the true king of Gondor. He says, This is Aragorn, son of Erathorn. You owe him your allegiance. Well, brothers and sisters, your Messiah, your Savior and your King stands before you. You owe him your allegiance. You owe him your obedience. And this is the first point of application here. If Christ has purchased you with his own blood, then you ought to be thankful for this precious gift. If Christ has purchased you with his own blood, then you ought to tell others about this. If Christ has purchased you with his own blood, then you ought to serve the church. If Christ has purchased you with his own blood, then you ought to train up your children to know this. Brothers and sisters, you owe Jesus Christ the King. your allegiance for this great price which he has paid to redeem you and purchase you. Once you were like Gomer, alone and naked on the auction block at the slave market. Tired from chasing and whoring yourself after things of this world. But when the auctioneer stood up and called out for offers, Christ Himself stepped forward and bid the price of his own life. Christ stepped forward and cried the words of Isaiah 43, Fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you, for I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. That brings us hope, does it not? The second point of application here is to take hope in affliction. Do you remember what Jesus says in the Great Commission at the end of Matthew 28? He says, go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And what does he say next? And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Christian, Christ is with you. If God has called you by name and has redeemed you, if he has purchased you at great price, if the Holy Spirit dwells within you, then you have nothing to fear in this world. Maybe you're going through hardship in your marriage right now. Maybe you're experiencing health issues. Maybe you're having difficulty parenting your children. Maybe you're going through discouragement in your career. Remember that Christ has redeemed you and you belong to Him. If there is nothing else that you can remember in the pit of despair, let it be that. Your God has made eternal, unbreakable covenants with his church. Covenants that he cannot break. If there is nothing else you can remember in that pit of despair, let it be that. Your king is faithful to the end of the earth, and he has promised to neither leave you nor forsake you. If there's anything that you remember in that pit of despair, let it be that. Let's take a look now at the second point this morning. God sanctifies his people. And you see this in verses 3 to 5 of our passage. So verses 3 to 5 go on to say, And I said to her, You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore, or belong to another man. So will I also be to you. For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods. Afterward, the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God and David their king, and they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days. Now this may seem a bit harsh for Jose to say to Gomer in this situation, particularly after just purchasing her, to turn around and then immediately tell her that. I think most of us kind of recoil at hearing something like that. But you could call these verses the terms of reconciliation between Gomer and Hosea. Hosea is informing Gomer that he did not redeem her just so she could turn around and go back to that life of whoring once again. Instead, he redeemed her so she could be restored and their marriage could be restored. To do that, Hosea lays out these terms or requirements for Gomer. She must dwell with Hosea many days, so she's required to live with him again. And she must not play the whore or be sexually active with another man, so she must be chaste. Now there are a few interpretations of this part by scholars. For instance, some believe that the two immediately remarried and immediately resumed their sexual relationship with each other. Some believe that the two remarried and never resumed their sexual relationship again. And still others believe that the two remarried and Hosea put Gomer on a sort of probation before they could resume that sexual relationship with one another. So I would think it's fairly obvious that most people would not immediately resume sexual relationships after coming back together with their spouse after infidelity here. So I think that common sense would rule out the first option. I also think that common sense would rule out the second option of the two never resuming their sexual relationship. If a husband and wife are to live together and be married, then sex is part of the package. That's the way it goes. The Apostle Paul instructs husbands and wives in 1 Corinthians 7. 5 to not deprive one another sexually except for the purpose of prayer. So this leaves the third interpretation of this verse, the idea that Hosea is establishing a time of probation for Gomer before they resume their sexual relationship in their marriage. Additionally, this fits with God's explanation of his command here and his actions, which we see in verses four and five, where Israel goes through a t a period of chastening or purification before they are fully restored as God's people Here in verse 3, Hosea is telling Gomer that she must go through a period of time where she is chastened or purified or cleansed before they will be truly reunited in marriage. Likewise, God says in verses 4 and 5, I mentioned a second ago, that Israel must also go through a similar period. He says that the people of Israel will experience a time with no royal house, no sacrifice, no ephod, and no household gods. Now, some of these things are good things listed by God, and some are bad things. But Israel must forego all of them. At least for a time. For instance, the royal line was of Israel was blessed by God in 2 Samuel 7 and 1 Chronicles 17. So this is a good thing which Israel must forego. This is an act of punishment for their sin and unfaithfulness. But the second thing mentioned is Israel must also forego the sacrifice in the pillar. Now remember how often Israel had chased after and hoard themselves after these pagan gods? Well, when they would do that, they would often erect stone pillars. in their cities, you know, on the mountaintops around Israel. So they would do this to worship these fake deities. So these the sacrifice here could be in reference to the pagan gods. Or it could mean proper worship in the temple. Either way, Israel had to forego proper worship in the temple during their time of captivity in Babylon But God was also requiring them to give up pagan idol worship. Lastly, Israel must forego ephod and household gods. Now the ephod here is referring to the garment worn by the priest. The Israelite priest in the temple and the household gods would have been pagan idols kept by families in their households. So once again, the ephod here is obviously a good thing. It's representing God telling them they must abstain or forego proper worship as punishment. But then the other part is the bad thing. The household gods are the bad thing. So once again, God is saying that Israel must forego this pagan idol worship for a time as well. Well, for all time, actually. This is just like what Hosea told Gomer. Abstain from chasing after other men. That's the bad thing, right? but also abstained from good sexual relations with her husband, the good part. All of this served as a chastening of both Israel and Gomer. God did this to extinguish the affections of their hearts for worldly things and to stoke the affections of their hearts for the good things of God After this time of chastening, would Goma return to her whoring? Or would she return to a faithful marriage with her husband? Would Israel return from exile in Babylon to continue their pagan worship? Or would they return to reconstruct Jerusalem, reconstruct the temple, and resume the proper worship of God? The goal of this time is to purify or sanctify God's covenant people. And this is the same goal that God had For Hosea and Gomer here. He intends to purify and sanctify Gomer during this time of abstention. If you look at verse 5, you will see the end goal of this period of time. Israel is to return and seek after God, seek after David their king, and they will fear the Lord and reap the fruit of his goodness. as a result. This idea of Israel seeking after God may remind you of God's covenant promises to Israel. For instance, in Genesis 17, 7, God says, And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. to be God to you and to your offspring after you. Or Exodus 36, 28, which says, You must dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. This theme of God choosing, redeeming, and sanctifying a people for himself is woven throughout all of Scripture. This is an eternal hallmark of the Christian faith. And it is what God is promising to return his people into, a state of being his people. If you go back and read Hosea chapter 1, you'll see God first instructing Hosea to marry Gomer and have children with her. Do you remember what God says to name those children? So he says, he tells Hosea to name his second child no mercy, because he'll have no mercy on Israel for their sin. And he tells Hosea to name his third child, not my people. Because he would no longer be their God, and they would no longer be his people. You can read that in Isaiah 1, verses 6 to 9. But in the second half of Isaiah chapter 2, God lays out a beautiful promise to Israel that he will return her into the fold. That they will call God their husband, that he will remove the names of the Baals from their mouths, that he will renew the covenant with them, that he will abolish warfare and death. That he will betroth his people forever, and that he will show steadfast love and mercy to his people. And all of that culminates And Hosea 2, verse 23, it's the verse right before our chapter here, where God says, and I will have mercy on no mercy. And I will say to not my people, you are my people. And he shall say, you are my God. Brothers and sisters, this is what your God has promised to you. Now how does this apply to you this morning? I have one main application for you this morning from Hosea 3. Seek to direct the affections of your hearts, the desires of your hearts, from the things of this world to the things of heaven. From the trappings and enslavements of this temporary life to the freedom of salvation and eternal life Let us take a brief look at this application here. Throughout the book of Hosea, I mentioned multiple times today, you see his and Gomer's marriage as an analogy of the relationship between Christ and and the church or God and his people. What does the Apostle Paul say in Ephesians 5? This is verses 22 to 27. He says, Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. That he might what? Sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor. without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Did you catch there what Christ does for his church? He loves the church. He gives himself up for the church. He sanctifies the church. He cleanses the church with the word. Why? in order to present her faultless and spotless before the throne of judgment as his holy bride. Well brothers and sisters, that is you This is what Christ has promised to do for you, for his church. When you experience hardship, when you experience things like losing your job, Depression, anxiety, or any manner of difficulties in your life, God has ordained you to go through those trials to refine you You do not suffer pointlessly as a Christian, because your God has chosen to refine you and make you spotless before Him. Malachi 3, verses 3 and 4 says, this is talking about God, he will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver. And he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver. And they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord, as in the days of old and as in former days Just as the Smith refines gold and silver by heating it, by plunging it into cold water and scraping off the dross. So does Christ refine his people through the heat of trial, scraping off the sinful parts of their person Whatever hardship you're experiencing right now, it's not pointless. It's not in vain. It's not needless suffering. God is molding you, conforming you, lovingly sculpting you into the image of his son. Christ is washing you, sanctifying you, perfecting you, so that at the end of the day, he can present you faultless, spotless, perfect, and beautiful as his bride When you experience hardship in this world, and all of you will, all of you do, all the time, this serves two purposes. One, to strip the worldly trappings and things from your heart. And two, to force you to your knees in dependence upon Christ alone. That is why we suffer as believers. Just as a sailor often navigates storms with great difficulty. Being buffeted by the wind and the waves, suffering from the cold rain, having difficulty seeing through the fog and the storm. So also do you as the Christian experience this hardship and confusion in your life? But just as a sailor can always look to the shore, to the lighthouse for direction, so you can look to the lighthouse of Christ for direction Christian, these storms of life may throw you upon the rocks and you may despair. But when you look up, take hope. Because you'll find that you've been thrown upon Christ, the true rock. Everything you experience as a Christian is used by God to sanctify you, to purify you, to perfect you to burn out those affections and desires of your and your heart from the things of the world and to reignite those desires of your heart for the things of heaven My brothers and sisters, take hope. For your Savior loves you, and he strives to present you perfect before the throne. Now finally to wrap this up, what are some practical things which you can do to help redirect these affections of your heart from things of earth to things of heaven? It's easy. Seek after the ordinary means of grace. The preaching of the word, prayer, and the sacraments. It's simple. Do not neglect public worship on the Lord's Day, today, the Sabbath. Go to church on the Sabbath. Listen to the word read and preached. That's what we're doing this morning. Pray with the saints publicly. We did that this morning. Observe and take part in the sacrament. Won't do that today. We will in a couple weeks. And we'll have baptisms coming up soon too. So we'll take part in those relatively soon. These are very ordinary things. And they're the means by which God, by which Christ strengthens his church. That's how he sanctifies and perfects his people and grows them in strength. So I encourage you to take part in these things and be strengthened by the Holy Spirit. You are strengthened through Lord's Day morning worship, conforming you more and more to the image of Christ The Apostle Peter says in 1 Peter 1, 18 to 19, he says, You were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things such as gold or silver, but with what? The precious blood of Christ, like that of a lemon lamb without blemish or spot. Christian, remember the price that was paid for you by Christ. It was his life and his blood. Take hope and trial. Seek after the ordinary means of grace. Do not chase after things of this world. They won't bring you anything. Chase after Christ. Remember that he is sanctifying you and perfecting you, and do not squander this inheritance. by chasing after meaningless worldly things. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord Once again, we thank you for giving us your word here this morning, for using it to convict us of sin, for using it to encourage us in your commands. For using it to remind us the price that you paid for us. For using it to humble us. That we remember that we have broken your covenant and your law, and you alone have upheld it and redeemed us. Lord, give us a renewed sense of that this morning.