Thank you, Claire. Our text this morning is from Luke chapter 2. The Gospel of Luke chapter 2. Some of the best loved verses in all of Scripture. Luke, chapter 2, three of the first twenty verses. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Quirenius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger. Because there was no room for them in the inn. Now, there were in the same country, living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields. Yes, we got we gotta remember the shepherds keeping living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night, and behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them. And the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, Lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. Good will toward men. So it was, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now when they had seen him, They made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told them. Let's pray. Lord, take your word and apply it to our hearts this day. Feed your people, Lord. Feed your sheep. And Lord, I pray for those who may be here still outside of Christ. Lord, draw them by your Holy Spirit, just as you drew so many of us. Draw them to true saving faith May there be joy in the presence of the angels over a sinner who repents this day. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. This morning I'd like us to focus on just four verses in this wonderful passage, verses 17 through 20. In these verses, we see four ways of responding to the glorious truth of the birth of the Redeemer. Four ways of serving God In response to his revelation. Look at it again. Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. So that's proclaiming the gospel. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds, marveling at the gospel news. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart, pondering the truth of the gospel. And then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen as it was. told and glorifying and praising God for this wonderful gospel plan and this wonderful news that Christ has come. This sermon, by the way, was inspired by one that was preached by C. H. Spurgeon. He called it Holy Work for Christmas. And many of our thoughts this morning were at least suggested by that message preached in London in the mid-19th century. Some of you may recall that message. First So I want to cover my bases here. First, look at uh look at verse 17. Now when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. That's proclaiming the message. Think about it. Not long before these men had been minding their business, doing what they may have done a thousand times before, keeping watch over their flock by night, living out in the fields. No doubt they were on the lookout for predators that might uh come out of the dens of the earth, but they certainly weren't expecting angels that would come out of the courts of heaven. And we read that suddenly, you know, they're sitting about, probably around a fire, they're speaking together, they're keeping eyes on the sheep. And suddenly an angel appeared before them. The glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified. This was uh this was Gabriel. This was not a uh uh one of the lower angels, and he would have come in in might and power and glory, and they they were terrified. But he said to them, Not to fear. He was not on a mission of vengeance. He was no angel of death. His was a message of joy and gladness that night. I bring you good news, good tidings of great joy, which will be for all people For unto you is born today in the city of David a Savior. A Savior who is Christ the Lord. What what a message to bring. What a shock it must have been to these shepherds. First of all, it was he, this angel. And then to hear these words. He told them where to find the baby. He said he'll be the only one you will find this night wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a feeding trough. That is a crude wooden box that would normally be filled with grain or water for horses or mules or camels. Now, presumably these shepherds knew where in Bethlehem they would find animals sheltered, and that's where they went. There's no word about any unusual star guiding them that night. They didn't need it. This will be the sign unto you. You will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth lying in a feeding trough. You'll never see that. You've never seen it before. You'll never see it again. That's the sign unto you. That's the sign that they had found the Messiah. Then, as soon as the angel had told him this, suddenly the sky was full of angels, a multitude of the heavenly hosts, a multitude of the heavenly army. Crying out, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. I suspect the angels were there all along. Right? All the time Gabriel spoke, it wasn't a long time, but during the time that Gabriel spoke to the shepherds, the angels were there. We read in 1 Peter that these things the angels desire to look into. This is a curiosity for them that God would come to earth, that the Lord would send his own dear son to condescend, to come and take upon himself flesh. This was a wonder to them. What in the world? He's the one who created it all. And here he humbles himself and he's coming as a baby. The sky was full of angels. But it was only at this moment that they all became visible to the shepherds. And what a sight it must have been, and what a glorious sound it was that they heard. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will. toward men. What did the shepherds do? They went quickly. Let us see, let's go now to Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. They went quickly. And sure enough, they found the child with Mary and Joseph in Bethlehem, as the angel had said. These were basically the glorious events which led up to what we read in verse 17. And when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. What was the saying that was told them concerning this child? To you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Who is Christ, the anointed one, the Messiah, the Lord? That was the saying that was told them concerning this child. And that's what they made broadly known, widely known. The one who had been long foretold, the one who had been long foreshadowed, long desired, long expected. We just sang, didn't we come thou long expected Jesus? He had now come. The seed of the woman who would bruise the serpent's head, the ark of deliverance, the Passover lamb, the bread from heaven, the water of life This was momentous news. This was the greatest news anyone on earth had ever heard. Anyone on earth could ever hear. Prophets, priests, kings had lived and died longing to hear the news that these humble shepherds heard that night. Godly Jews had yearned to lay their eyes on the promised Messiah. But none had until that glorious night. They had seen angels. They had seen the king of angels. They had laid their eyes on God in the flesh. And what did they do? They made widely known the saying that was told them concerning this child. They made it widely known. I imagine they collared the very next man they met in Bethlehem. They're on their way back out to the hills. They collared him and said, Guess what? The Messiah has come. He was born this night. We saw him. An angel appeared to us and told us where to find him. He's come. The promised one. He whose going forth have been from of old, from everlasting. The one who will have the nations for his inheritance and the ends of the earth for his possession, Psalm 2. He whose throne is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of his kingdom, Psalm 45. The one who will sit at Jehovah's right hand until he makes his enemies his footstool The one who was a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, Psalm 110. These shepherds had a message to declare, and it was impossible for them to remain silent. Try to picture that now. The shepherds, they see Jesus, they see Joseph and Mary. They've heard from Gabriel. They've seen the angels. And now are they supposed to just go away and not tell anybody? Can you imagine that? Not telling your family, not telling your friends, not not telling the people that they met? This was incredible news. This was momentous news. They had a message to declare, and it was impossible for them to remain silent. I think it's true. For us, isn't it, when we have a true heavenly visit, when the Lord comes to us and reveals Himself to us Which he does when he brings us to true saving faith. When that happens, it's impossible for us to not tell someone, to not tell our mother, father, sisters, brothers, friends. This is what has happened to me. This is what I've experienced. This is what Christ has done. This is what I've heard and seen. Once God's Spirit opens your eyes to the ugliness of your sin , to the glory of your Savior It seems to me it's impossible for you to be silent. You want to tell everyone this news. If you have any degree of human compassion, You're going to want others to experience the same salvation. You don't want them to perish forever. You don't want them to have to pay for their sins when Christ has come. The Son of God? The Passover Lamb? You want the world to know. They made widely know what was told them, what they had seen and heard. They made widely known what they had heard. Unto you was born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And they made widely know what they had seen. They told what they had seen. That is, what they had personally witnessed. The Christian faith is based upon God's revelation, but it's propagated by witnesses. The risen Savior told his apostles, You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea, in Samaria, unto the uttermost parts of the earth. Acts 1. 8. Now we know what a witness is. A witness merely tells what he saw, what he witnessed. Could involve what he heard as well. He tells what he has personally experienced A witness says, I heard somebody yell for help. I looked out the window and I saw two men running south. And I saw another man on the ground on his knees. He was apparently trying to stand. Did you see those two men who were running away? Did you see them strike the man on his knees? No I only saw them running. A witness just tells what he has seen and experienced. We were sitting in the fields near Bethlehem. We were tending our flocks as we've done a thousand times. And an angel of the Lord stood before us. We all saw him, we all heard him. The glory of the Lord shone around us. It was bright as day. The angel told us, don't be afraid, because we were quivering in fear. He said he had come with good news. He said on this very day, the Messiah, God's anointed one, the promised deliverer, Christ the Lord, had been born. He said we'd find him wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger, a feeding trough. We ran to Bethlehem, we found the baby, with his mother Miriam, her husband Joseph. A witness just tells what he's seen. Or experience. And you can do that. My life used to be characterized by selfishness, but After I put my faith in Christ, I found myself thinking more of others. Or, you know, I no longer worry as I once did. I was always full of such anxiety, but God has taken much of that away. Or I no longer fear death. I used to have a terrible fear of death. I don't fear death now. Because of what Christ has done, because of what I've experienced. I used to have a problem with alcohol, but God took that away. He gave me victory over it. I used to have a problem with anger or pornography or lying or swearing or whatever it is. And Christ has helped me through that. And I've experienced that. Some of you may say, yeah, but I don't know all the scriptures that you have to use to tell somebody about Jesus. I suspect the shepherds didn't know all the scriptures. You don't know all the scriptures, but you know some of them. Right? You know that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You know the wages of sin is death, the Bible says. You know that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. You know that. And you certainly know what you have experienced. If you can say nothing else, you can say that. Spurgeon said, My brethren, the gospel which we preach is most surely revealed to us by the Lord. But moreover, our hearts have tried and proved, have grasped, have felt, have realized its truth and its power. He went on, I do not urge any of you to speak of Jesus who merely know the word as you find it in the Bible. Your teaching can have but little power. But I do speak earnestly to you who know its mighty influence upon the heart. Who have not only heard of the babe, but have seen him in the manger, have taken him up in your own arms and received him as being born to you, a savior to you. Christos, the anointed for you. Jesus, the Savior from sin for you. Notice something else. These shepherds were no doubt illiterate, unlearned men. Yet the angels were sent to reveal this good news to them. Of course the Lord knew they would spread abroad that which was told them and that which they had seen and heard. So what do we learn from this? Clearly it was never the Lord's intention that That the proclamation of the gospel be reserved for the educated. Amen? Amen. That's why we come here where there's no educated people. I heard that. Not only were the shepherds uneducated, they were on one of society's lowest rungs. They were generally regarded as untrustworthy. Their testimony was reportedly not accepted in courts of law. Who believes a shepherd? What do they know? They might be compared to today's Roma people, you know, gypsies, we commonly call them, or migrant workers, or day laborers, or homeless people. That's sort of where they were on the society's rung. Surely God's thoughts are not our thoughts, and his ways are not our ways. God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not. To bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. There you go. That's why. That no flesh should glory in his presence. Not because I was so wise that God condescended to open my heart and save me. Not because of my intellect, not because of my education, not because of anything in me The shepherds hadn't done anything to merit this wonderful news coming to them. Secondly, all they that heard it marveled at those things that were told them by the shepherds. Verse 18. They marveled at what they heard. And it's no wonder this is news that we ought to marvel at. But of course, it's quite possible to marvel at the gospel message and go no further. The message can and does excite curiosity and interest, right? Herod did many things and heard John gladly Roman authorities Felix and Festus and King Agrippa each seemed curious and interested in the message that Paul preached, but there's no indication that either of them them or any of them responded to that message in faith. It's a remarkable gospel that we proclaim. It's a remarkable thing. A child born of a virgin? A sinless life? A sacrificial death? A glorious resurrection? A message of forgiveness and eternal life to all who will simply repent and believe? It's a message that ought to cause people to marvel when they hear it. Just as the shepherds marveled when they heard the message from the angel, and the people marveled when they heard the message from the shepherds. But it's possible to marvel and do no more. But there's another sort of wonder that's uh more like true worship. It's more like true adoration. It's the wonder that a Christian feels as he meditates on how gracious God has been to him. How vile his sinful heart is, and how amazing it is that he's now reckoned among the children of God. Holy wonder and adoration ought to come naturally to us. Holy wonder and adoration. And when you think about it, the entire world is full of wonder. The entire world is full of wonder. Every plant, every tree, every flower. The world's full of wonder. Perhaps you heard this week uh Governor Hogan, who's been, as you know, uh treated for cancer, has lost all his hair. He said in uh somewhere in an article I read that uh one of the biggest problems he had is that when he lost his hair he lost his eyebrows. Oh well not his eyes his eyelashes. Yeah, he lost his eyebrows, but he also last lost his eyelashes. That's what I was going for. And he said that you don't think about it, but the eyelashes serve a major purpose. They keep a lot of dust and dirt and grime out of your eyes. If he didn't have them, as he ha doesn't have them now, he said he's constantly got stuffed into his eyes. That's a wonder. The eyelashes are a wonder. Well, where do they come from Well they evolved over time. Oh alright, so uh some guy had 'em on his toes, well they didn't help, so he didn't live any longer than anybody else. But then somebody got him uh you know, on his eye one on one eye, I guess that was helpful. And he lived a little longer and he passed it on. That doesn't make any sense at all Somebody with great intelligence designed that. A. B. Simpson put it this way, there are enough evidences of supreme skill in the structure of the human hand alone to prove the existence and intelligence and benevolence of God. The structure of the human hand alone. I was at a doctor's office this week. I was looking at a chart of the respiratory system. And it's incredible. You got the it comes down there, what is it, the trachea, and then these things expand out into the bronchial tubes and then it becomes like a tree. It's it's a huge, massive tree in there. And all kinds of little branches and little tiny branches coming off of the And then it ends up in these allioli things or avioli or ravioli or It's an amazing thing. Where did that come from? What an incredible design. It takes the oxygen in and sends the carbon dioxide out. What? Albert Schweitzer said, There is always something to make you wonder, in the shape of a tree, the trembling of a leaf. G. K. Chesterton said the world will never starve for want of wonders, but only for want of wonder. Theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking estimated in his book, A Brief History of Time, that if the rate of the universe's expansion one second after the Big Bang had been smaller by even one part in a hundred thousand million million the universe would have collapsed into a fireball. British physicist P. C. W. Davies has concluded that the odds against the initial conditions being suitable for the formation of stars, a necessity for planets and life. is a one followed by at least a thousand billion billion zeros. He said, the impression of design is overwhelming. The impression of design is overwhelming. Astronomer George Greenstein said, the thought insistently arises that some supernatural agency, or rather agency with a capital A, must be involved. The late British astronomer Fred Hoyle put it this way, a common sense interpretation of the fact suggests that a super intellect has monkeyed with physics. as well as chemistry and biology, and that there are no blind forces worth speaking about in nature. Some intelligence has monkeyed with all the physics and the biology And yet, as you know, there are many physicists, many astronomers, many botanists, many biologists, many physicians. Who, despite the evidence of intelligent design that they see every day in their studies or in their practice, somehow conclude there was no creator. There was no intelligence Designer. There was no plan. It was a big explosion. I think one physicist, not a believer, an atheist, said, here's the problem He said, uh, we're uh in a service such as this, and we hear outside in the parking lot a humongous explosion, and parts of cars go everywhere. It's a huge explosion. And you ask me, uh, what caused that? And I say, Oh nothing. There was no cause. I said, What? had to be a cause. No. There was a big one day, I think it was a Thursday, there was absolutely nothing in the universe. No stars, no planets, no sun, no moon. And then I think it was three o'clock that day, there was this big explosion. What caused the exposure? Nothing. Nobody. Does that make any sense at all? And out of that came everything that we see. The world is full of wonder. Wonders. But many of us don't take time to wonder at it. And Spurgeon said, there's more of God to be seen in the manger in the cross than in the sparkling stars above. The rolling deep below, the towering mountain, the teeming valleys, the abodes of life for the abyss of death. All those who heard the account of the shepherds marveled at what they heard. We can only hope that many of them not only marveled, but remembered these things 30 years later when Jesus began his public ministry. And then, verse 19, Mary kept and pondered these things in her heart. She kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. That is, she remembered them. She remembered them in her heart, in her affections. She she meditated upon them. You may not believe that you have much of a gift for speaking of Christ to others or much of an opportunity. At this stage of your life, but you can still do what Mary did. You can hold fast to the things that you've heard and experienced. You can keep them in your heart. You can ponder them. You can adore him. And such adoration arises as a sweet savor to the Lord. As sweet as the myrrh the Magi brought, as sweet as the costly perfume with which he was anointed before his crucifixion. And I'm sure I've said before, I suspect that The the woman sitting alone in her apartment or home meditating upon these things brings more glory to God than all the Christmas lights and parades. Fancy things we do. You can ponder these things in your heart. Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. May we take the time to Do the same. And then the shepherds return. Verse 20. The shepherds return. Return to what? Return to their sheep. Return to their calling. Return to their business. Now, some people get the idea that the only way they can fully live for God is to become a pastor or a missionary or some other so-called full-time worker. But the rule of thumb for new Christians is to abide in the calling in which you were called. I've mentioned before my brother Ken stumbled at this for a while. His all older brother uh Doug had come to faith in Christ, had been brought to faith in Christ, and had been called to the ministry. Uh uh Doug's uh younger brother Russell had been uh uh uh brought to faith in Christ and called to the ministry and and Ken was a student at at uh Cornell at the time, undergraduate studying pre-law, wanted to be an attorney And one of the problems we had as we witnessed to him is that he just assumed that, well, if if I come to Christ, I'm gonna have to be a minister like you people. And I don't want that. I want to be an attorney. And it was a stumbling block for him. And we, of course, had to make it clear to him, God doesn't call Everybody into the ministry obviously and and uh w we need godly attorneys, right? Maybe more than godly pastors at this point, I don't know At least we need them a lot. And uh and we need godly teachers and godly doctors and godly mechanics and godly engineers and godly government workers. Columnist William Murchison of the Dallas Morning News wrote an article about how true change comes to a nation not by political victories, but by a daily faithfulness. He quoted a UPS driver who was a Christian who told the New York Times, we can't change people through politics. Our job is to have a lifestyle of integrity. I do it with my customers on my route, with my bosses. I can't call in sick when I'm not sick, and my bosses know that. It's living godly lives and telling others of Christ in our regular callings. that brings most glory to him. As Dr. Samuel Johnson put it, how small of all that human hearts endure, that part which kings or laws can cause or cure. These shepherds didn't need to rush off to gain a theological education to glorify God. They glorified him in the calling to which they were called Now we don't know, of course, how their lives may have changed. Perhaps some of them were called to some special service subsequently. But here we read, the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen. God received glory and praise from these simple shepherds. And he can receive glory and praise from you and from me, whatever your calling is, or my calling is They praised God for what they had heard and seen. What have they heard? The glorious news that the promised Messiah had come. A Savior who was Christ the Lord. Good news of great joy. What have they seen? An angel, a multitude of angels, then the child himself with his mothers and Joseph. Can you imagine it? This is a blessing that far outweighed any difficulties they might have had being shepherds before that. The drudgery of a life of lowly uh being a lowly keeper of sheep, to be chosen, to be one of the chosen few who would actually see That which artists have since tried to capture for us for 2,000 years. How they must have lingered at that scene, drinking in every detail. I wonder if they fell to their knees in adoration, if they asked to hold the child. Here was the fulfillment of thousands of years of longing and anticipation. And they, smelly, unkempt, uneducated, disreputable, shepherds, not the priests, not the governor, not the wealthy. They were invited to be witnesses of the coming of God's messenger. Men whose testimony held no water in a courtroom were sent forth to testify of what they had seen and heard. God's uh uh Angolos has come, the messenger of his covenant, in whom he delights. Unto you is born this day the city of I wonder how many times the story would be retold by these shepherds and then retold by those who heard them. And who heard those who heard them. And I wonder if any of these shepherds lived long enough to be on hand when Jesus appeared. When John said of him, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. When the carpenter from Nazareth was healing the sick, raising the dead, declaring he had come from the Father to fulfill his law, to give his life a ransom for I wonder if they heard that his father's name was Joseph and his mother's name was Mary, and if that of course all clicked in their minds. And I wonder if any of the shepherds came to true saving faith in the Messiah. I trust they all did. It's kind of hard to imagine. That they couldn't or wouldn't after what they had experienced. Perhaps we'll be able to speak to them one day, have to hunt them down in heaven, interview them, find out what they saw, what But I have a few questions for you. You've heard the glorious gospel proclaimed today. Will you ponder it as Mary did? Will you wonder at it as those who heard the message of the shepherds? Will you act upon this message as the shepherds did? They went to see this child for themselves. You know, all the preacher is is a messenger, that's all. His role is much like that of the Angelos, the messenger who brought the good news to the shepherds , but you have to act upon the news as the shepherds did. They went to Bethlehem. They found the Lord Jesus. They saw for themselves that what they were told was true. And so I urge you to act upon this gospel message. If you're unsure of its truth, go to the Word of God. Read the eyewitness accounts of Christ's life. Be convinced in your own heart that these things are so. And then, like those shepherds, you'll glorify and praise God for all the things that you have heard and seen. As it was told unto you, you'll make widely known the marvelous truth that unto us has been born in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Let's pray. Oh Lord, it is our prayer that everyone here, every boy and girl, every young person, every man and woman. would simply rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ, would come to you empty-handed and cry out, Lord, be merciful to me a sinner. I believe that you sent me Your son to die for me, to take my place, to bear my sins. Save me for his sake. I believe, Lord. I believe. Use your word in hearts, we ask. In Christ's name. Amen.