Today's sermon passage comes from John four, verses one through twenty-six. Now when Jesus heard learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John Although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples, he left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to the town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, wearied from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with Samaria Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get the living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this well will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. The woman said, Sir I see that you are give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty and have to come and draw water. Jesus said to her, Go and call your husband and come here The woman answered, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father You worship now what you do not know, we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming and is now here when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit. And in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship Him. God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said, I know the Messiah is coming. He was called the Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am Him. This is the Word of God. Has there ever been something in your life that you really felt compelled to do, but you really didn't want to? Maybe you hemmed and hollered and put it off until it was impossible to put it off anymore, and then you did it and found out it was a blessing. Have you ever seen someone broken down on the side of the road? In today's world where everybody has a cell phone, it's easy to just drive them by thinking they don't need help. Or in today's world, wondering if they're out to get somebody, but they're there and they sit there and they're waiting for somebody. And we Sometimes we walk right on by or drive by without getting involved and without even giving it a second thought. It's just how we are in today's society. But I'm convinced that God regularly uses people that he puts in our path that need to see him through us There's an old adage, and I believe it's still true, that says, you may be the only Bible that some people ever see or read read. With that in mind, I have practiced, failed, and practiced again, more and more. To try to look for these divine appointments where God has put someone in my path. I also believe that God calls us the steps outside of our comfort zone and present him in action and in word to this fallen world. I used to work at the University of Maryland Medical System downtown, lived in Randallstown. I would ride my bike down to the roof station, hop on the train on the metro, go downtown, walk as fast as I could to the hospital, do my day's work, hike it back as fast as I could to the station and go home. And I would say to you, almost every day, someone would try to stop me and ask for money. And most of the time, I would just keep walking. And I may have missed some blessings because one day I was walking and there was this guy who uh was looked like he probably hadn't seen a shower or a bath in weeks or months was bleeding and was laying on the side of the wall asking for help and the people walked on by. I walked by and felt compelled To turn around and ask if I could help. It was one of the hardest things I have ever done. I managed to get up the courage and the strength. to help him to the emergency room and insist that he be seen. In the process of doing that, he asked me why me, a stranger, when everybody else walked by, would stop and help. And I talked about Jesus. In the end, I do not know what happened to that man. They took him back for treatment, and I left and went home. But I stopped and did what I felt compelled to do, and I felt blessed because I got to speak to someone about who Jesus is and what he can do in our lives. So this story actually brings me to what I call the big idea of this message, that God places people in our path that we might teach him about teach them about him and possibly talk about his son. But in order for us to recognize a divine appointment, we must be looking for them Them because we can put the blinders on and walk straight by. Verses 1 to 3 tell us that Jesus decided to leave Judea and head up to Galilee. because of a building conflict that he was baptizing more people than John was baptizing. It's kind of ironic that this would be a problem because a couple chapters or one chapter early actually, John tells us he didn't care, that he actually thought that's what should happen. But here are the leaders making a fuss because now Jesus seems to be increasing and John seems to be decreasing just as he had predicted. But here we are, and Jesus says he had to go through Samaria. Why? The estimated route for Jesus going through Samaria is a journey of about 70 miles and would take about two and a half days. But most Jews in that time would have taken the longer route around Judea, around Samaria. uh which is about twice as long and about twice as much time, but they would have done that because they considered any contact with a Samaritan to be a defiling thing in their life. And so they would have gone around just to avoid the possible contact of a person. The route through some through through Samaria was hot and dry. The route around was also hot and dry, but it was twice as long. So again, I'm going to ask, why did Jesus have to go to Samaria? So the Greek word here for had to, just to put it in context, is something that is binding, it is necessary, it is proper, and it is inevitable. Had to? Jesus? Really? Okay. So the best way to understand this is that it's probably an expression of necessity. There's a commentator that I like, Merrill Tinney, and he wrote, While the term speaks of general necessity rather than of personal obligation, in this instance it must refer to some compulsion other than mere convenience. As the Savior of all men, Jesus had to confront the soldier smoldering suspicion of enmity between the Jews and the Samaritans by ministering to his enemies. So the first step in a divine appointment is a willingness to go where we need to be, even if it's outside of our comfort zone. Going through Samaria meant that Jesus had to set aside cultural and racial prejudices that we would have and go where a Jew would not normally travel. In our human nature, we often struggle with such decisions, and we need to submit to God just as Jesus did. We don't see that Jesus really struggles with those things, but his human nature is still there. He is still a Jew. But he does show us in this passage that he's us that he is very much human. He has just traveled two and a half days in the hot sun and he hits this well at the sixth hour, which is noon. So um the average temperature, depending on what time of the year at the well of Jacob, had to look this up, is somewhere between 80 and 103 degrees. He needed to get out of the heat. He stops and he sits down as well because he's weary from the journal. I didn't make that up. John tells us that Jesus was weary from walking in that heat. I love being outside, and I can tell you in the summer it's a lot harder for me to be outside because I walk a lot shorter distance and feel the same tiredness that I would feel on a longer trip in the winter. time when it's nice and cool. So Jesus is out there in the sun just like we would be and feeling it just like we would feel it. But this is not just any well, this is Jacob's well, and it has a long history with the people of Israel and the people of Samaria. And at Jesus' time, it was probably about 280 feet deep, and it never ran dry. Today from people looking at it and throwing trinkets and rocks and things in, it's it's not even it's only about uh thirty feet or so now and sometimes it dries up in the summer. But then it didn't. So it was a well of water that was deep enough that people could rely on it all the time to have water in it. It was also an important stop for anyone going through Samaria because of a guarantee that they could refill whatever water they were carrying with. them. So Jesus begins his divine appointment by sitting in that place at a different at a at a different time of the day than when it would be crowded. If you read through the Bible and you read about wells, you'll see people going in the morning and getting water, and you'll see people going in the evening and getting water. But in the heat of the day, the wells were usually capped. This one was not by but most wells were usually capped to preserve the water. So even though this one was open, people still didn't normally come during the middle of the day because it was too hot. But here we have Jesus sitting there. He waits. He's tired. He's thirsty. And he's waiting for someone out of the ordinary that would come to this moment. Well. God's divine appointments begin with our humanity and our willingness to share that humanity and then share that we care about other people. And so we need to sh not hide from who we are, but we also need to show that we have a love for other people as God has a love for us. Jesus is sitting by this well. Kind of think of it like an oasis. There would be trees around it. There's some shade. It's a little out of the heat. The water is kind of cool because it's very deep. And so he's sitting there, and it's noon when no one usually comes, and yet he waits, and a woman comes, and she comes alone to this well to get water. She's alone coming at a time when no one else should be there. Again, another why. And we'll get back to why in a few minutes But she's all by herself, and she's coming to a well where a man is sitting all by himself, at a time when neither of them should be there. So we're told that the reason Jesus is alone is because his his disciples had gone into the city to buy um buy food. From the well to the city of Shechem was about another half hour, so they're going to be gone for a And the woman comes and Jesus looks at her and says, Give me We don't kind of understand this fully in today's culture. I mean we still talk about gender wars and things like that, but we don't really understand what it was like then. We have a guy sitting here by himself and a woman by herself and he speaks to her. There's a whole bunch of things wrong with this. First is she's a Samaritan. By merely saying hello to her or asking for this water, he is breaking down the cultural barrier even further. She is his enemy. But she's also a woman. And a single man and a single woman would not speak to each other. without a crowd around them. They just would not do that. And so he's breaking down a gender barrier here as well. So he looks at her, he asks for water, he's breaking down these barriers, and he, any other Jew, would not speak unless it was there was no way to avoid it. And he just does it. And her reply shows that she's shocked by it because she says to him How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, notice, a woman of Samaria? She covers both the gender and the culture. of why he should not be speaking to her. And culturally, as I already said, he shouldn't have done this. And all too often I think we let our culture get in our way and we just don't do it. But she speaks to him about the history of the well. And she, you know, our fathers gave us this well, Jacob was here, his sons were here, and so on and so forth, and this water is deep and never runs out of water. And Jesus subtly says to her, but if you knew who asked it, you would ask him for water, and he would give you living water, and you would never thirst again. So she hears this and as he says that if you it And that's what she's essentially saying. I don't want to be here, it's hot. I can't really come when other people come and I have to come here and I don't want to do it. Give me this water so I don't have to come back here and fill my jugs anymore. But Jesus as we we know because we have the story in front of us is not talking about physical water. She's come, I said that she's coming at a time when no one else comes. I've said it three times now. And in verse 16, Jesus shifts the whole conversation so that we understand why she's doing this. And I would say again in our culture, we've kind of lessened the pain of this, so we don't fully understand the impact. But we Jesus says to her, bring your husband. And she doesn't try to lie, but she doesn't tell the whole truth. She says, I don't have a husband. And then Jesus tells her her entire life story. And we learned that she had five husbands and now she's living with someone. Again , in our broken, fallen world. Uh we've come to almost recognize that kind of a state as normal, which is not what God would recognize it as. And in this day, this was something that was unheard of, and no one would be proud to say that. So the real reason she's coming at noon is because she doesn't want to be ostracized from the people who are doing it the way the world and the way God says it should be Done. So she comes when she knows no one else is there out of shame so that she can collect water and go back before anybody sees her. But Jesus is not going to let her off the hook just for that. I love reading through the gospels and I love reading how Jesus presents himself to people And I love teaching about outreach and evangelism. And I have five books that claim to do it the way Jesus did it. And most of them start off really great, but all of them try to make a fixed routine where you can check boxes. Jesus never checked boxes. Jesus never did it the same way twice, except that his pattern was one He looked at the people's hearts, which we can't do, but he asked questions about their lives, which we can do. And he talked about what was going on in their lives, and slowly but surely talked about how God could meet their needs. If they walked away, Jesus didn't go chasing them and try to make sure they understood the gospel. Jesus didn't actually present the gospel to everyone that he cared for. We think that if we don't present the gospel, we've done something wrong. But I would think that if we present it too soon, and this is my challenge. in my own life. If we present it too soon, we lose the opportunity to actually draw people to God. Because it sounds like we're more focused on what God has done in our lives than what He can do for them if we don't show them first that we care, then that He cares, and then who His Son is. But a divine appointment can give us the opportunity to do all three of those things, sometimes in one shot. But most of the time it means building a relationship. And Jesus always established a relationship with those he talked to. He did it conversationally. And if you look at verse 20, when she starts to realize that there's something more than just physical material world here, and she begins talking about God, Jesus uses the same technique. to talk about physical worship and then move it to actually worshiping God. He teaches her in a very short time that it's not about the place, it's about who. He teaches her that God cares for people, not just for Jews. We need to be very careful too, because we can be trapped in the You know, God cares about us and he does. And he loves us, he does. But he loves everyone He doesn't call everyone to be saved, but he doesn't let us off the hook for that either. So we can't change a heart. I'll say that and I will say it again later. We cannot change a heart. We cannot make somebody believe in God. But God doesn't call us to do that. He calls us to be a witness to Him. And that witness is in our action, in the things we say, and in how we communicate who he is to other people. So as we look at Jesus doing this conversation, we see that he slowly but surely has now shifted this to where she understands that the water he's talking about is not the water from a well, that the worship he's talking about is not about where it happens, but about who is being worshipped. And then she jumps into, in verse 21, after he corrects her, he says to her, You worship what you do not know. Because we worship what we do know, for salvation comes from the Jews. Now it's really easy to miss this because it's a very subtle point. But Jesus is talking about himself. So he has just now switched the conversation from worshiping God to how that worship is going to happen. and how he is going to come and make it possible for us to worship in spirit and in truth. But she tries to dodge it again. And she says, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know someday the Messiah is coming. And if anybody ever doubts that Jesus is the Messiah, Jesus is the Christ, you need to read the next line in this verse. Because he says to her, I who am speaking to you am he. This is not some disciple writing that Jesus said, This is what Jesus said to us. In his word. He has said he is the Messiah. I've heard lots of people saying that. It wasn't until Paul came along along that people started saying that. I've heard, oh well, Peter wrote that down. But Jesus says it right here very clearly in John's Gospel. So we need to understand what he means when he says that. When he means he's the Messiah, and we've sang about it, we've prayed about it, and we've talked about it today, but it means that he came to be both human in perfection. And God, because he could do as that what we cannot do for ourselves Jesus lived a perfect life. We can't do that. I still remember very early after becoming a Christian, I was reading something from James Dobson, and he made the comment in there that the average man's uh sins in his mind about once every three seconds. And I looked from the page and I looked at my new wife and I said, I'm always above average. You know, um that's not something to be proud of. It isn't. But it's the truth. I I mean over my life I I I'm not sure every three seconds is a reality, but frequently our minds go where they should not go. We may stop our actions and we may think that that's good enough. But Jesus tells us in Matthew that if your mind's going there, you've already sinned. So it's not an excuse. It's not something to be proud of, but we can't live a perfect life. And as we said in the confession, it takes a perfect man and it takes God. The two things we can't be, though many times I think we like to think we're God. We can't. We aren't. And we won't ever be. But Jesus is. And He could pay the penalty for what we could not. And He did it willingly. Um, he climbed on that cross. He could not have been coerced by a multitude of an army, but he did it out of love for us. He allowed it to happen. Out of love for us, he paid the penalty that we could not pay, even though he had never sinned. And his resurrection proves that the power of God will exist beyond the grave and that we have Not will have, we have eternal life. That's the gospel that Jesus gives to her in just a few seconds. It's not often that you get the opportunity to spell it out. So her comments is is that you know if you if you look at that after that her her whole demeanor changes and I'm gonna I didn't read that part, but I'm gonna touch on it real quick. She is so convinced by his ability to know her, to establish a conversation with her. to reach outside of his boundaries and talk to her, that she runs into the town. This is a lady who has been living in shame. Think about this. For how many years we don't know, but a long time. She has been living in shame. She runs into the town and she tells people, you've got to come see this guy. And just based on what she tells them about him, it says many of them believed. And so we don't know the impact of what will happen when we speak to people. A divine appointment is never an opportunity for us to break out of our break out our gospel hammer. Okay? God puts somebody in front of us, and I've been as guilty as anybody else, and the first thing we want to do is tell them about Jesus. Yes, absolutely. Let's let's make sure we get that out and then we can talk about what you need. By the time I get to what they need, they've already gone Maybe not physically, but they're no longer listening. Because we need to tell them that we care, just like Jesus told them. that he cared. And we need to make sure that we're not just there to drive a point home, but that we're really there to show God's love. I said we called the witness in action. And I think sometimes, well my parents used to say your actions speak louder than words. So and I think that's true that sometimes Um we look at this as an opportunity to present the gospel, walk away and put a a notch on our Bible that we we did what we're supposed to do. But I think in my own life, the opportunities I've had where I've taken the time Time to stop and listen and then act have had more impact not just on the people that God has put in front of me, but on my own life as well. At the beginning of the message, I gave you an example of how a divine appointment played out in my life. I could have given you plenty of them where I just walked by. But I want you to see that sometimes God does use our obedience to put it into action. There are many opportunities that God puts in front of us. But if we put blinders on and try to walk, we will never see them. We have to look for them. God puts them there for us to act, but he doesn't force us or coerce us. If we're not actively looking for them, we can easily miss them. Colossians 3. 17 says, whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. giving thanks to God the Father through him. With that in mind, a divine appointment might simply start by asking, hi, how are you? Now I don't mean walking down the hall saying, hi, how are you, like hello, and keep going. I have tried and I still try and I keep practicing. When I say hi, how are you, to stop, listen to what they say back, try to listen to the tone it's said back to, and then say, no, how are you? you I want to know because sometimes that is sufficient for somebody to say oh you really care let me tell you And you may not get to present the gospel because by the time they get done pouring their heart out to you, you realize they have a b immediate need right now that is bigger than you putting a notch on and Facetiously putting a notch on your Bible saying, Well, I presented the gospel. I did what I'm supposed to do. So we need to be careful about that. We really do. We need to show people we really care. So By not accepting a I'm okay and keep walking, you may have just found a divine appointment. That's just one example. There's plenty of others. The the um You know, you could practice just saying something different. If you really don't want to know, just say hello. That's hard. It really is hard because we've gotten in such the habit of the hi, how are you, and keep moving. But just practice it and do it. Regardless of the answer that you get if you say, how are you? Show love and compassion. You know, it may be. I don't want to talk. Okay? Just say, thank you. But if you ever change your mind, you know who I am, you know where I am. And that may I actually had one time where that was enough that a softer look came and said, Can we really talk But there's been other times where I've not heard back from the people ever. So it happens. It it's not we can't change hearts again. I've said that before. I'll say it again. We just have to do what God has called us to do, and that is show his love and his compassion. My challenge is this week for all of us that we should look for something to respond to that is out of our normal routine. The challenge is to look for somebody who needs help. Maybe it's somebody in the store struggling to reach something, or they drop something, or somebody who's standing there looking at the street signs and trying to Trying to figure out where they're supposed to be. It could be lots of different things. But we need to be willing when we see that to step out of our comfort zone and say, Can I help you? I m one of my life verses, and I'm gonna read it because I'm gonna read it in ESD and I learned it in and actually I'm gonna read it the way I I learned it in NASB. But it's 1 Peter 3. 15. And it says, But in your hearts set apart Christ as Lord, and always be prepared to give an answer for those who ask you about the hope that you have. have, yet do this with gentleness and respect. As we look for divine appointments, that is what we should be doing We should be looking at people with the love of God, and when they ask a question, we should answer with gentleness and respect. We're never guaranteed a specific outcome. We are only responsible to do do what Jesus tells us in Matthew 28 in the Great Commission. He says, go and make disciples. I've always been very impressed. He doesn't say go and make them believe in me because we can't do that. He did not give us something impossible. He said, Go make disciples and you make disciples by showing people that you care, by building relationships, and by letting them see God at work in you and then God in work in you. So we can only witness, and again, and finally, we can't change a heart. That person might walk away, they might be drawn one step closer to what Who God is and what what their what their beliefs are. They may close the door. They may accept Jesus into their heart. Who knows? They may also go on later to bring many other people to Jesus, like the woman at the well did. You may just find that when you respond to these divine opportunities. opportunities that God will open doors in someone's heart to the gospel. But you will also find that He may bless you more than the person that you sought to Meet. Let's pray. Father, that challenge is for all of us. We know that you are involved in this world. We know that every human being in this world is created in your image, and those images are fractured somewhere times beyond visibility, but we also know that you have called us to walk in this world in your love and show the world who you are. May we be up to the challenge. May we look for those people that you have placed in our lives that may be seeking you, that we might draw them closer to you and to your Son Jesus. Amen.