As I was thinking of what to bring you from God's Word in this Christmas season. So let's read from Isaiah 40, verses 1 through 5. Comfort, comfort, my people, says your God. Speak tenderly To Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is part of her. That she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins A voice cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, every mountain and hill be made low, the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Once upon a time, there was a boy who had done something very bad. He broke something very expensive. He was caught by his parents and punished. But his parents punished him in a very strange way. They didn't spank him, they didn't refuse him dessert. Continue to feed him, clothe him, shelter him. His punishment was no screens for a year. He wasn't allowed to have a phone, a game system, a Kindle, uh watch TV, read the internet. No screens at home, no screens at friends' houses, no screens at the library, no screens for school for a year. Maddening. Frustrating Embarrassing. Instead of reading the internet to find out what was new, he had to ride his bike down to the store and buy this floppy, flimsy thing called a newspaper. Instead of shooting his friends virtually, he had to load his Nerf guns and shoot his friends really. Instead of pretending to do research online, he had to use these dusty, heavy things called Encyclopedias to do his homework. Instead of letting Google spell check for him, he had to spell correctly himself. It was all so tiring. And by mid-year, he was fed up with stamps and letters, pens and paper, board games and sports. But he still had six months to go. And it was then Then that his parents called him in to their room, and his heart leaped within him. Perhaps his sentence would be commend commuted. Perhaps this day he could return to his beloved video games. But his father said, My son, your sin is forgiven. Your debt, though it was great, has been paid off. We just thought you'd like to know. The boy was stunned. He hadn't really done been thinking about his sin. He hadn't really been thinking about his debt. And without mentioning how his debt had been paid or his sins forgiven, his parents dismissed him from From their room. They said nothing about his half year left of punishment. And he he didn't want to ask because it seemed impolite. It seemed unpol Grateful, in light of the great kindness and grace that somehow a great debt of his had been paid off. He 'd been so focused on the frustration of his discipline that he had didn't realize How much it indeed meant to him that his debt had been paid off. His punishment had in no way been shortened, and yet somehow he felt free. He still had to deal with his consequences, yet somehow they weren't as important anymore. Slowly he began to realize that what mattered most to him was forgiveness. And once that was taken care of, he didn't despair at the temporary punishments to be endured. The people of Judah, the ancient people of God in Isaiah's day were in a similar situation. They were in the midst of a long punishment. They'd been disobeying God for a long time. They had racked up quite a list of debts. And so the Lord had sent oppressor after oppressor, trouble after trouble. And they were in the midst of it. As Isaiah is preaching. We can become discouraged in the midst of a long punishment. Whether our punishment is from parents or simply life consequences. In despair, complain, focus on our estate instead of thinking about what got us there and what we truly need to get out Israel had rejected the Lord and his word and gone after other gods. Isaiah was preaching around the 8th century BC Isaiah had lived to see Assyria, a neighboring country, topple Israel, the northern kingdom, and carry her away captive. And Isaiah was in Jerusalem itself when Assyria was banging on the Jerusalem's gate after toppling almost every other walled city in the region. And the Lord miraculously saved Israel. And what was possibly one of the least well-known miracles of the Old Testament. The armies of Assyria had encircled Jerusalem. Commander, the Rabshaka, was breathing out taunts and threats against the Lord and his people in earshot of the walls and in Hebrew. In response, Hezekiah, the king of Judah at that time, turned to the Lord, tore his clothes, led his people in prayer And the Lord utterly destroyed the Babylonian army and called the commander away. Here it is in Isaiah 37, 36. And the angel of the Lord went out and struck down a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. And when the people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. The Lord crushed those who had exalted themselves above God and his people. And he'd had mercy on those who humbled themselves before him. And Isaiah 38 and 39, right before our text this morning. Hezekiah the king, the good king, had become ill. And Israel, sorry, Isaiah had prophesied that King Hezekiah would die from this illness. And so, what did Hezekiah do? He again humbled himself and cried bitterly and prayed in faith, in spite of a personal prophecy from a proven prophet. Hezekiah humbled himself and God exalted him. The Lord sent Isaiah back to him, and the Lord gave him a whole nother 15 years to live. The Lord had mercy on him. Him who humbled himself. Then in Isaiah thirty-nine is recorded a sad end to Hezekiah's story. Envoys, ambassadors, messengers from a far-off kingdom came to offer letters and a present to Hezekiah upon his miraculous recovery. And the text doesn't tell us whether Hezekiah gave all the glory to God for this, but what the text does tell us is that Hezekiah showed the envoys What? What would he show them? If you were a king under the Lord, if you were the Lord's anointed king and pagan envoys came to you, what would you most want to show them? God 's wisdom? God's God's law, the sacrifices pleasing to God, mercy, justice? No Hezekiah showed the envoys all his treasure, all his gold, silver, spices, precious oil, all His weaponry. And after the envoys leave, Isaiah shows up to Hezekiah and asks, Where, there were some guys here. Where did those guys come from? What did they say to you to let your guard down so? And Hezekiah says, oh, they're from hundreds of miles away across a desert. You've probably never heard of it. It's called Babylon. Not like we'll ever see them again. Isaiah says, What did you show them? And Isaiah knows Hezekiah. He knows Hezekiah has shown off. It's just a matter of how How much? And so Hezekiah answers truthfully, they've seen everything in my house and in my storehouse Hezekiah was lifting himself up. He was showing off. He was exalting himself. He was boasting in his stores. And so then Isaiah brings him the word of the Lord saying, All your treasure, all that you've boasted of, is going to be carried off to Babylon, even your sons. And Hezekiah basically shrugged and comforted himself, saying, At least it won't happen while I'm alive. The Lord was going to crush the one who lifted himself up, Hezekiah. And that brings us to Hezekiah 40, where we are told, in some, and here's what I'm trying to say to you today from God's Word. God tenderly pardons the sin of those that humble themselves to his lordship, and he crushes those that exalt themselves. And we respond by repenting. And we respond by crying out. Let me say it again. God tenderly pardons the sin of those who humble themselves. And he crushes those who exalt themselves. We respond by repenting. We respond by crying out. Main point number one. God pardons our sin in Christ, so we should stop fighting him. God tells his herald, Isaiah, to speak comfort to his people. It's so sweet and gentle we can be a little surprised. Is this is this still the Old Testament that we're in? Are these is he not talking to the people who've been going after idols? And that he was soon going to destroy, and yet the Lord says, comfort. Really? God is for us. God is for us. He does want to comfort us. He wants us to find true comfort What's true comfort? Why say that word? Comfort. Where is it? What does it entail for you? A hot bath? Retirement? Bills paid? A hearty meal? A delicious libation? The right music and the right seed with the right view Sounds like comfort? Listen to the next verse where God describes where true comfort comes from. Speak Speak tenderly. In Hebrew, that that says literally, speak to the heart. The phrase is used when one is wooing another, tenderly, convincing of love and good intents. God Wants to speak tenderly. He wants to woo your heart today. He wants to woo you back to Him. If he wanted to speak tenderly to Jerusalem, you're no worse than Jerusalem. He speaks tenderly to you today. He calls out to you somewhat loudly because he's confident He's insistent, and sometimes you're a little hard of hearing. He loves you And here's what he says: he says, your military service is completed. Your sin has been paid for. You've received double for all your sin. This is such wonderful news. But how could it be for Jerusalem? How could it be for us? I just want to start with a mental picture. Think of the soldier coming home. Some of the soldier Hugh minister, in particular, to soldiers coming home. My brother is a Navy pilot, and um he was having what may might have been his very last flight, that he was driving a helicopter. And his family got dressed up and they came out on the airstrip to greet him as a part of his military service was ended. And they got to see him step off off the plane and uh the sorry the helicopter and even his fellow officers joined in the joy of his his Military service in that way being ended and they like a like a coach at the Super Bowl, they started spraying him off with the hoses in December. At least it's been warm. Jerusalem's military service was ended. But how can that be? Jerusalem would be at war again, would be besieged again and again and again. Again, how can her service be ended? We as as Christians are said to be at war. We have spiritual armor. We wage war against not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and Powers. We know that we're at war with our own flesh. We fight against sin. How then can God say through his prophet that your military service is completed? It has been completed for us all in Christ. In Christ. We must still be subject to wars on this earth. We must still engage in Spiritual warfare, but the battle has been won. Christ on the cross has defeated our greatest enemy, sin and death. He is won. It is finished. Christ says on the cross, Tetelesti. Some of you know this. D. James Kennedy says that to telescai would be stamps on documents, debts that had been paid in full. Your debt in Christ has been paid in full. That's why Jesus says that. That's why Isaiah looks forward to that. That's how he's able to say that. Our sin has been paid for on the cross. Hallelujah. There's comfort. That's where true comfort comes from, right? For even your most relaxed state. Sunbathing on a lounge. Lounge chair, lounge couch on the deck of the cruise ship, you know, tummy full. Drink in your hand, yet inside you could still be seething, roiling like the sea, if you are not at peace with God. If your sin has not been forgiven, nothing can comfort you enough that you would forget, that you would be able to utterly escape that thought that in the end you will die and you will face judgment. True comfort comes from knowing your sins are forgiven in Christ. If you do not have that assurance today, get it For those of us who are in Christ, though we toil, though we are persecuted, though we perish, we can say, I have comfort in the cross because my sins are forgiven in Christ. Hallelujah. We don't fight as if the war depends upon us. We don't fight as if the war depends upon us Us. Our fight is more like the fight of the Israelites after David had defeated Goliath. We're mopping up. Okay? He's one. And we look forward to the day when it will all be completed in heaven. Then there's this strange line in Isaiah 40, the last line of verse 2, you've received double for all your sins. Is that just? Is that even just? Would a just God give someone double punishment? If God doesn't, then why does he say that? I think Romans 6:23 clears up the confusion. It says the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. So which shall we get? Death or eternal life? We get both. We pay the consequences of our sins. We die. You know that's why people die, right? When someone asks you, why did they die? Because of sin. Sure, we'll say because of cancer or because of an accident. They died because they're sinners, and sinners deserve to die. So we die. But through Christ, we have eternal life. Christ took upon Himself all our sins so that we might have all his righteousness placed on our account. In Christ we are righteous in God's eyes. He couldn't love us any more than he does. He couldn't love us any more than he does. We couldn't be more justified than we already are. We couldn't be more right than we already are in Christ. So we received the wages of our sin. Christ received the wages, Received the wages of our sin. He took our wages that we were due on the cross. So much so that he cried out to his father, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? In Christ, we have received double for all our sins. We received death. Christ received death. And Christians are justified in Christ. Christ. So, how do we apply this comfort, this end of service, this payment for sin? We apply it to our hearts by resting in Christ. By enjoying our comfort in Christ. You should be old enough now, each of you, to know That your comfort doesn't come from those places that the world says it comes from. Money doesn't comfort. Money, power, esteem, pleasure. They all reach their limit and are found wanting. Not so with God's love, God 's tender mercy to you. Growing and getting better and more filling and more fulfilling. It never runs out, it's never changed, it's never empty. We apply this end of military service by ceasing our Fighting? Are we fighting against the Lord? How do we fight against the Lord? I don't fight against the Lord. By pretending to be self-sufficient? By pretending to be self-righteous? By lying to justify ourselves, by casting aspersions, looking down on others to justify ourselves We fight God by pretending we don't need Him every second of every day. Stop fighting Him. Enjoying our comfort in Christ comes from meditating on your full forgiveness in Christ. What peace can come when we know that? Though we die, we shall be saved. Main point number two. God brings low those that set themselves against him, so we should repent, so we should warn them. God brings low those who set themselves against him, so we should warn them. Okay, how is this a Christmas sermon? Okay, Russ told me to preach A Christmas sermon. And yet here we find ourselves deep within the Old Testament. Okay, it's Pastor Nick. It's likely to happen. We've talked plenty of the cross, but what of the cradle? What is the This text has to do with Christmas? I'll tell you. These next two verses are quoted in the beginning of each and every gospel book. Have you noticed that as you read the Gospels, some of them are missing the Christmas story? Where is it? Where did it go? They don't all have it. And yet all of them have are quoting this scripture. It shows you how important this is. We've read them this morning: Matthew 3:3, Mark 1. 3, Luke 3:4, and John 1. 23. Each gospel begins by pointing to this verse in Isaiah. They're important. And these verses set the stage for Jesus to come on the scene. These verses are used in the Gospels to explain John the Baptist's ministry. Ministry. In the Apostle John's account, John the Baptist says them himself to explain who he is and what he's doing. These verses, in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, every mountain and hill be made low. They explain who John the Baptist is and what he's doing. Still, what does this have to do with Christmas? Have you noticed. Have you noticed how even in the Christmas story, John the Baptist kind of wheedles his way in there? Have you noticed that? It's like it's supposed to be about the birth of Jesus. And yet, uh, when we read it in Luke, from Luke 1, 5 to 24, it's all about John the Baptist. And then again, in 139 to 80. In Luke 2, we only have 52 verses about Jesus first, and then we're right back to John the Baptist again. Who is this guy? And how do we hijack Christmas? According to Isaiah, John the Baptist is the one calling out in the wilderness, preparing the way of the Lord by making a straight highway in the desert for God. He's calling out. Just like in verse 2 above, cry to her that her warfare is ended. He's calling out a comforting message as well. He's in the wilderness, it says. Is he really in the wilderness? He's in the wilderness of Judea, which is a spiritual wilderness at that time. Because they departed from the Lord. Judea is a barren place spiritually. There's little life there when John comes on the scene. And there is some literal wildness to it such that John can't even Eat wild food and whatever grows in the wild and live on it. Of course, when I think of wilderness, I think of the North American wilderness, I think of lots of trees and bears. And wolves and things, but um they they had a kind of barren wilderness there in the Middle East. They and it signified the spiritual wasteland that John was preparing. As a farmer would prepare soil for plants to be, he was preparing the spiritual soil for a spiritual awakening. And even now , even in our days, the message of Jesus came to many of us in a spiritual wilderness. For some of you, hallelujah, the message of Christ is coming to you as you're in Christian homes. And Christian families and growing up in the church. Hallelujah. But for a lot of us, it came when we were in the midst of a spiritual wasteland, right? We were in the world. And it was part of And dry spiritually. And somebody came in and prepared our hearts for Jesus' message. What's Jesus' message I am salvation. What's his name? Yeshua. The Lord is salvation. But no one cares about that unless they know that they need salvation, right? Thus the first message, thus the way that we're prepared for Jesus is this message of John, which is repent. You have sinned against a holy, holy, holy God. You need salvation. You need to repent of your sins. That was John the Baptist's message, that's Isaiah's message. And that prepares our hearts for Jesus. There's so many churches today that just want to talk about Jesus' love, Jesus' salvation, but it doesn't make any sense. Except in light of our great need. But in our passage today, it doesn't say repent. It says that the valleys will be lifted up and the mountain and hill be made low. Literally? Do you read the Bible literally? Have there been significant geological changes since Isaiah's time and I somehow missed it? Sure, there have been a few volcanoes and quakes, but that's not what John is talking about. That's not what Isaiah is talking about. John, Isaiah, they're talking about a spiritual phenomenon. They're using metaphors. Spiritually, this is going to happen. Spiritually, this has happened. Am I over-spiritualizing? Am I not taking the Bible literally? I'm reading the Bible as literature, and literature uses metaphor. This is a metaphor. How do we know this is a metaphor? Well let's look at verses 29 and 31. 29 through 31. Isaiah 40. He gives power to the faint. To him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and yet And young men shall fall exhausted. But the they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall renew See, here we have an interpretation of what he's talking about, vaguely, with the mountains and hills. And all the rest of Isaiah 40 is about tearing down those who set themselves against the Lord. The rough place is plain is a metaphor. When does it happen? Well, it's a tiered fulfillment. Remember, youth have been talking to you about this. We look for heaven. how it's fulfilled at that time. We look for how it's fulfilled in Jesus' time. We look for how it's fulfilled now. In John, uh in uh in Isaiah's time, the exile would bring down the mighty in Israel. They'd be slaughtered and carried away in chains. And the poorest of the people were set up over all the land, over the whole country, and they were put over great tracts of land. In John the Baptist's time, the Pharisees, the scribes, the rulers were brought low by Jesus' teaching. He totally supplanted them as the greatest teacher in the land. And they were humbled by his words and his reproach of them. And the Jewish establishment was literally and totally brought low by in by the Romans in 70 A. D. with the destruction of the temple. in the city. And the people, those who listened to Jesus, were lifted up as they submitted to him. As they, the lowly apostles, fishermen, tax collectors, etc. they were lifted up to become heads of the church. Those who were regarded as nothing in that culture, shepherds, women, foreigners, were the first to witness the birth of Jesus. Coming of Jesus. And they were the first to witness and believe the death and resurrection of Jesus. The proud were crushed, the humble were exalted. In our day, as we humble ourselves before the Lord by submitting to his lordship, by bowing and kneeling, Our lives to Christ, Christ will exalt us. He will lift our heads here and now. He will bless us. He will take care of us. He will lift us to eternity. Eternal life from the grave. Likewise, those in our day that think they are great, that think they have no need for a savior, will fall, will be crushed. They will lose everything, either on this side of the grave or on the other. You can run on for a long time, Johnny Cash says, but God will cut you. Down. In the future, there will be a new heavens and a new earth. Something will indeed geologically take place, and a final reckoning will indeed really take place Those who bend the knee willingly will be exalted. Those who proudly stand against the Lord will be crushed. Therefore, we need to proclaim this Message. We need to cry out just as John did. We're not John. We're not pointing to Jesus from within the womb. Okay , just an aside here, kids. If you think I'm just talking to adults, adults are just the ones that need to warn people. No, I'm talking about you too. John the Baptist was doing this from inside the womb. Okay, you're already outside the womb because you can hear me Okay? You can point to Jesus. You can cry out to others. This message of John, which is the humble, will be exalted. Those who set themselves against the Lord will be brought low. From the mouths of children. Who should we do this to We should do this to our covenant children. Covenant children, if you have set yourself against the Lord, I say to you, flee the wrath to come. God is coming to judge. And if you exalt yourself thinking you don't need God and you know better than God and you're more merciful and kind and just than God, God will crush you. He'll bring you love. You are forewarned. And those that humble themselves before the Lord will be exalted by him. Let us bring that message to whoever we can, whoever the Lord brings us, whoever brings He brings into our past that we can share That message with. Main point number three. My final point. God's glory has been revealed, will be revealed. Behold it. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. What is the glory of the Lord? Glory in English means great, wonderful, important, powerful. In Hebrew, kavod means weighty Serious, honorable, distinct. So I see us Lewis wrote a book entitled The Weight of Glory. It's helpful for me to think of glory as weighty. The glory of the Lord means God's greatness is going to be shown. When will this be? Well, We have a tear in fulfillment. The glory of the Lord was seen in Isaiah's time, in Jesus' time, in our time, and will be revealed at the end of days. In Isaiah's time, everyone in the Middle Eastern region Heard of how the Jews, the people of the Lord, had been taken away captive, just as the Lord had prophesied through his prophets, in response to his people 's continuous rebellion against him. He will not be mocked God is great and holy, and when people trample on his covenant, there are consequences. And the glory of the Lord was revealed when, just as prophesied, God's servant Cyrus. A pagan, but called a Messiah, proclaimed freedom for the Jews to return home after 70 years in exile. God is shown to be great as He judges and as He has mercy. His glory has been revealed. In Jesus' time, God's glory was revealed in Jesus himself, the very incarnation of God. The incarnation, God become flesh, showed God's greatness because it takes great humility to come and inhabit the creation that Jesus Himself had formed. And to come and inhabit it as a poor Hebrew child in a manger. And see, the Muslims think God becoming flesh is beneath God. And they say that God is too glorious to become human. And this, they misunderstand two things. They misunderstand how great flesh can be It is not always imperfect and tainted by sin. It wasn't at the beginning, and it isn't in Christ, and it won't be at the end. Just because we're flesh and we're imperfect doesn't necessitate that therefore everything that is flesh is imperfect. Jesus was perfect. Jesus Was flesh. And by becoming flesh, God really revealed his holy nature as a person in ways we could never have seen if God had remained in unsurpassable light. Here's The other thing that they get wrong. They misunderstand what glory is, what holiness is. It can consists in part in humility. Glory is revealed in transcendent humility. One would never know how God would deal personally with oppression and persecution if he remained the general of the heavenly army. Clothed in majesty. One would never know how humble and kind God was unless he came and washed the disciples' feet. One man to another. Jesus is glorious, and he reveals the glory of God through his actions. He reveals the humility is glorious And flesh can be glorious. In our time, the glory of God is revealed as people are changed by the life-changing power of the gospel. It takes great power to turn A sinner into a saint, an addict into a subject, a serpent into a servant. God's greatness is revealed as we Christians point to Him with our lives Inasmuch as we Christians rearrange our whole lives around the Lord, the world sees, and their eyes are drawn upward. To see what is this great thing, this weighty block that has rearranged this person's whole life, has rebalanced their whole way of doing things. The glory of the Lord is revealed as Saints obey him. And in the final days, the glory of the Lord will be revealed as all come before his judgment throne. There will be none found to open the scroll of life to find out who has life and who doesn't until the lamb that was slain comes. And opens the scroll because he alone is worthy. God is glorified because he personally came to save His people from their sin. God will finally be glorified by sending all those that oppose him to hell. And God will finally be given the glory due to his name. Angels, seraphim, cherubim, saints from every tribe, and terrain and tongue lavish him with praise. Oh, to see the glory of the Lord revealed So God is glorious. His glory will be revealed. So what? So what do we do with that? Behold. Behold it. Gaon it. If his glory has been revealed, gaze at his glory. Meditate on the wondrous things that God has done. Go to bed at night dwelling on how wonderful and amazing And weighty God is. Rise in the morning thinking about how serious and unique, how humble and high, how just and how merciful is our God. Behold Him. See Him as He really is In conclusion, one of Annie's family holiday traditions is to listen to Handel's Messiah all day as we But especially as we open presents on Christmas morning. And amidst all the fun and frivolity, the Messiah lends some gravitas, some weightiness to the occasion. It reminds us that Christmas isn't merely about the fluff and the packaging and the throwaway comments and the wrapping paper. Life is about, Christmas is about much more Weighty matters. Christmas is about Christ. Life is about Christ. All of life points to how great and how glorious is the Lord Christ, though he became flesh and dwelt among us, and all flesh shall see it together. If you've never listened to Handel's Messiah, I strongly encourage you to do so. The music is powerful and epic, reverberating. The words are straight from scripture. And the voices that sing must be some of the most accomplished vocalists from every generation. George Friedrich Handel stopped um stopped writing operas after he wrote The Messiah, a magnificent choral work that stood that has stood the test of time. Handel was German and was born when his father And Handel's father didn't like music very much, and so George Friedrich had to sneak a clavichord, which is like an early piano, up to the top floor of his house and each night um handle would sneak out and play his clavichord ever so quietly so as not to wake up anyone. And Handel tried his hands at various other works, but he was so good at music that he uh eventually became a player and then a composer in Germany. And after a while he moved to England. England and um he lived to be seventy-four and he never married, never had any children. But through His charitable giving to struggling artists and their families, he helped preserve many marriages. And through his patronage to Foundling Hospital, he helped save many children. Three thousand attended his funeral and burial at Westminster Abbey. And with Baroque music and revival over the past half century, Handel's music continues to Flourished 256 years after his death. When I think of Handel, I think of that he personified one stanza of his Messiah, which is From Isaiah 40. Every valley shall be exalted. It would be quite a valley for me if I were never married. If I never had any children, it is a valley that some that that God calls some through. Yet Handel's valley has been exalted. He left behind a glorious legacy, a legacy of lifting up Christ in marvelous, biblical, musical ways. And what we should glean from Handel's story is not that everyone who suffers will become famous, or everyone who writes beautiful music to Christ is saved. But Handel, like us, will be lifted up as we lift up and exalt the name of Christ. As he did in the The Messiah, as we do hopefully in our lives, lifting him up as we obey him, as we love him, as we worship him. His glory is revealed to all those around us for the mouth Of the Lord has spoken it. Let's pray. Oh Father, we are so thankful to be on this side of Christmas. On this side. Thank you for revealing your glory in lives around us, and we pray that your glory Glory would be revealed in our very lives as we obey you, love you, worship you. Thank you for this morning. Thank you for the glory it is to be in your presence and to To worship you and to be with saints, whom you love, whom we love. In Jesus' name we pray on them