If you have your Bibles, let's go ahead and take them and open them to Galatians in the New Testament, Galatians chapter 5. We're going to be looking at verses 16 through 26 as we Stand together for the reading of God's holy word. Galatians chapter five, beginning in verse sixteen But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For if the dis for the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But, if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these, I warn you as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's open our time this morning in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today and we are thankful, O Lord, for your word. Lord, for without your word, we would be lost. As it were, Lord, groping in the darkness to find you, as Paul described the Gentiles before Christ. Lord, we just thank you that your word tells us exactly what it is that you require of us, but even before that, it tells us what you have done for us. That is the basis of all of that. Lord, as we unpack this passage this morning, as we relate it to our third membership vow, Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes. And Lord, as this passage is so much about the Holy Spirit and his work in our lives, Lord, we pray That you would fill us with that Spirit, and that you would produce the work and the fruit that you are looking for in each and every one of our lives this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this week we are continuing the third message in a five message series as we Trek through our membership vows that we all take when we become a member of this of a church like ours in the Presbyterian Church in America. In fact, if you're visiting with us this morning, just a few things, if you turn the page in your bulletin over to page six, you what you will find is you will find printed there for you, just for point of reference. what the membership vows are that we've been referencing. We preached uh two weeks ago through the first membership vow. Last week was the second. This week is the third. And you can see very clearly there what it says that third membership vow is in the form of a question. Do you now resolve and promise in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ So if we take a step back, you'll notice when you look at all of those membership vows, including this one that I just read, that this describes the Trinitarian work of God in salvation. Notice how the first one mentions in the sight of God as a reference to God the Father specifically in his work in redemption. As we saw our sin in light of his holiness, the second vow references Jesus Christ, the Son of God and the Savior of sinners. Again, focusing on what he did in salvation, living that perfect life that we could not live, fulfilling the law of God that we could not fulfill, going to the cross to pay the penalty which we could not pay. and rising again from the dead to offer salvation to sinners like us. Well now we come to the third vow, which focuses on the Holy Spirit and the work of the Spirit in our lives. I love how the PCA has done that because it really communicates, doesn't it, so clearly, that salvation is not just uh a gift of one or the work of one person of the Trinity. It is God in his entirety, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit that has accomplished our salvation. And we talk about the Holy Spirit. We talk about the application of that redemption to us. And so as we come to our passage that I read this morning in Galatians chapter 5, Verses 16 through 26, what we are focusing on is the work of the Spirit. So what does it say? Well, the big idea is this, and once again If you're visiting with us, I would just reference you back to page five in your bulletin. You can see the sermon idea printed right there for you. And that's the idea that we want to unpack this morning. And that idea is this. The Holy Spirit leads us into battle, transforms us, and applies Christ's victory over our sin. to our lives. The Holy Spirit leads us into battle, transforms us, and applies Christ's victory to our lives. That's what we're going to be unpacking this morning. And believe it or not, I actually have uh four points, but we'll try to keep the points manageable for the sake of the Lord's Supper this morning. Our first point in verses 16 through 18 is the leading by the Spirit. In fact, take a look at verses 16 and then verse 18. We'll come back to verse 17 in a minute. Verses 16 and 18, look at the command to walk by the Spirit. Verse 16, but I say walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Jumping down to verse 18. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Notice there that parallelism. There's kind of a parallel statement there between verses 16 and 18. Paul commands us there to walk by the power of the Spirit. And then he turns around to verse 18. If you are led by the Spirit, what is this trying to tell us? Well, it tries to tell us very clearly here, the Christian life is not something that is lived under my own power. It's not under your own power. It's not under my strength or your strength. It is under the power and the strength of someone else. And that someone else, as we see clearly here. is the Holy Spirit. And so I love when he when he uh summarizes this in verse 18. He says that when we walk by the Spirit, we are actually being led by Him. And I think the transition in verb there from walking to leading is so important and crucial for us to understand. From the human perspective, in the here and now, it does look like when we are faithful In the Christian life, we are walking with the Lord. Oftentimes you hear Christians talk like that, don't you? If they're spiritually minded, they might ask one another, how's your walk with the Lord doing? Whilst we are walking by the Spirit. But in the grand scheme of things, from a heavenly perspective Yes, we are walking, but as we are walking, we are being led by the Holy Spirit. We are following. We are not doing this on our own. And the idea of being led by the Spirit here is like the Spirit is like a military general that is in the process of leading us into battle. into a battle that must be fought if we want to call ourselves Christians. And that leads us to verse 17. It's not just the command to walk by the Spirit. But there's a conflict that occurs when we walk by the Spirit. Look at verse 17. It's kind of couched right there in the middle. It says, for, he's explaining this, the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. Now, Paul talks about he contrasts here the desires of the flesh, if you were listening, and the desires of the spirit. Now, when he uses the word flesh, oftentimes in Paul's letters, what he's referring to is our sinful nature that still remains even after we are saved. And it's an interesting to note here that the flesh is finding a home game. I don't know if you think about this in sports terms, you know, oftentimes Uh when a team is playing a home game, they oftentimes are perceived to have the advantage, home court advantage, home field advantage. They know that field or that court. They train and they play on that court often. They know it well. Well, that's what it looks like here, doesn't it? When he talks about the work, the desires of the flesh, well the flesh is what lives within us. It's the sinful nature, and it appears that way. that we are fighting against a home team um uh enemy. It appears like they have the advantage. However, there's a reason why we tend to think that way. If you take a step back and you examine your own heart and you examine your own sinful nature, like we often try to do every Sunday when we do a confession of sin, it's usually designed to get you to be a little introspective there. It can be hard to live the Christian life when you know deep down that there are desires within you that want the opposite of what God's word calls you to pursue. Isn't it? Think about the way our desires work. Now we're not Buddhists. Buddhists will tell you that all desire is bad. And yet the New Testament will tell you something very different. Not all desires are bad. Bad desires are bad. Well, what characterizes a bad desire? A bad desire is rooted in your sinful nature. And think about how that works its way out. We tend to pursue what we want. What do we want? It's influenced by what we desire. And so Paul is getting us to see here that there is oftentimes, many times in the life of a Christian, a battle going on. There is two sets of desires. present. And one here is the desires of the flesh. Now again I know that that sounds like the flesh has the advantage, but Paul contrasts that with the desires of the spirit. And what I want you to see here is in this in the language that Paul uses when he says, these are set against each other. They are opposed. to each other as the ESV translates it. There is the implication that there is a war going on and the spirit is the one that is actively on conquest for the victory. Don't miss that. The flesh is the one on the defensive, which in this case, because of the finished work of Jesus Christ. And all that that has accomplished, the Spirit is the one on the conquest, taking over the flesh. Taking over the desires of the flesh. And while it appears that the spirit has the disadvantage, in reality, Both he and we have the advantage, because when we were justified, don't miss this, brothers and sisters, the power of sin is broken Now, oftentimes, many Bible students and scholars have noticed that there is a similarity in content between the book of Romans and the book of Galatians. Paul, after talking about justification by grace through faith in Romans chapter 3, 4 and 5, jumps to chapters 6, 7, and 8, where he talks about the process of grace. And in light of justification, he gets to chapter 6 and he talks about the fact that the power of sin is broken within you. Which is why he says in Romans chapter 6 verse 12, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. Think about the language there. Don't let it reign. Don't let it rule over you and have dominion over you and dominate you and make you do what it wants. Why? Because of the finished work of Christ. This is why he goes on in two verses later in Romans 6. 14, for sin will have no dominion over you. since you are not under law, but under grace. You do not fight this battle under your own strength. You do not walk the Christian life and be led by the Holy Spirit under your own strength, but under the strength, under the power, under the encouragement of grace. You know what that tells you? It tells you you're not alone in the fight. Now what are the results of this conflict according to verse 17. There's a purpose here and a result that's given so that you do not do whatever you want. That's why the Holy Spirit is active in your life. Because oftentimes there are people out there that fall into the trap of assuming that just because the power of sin is broken in their lives when we come to faith in Christ means that the presence of sin shouldn't be there. And yet our experience tells us something very different, doesn't it? Doesn't matter how perfect you pretend to be on the outside. When you come to church on a Sunday morning, and some of us can really pretend like we have it all together on the outside, the reality is we know Scripture tells us if we're honest, no, there's still sin present within us, even though its power is broken. Which again, this is interesting. Paul talks about the power of sin broken in Romans 6, but then in Romans chapter 7, he goes on to talk about how He, as an apostle, still struggles under the presence of sin in his life. In fact, this is how he summarizes it in Romans 7. 15. He says, For I do not understand my own actions. Why not? For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. In other words, he goes on to explain how he wants to follow Christ perfectly. He wants to crucify the flesh with his passions and desires. He wants to live a holy life. He wants to fulfill the law in his actions so that all can see and glorify God, and yet there's something wrong. He fails, even the Apostle Paul fails to live up to this perfectly as he would want. Why? Because of the presence of indwelling sin. And so it's really important for us on this first point to understand Paul is speaking to believers here in Galatians. Those who are justified, those who have already been declared righteous in God's sight because of their faith. He's saying that we want to please God with what we do, but the sin that still remains in us is on the offensive in that sense, working against the Spirit, working to make sure that we fail, making to make sure that we fall into sin again, so that we end up as a result discouraged. So what do we do with this? Well By way of application, I would say walking by the Spirit means that he leads us through the battleground of struggles we all face every day. Think about that. We all struggle with the sinful nature If you're sitting here this morning and you're honest and you are a professing believer, you know that the Christian life is very hard. In fact, anybody who tells you that the Christian life is easy, oh you just come to Christ and things will get easy for you, everything will fall into place. I'm just going to tell you right now, from the pulpit, they're lying to you. That's not true. In fact, there are many ways my life got a lot harder. It did get a lot better after I came to Christ. There's no doubt about that. But That didn't mean it got easier in every respect. I became more aware of my own sin in ways I never thought I would when I came to Christ. And I I think when we look at honestly what God's Word says here, and we understand that just because we're saved from sin doesn't mean that this side of eternity sin has been eradicated from our hearts. and lives, I think that raises a problem that I see sometimes with many Christians. And I see it sometimes with myself. Have you ever looked at somebody or looked at yourself and thought, you know, one of my biggest problems is I'm living the spiritual life as if I'm living in peacetime? When the Apostle Paul here tells me and you that we're called to be living the Christian life as if we are at war, there is a fight to be had. We are called to take up spiritual weapons against our own flesh and our own hearts. The Apostle Paul describes the nature of this war a little bit for us in one sense in Ephesians chapter 6 verse 12. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, in other words, talking about like you know a physical enemy combatant. But we wrestle against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. I'm just using that as an illustration and an example to draw the point home to you that we are living in a time of tremendous spiritual battle. It's so easy for us to miss that when life seems comfortable and many things seem convenient. And yet at the same time, we're called to live with the knowledge that there is a battle to be waged. Now, in Ephesians 6, Paul focuses on the enemy outside, but there's an enemy within that we all must fight, and it's our own sinful nature. And please don't miss this fact. That that is the first enemy before you look at the enemy outside. It's the enemy in our own heart. There's a few diagnostic questions I want you to ask yourself here, and please don't say anything out loud. First, ask yourself, do I actually fight or resist my sin? Or do I constantly run to it and give in If you were sitting in Sunday school this morning, Jared was teaching um through Acts chapter seven and at the end of that passage, you know, Stephen uh says something very uh instructive. To the Jewish people that were resisting the message of Christ, he says, why do you always resist the Holy Spirit and harden your hearts? So the question is, to phrase it a little differently, is do I actually fight or resist my sin, or do I fight against and resist the Holy Spirit's work? in my heart. Let me ask another question. Are you living at peace with your sin? Or are you making war against it? Any general, any soldier, anyone who served in the military can tell you you don't just run into a battlefield without a plan. You look at athletes. You could talk about football players. When we were watching the Super Bowl a few weeks, it was interesting the camera always goes periodically to the coaches and what do you see in their hands? Usually some kind of clipboard or something. And they're they're going through strategies in their mind of how to defeat the opposing team. Or if you're like me, and I've said this before and it's a little embarrassing to admit from the pulpit, but I tend to like mixed martial arts. And you know, it's not just about watching guys go in there and beat each other to a bloody pulp. For me, I like the strategy. Styles make fights. Whose will and strategy is going to prevail? Doesn't matter how you illustrate this, the point is very clear. When we have a fight and a battle against sin in our own lives, a strategy is necessary. Are you making war with your sin? Are you forming a strategy and praying to God for wisdom for that? Or are you just living as if you're in peacetime? And we struggle here with not doing what we want because of our sinful nature. And again, we need to keep that very, very clear. Now, I want to encourage you here. Some of you are in a position here where you've walked in this building here and you claim to be a Christian, but you know deep down there are sins that you constantly struggle with. It doesn't matter, I'm not even going to discriminate on what nature the sin is at this point. There's just some sin that you know I constantly struggle with this. I seem to constantly fail with this. What about me? Well, I think there's encouragement in this passage for you. There's grace because you are not alone. Because there are things we all struggle with. And if you are struggling, brother or sister, you can have the confidence that the Holy Spirit is with you, that the Holy Spirit will empower you to defeat that sin. You may have to work at this step by step and try and rely upon him day by day, falling back on his strength, but he will work with you. Now now that we've identified that there's a battleground that the Holy Spirit is leading us into, let's turn to see each side of these in more detail. I want to look at verses 19 through 21, which is our second point. The works of the flesh. Now this is where the real contrast comes into play. The works of the flesh, and then our third point will be the fruit of the spirit, but the works of the flesh. Notice what Paul says here. Again, he kind of reverses verses 16 through 18 to show that what these things are is a violation of the law. Notice what he says here. The works of the flesh in verse 19 are evident. That's a crucial word for us to pay attention to They're evident because they all involve our personal relationships with other people or with God in an obvious way. Now, I'm not going to go into every one of these little sins. I think some of them are pretty self-explanatory. But I do want to break them into three categories here, this list. The first is sexual sin. Now obviously these are violations of the seventh commandment not to commit adultery. I mean look look what he says in verse 19. The works of the flesh are evident. He gives three sexual morality, impurity, and sensuality. Those are the first three. They're violations of that seventh commandment. Now, just to be clear, what is the seventh commandment dealing with? It's dealing with all sexual um activity or interaction between two people outside of the covenant of marriage, and I hate to have to say this, but we're living in a strange day and age. uh a marriage relationship between a biological man and a biological woman. Any activity outside of that marriage relationship is considered a violation of the seventh commandment. And that's what Paul is getting at here. And again, think of who he's writing to. He's writing to these Gentile Galatians. These were people who lived in this kind of lifestyle before they came to Christ. And look what he's saying here. The works of the flesh are evident. Everyone can see it. Everyone can see the fruit of it. Everyone knows the brokenness that it produces in people's lives. This is the work of the flesh. The second category, I'm just kind of calling idolatry. There's two of them that he mentions there. Go on in the list, idolatry and sorcery. They're violations of the first and second commandment not to have any other gods before the Lord or to worship any image in lieu of him. Now what's really interesting here is the word witchcraft, and you might wonder, well, how does where does that come up? Witchcraft? The Greek word, and this is going to sound familiar to you, in the New Testament, is pharmakaea. It's where we get the word pharmacy from or pharmaceutical from in English. Now what's Paul getting at here? Is he saying that he's against Popping an aspirin when you have a sore leg or something? No, he's not talking about that. But remember the historical context means something. That's one of the ways we faithfully interpret the Bible. And so in the historical context of the first century among the Gentiles, you have to understand that that a lot of times these people would would use mind-altering drugs and chemicals that came from plants in the service of their uh religious worship of these pagan idols Some of you who are you know grew up in the nineteen sixties or maybe even the seventies know you know you would when drugs were becoming very popular and particularly the hippie revolution. You know that as some of like the Beatles, for example, you know, they went to India at one point. And what were they experimenting with when they were over there as they were exploring these new age and Hinduistic philosophies. They were they were using mind-altering drugs and psychedelics to change and alter their their state of mind at any given time. That's the idea of what Paul is getting at here. You know, anything that makes you lose control of your faculties Because as image bearers of God, you remember what God told us? You know, take dominion, subdue the earth. In other words, have control. And that's a tremendous way to relinquish the control that you are given as an image image bearer, putting yourself in the service and the worship of idols. These are works of the flesh. And then the last part of the list, which is by far the biggest, in terms of number of things he mentions, deal with personal relationships, don't they? What are the works of the flesh when it comes to personal relationships? Well, enmity. Strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. Sinning against other people. Works of the flesh. By the way, that's a violation, isn't it, of the overarching command to love your neighbor as yourself, the second greatest command that Jesus identified about the law of Moses. Works of the flesh violate the law. It's evident for all to see. And look at verse 21. The works of the flesh exclude an inheritance. I warn you as I warned you before, Paul says. In other words, he said this to them in person. I warn you as I warn you before. Those who do such things. will not inherit the kingdom of God. What does he mean by that? Is he talking about just generally people that might fall into these here and there? No, not necessarily. The warning is for people who make a who make sin, who make these practices a custom, a habit, a regular practice without any type of repentance whatsoever. That's the idea he's getting at there. How do I know that? Well, if you want to be technical, in the original Greek he's using a participle and what we call in English an ing verb, those who are practicing these kind of things. Customarily, habitually, without repentance. He says, those who live unrepentantly With these kind of sins in their lives, even if they know that they're doing something wrong, they don't care. They're gonna do what they want to do. Those types of people, he says, will not inherit the kingdom of God. Why? Why not? Well, by living in sin, they demonstrate that Christ really didn't die to conquer the power of sin in their own lives. And therefore they reveal themselves to be continually under the curse of the law, which is the curse of judgment. Think about how that is so opposite to what Jesus said in John 8, verses 31 to 38. I'll just summarize it. He said that the truth will set his people free from the slavery and the power of sin. He did say, those who practice sin, again using that same kind of participle in Jesus' words, those who make a practice of sin habitually, customarily, are what? Slaves of sin. But again, if you go back to verse 13, which we didn't read this morning, but verse 13 of Galatians 5, for you were called to freedom, brothers, only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. But through love serve one another. When he talks about Christian freedom in Galatians 5, it's not freedom to do whatever you want. We see that in verse 17. It's freedom from the power and the dominion of sin. Wow. And so as we seek to apply this, the works of the flesh are the things that we are called to fight against. I think that's a pretty simple, crisp, clear statement. The works of the flesh are the things that we are called to fight against. There is a call, brothers and sisters, to fight against sin. Now there is a threat in this passage that we have to take seriously if we're going to think of ourselves as Christians. I'm not going to finish the statement, but you've heard it before. Those who assume make what? Of you and me. There's a truth to that here. As Christians who proclaim and profess to be followers of Christ, one of the things we should not do is presume upon God's grace. That's one of the warnings. of this passage. Unrepentant and habitual sin is what he's talking about here. Now again, if you're here this morning and you're struggling with sin, you seem to fall into whatever it is that you're struggling with that may be on that list. And you're struggling? I don't think this passage is speaking against you You're like, wait a minute. Doesn't that like blunt the force of what you just said? And what Paul's warning? No, no, I don't think so. Why? Because the fact that you are struggling with sin demonstrates that there is some fight happening. And if you continue to fight against your sin, you continue to run back to God for forgiveness every single time you have a failure, then this passage I don't believe is talking to you. Now, if you live in habitual sin, you have no real inclination that what you're doing is wrong, or you simply don't care if you know it's wrong, then this passage is talking to you. There are people out there who profess to be believers who care nothing about fighting their own sin. That is who I believe this warning is for. And the warning is that if that is you, it doesn't matter how much you come to church, doesn't matter how many good works you do. You will not inherit the kingdom of God in the end if you continue with an unrepentant heart that refuses to deal with the sin in your life as a professing believer. But I do believe that there's hope behind the call to fight against this sin. Now, all this is not meant to leave us in a pit of despair or hopelessness. If the works of the flesh are in some way present in your life, I do believe that this is instead Designed by Paul as a call to repentance while there is still time. This is an indirect way of Paul saying, repent and believe in Jesus, and you will be saved. Because what does repentance lead to? Well, it leads to our third point here in verses 22-24, the fruit of the Spirit. That's what it leads to. Notice what verses 22 and 23 say very clearly contrasts this. works of the flesh, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And I'll talk about in a minute what he says in verse 23 at the end. Against such these there is no law. That's quite a list, by the way, isn't it? I don't know if if you're like me, you look at that and you're like, hmm, how many of these really are characterized in my life? Here's the encouragement is you're probably not going to see all of those things perfectly in your life at all times, right? There's going to be things that the Lord is working on in your life here and there, and yet this is what the Lord is doing. In John 14, I'm sorry, 15, verses 4 and 5, Jesus says this. Kind of talking about fruit. This is the fruit analogy, right? Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. By the way, he will go on in that book in the next chapter in John 16 to talk about how uh unless he goes away, i. e. his death and his resurrection and ascension. Unless that happens, he will not send the Holy Spirit. Well guess what? That happened and he did. Send the Holy Spirit Romans 8. 29. Paul says this, for those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. Have you ever wondered what it looks like to be Christ-like? What would that look like in real time, in real life? Look no further than the fruit of the Spirit. That's what the image of Christ looks like when the Holy Spirit conforms us to Christ in our lives. And I love this in verse 23. The fruit of the Spirit, believe it or not, brothers and sisters, fulfills the law. Oh, wow. This is one of those things like you can strive to fulfill the law and you can still fail. But if the Spirit is working in you, you will, because those things will be present in your life. I love that. Against such things there is no law. There's no law that says you shall not love, right? There's no law that says you shall not be gentle. No, that's what the law is after. And these things stand opposite to the works of the flesh. They stand opposite to not inheriting the kingdom of God. And they fulfill the command to love, which you go back to verse 14, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Which in fact it's not incidental or ironic or accidental, brothers and sisters, that love is the first fruit of the Spirit. Because all those other things flow from that, don't they? So again, as we seek to apply this, we only bear the fruit of the Spirit when we crucify the flesh with his passions and desires. I kind of got ahead of myself there, didn't I? Look at verse 24. But, or and or now, those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified. The flesh with its passions and desires. How is it that you bear the fruit of the Spirit? I'm just thinking very practically. How do you bear the fruit of the Spirit? First the cross, then the Spirit. We realize, brothers and sisters, that Jesus Christ has already broken the power of sin on our behalf at the cross. So what do we do with this? How do we crucify? First, we must discipline ourselves as we fight against the flesh, as temptation and sin come up and present themselves in our lives to run to Christ. Run to the power of the cross and cry out to Jesus to apply that power and his death to our sin and to our temptation while we are in it. To give you the analogy that James talks about in the book of James, chapter 1, he makes a really interesting kind of analogy to illustrate how sin works. In James chapter 1, verse 13 and following, let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. That's the truth you can latch on to. Verse 14. But each person is tempted when he's lured and enticed by his own desire. Okay, there's desire. Then desire when it is conceived, interesting analogy, gives birth, again, interesting. to sin and when sin is fully grown it brings forth or gives birth to death. Think of like how pregnancy works and all that, fertilization, you know You know, the moment when sin or or the temptation or the thought of sin crops up in your mind, have you ever dared to ask the Lord, Lord, by the power of the cross, Help me to abort the seed of fertilized sin in my heart That's what you do. Run to the cross. And understand that when Jesus said in John 19, 30, it is finished, that applies in the present time. To when you are fighting your sin. And what's the comfort you can take from that? Well, Hebrews 4 15 and 16. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in times of need. And so one of the things we need to do is we crucify the flesh with his passions and desires in our own hearts and lives. And mind you, that's not just the works. And the actions. That's also the desire. Notice what he said. Crucify the flesh with its passions and desires You deal with the heart first. The actions will follow. Then we need to ask the right questions of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Why don't you ask yourself this morning, is there a steady increase of the fruit of the Spirit in your life? Again, it doesn't mean you have all those things perfectly But if you were to ask somebody that knows you well Even if you're not terribly close to them, but they know you well enough. If you were to ask them, hey, look at this list. Would you say that these things characterize me? What would they say? For some of us, that might be more of a frightening question to really contemplate than others, but there it is. You know, the Apostle Peter in 2 Peter chapter 1, if you want another list to look at this week and just meditate on, you know, 2 Peter chapter 1. Verses really four through about verse nine or ten. It gives another list. It's very similar, knowledge, virtue, you know, good. But Peter says if these things are in you and increasing, in other words, if you're growing in these things. then you have a tremendous confidence as you look for the day of Christ Jesus as he returns And by the way, that leads us really to our last point, doesn't it? In verses 25 and 26, our fourth point, walking by the Spirit, really comes full circle to the beginning. The first few verses of walking by the Spirit and being led by the Spirit. Take a look at verses 25 and 26. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited. In other words, so self-centered, provoking one another or envying one another Again, Paul does hear what Jesus often does in the way he presented or debated a case. Paul argues From one position to the other. If we live by the Spirit, and let me just parenthetically say Paul is saying we do live by the Spirit, because we live by the Spirit. Let us also keep in step with the Spirit. In other words, let the inward spiritual reality become consistent with what is on the outside. That's what he's getting at here. And by the way, I love that term. In the original Greek, let us keep step in the spirit with the spirit. Again, that is a military term. Anyone again who served in the military, when you're marching in formation, you don't break formation. You follow what your drill sergeant is saying as you're marching. If you break out of formation, especially in a battlefield, boy, you're going to be in a world of hurt or dead pretty quick. Stay and march in formation according to the Spirit and His leading in your life. And I want to just encourage you in this last point. It is only by the power of the Holy Spirit working in your life that you will find victory over sin. Again, many of us feel like we're the ones fighting the whole war. Let me encourage you. The war is won! Amen. The problem with with many of us is the way we we fight our sin is as if Jesus Christ has not already won the war, but he has won the war for us at the cross. The Spirit has made us alive together with Christ by faith. And because the war is already won, you can have confidence today And this week that the Holy Spirit will lead you in the victory march over the battle that you are in And the only way you are going to win this battle, this skirmish that you're in, is in light of knowing that the war has already been won for you. Wow, what good news we have. And so when you look at this this uh membership vow, do you now resolve and promise in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ? You can say yes and amen to that because of the work of the Spirit in your life. And boy, it brings us right back again, full circle, to our initial idea, which is also printed in the bulletin there on page 5. The Holy Spirit leads us into battle. He transforms us from the inside out. And he applies Christ's victory to our lives so that we might become more Christ-like going forward. And that is why we're here, isn't it? Now, as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper this morning , I hope that you can do so this morning, examining your heart and your life in light of God's word, and I pray that you would continue to trust the finished work of Jesus Christ. And how that finished work, once for all for the saints, is being worked out in your life. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today. We are so thankful, O Lord, for your word, for the promises that we have, but also for the work of the Spirit in our lives. Lord, I love that promise that you gave in the upper room discourse when you were talking about the Holy Spirit right before you went to the cross and your disciples were downcast. You said that you will not leave them as orphans But that you will give them your Holy Spirit. Lord, you do not leave us like orphans. You give us your Holy Spirit to seal us. for the day of redemption to indwell in us so that we might have fellowship with you and enjoy your presence in our lives. And Lord, we pray that this week Even as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper, to feed and nourish our faith in Christ. Lord, that you would strengthen us for the battle ahead, but that we would do so not under our own strength, but by the power of the Spirit in our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.