Sarah, Abby, Ben. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to John chapter 14? Gospel of John chapter 14. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the uh the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. Older I get, the smaller this print becomes. John chapter fourteen. Jesus said, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself. That where I am, there you may be also. And where I go, you know, and the way you know. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going, and how can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my father also. And from now on you know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. So how can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does the works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me for the sake of the works themselves Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also, and greater works than these he will do, because I go to my Father And whatever you ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and He will give you another helper, that He may abide with you forever. The Spirit of Truth. whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you. A little while longer, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you will live also. At that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. He who has my commandments and keeps them. It is he who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and manifest myself to him. May God bless this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Almighty God, as once again we approach your Ten Commandments this day, we pray for your Holy Spirit to open up your truth. Lord, I pray that all that is said from this pulpit might be true in your sight, and that you would take it and bless it, apply it to hearts And we do ask that our hearts might be changed by what your word says to us this day. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Christian apologist Josh McDowell wrote, When my daughter Kelly was in fourth grade Several students in her class swiped an object off the teacher's desk while the teacher was out of the room. The children only wanted to play with the object, but it soon broke and they returned it to its previous place on the teacher's desk. When the teacher discovered the damage, she asked one of Kelly's classmates what had happened. The girl yielded to the pressure of the group and lied. Then the teacher asked Kelly. Kelly explained matter-of-factly what had happened. The next day I took Kelly out for breakfast at a local restaurant and I told her that she had done the right thing, in spite of any pressure or harassment that she might get from her classmates. Honey, I then asked, why is lying wrong? Because the Bible says it's wrong, she answered. Why does the Bible say it's wrong? Because God commanded it. Why did God command it? I don't know, she admitted I took her hands in mine and locked eyes with her. Because God is truth, Kelly. Truth comes from his nature. And whatever is contrary to God's nature is sin. The scripture says, He is the rock. His work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. Deuteronomy 32, 4. You have redeemed us, O Lord God of truth. Psalm 31, 5. But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious, long-suffering and pledge us in mercy and truth. Psalm 86, 15. For thy mercy is great above the heavens, and thy truth reaches unto the clouds. Psalm 108, verse 11. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the king in heaven, all whose works are truth and his ways judgment. Daniel 4. 37. Since God is a God of truth, he calls his people to be men and women and children of truth. The lip of truth shall be established forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment. Proverbs 12, 19 Listen to God's charge against the people of Israel delivered by the prophet Hosea. Hear the word of the Lord, ye children of Israel, for the Lord brings a charge against the inhabitants of the land. There is no truth or mercy or knowledge of God in the land. By swearing and lying, killing and stealing and committing adultery. They break all restraint. Hosea 4 According to Patterson and Kim, the authors of the book The Day America Told the Truth, lying in America may be more common than many of us imagine. When Americans could be assured that their responses to a long-written survey would be held completely anonymous, the results were striking, they wrote. Quote, Americans lie. They lie more than we had ever thought possible before the study. But they told us the truth about how much they lie. Just about everyone lies, they said. Ninety-one percent of us lie regularly. The majority of us find it hard to get through a week without lying. One in five can't make it through a single day And we're talking about conscious premeditated lies. In fact, the way some people talk about lying, or I'm sorry, about trying to do without lies, you think they were smokers trying to get through a day without a cigarette When we refrain from lying, it's less often because we think it's wrong, only 45% , than for a variety of other reasons, among them the fear of being caught, 17 %. The prophet Isaiah lamented, the truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter. If lying in America is as common as this survey indicated, it may well be an issue for some of us here. The spirit that God places within his called-out ones is described as the spirit of truth John 16, 13. God desires truth in the inmost parts. Psalm 51, 6. It would be surprising, then, if none of God's commandments address the subject of truthfulness. Of course, the ninth commandment is: you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. On its most basic level, this commandment forbids God's people from giving false testimony about their neighbors, that is, about other people. Or not they happen to live beside them. Among the civil laws God gave his people was this counsel. If a false witness rises against any man to testify against him of wrongdoing, Then both men in the controversy shall stand before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who serve in those days. And the judges shall make diligent inquiry. And indeed, if the witness is a false witness, who has testified falsely against his brother, then you shall do to him as he thought to have done to his brother. So you shall put away the evil person from among you, and those who remain shall hear and fear, and hereafter they shall not again commit such evil among you. Deuteronomy nineteen. This reminds me of those who willingly lied for Jezebel. Remember when she sought false witness against the innocent man Naboth? As recorded in 1 Kings 21. You may remember she did this because her husband, King Ahab, coveted Naboth's vineyard. Now he was the king, he was wealthy. He had probably all sorts of vineyards, but he wanted this particular vineyard. He went to Naboth and asked him to sell it to him, and Naboth said, I can't part with this vineyard. It's our family heritage. So he, uh, politely, uh I'm sure, refused the king. Well, uh Naboth uh uh was uh uh depressed, I guess you'd say, because he couldn't get his I'm sorry, uh the king, Ahab, was depressed because he couldn't get his hands on Naboth's vineyard And so Jezebel knew just what was needed for the job. She wrote letters in Ahab's name to the elders and nobles in Naboth City. And here's what she said, proclaim a fast and seat Naboth with high honor among the people, and seat two men, scoundrels, before him, saying, You have blasphemed God and the king. Then take him out and stone him that he may die. I think it's noteworthy that Jezebel knew that the men who would give this false testimony would have to be scoundrels. That's what she calls them. Find two men, scoundrels, and the elders and nobles evidently knew right where to find them And the elders and nobles themselves were willing to go along with what they thought were the king's wishes, even though it meant the death of an innocent man. They were no doubt afraid for their own necks Of course, the most horrendous example of false witnessing was the trial of the Lord Jesus. Priests and scribes, full of envy and fearful of losing their position, They determined to rid themselves of Jesus, and they found men who would willingly bear false testimony against him. Of course, their problem was they couldn't get the false witnesses to agree with one another, so Remember, in their frustration, they just cried out to Jesus, just tell us, are you the Son of God? Are you the Christ? And Jesus, of course, responded, I am. I am. And you shall see the Son of Man sitting in the clouds of heaven, coming in the clouds of glory, sitting at the right hand of the Father. Clearly, this commandment forbids false testimony, but of course, in its deeper, broader sense This commandment forbids lying in its many other manifestations. The Scripture says a poor man is better than a liar A poor man is better than a liar, Proverbs 1922. I think what it's saying there is better for me to speak the truth, even if it's going to cost me, than to lie in order to gain profit. He who speaks lies shall not escape. Proverbs 19. 5. God says to his children, do not lie one to another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds. Colossians 3. 9. You are called to truth because God is a God of truth. Summarizing the teaching of Scripture, the Westminster Larger Catechism asks this question: What are the sins forbidden in the Ninth Commandment? Let me read it in a modern translation. Keep in mind that there was a time when children would memorize the shorter catechism And adults would memorize this, the larger catechism. Here's what this uh uh the shorter the larger catechism says on this question of uh what are the sins forbidden in the ninth commandment. The ninth commandment forbids everything detrimental to the truth and the good reputation of others as well as our own, with special reference to legal matters in the courts. We must not give untrue evidence, suborn perjury, that is, get someone else to lie for us, knowingly appear and plead on behalf of an evil cause, or engage in overbearing and boastful exaggeration We should never participate in passing an unjust sentence, call evil-good or good-evil, or reward the wicked in a way appropriate to the righteous, or the righteous in a way appropriate to the wicked Forgery is forbidden, as is concealing the truth, remaining silent in a just cause, and not taking it on ourselves to reprove or complain to others about some wrong We must not speak the truth in an inappropriate time or maliciously to promote a wrong purpose, nor pervert it into a wrong meaning. into ambiguous equivocations, or in such ways as to undermine truth and justice. Also forbidden are saying anything untrue As well as lying, slandering, backbiting, belittling, gossiping, whispering, ridiculing, reviling, and expressing any kind of judgmental opinion that is rash, harsh, or prejudiced. Misconstruing intentions, words, and actions, flattery, ostentatious boasting, thinking or speaking too highly or too poorly of ourselves or others denying the gifts of God or the effects of his grace on us, exaggerating the significance of trivial faults, concealing, excusing, or rationalizing our sinful behavior when we're called to confess it voluntarily. Gratuitously revealing the problems and failings of others, spreading false rumors, receiving and approving evil reports, refusing to listen to a just defense, harboring evil suspicions. Being envious of or grieved by the deserved honors others receive, trying to discredit those honors, rejoicing at someone else's disgrace or evil reputation. Scornful contempt and foolish admiration, breaking our lawful promises, and finally failing to promote everyone's good name And doing, not avoiding or not hindering in others as we can, those things that give people a bad name. Now, did you memorize it or do I need to read it again? Let's consider just some of the ways we violate this commandment. First of all, this commandment forbids everything detrimental to the truth and the good reputation of others. Remember when young David at his father's request brought food to the armies of Israel as they were encamped against the Philistines. While David was there bringing food to his brothers and the other men in the army, as his father had asked them to do, David overheard Goliath's challenge to the army: Who will come out and fight me? And David inquired about it. Who is this Philistine who's challenging? Tell me about this guy. His oldest brother, Eliab, confronted David publicly. The scripture says Eliab's anger was aroused against David, and he said, Why did you come down here? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride and the insolence of your heart, for you've come down to see the battle, by thus misjudging and publicly rebuking his younger brother, his youngest brother. Eliab injured David's good name, and at least temporarily damaged his reputation among those who heard. A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches. Proverbs 22. A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches. You can have either a good name or great riches. Which will you choose? Eliad's accusation was, of course, false. David was not seeking glory for himself. He was there in obedience to his father. And all he was seeking was the honor of God's name in this case. If you make judgments of the motives or character of somebody else, and then you prejudice the opinion of others about that person You may be guilty of bearing false witness. How do we do that? Well, you know, Ellen strikes me as conceited. Does she strike you as being conceited? I think Roger has a roving eye. I keep my distance from him. You know, in my experience, uh Kate just can't be trusted. A good name is better than precious ointment, Ecclesiastes 7. 1. Beware of defaming your brother or sister. Are you absolutely sure of your facts? The great Baptist preacher C. H. Virgin said, if we must talk, at least let us be free from slander. We can commit murder with the tongue as well as with the hand. The worst evil you can do to a man is to injure his character. All are not thieves that dogs bark at, but they're generally treated as if they were. The world for the most part will believe that where there's smoke there's fire, and what everybody says must be true. Let us then be careful that we do not hurt our neighbor in so tender a point as his character. For it is hard to get girt off if it is once thrown on. And when a man is once in people's bad books, he's hardly ever quite out of them. Some of you may remember the name Richard Jewell. What comes to mind when I say the the name Richard Jewell? Well, he was a security guard working for Piedmont College who discovered a backpack with a pipe bomb, actually I think several pipe bombs in it on the grounds of Centennial Park in Atlanta during the 1996 Summer Olympics. He saw this backpack, he looked inside, he saw it it contained pipe bombs, he immediately called the uh Georgia uh FBI, what would that be, the Georgia uh Bureau of Investigation. And uh and then he he began to tell people, to warn people to get away. But uh within a few minutes the bomb went off. A bomb went off, and uh a woman was killed and uh I think 111 other people were injured. Uh he uh he was uh originally hailed as a hero for saving so many lives, uh but an FBI leak uh later uh listed his name as a suspect as he fit their lone wolf profile. He underwent a trial by media. Comedians associated him with a unabomber. They called him the Unidoofus. The Yuna Bubba. They called his mother, with whom he lived, Yuna Mama. And one network news anchor reportedly said, quote, The speculation is that the FBI is close to making the case. They probably have enough to arrest him right now, probably enough to prosecute him, but you always want to have enough to convict him as well. There are still some holes in this case. Well, eventually he was exonerated, and the right-wing terrorist Eric Rudolph, years later, admitted to being the bomber on that occasion. But the cloud over Jewel, both professionally and personally, as you can imagine, did not dissipate very easily. Not many people wanted to have him as a security guard after that because of the cloud over him. And he died eleven years later at the age of 44, having filed numerous lawsuits against those that he believed had libeled him, both in the in the media, in the basically people in the media. This commandment forbids gossip, false rumors, false reports. Illinois pastor Robert Moller wrote this in his article, How to Split a Church. Now listen carefully. On one occasion, word spread around our church that I owned expensive imported imported furniture, he says. Well, the furniture was imported from the top floor of J. C. Penny's Where all the closeout items are arranged. Though it was a small, silly rumor, he says, that eventually that a rumor that eventually died out It carried a sinister suggestion. It introduced the notion that the pastor was living in luxury at the expense of struggling parishioners. One trip to our home would have dispelled the notion. Solomon made this observation, without wood a fire goes out. Without gossip, a quarrel dies down. Proverbs 26, 20. Rumors need oxygen to catch fire. If you deprive them of a listening ear, they quickly die out. But if your goal is to split a church, he wrote, you should keep circulating the story without ever verifying its accuracy. The longer the rumor circulates, the more emotions become inflamed, the more groups will form, stubborn opinions, and the more hurt can be inflicted on innocent people. I happen to know that the rumor has gone around Liberty that the senior pastor's wife has an expensive mid-20th century antique husband. That's only partially true. I happen to know he's not that expensive. We violate this commandment by acting out a lie. Uh when when I was a kid I I went to church and I I heard the Ten Commandments and I I believed in God and I endeavored to try to keep the Ten Commandments. I didn't know Christ as my Savior at that point, but I uh I knew I shouldn't lie And so I was reluctant to directly speak a lie, but if I wasn't prepared for a test at school or I hadn't completed a project or I had some other reason for not wanting to go. I was not averse to acting out a lie by feigning illness, moaning and groaning, trying to force the mercury up on that thermometer It was years later I realized all all I had to do was touch it to the light bulb. But uh I I didn't know that at the time. But I was acting out a lie. Well, that's also a violation of this commandment. We violate this commandment when we intentionally give the wrong impression. So a teen girl might say to her parents, I'm going to go over to Julia's house, and uh and this may be technically true, but once there, she and Julia intend to go swim in the quarry Which her parents have forbidden because they believe it to be too dangerous. In other words, you don't have to verbally lie to violate this commandment. God desires truth in the inmost parts. This commandment, of course, forbids stretching the truth, exaggeration. C. A. Spurgeon wrote a little volume of Homespun Wisdom. He used the pen name John Ploughman. That is, he wrote as if he were a farmer. And uh he gave the truth in simple terms that a farmer might use. He wrote this. And he wrote he wrote very small The the art of stretching, he said, is uncommonly general. Gooseberries are to be heard of, weighing twice as much as possible, and unseen showers of frogs fall regularly when newspapers are slack. If a cart goes by and rattles the lid of an o rattles the lid of an old woman's teapot, it's put down as an earthquake. Fine imaginations are not at all scarce. Certain people are always on the lookout for wonders, and if they do not see them, they invent them. They see comets every night and hear some rare tale every day. All their mole hills are mountains, all their ducks are swans. They've learned the multiplication table, and they use it freely. If they saw six dogs together, they would swear they saw a hundred hounds. Yes, and get as red in the face as turkey cocks if anybody looked a little doubtful. Before long they would persuade themselves that they saw ten thousand lions, for everything grows with them as fast as mushrooms. We must try to state the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. If we begin calling eleven inches a foot, we shall go on until we call one inch four and twenty. If we call a heifer a cow, we may one day call a doormouse a bullock. Once go in for exaggeration, and you may as well be hung for a sheep as for a lamb. You've left the road of truth, and there's no telling where the crooked lane may lead you. He who tells little white lies will soon think nothing of great ones For the principle is the same. Where there is a mouse hole, there will soon be a rat hole, and if the kitten comes, the cat will follow. It seldom rains, but it pours. A little untruth leads on to a perfect shower of lying. And so, Christian, I ask you, are you an exaggerator? Are you prone to exaggeration? This commandment also forbids undue silence. If you're aware of the facts, but you don't speak out at the proper time, you're violating this commandment. In the civil laws, God gave Israel a witness to a crime bore guilt if he did not tell of it. Leviticus 5. 1. Remember in the Apostle Paul's final letter to 2 Timothy, he wrote, At my first defense, no one stood with me, but all forsook me. May it not be charged against them. No one stood with me, all forsook me. Now what was their sin? Apparently not defending the innocent, not standing with Paul against false charges, presumably out of fear, fear of public association with Paul. In that case, their undue silence seemed to be regarding their knowledge of Paul's character, their unwillingness to suffer reproach for the gospel. If I do not proclaim the good news of the gospel to others, am I not bearing false witness against them? If I know the truth, if I know the way of life, and I withhold that from others, Am I not, in a sense, bearing false witness against them? I'm certainly not bearing a true witness to them. This commandment forbids holding your peace when iniquity calls for reproof. Holding your peace when iniquity calls for reproof. Now Adonijah, the son of Hagith, exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. The problem was his father David had determined that his son Solomon would reign after him, not Adonijah. But when Adonijah thus exalted himself and got fifty men to run before his chariots and determined that he was going to be king and began to gather around them all the trappings of a king. We read, His father David had not rebuked him at any time by saying, Why have you done so? David, the king, for all his virtues, would not rebuke his son when his son sought surreptitiously to gain the crown. 1 Kings chapter 1. There are times when the words or actions of others need to be rebuked for their own sake as well as for the honor of the Lord You shall not hate your brother in your heart, you shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. Leviticus 19, 17 Here, by not rebuking my neighbor when I see the sin, I am bearing some guilt. This commandment forbids unrighteous judgment. You shall do no injustice in judgment You shall not be partial to the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty. In righteousness you shall judge your neighbor, the scripture says. Now, how does that play out in our day? Well, I would say this. If a teacher, for example, has two students who have been in a fight with one another, One happens to be from a wealthy family, one from a poor family. And if you show partiality to either of them, either the poor one because he's so poor, or the rich one because he's so rich, You may be violating this commandment. We violate this commandment when we speak the truth, but we do it unseasonably or maliciously or with a wrong end in view. You can what you say may be truthful, but if you're saying it in a malicious way, if you're saying it at an i at an inappropriate time, you may be violating this commandment. We're called to speak the truth in love. Gee, what an ugly tie. You walk up to me and say, gee, what an ugly tie. Well it may be. But uh, or Martha, you didn't actually pay for that haircut, did you? Frankly, Ted, here's one. Frankly, Ted, I think your lack of creativity and basic intelligence is going to render you a penniless slob to be cared for by the state for the rest of your life. This is Michael Horton writing, by the way. Brute honesty. He says, brute honesty is just that. Brutish. Brute honesty. Do you speak the truth in love? Conservative Baptist Pastor Leslie Flynn reminds us that uh we don't violate this commandment when we make a mistake. You know, a reporter says, uh the early word is that 18 people were killed in a plane crash, and it's later revealed that only 16 had died. That's That's not a violation of this commandment. Kidding with other people. You call up your neighbor on April 1st and you say, Oh, by the way, there are little green men on your roof and they're getting they're climbing out of some sort of craft and they appear to be going down your chimney. Right? It's April 1st, you're calling your friend. That's what you call kidding. See, that's it's not a violation of this commandment. Using figurative language. You know, the sun rose. Well did the sun actually rise or did the earth turn? The sun rose, the fog comes in on little cat's feet. That's just figurative language. Telling fictional stories, of course, is not a violation of this commandment. Jesus told parables. He made up stories many times to convey truth. Uh uh acting contrary to previous statements when circumstances have changed. You talk to your friend, you you see your friend at the pool in the summer and the friend says, Are you gonna go back to college in the fall? And you say, No, I'm not gonna go back in the fall. gonna hold off and go back in the next semester. But she later sees you on campus. Well why? Well because you changed your mind. Circumstances changed, the money came in or whatever, you decided to go back. That's not lying. Deceiving opponents in sports, of course. Fake handoffs, fake field goals, exchanging pleasantries. This one confuses some people. Somebody says, How are you? You say, Fine, thanks. When in fact you've just been diagnosed with some disease. Uh that's a polite formality. How are you? They weren't actually inquiring, perhaps, into your uh your health or the result of the last hospital visit. They may be, but uh oftentimes it's just politeness And uh you've got to remember that because we live in a fallen world, we may find it necessary to lie sometimes to save lives. This doesn't happen very often, but The Hebrew midwives did, uh the Hebrew midwives did when they were ordered to kill the little baby boys who were born. Remember Pharaoh was afraid that there were there were going to be too many young men? Too many Jewish uh men who were slaves who might rebel against him. And so he told the Hebrew midwives, when you're called to a a birth Uh you know, s s secretly snuff out the life of that little boy when you realize it's a child it's a boy. And uh they went back to Pharaoh and uh and and and what did they say? They said, well you see the Hebrew midw the Hebrew women are so lively they give birth before we're able to get to them. It's like a whole nation of uh Lisa birds. They're they're giving birth they're giving they're given birth before we can get there. Before we can get to the hospital. Or at least in the hospital. But uh but they were lying, and yet the scripture says the Lord Bless them for that. Why? Because their lie was saving lives. Saving the lives of innocent people took precedent Over telling a lie to Pharaoh and risking their own necks. The Ten Boom family in the Netherlands and many others like them were justified in lying to the Nazis to preserve their neighbors' lives. Missionaries who find ways to get into countries, countries that are officially off-limits to missionaries, they're following the same example. Now, what is it that motivates us to lie? Well, of course, probably the first one that comes to mind is greed or covetousness People lie to gain things. Elisha's servant, Gehazi, and Ananias and Sapphira lied for love of money. A few thousand years later, we're still tempted to lie for financial gain. That temptation, by the way, seems strongest in that period between January 1st and April 15th every year. Secondly, we we lie for fear. How many times do children lie to their parents to avoid being punished? We lie out of fear. We lie out of fear of the consequences when the truth is known We lie out of envy or jealousy. That was what caused the chief priests, the suborn liars to testify against Jesus. They were envious of him A desire to impress. You know, we embellish stories. The crowds become bigger. The dangers become more intense. Our actions become more heroic over time. We lie out of passion. Passion may motivate us to lie. Amnon longed for his half-sister Tamar. So he pretended to be sick, so she would come and tend to him. Young people, you may be tempted to lie to your parents so you can see someone they have forbidden you to see. Passion may motivate us to lie. Anger, feeling scorned, a desire for revenge. Potiphar's wife lied about Joseph to her husband. She said, You this servant you hired, he came in, he tried to force himself on me. That wasn't the fact. The fact was she was forcing herself on him, and he fled. to preserve his honor and the honor of God. She was angry with Joseph for resisting her advances, and so she lied. Now, who motivates us to lie? Well, that's an easy one. We're incited to lie by the father of lies. Jesus described him this way. He was a murderer from the beginning. He does not stand in the truth because there's no truth in him When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar and the father of it. John 8 Satan, of course, told the very first recorded lie in the garden, you shall not surely die. He originates false religions, false systems. He motivates false prophets, He deceives the nations. He accuses the brethren. His name in the Greek is Diabolos, one of his names, devil, meaning false accuser, literally, or slanderer Those who lie align themselves with him. Apostle Peter said to Ananias, Why has Satan filled your heart to lie against the Holy Ghost? Think about this. Because Satan is a spirit, there are a lot of fleshly sins that he simply cannot commit. There are some sins that we can commit that he cannot commit. But he can lie, and so we're never more like him than when we are lying. Josh McDowell describes in his book Right from Wrong how a minor act of honesty helped to form a lifetime of trust with the person who became his closest earthly relationship. He said this on my first date with my wife Dottie, I decided to buy a newspaper from a machine as we were coming out of a restaurant. I put my quarter in to get the paper It would be three or four quarters now. The paper came out, and so did my quarter. I asked Dottie to wait a minute. I took the quarter into the restaurant, I gave it to the cashier before continuing on the date. I found out later that that incident had a profound effect on Dottie. She figured that if I could be trusted over the price of a newspaper, I was probably trustworthy in other areas. My honesty on that seemingly insignificant occasion won the respect of the woman who would become my wife and laid a solid foundation of trust in our relationship. I tell my children, if you tell the truth all the time, I can believe you all the time. If you only tell the truth some of the time, I can't believe you any of the time. In the parable of the talents, the Lord Jesus said to the uh to the or the servant rather says to the Lord Jesus, No way, let me get this straight. In the parable of the talents, the Lord of the servant says to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Minor areas of honesty matter to God. Think about that. Young people think about this. Minor areas of honesty matter to God. Uh those of you uh uh who have to declare your income, think about this. Minor areas of honesty matter to God. Compiled over the years, they lead to a life of integrity. Now, it may be that you failed miserably in the area of honesty. You may, there may be someone here who has fallen into patterns of deceitfulness. Deceitfulness to your wife or your husband, perhaps. Deceitfulness to your parents. It may be that those patterns have negatively affected your relationships. They generally do. George Bernard Shaw made the pithy observation, the liar's punishment is not in the least that he has not believed, but that he cannot believe anyone else. But I pray that you will believe Jesus when he says the cowardly, the unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars. shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Revelation 21, 8 I pray that you will flee the wrath to come. I pray that you'll recognize that God is a holy God who must and will punish sin. And that your little white lie makes you unfit to stand before this holy God. But I have good news. The good news is God the Father foresaw our rebellion, our deceit, our ungodliness, and he provided a way for us to be forgiven. God determined to send his own son into this world. The Lord Jesus Christ came here and lived the perfect life, never told a lie. He always loved God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. He always loved his neighbor as himself. He perfectly, every single day, kept the holy commandments of his father. And yet he went to the cross and he died as a substitute The sinless, spotless Lamb of God was taking away the sins of the world. The good news is that God's love for us was so great, He parted with His Son, and He says to us, Because Jesus died on that cross, because He bore that punishment that your sins deserve. You can be forgiven. How? Not by starting from today and perfectly keeping the law from now till the time you die. You can't do it. Nobody ever could. That's not how you receive eternal life. You receive eternal life by coming to God and saying, God have mercy upon me. I'm a sinner. God forgive me. God save me. I've lied. I've taken your name in vain. I've coveted. I haven't always loved you with all my heart. I haven't always honored my father and mother. I've lusted in my heart. I've covered it. I've stolen. God have mercy on me. God forgive me. God save me. God give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You come to God that way. You cry out to Him sincerely. You come to Him as a little child, not all proud and puffed up about all the wonderful things you've done. But empty-handed. God says he'll forgive all your sins. He'll give you this precious gift of eternal life. You'll be with him in heaven, not because of any goodness you've done, but because of the goodness that he did. Because of the sacrifice that he made. That's the gospel. That's the gospel. Friend, have you cried out to the Lord? Won't you come to him today? You can come to him today. You know you're a sinner, you see it as vile, you hate it, you despise it, you're willing to turn from it, lay hold upon Jesus. All your sins, all your sins, past, present, future, will be covered. Will be forgiven. You'll be redeemed through the merits of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Lord, you know our hearts, you know that we're sinners, you know that we're liars, that we've all violated your holy commandments. But Lord, thank you for your mercy and thank you for your grace. The wonderful grace of Jesus. Thank you for that. Lord, I pray now that you'll work in hearts Please, Lord, if there's someone here this day still outside of Christ, may this be the day of salvation for that one. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.