Thank you, choir. If you have your Bibles, uh turn with me to Ephesians one. And we will be again visiting verses 3 through 14, that great prayer of Paul's. And if you don't have a Bible with you, no worries. The scripture verses are printed right in your bulletin as well. Well, let's hear God's powerful word. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he made us accepted in the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us all in all wisdom. and prudence, having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times, he might gather together in one all things in Christ both which are in heaven and which are on the earth. In him. In him also we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. That we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. in whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of His glory. Let's pray together. O gracious Heavenly Father, how we thank you and praise you that you have showered down upon us your spiritual gifts. from the heavenly places. And we pray, Lord, that your spirit would now shower down upon us to illuminate our hearts and our minds to give us ears to hear and hearts to understand your word, that indeed your life-giving, transforming word would be applied to our lives. We ask this in the precious name of our Savior. And our union with Him. In His name we pray. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters Last week, we ended on quite a high note, which isn't hard to do when you're looking at these verses. Because these verses overflow with the blessings that we have in Christ. Last week, we surveyed some of the rich landscape of the abundant ways the Lord has blessed us with spiritual gifts. Gifts that come from His Holy Spirit. And in this sweeping view, we noted some of these spiritual gifts, which of course include our conversion itself. And also the illumination of Scripture, in which the Holy Spirit enables us to understand God 's word Along with illumination, there is also communication that the Spirit helps us to pray when we struggle in prayer. And also conviction of sin and our sanctification are just some of the ways that we have been blessed with spiritual blessings in the heavenly realms. And we are so rich, so astoundingly, immeasurably wealthy in the spiritual gifts which we possess. through the Lord that He pours out upon us by His Spirit that we have a great prosperity In our unity with Christ, in our identity with Him And that union and that identity and all that it encapsulates is found in those two brief words, but significant words. In him. In him describes the supernatural bond that exists between us and our Lord, from which his power flows to us. Because we are in Christ, all he has is ours, and all his resources are our resources. We abound in the bountiful blessings in our union with Christ, as we will continue to see in our study today. And when we read verse 4 , the first thing that we notice is that our union with Christ was established long before we were ever born. It goes all the way back to eternity past. Notice what verse 4 says. That God the Father chose us in Christ when? When? Before the foundation of the world. Now this passage deals with something that disturbs many people, but it's also something that is clearly seen throughout all of Scripture That is God's sovereign election in which he chooses to save some people from his wrath and judgment. Now this, of course, is a huge subject, and I wish we had more time to address it and spend on it. But I will make a few points and encourage you to study it on your own yourself this week. In fact You can listen to Pastor Russ's sermon on election, which he preached last September, as well as several other of his sermons that are on sermon audio about this doctrine. And he's not paying me to plug his sermons either. Well, let me say this. God 's sovereign election is taught consistently throughout the Old and New Testaments For example, in the Old Testament, God sovereignly chose Israel from among all the other nations to be what? His treasured possession among all peoples, according to Exodus 19. 5. And in Exodus 33, 19, the Lord declares his sovereign prerogative to save whosoever he desires. When he told Moses, I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious. And I will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. And the New Testament makes this crystal clear as well, that God sovereignly chooses some to be saved. Jesus himself said in John 15, 16, you did not choose me, but what? I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide. Now of course we know he's talking to his disciples, his apostles But this truth applies to all Christians throughout time. For in 1 Peter 1 verse 2, Peter tells the believers what? He tells them that they were chosen by the foreknowledge of the Father. And we also know from Scripture that God's election is not based on anything in us. It's not that we're better than others, that we're more superior to others. No, it's not based on our own merit, but it's based solely, completely, out of God's grace alone. After all, what did Moses tell the Israelites in Deuteronomy 7? Does he say to them, Oh, God chose you because you are such stellar people? that you are the cream of the crop, that you are such wonderful people. Well of course he's not going to say that, because he spent 40 years in the desert leading them. And he knew exactly what they were like, that they were far from wonderful people, but that they were miserable sinners like himself. No, he says, it was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you For you were the fewest of all peoples. In other words, he's saying you Israelites were totally insignificant. And Paul says the same thing in 2 Peter 1, verse 9. God saved us, and he called us to a holy calling. Why? Not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace. Which he gave us in Christ Jesus when before the ages began. And Paul makes this abundantly clear to the Ephesians as well. In chapter 2, he says this, that this is what you were like. This is who you were before you received the gospel. He says, Ephesians, you once walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we are all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just as the others So we weren't chosen by something that was worthwhile in us. No, it was just the opposite That we had no redeeming qualities, but were God's, in fact, we were God's enemies in need of his redeeming power in our lives. No, he called us simply out of his good pleasure. And Paul knew this well himself. This was part of his life story. For in First Timothy, he describes himself as what? The worst of sinners The worst of sinners because he persecuted the church. But here God had shown him such wonderful, incredible mercy in calling him to himself. Now you might say, well yes, God chose us before the foundation of the world, and that is because in his he is sovereign. And in his sovereign knowledge, what God could do is that he could look forward into the future, and he could see that some would choose him And with that foreknowledge, he then chose us for choosing him. And they point to Romans 8. 29. And they say, look at verse 29 there, because look what it says. It says, those whom he foreknew, what? He predestined to eternal life. But one of the problems of such a view Is that this is not what foreknowledge means? When Paul writes that God foreknew He doesn't mean that he had foresight in which God looks forward into history and sees who will choose him and then bases his predestination on their decision. No. Foreknowledge in Romans 8. 29 really means for loved. Those whom he for loved, he predestined. For the Greek for knowledge in verse 29 means to have an intimate relationship with someone, the way Adam knew Eve, as we see in Genesis. So when Paul says that God foreknew those he predestined, he means that God had set his affections upon them. Well again some might say, it's just not fair. It's not fair that God chooses some to be saved before they are even born. Now, if you're a recipient of God's grace, aren't you glad that God isn't fair? Amen. Because if he were fair, what would happen? None of us would be saved. God is certainly just. And because he's just, his justice demands that all who sinned should be righteously under his condemnation. They should be judged But out of God's loving kindness, out of his loving kindness, brothers and sisters, he has set his saving love upon some Not based on anything that they have done, but only solely out of his good pleasure. And if you are the recipient of his grace, then it is very comforting to know. That long before you were a gleam in your father's eye, your name was written on your heavenly father 's heart. Amen. But wait. Some may object and say, well doesn't that just make us robots or like puppets on a string which God pulls? No, because Scripture also teaches that we have free will and that we are responsible for our rejection of the one true God. So both God's sovereignty on the one hand and our responsibility on the other hand are both held in tension with each other in Scripture. Scripture teaches both truths. Now we may never understand this paradox that's presented in Scripture between God's sovereignty and his election, God's sovereign election and our free will. But one thing that we can readily grasp is the purposes of God's election. His purposes in our election. And we see in this passage several reasons which Paul mentions. In verse 5, we read, it is simply out of God's will that he predestined us. Again, Paul is emphasizing that is God's sovereign choice and what he wills, he will accomplish, and nothing is left to chance. or is uncertain in God's divine election. And notice how Paul qualifies God's will. He qualifies it by saying, it is out of his good pleasure. In other words, he chooses us out of a sense of joy, out of a sense of delight. His will isn't dispassionate, and he doesn't choose us begrudgingly, oh, I gotta choose some of these people No, he chooses us out of his good pleasure. And his sovereign choosing is not only out of his good pleasure. But it is purposeful in several significant ways. Paul mentions one way in verse 6. His sovereign election was to the praise of the glory of his grace. In other words, his grace to us brings him glory as we in turn praise him for what he's done in our lives. Because our salvation is all from Him. That we didn't deserve it, we didn't merit, and we cannot take credit for it, but it was freely bestowed upon us by His grace. And so, beloved, it is fitting, it is fitting that we should give him all the glory and praise with our very lips and our very lives. And one day, one day, it's described in Revelation 7 what it'll be like That we will glorify our Savior perfectly in glory, in which we will exclaim with a whole host of heaven Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Amen. Well, we also see another reason for God's choosing us from eternity past. And we see it right there in verse 4. In verse 4, what is there? Well, that he has chosen us before the foundation of the world, so that we should be what? Holy and blameless. Now the word blameless there means without blemish, and it harkens back to the Old Testament sacrifices, which require that the sacrificed animal had to be without spot or blemish in order to be an acceptable sacrifice for sin. And the reason for that stipulation was that it appointed to Christ's ultimate final sacrifice, in which God's sinless Son would be the perfect substitute for us. taking upon himself the judgment for our sin as a land without blemish our spot according to 1 Peter 119. For on the cross God made him to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in Christ we might become the righteousness of God. In other words, on the cross, Jesus paid the debt for our sin, and in turn, we received the credit of his righteousness when we put our faith in him. And since we are in union with him in Christ, united to him, his righteousness is imputed to us. In our union with Christ, we are justified, declared not guilty. And being in Christ means that since he is blameless, we are blameless. Since he is so holy, we are then considered holy. His righteousness covers us so that when God looks at us, he doesn't see our sin But he sees only his son's righteousness. Now we can say that that is a positional holiness, a positional holiness. In other words, we can stand before God without any fear of judgment or wrath because we are united with Christ. who is without blemish, so that we are viewed as blameless in Christ. Now that might sound very ethereal and very kind of way out there. But in fact, it's very practical and it's very relevant for us. For I have seen in my own personal life. And also in pastoral ministry throughout the years, that when we sin, when we sin, we can feel like Paul. Who says in Romans 7. 19, for I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep doing. And when that happens, what is our tendency? We want to hide from God. And we want to hide from other Christians. We want to say to ourselves, man, I messed up again. I messed up again. How can God ever accept me? I feel so ashamed. How can I go to worship? I'm such a hypocrite. How can I face other believers? How can I face God Himself? And our guilt and our shame keeps us from God, the very source of life where we find peace and forgiveness And yet what do we do? We run away from him, from our Heavenly Father, rather than toward Him. And it is so unnecessarily debilitating to us Why, beloved? Why? Because we have Romans 8, 1, where there where Paul tells us that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That his righteousness is ours positionally, so that we can always come boldly to his throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. as Hebrews 14, 16 reminds us. So we must never, ever let sin keep us from approaching our Savior's throne of grace. Because that is where we find restoration and forgiveness that we so desire and we so very much need. And yet, yet, our holiness and our blamelessness is not just in our position in Christ. Holiness and a blameless life is also to be our practice, not just our position. Now we'll say more about this later, but it is enough to say for now that in our union with Christ, we share in his life That he gives us a new nature that desires to be like our Savior. And in our unity with Christ, we have all the spiritual resources that he has. And so what does he do, beloved? He sanctifies us. He sanctifies us. He's in the process of making us more like himself as we spend time with him. in his word and in prayer and with the result that we can grow in holiness and seek to live blameless lives Now you may be wondering, where do you get all of that in verse 4? Where do you see the practice of holiness in verse 4? Well, we see it from two words. Before him. Those two words there are significant. Because to be before Christ means that we live in the presence of Christ. He is ever before us. So if we were to rephrase verse 4 another way, we would say we are to live in his presence lives that are holy and blameless because he He's always before us. In other words, what we possess positionally in Christ is what we should practice before Christ. Well, we have seen the purposes of God's election, that it's out of his good purpose, pleasure, for his glory, and to make us holy and blameless. And in the last two words of verse 4, we find his motivation in choosing us. That he predestined us in love. In love. Now when we consider the unconditional quality of God's love, which he just absolutely astounds us with, that he ravit lavishes upon us. And we compare his love with the way that we love , what do we find? That there is a huge world of difference, isn't there? How different is his love from our feeble attempts at love? So much of the way that we love is conditional love at best. Just consider Valentine's cards. Over the years of buying Valentine's cards for my wife, I've noticed something. And as you shop for yours this year, see if I'm not right. And I guarantee you I am because I usually am right. Because the majority of the cards have this overarching common theme about love. What do they say? They say, I love you for what you've done for me. You bring me such joy. You bring me such happiness. You fulfill me. It's like that Diana Ross song Upside down, boy, you turn me. Inside out and round and round. Instinctively, you give to me the love that I need. And because our love is so often conditional that I love you for loving me so well, well what happens when you no longer make that other person feel so special? Well, that you can start singing a Carol King tune. Tonight your mind completely. You give your love so sweetly. Tonight the light of love is in your eyes. But will you love me tomorrow? But beloved, the good news is that God's love is not like ours. That is perfect. It's pure. It's permanent. And it's not based on our performance. That his love has been showered upon us, not because of what we have done. No, the quality of his love is revealed to us by what he has done for us through his son, that it's all by his grace. So when we open up God's Valentine to us, it doesn't say, I love you for what you do for me. No. It says I love you because I love you. Now just let that truth soak down deep into the inner fibers of your soul this week. See what that truth does for you. See how that truth of God's unconditional love, see how it transforms your attitude, your perspective, your sense of who you are. That he doesn't love you anymore or any less based on your performance Now let's just stop here for a moment and let's park our car and look at the immense vista contained in just one verse. in verse four. In just one verse, Paul stands all of time looking back to our election from eternity past before there was time. to eternity future when time will cease. In just one verse, Paul encompasses all of our prosperity All that the Lord does from start to finish in his master plan to save his people, from our election in eternity past , to our sanctification in this present life, to our future glorification when we will be completely free from sin that so easily ensnares us. And beloved, in that day, in that day we will practice perfectly what we are positionally now. That we will be perfectly holy and blameless when we gaze into the loving eyes of our Savior who says, Come, you blessed of my Father. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you before the foundation of the world. So once again, we are amazed. at the richness and the depth of Scripture, that just one verse, one verse can condense all the riches that we have in Christ Jesus. So in verse 4, we have a glimpse of eternity, and we see our prosperity. And it also alludes to our identity of being in Christ. And that identity is made even clearer in verse 5. Now, identity is an important issue. Developing a sense of self-worth is a very popular topic in our culture. Just consider the size of any self-help section in a bookstore or in a library. And you may have a low view of your worth as a person. Because you were abused, or you were bullied, or you were made to feel inadequate by another person's critical judgment. And such experiences can make us feel self-conscious or anxious as we try to live up to other people's expectations or to get their approval. And we try and find our sense of identity or self-worth in so many different things. Having a perfect GPA or six-pack abs. are being promoted to an office with a window. And younger people, so much about relationships, is about our own sense of self-worth That if we just find that significant other man, we have found our identity in that person. Now don't get me wrong, relationships are good. God has made them and created them as a God who is in relationships, and he certainly has created marriage, and that's a good thing. But when the focus of your identity, when you get your sense of self-worth by being in a relationship with someone, when that becomes the most significant thing in your life, that's where you get your strokes. And you get your sense of self-worth, well then you are in trouble of making some very disastrous choices in your life So this is a warning to us, but it's also an encouragement to us. For where do we find our true sense of identity? Well, in verses 5 and 6, we find a sense of significance and self-worth and an identity that is lasting and transforming. And that identity is encompassed in two short phrases. The first is in verse 5, where Paul writes that we have been adopted as children of God through Christ. Now, have you ever thought about what it means to be adopted into God's family? If you're a Christian, what is your status You are not mere servants living on the fringes of God's kingdom. No. You are a prince or a princess of the king of the universe. And in Roman law, an adopted son had all the rights and privileges of a biological son And Paul picks up on this in Romans 8. 15, where he says, You do not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry Abba Father. As God's adopted children, we have all the rights and privileges that Jesus has as God's only begotten Son. We have unlimited access to the Father, and Jesus' inheritance of his kingdom becomes our inheritance as well of God's kingdom. As adopted children in God's family, we receive something else too, which is unique to any other adopted children. John MacArthur points this out when he says parents can give an adopted child complete equity in the home life, resources, and inheritance, but no human parent can impart his own distinct nature to an adopted child. Yet this is what God miraculously does to every person whom he has elected and who has trusted in Christ He makes them sons just like his divine son. And with the privileges of adoption comes also the responsibility to uphold the family character. And beloved, we can do that. We can do that because we share in God's divine nature. Even though we are adopted, we learn what it means to be royalty in God's kingdom. In a few months, Commoner Meghan Markle will marry Prince Harry, and she will have untold wealth and privilege as part of the royal family. But with that royal privilege comes royal responsibility royally. She will need to act like a royal So before her marriage, she is now undergoing a crash course and acting like royalty, learning all the ins and outs of being a royal. She's developing the perfect curtsy, and she's learning about who she has to curtsy to and who she doesn't have to curtsy to, and it gets all very confusing. But she will also have to learn proper etiquette for royal dinners and how to behave at state affairs and events. But the purpose of that education is so that she can know how to regally present the royal family and not cause a social faux pas or a scandal. And likewise, for us as God's adopted children, we need to learn how to live up to our high calling as God's royal family. That is why Paul says in Ephesians 5, verse 3, But fornication and uncleanliness or covetousness, let not that even be named among you, as is fitting for saints. Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather the giving of thanks. For we are to take on the family resemblance. Well, adoption is just one way Paul emphasizes our identity and the worth that we have in Christ. Do you see the other there? It's in verse 6. Well, we are accepted in the beloved. Now, it's significant there that he says in the beloved. Paul could have just as easily said that we are accepted in Christ. But Paul says here that we are accepted in the beloved, meaning Jesus, the Father's beloved Son. And Paul is alluding back to Matthew 17, where the Father says to Jesus, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. The Father is pleased with his beloved Son. And so in our union with Christ, what does that mean? As the Father is pleased and loves the Son, so is he pleased and loves you, because you are in Christ, his child. Now, that can be a life-changing and it can be revolutionary for a person who feels completely worthless Because the Lord is saying here, you are beloved in the Lord, and he is well pleased with you. You are totally, completely accepted. And when you think about it, so much of our life is about finding or seeking acceptance. And I can tell you, it's quite a rap race, isn't it? It starts early on in pre-K or kindergarten when we wonder, will the other kids like me? Will my teacher like me And that only continues in elementary school and it reaches its peak in middle school. Where will I sit at lunch? Will the in-crowd let me sit at their table, or will I sit off in the corner with the rest of the outcasts? And then when you get to college, what is it, or wherever you go? It's just more of the same. Rinse and repeat. And in our jobs, we wonder, will I be accepted by my boss? Will I fit in with my coworkers? And then there is dating or whatever you call it these days. Will this person accept me for being me? And if you're a minority of any kind, whether it's a racial minority, an education educational minority or a social , economic m minority, you wonder, will I be accepted by the majority? And so it goes on and on and on to the very end. to the time when you're downsizing and you're moving to a retirement community and you say to yourself, will I be accepted there? And when you think about it, man, is that tiring, isn't it? We long for acceptance. And we put so much weight on being accepted by others and getting their approval, and that so much so that their acceptance becomes like an idol in our hearts. Where we say, if I just had blank, fill in the blank, then I would know that I'm worthy, that I'm significant, that I have a sense of identity. And yet, beloved, what do we see in verse 5? That all of that striving is pointless in the scheme of things? Why? Because we are already accepted by the one whose opinion matters the most. That we are accepted in the beloved, in Jesus Christ. And as we consider all of this, we find that there's a certain paradox, isn't there? That on the one hand, we who are in Christ should be the most humble of people. Because all we had in Christ was a gift of his grace freely bestowed on us. And that we can't take any credit for it because we were completely undeserving of it. And yet we should be the most confident and the most content of people because of our prosperity and our identity that we have in Christ. Jesus. For brothers and sisters, we have been so blessed so abundantly with blessings that stand from eternity past to eternity future in our union with Christ, that all we have left to do is but to praise him with our voices and with our very lives. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, how we do praise you We lift up to you all honor and glory and majesty due for what you have done for us in our union in Christ. That from eternity past to eternity future, you have laid your hand upon us, and that you have loved us with an everlasting, unconditional love. And that you have given us a sense of identity, a sense of purpose, a sense of value, which knows no bounds. Oh Father, I pray that we would let those truths sink deep into our hearts, that they would transform our very lives and how we see ourselves and how we approach others. How we worship you. And we do indeed worship you for the many blessings that we have in Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.