As we continue our study through the Gospel of Mark. And we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs We come to verse thirty five of Mark chapter twelve. We'll read through the end of the chapter. Then Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How is it that the scribes say that Christ is the son of David. For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. Therefore, David himself calls him Lord. How is he then his son? And the common people heard him gladly. And then he said to them in his teaching, Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats. in the synagogues and the best places at feasts, who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation. Now Jesus sat opposite the treasury and saw how the people put money into the treasury, and many who were rich put in much. Then one poor widow came and threw in two mites, which makes which make a quadrants So he called his disciples to himself and said to them, Assuredly I say to you that this poor widow has put in more than all those who have given to the treasury. For they all put in out of their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, put in all that she had , her whole livelihood. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray. Oh Father, speak to us through your holy word this day. Remove from us anything that would hinder the working of your word in our hearts. May your Holy Spirit apply it to each of us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. After Jesus raised Lazarus from the grave, entered Jerusalem to the praise of the people, cast the money changers and the religious merchandisers out of the temple. The spiritual authorities of Israel were at a fever pitch to have him dealt with. They saw him as a threat to their authority. a usurper of the affections of the common people, a danger to the nation. They feared that the general excitement surrounding Christ Would be reported in Rome, and the emperor would overreact, and that their positions, and even the continuance of the Hebrews in Palestine, would be jeopardized They thought that they had to find some means to rid themselves of this prophet from Nazareth. But they had to do it in a way that would not bring the wrath of the masses down upon them. So they tried to catch Jesus in various traps, but as you know, he always managed to slip away, leaving them looking foolish. In the passage we read this morning, Jesus took the offensive on the scribes. He began to question their teaching. First, he questioned their interpretation of God's word. Verses 35 to 37. Look at it again. And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, how is it that the scribes say that the Christ The Messiah is the son of David. For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. Therefore David himself calls him the Messiah Lord, how is he then his son? He refers his hearers to Psalm 110. The Old Testament passage that is quoted more often in the New Testament than any other. It's an amazingly clear messianic psalm. Even before Christ's coming, this psalm was viewed by Jewish interpreters as referring to the coming Messiah. It's titled The Psalm of David, and Jesus affirms that David was in fact its author. In our English Bibles, when we see the word Lord printed in small capital letters, as it is here, the first time it's used, uh it's The translators are communicating to us that this is a translation of the Hebrew word Yahweh or Jehovah. the pre-existent, eternal one, the great I am of Exodus 3. But you'll note that the second time the word Lord is used in this verse, which is again a quotation from Psalm 110. The second time the word Lord is used, it's spelled with a capital L and small letters. Well, that's a translation of the word Adonai. Which can refer to God in Scripture, and it often does, but it can also refer to a human whom one wishes to honor, as today in England one might refer to the Lord Mayor or on British television to Lord Grantham. But in Psalm 110, we see David say, Jehovah Said to my Adonai, my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. In other words, until your enemies are so soundly defeated that they are utterly subservient to you. The idea is make your enemies your footstool, to the point that you could have them prostrate before you and use them as a footstool. Sit at my side until I totally defeat all your enemies. Jehovah says to Adonai, to David's Adonai. Now the scribes were correct in concluding that this Lord sitting at Jehovah's right hand was the anointed one, the Messiah, the coming son of David, who would reign in his stead. But they didn't seem to notice or address the fact that David refers to this exalted being who was Seated at the Father's right hand, not merely as a Lord, an exalted personage , but as his Lord. Jehovah said to my Adonai Sit at my right hand. Yes, the Messiah would be from David's line, of David's lineage, of his posterity, and in that sense he could be called his son. But whoever heard of a man calling a descendant his Lord? Would you refer to your as yet unborn great-great-great-great great great grandson as your Lord? Jesus makes the point, if the Messiah is David's descendant and no more than David's descendant, why then would David call him his Lord? If David, by the Holy Spirit, Jesus says, verse 36, that is inspired by the Holy Spirit, for all scripture is God-breathed, 2 Timothy 3 316. If David by the Holy Spirit refers to the Christ, the Messiah, the anointed one, as his Lord, then clearly the Messiah He's a pre-existent, exalted being. And the scribes had no cause to be scandalized when Jesus, the Messiah, said things like, Before Abraham was I am. And Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. You're not yet 50 years old. Have you seen Abraham? Before Abraham was, I am. You are from beneath, Jesus said. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. Obviously, the scribes didn't know God's word as well as they claimed. And the common people heard him gladly. Then he continues on the offensive. Not only were the scribes wrong in their interpretation of Scripture, some of them were hypocrites. Look at verse 38. Then he said to them in his teaching, Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, the best places at feasts. Who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers, these will receive greater condemnation. He warns the common people to beware of the scribes. Much of what they do is for show, he says. It's for appearance sake. There is superficiality in what they do. They're more concerned with how they appear before men. than with truly pleasing and serving God. They go around in long robes. They want to be seen. They want to be noticed. They want to be admired In Matthew 23, we read, Jesus said of them, all their works they do to be seen of men. Imagine that. All their works they do to be seen of men. What they really enjoyed about being scribes was getting the honors that came with the position, the best places at the feasts. Best places at the synagogues, being greeted in the marketplaces. Rabbi, Rabbi, Master, Teacher. Along the same lines, the scribes would for a pretense make long prayer. Now, these were not prayers in secret, prayers in their own homes, offered in sincerity, heard only by the Lord These were public prayers, whether spoken or not, prayers that were intentionally long, that others might see and note how spiritual these men were. They were praying for a pretense, that is a false appearance or action intended to deceive But pride and pretense and superficiality were not the extent of the sin of the scribes. They also, Jesus said, devoured widows' households. devoured widows household. Now it would have been considered an honor to host a scribe and extend hospitality to him Just as it is a great honor, as you know, to feed a pastor today. But but but these scribes evidently took advantage of that hospitality. Particularly that which was extended by widows, consuming their resources, the resources of those who could least afford to part with them. And they may have been even more blatant, finding ways to finagle from widows their property. We're not exactly sure precisely what Jesus was referring to here. Perhaps the scribes offered the widows roles in the service of the temple, but their interest was not in providing for the needs of the widows, but rather in feathering their own nests. They were, we read in Matthew 23, clean on the outside, the scribes and Pharisees, while being full of extortion and self-indulgence on the inside. Now it may strike you that these words were not what we would call very diplomatic. And they would have done nothing to improve the opinion that the scribes and Pharisees had of Jesus of Nazareth. But Jesus was of course aware that the so-called religious leaders of Israel had already determined to put him to death Prompted in great part by envy, they were quite willing to kill him to preserve their own positions. And to remove from the hearts of the people of Israel a rival to their affections. No, the scribes and Pharisees did not necessarily believe they were conspiring against the long-awaited Messiah. Hopefully they would have enough grace not to d to consciously do that. But they knew Jesus had committed no crime that the Roman government would uh perceive to be worthy of death. They knew that. Well, this was no time for Jesus to mince words. He told the people to beware of the scribes. This is a sort of parting counsel. Beware of the scribes, because they're blind guides. And if the people depended on the scribes and Pharisees for all their spiritual instruction, they were in great danger. The iniquity of the scribes and Pharisees was well known to the Lord, and it was particularly heinous because of their position. as teachers. This is why Jesus said in verse 40, they, the scribes, would receive greater condemnation. My brethren, James said, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. James 3. 1. You don't want to stand before God on the day of judgment as one who, having professed to be a holy man, a spiritual leader, was actually defrauding God's people, devouring widows' households. As one who did all his works to be seen of men, as one who, like a cup clean on the outside, was filthy on the inside, full of hypocrisy, lawlessness, extortion, self-indulgence. It would be far better to not be a teacher of God's word than to be a false teacher of God's word. Amen? Mark concludes this section of his account with something else that Jesus did, which Although it was not a direct rebuke of the scribes and Pharisees, was a rebuke of the spirit, the attitude of doing religious deeds for the benefit of what you imagine you'll receive by the act. Now that benefit may be the attention, appreciation that's received from those who witness what you do, or who are beneficiaries of your action, or it might be what we ourselves hope to receive from God as a result of our actions I gave this amount, Lord, now you bless me with an even greater amount. Look at verse 41. Now Jesus sat opposite the treasury and saw how the people put money into the treasury, and many who were rich put in much. Now, there were thirteen of these offering boxes, we're told, mounted in the women's court of the temple. Why there? So that both men and women would be able to use them. Jesus observed the amounts that people placed in the offering boxes. Now it's not clear, at least it's not clear to me in the text, if the amounts that people gave were evident to all observers, or only to Jesus, to whom all things are clear We know that he said in his Sermon on the Mount, when you give to the needy, don't sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. So it may have been that some of these wealthy givers did make a show of their giving, you know, carrying something, making it prominent, giving it with some uh display. Uh but that's not what Jesus focused on here. He spoke of how much they gave, not their ostentatious manner of giving Many who were rich put in much. Now that's a good thing, right? One would hope that those who had freely received would freely give One would hope that those who were rich in this present age would not be haughty, nor trust in uncertain riches, but that they would be rich in good works. Ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come. 1 Timothy 6. We would hope that the rich would put in much We would much rather that the rich put in much than that the rich put in very little. But look at verse 42. Then one poor widow came and threw in two mites, which make a quadrant. A poor widow came and threw into the collection box two small copper coins. The closest thing we have to it was is a penny. This would be more like a haypenny or a hey-heypenny. It's a tiny little amount. Two lepta, it is in the original, uh often referred to as the smallest coin, valued as a tiny fraction of a day's wage, which was a denarius. One source said it was one 128th of a denarius. Two of these little coins would represent then 164th of a day's wage of a laborer. Now you put that in today's terms. This woman would be like someone today giving a dollar or two to the Lord's work, right? As the plate came by. Now, imagine that this morning as the offering plate came by you, I trust that it did, you noticed that someone on your left put in a roll of what appeared to be $100 bills And you notice that somebody on your right put in a dollar. Or maybe there was another dollar there you couldn't quite see out of the corner of your eye. You would assume that the person on your left who put in that large donation, that roll of bills that looked like they were all hundreds, You would assume that that person had put more in than the person on your right who put in one or two dollars. And that would certainly be true if you only considered the relative value of an image of George Washington. on on a piece of paper, uh a green piece of paper, a certain piece of paper, uh, than the relative value of a Ben Franklin image on our currency. But that's not necessarily the way the Lord Jesus would view it. Look at verse 43. So he called the disciples to himself and he said to them, Assuredly I say to you , that this poor widow has put in more than all those who have given to the treasury. What? Can you imagine the side what what did he say? She put it, did you see what he put in two mites? She's given more, for they all put in out of their abundance But she, out of her poverty, put in all that she had, her whole livelihood. The amount this poor widow gave, relative to the amount that she had left over after she gave, made her gift far more than the gifts of the wealthy. They gave out of their abundance. She gave out of her poverty. She gave without knowing how her future needs would be met. The rich gave confident that they still had great reserves. This widow was in what we would call extreme poverty. If this was her whole living, she was in extreme poverty. Her entire livelihood was a small fraction of a day's wage. Yet it seems that love for the Lord and for his work compelled her to give not one mite, but two. Now, if she had asked my advice, I would have discouraged her from giving all that she had. Hey, if you feel you must give something, give one of your two mites You know, if you can't cut it in half and give half of one of your mites. If you feel you must give something, give one of your two mites and devote the remainder for food or thread or cloth or oil for your lamp. Well, she didn't ask me. She threw in both mites, evidently trusting that her heavenly father would care for her. Clearly, she was a woman of great faith. Right? Clearly. Her giving was sacrificial. It reminds us of the Apostle Paul's phrase of the grace of God bestowed. on the churches of Macedonia. Remember the churches of Berea, Philippi, Thessalonica, and others, who gave to meet the needs of fellow believers according to their ability, Paul said. Yes, and beyond their ability. They were in poor conditions, but they they said, Paul, you must receive an offering from us to take to the poor Christians in Jerusalem. We insist that we be allowed to uh take part in this offering. Now, let me attempt to highlight some of the truths of God's word in this passage before we leave it. First of all, notice that the Lord Jesus points the common people to the scriptures. Going back now to what he said about the scribes and their misinterpretation of Psalm 110. Jesus points the common people to the scriptures, the only scriptures they had at that point, what we call the Old Testament. He points them there to learn about him, their Messiah. Verse 36, David himself, by the Holy Spirit, calls him Lord, citing Psalm 110. As Jesus put it in John 5, if you believe Moses, I'm sorry, if you believed Moses, you would believe me. For he wrote about me, Jesus said. John 5. 46. You search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me, he said. John 5, 20, uh, 39. Paul said to Timothy, from a child. Timothy, from a child, you have known the Holy Scriptures which are able to make you wise unto salvation through faith. Which is in Christ Jesus. What scriptures did Timothy have? The Old Testament scriptures. From a child. You've known the scriptures which are able to make you wise unto salvation. Which is in Christ Jesus. The uh Old Testament scriptures, as J. C. Ryle put it, were intended to teach men about Christ by types and figures and prophecy until he himself should appear on earth. We should always keep this in mind in reading the Old Testament. He continued, there are probably many rich passages in that part of the Bible which have never been fully explored. There are deep things about Jesus in it. Which many walk over like hidden gold mines, and know not the treasures beneath their feet. Let us reverence all the Bible. All is given by inspiration, all is profitable One part throws light upon another, and no part can ever be neglected without loss and damage to our souls. Jesus proved to the Sadducees the truth of the resurrection and of life beyond the grave by referring them to the Lord's words at the burning bush, Exodus 3. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Here he taught the people the truth that the scribes missed about David's descendant, the coming Messiah. This passage rebukes our neglect of Or hurried reading of God's holy word. That's what this passage does. It rebukes our neglect of God's word. Jesus is rebuking the scribes for not seeing what's clearly in the scripture Dr. John MacArthur said at a recent Ligoneer conference that Christian book publishers have told him that sales of Bible study materials are tanking. Sales of Bible study materials in America are tanking, while the sales of Christian fiction are soaring. When you add to that mix the fact that in many so-called evangelical churches, the meat of God's word has been replaced with the milk, and it's not whole milk, it's skim milk. Of feel-good stories, comical little video clips, preaching that's careful to avoid any hard truth from God's word that might cause someone to disagree or take offense. Then is it any wonder that American Christians, like the population in general, seem to be so lacking in discernment? Now the saddest and most blatant evidence of this, it seems to me. Is the way evangelicals are presently voting. How many Christians, before voting, even consider looking into God's Word to see what traits We should seek in a leader. Not many, it appears. If they did, they would be compelled by God's word to make different choices. No, the church is not the state, and the state is not the church, but the character traits to be sought in a leader in the church should at least inform our choice for leaders elsewhere. In other words, a leader should have integrity, honesty, wisdom, discretion, humility, patience, sound judgment. The scripture says a leader shouldn't be a slanderer or a brawler, not quarrelsome, not soon angry, not greedy for money. Not violent. A lover of good men. Sober, just holy, gentle , self-controlled. Temperate, of good reputation. We should seek in a leader someone who has shown himself to be faithful to his spouse, a one-woman man Someone who honors his vows, not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Scripture says. We should not be surprised when unbelievers fail to exercise much discernment in their choices. Doesn't shock me. I would be in the same boat if the Lord hadn't saved me and changed my heart, my mind, and my world view, and brought it in conformity to his word. It shouldn't surprise us when unbelievers fail to exercise much discernment, choosing socialism, for example, over liberty and free enterprise. Give me free college, that's cool. I'm for that. But have American Christians really decide descended to the point that as an alternative, we would choose to place the most formidable military force on earth Into the hands of someone who demonstrates none of the self-control and few, if any, of the other characteristics that we should seek in a leader, has it come to us This. No, we're not choosing a pastor in chief. But is it wise for us to choose as a leader someone who declares boldly, publicly, that he can't recall ever get asking God's forgiveness for anything? Really? Not even after you abandoned your first wife for a young actress? Not after years later you abandoned her for a European model Why would a Christian who knows God's word freely choose a man who declares he's never asked God's forgiveness for anything to lead his son's Cub Scout pack? His daughter's soccer team, let alone become the leader of our country. Or as Max Lakato put it in a recent editorial, breaking years of silence on political events, by the way. Referring to this candidate who calls others fat and bimbo and morons and stupid and losers, he said that wouldn't even be acceptable for a middle school student body election. Yet this candidate declares himself to be a Christian. A Christian who's never asked God's forgiveness for anything. Likato said, how does this work? Does a swimmer say, I've never gotten wet? Jesus pointed the people, the people of God, to his father's inspired word. He said, haven't you read? Don't you know What would he say to American Christians today? He might say, are you so easily deluded? Are you blinded by your anger? Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, Ephesians 4. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God, James 120. The works of the flesh include adultery, uncleanness, lewdness, hatred, contention. Jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions. Galatians 5. I think Jesus might say to American Christians, have you never read the Apostle Paul's final letter? He said that perilous times will come. Listen to what he said. For men will be lovers of themselves. Lovers of money, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unless you're not sure. Unforgiving, slanderers, without self-control, brutal, despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty Lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying its power Now, if you know your Bible, let me ask you, did he then say, and choose such to be your leaders? No, no. This is what he said. From such people turn away. 2 Timothy 3, 1 to 5. Our calling as Christians is not to vent our anger on the government or the establishment It is, the scripture says, to live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ Speak these things, Paul said to Titus, exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one despise you. Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. Titus 2, 12 I don't know about you, but it seems to me that a strong spirit of delusion has settled upon America. And it's permeated the Church of Jesus Christ, unfortunately. We need to ask ourselves, are my decisions informed by the Word of God or by cable news network? and talk radio. It's the entrance of God's word that gives light. Psalm 119, 130. Now, secondly, this passage, like many others in God's word, reveals how odious in the Lord's eyes is the sin of hypocrisy. The joy of the hypocrite is but for a moment, Job 20, verse 5. The hypocrisy of the scribes and Pharisees drew forth Christ's strongest rebukes. Here it's also Psalm Matthew 23 at greater length. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! They were hypocrites because their spirituality was all pretense. They were far more concerned with what people thought of them than with what the Lord knew of them. A hypocrite is one who plays a part. Now, a believer trying to obey and please the Lord, despite his best efforts, stumbles into sin and picks himself up. Asking God's forgiveness and going on, that's not , he's not or she's not in Scripture called a hypocrite. It's called a Christian. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 1 John 1, 8, and 9. Now, notice it wasn't just the devouring of the property of others that the Lord Jesus condemned here. It was having the audacity to devour widows' houses. those who could presumably least afford to be to be uh uh taken from, to have uh property taken from them. They're the ones who should have been the objects of charity. They shouldn't have had to fear the scribes It's wicked for one who professes to be serving the Lord in our day to solicit what is oftentimes the sacrificial giving of the elderly on fixed incomes. Someone who may be scraping by on a monthly stipend in order for the prosperity preacher to maintain his lavish lifestyle with multiple mansions, a fleet of luxury cars, and a private jet. Like someone sitting at the top of a pyramid scheme, the prosperity preacher wants you to aspire to have what he has, including the Italian suits and the gold jewelry. And he suggests that your giving to him with abandon will bring such things to you. Now you may want to be in his designer shoes now. But you won't want to be in his shoes when he stands before him whose eyes are as a flame of fire. The one who said, whoever causes one of these little ones to stumble One of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung about his neck and he were thrown into the sea. Mark 9, 42 Well, let me close this message on a positive note, while most of you are still here. Just as Jesus took note of the heartfelt devotion of the poor widow, who gave her two mites So surely he takes notice of your heartfelt devotion. He takes notice of your sincere devotion. R. C. Swirl makes a good point here. This is the most famous donation in history. It's better known than all the charitable contributions by Bill Gates, all the gifts. Of hundreds of millions of dollars by the Carnegie and Rockefeller families, or anyone else who was shown great generosity. The most famous gift was made by the poor widow in the temple as Jesus looked at No doubt she was rewarded when she entered glory. And knowing her Heavenly Father, as I trust we all do. do. I'm confident anyway that even that day when she returned to her home, or even as she made her way to her home, the Lord provided for her daily bread in some way. What a contrast between the scribes and Pharisees full of pretense and extortion and self-indulgence and this poor widow. who out of love for her Lord was willing to part with all she had. So the question you and I have to answer is, am I more like the scribes? Or am I more like that widow? Let's pray. Father, we ask for your spirit to bring conviction of sin into our hearts. And Lord, we do pray that we might be more like this widow, with faith and with trust and with humility. than like the scribes with pride and with uh lust and covetousness extortion in our God, we pray that as Jesus rebuked the scribes for not knowing the scripture, we pray that we would seek to be informed by your word when we have to make important decisions. The entrance of your word is what brings light. Heaven and earth shall pass away, Jesus said, but my words shall not pass away. Speak to each of our hearts we ask in Christ's name. Amen.