Then Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following. Who also had leaned on his breast at the supper and said, Lord, who is the one who betrays you? Peter, seeing him, said to Jesus, but Lord, what about this man? Jesus said said to him, if I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you? You follow me. Then the saying went around among the brethren that those disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he will not die. But if I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who testifies of these things and wrote these things and we know that his testimony Is true. And there are also many other things that Jesus did, which if they were written one by one I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Amen. Let us pray. Father, in the name of Jesus, the head of the church, our Redeemer , our King. Our teacher, we pray for illumination in your word and that you do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Open our eyes. Open our hearts to receive from your hand the food you have set out for us. But above everything else, give us the appetite and the taste. To enjoy this food from your hand. Along these lines, also give us strength and the eloquence that befit your holy word. For Christ's sake. Amen. It's been a privilege of mine to be here. This is the third time this year. And you notice that every time I've been here, I've been talking about John. I think contrary to what some reform theologians think Because when you ask Reform people what is your favorite book, everybody goes to the book of Romans. No. It's either the book of Leviticus or the Book of John That's it. And if I have to choose between the two, I'll go for Leviticus. But John comes Really, really high. It's a unique book in which you see the power, the majesty, the immensity of our Jesus Christ. The problems we don't really think about him that much. It's just Jesus Christ, the fire insurance. That's all we think about. But John has done something that is great. And I told you from the first time I came here that the post-resurrection appearances are not about us. They are not for us, they are about Jesus Christ Himself. Because you see, there is something about Christ that, if you understand from his post-resurrection appearances, would transform you. There is a certain passion about Christ. Once he has saved us, he is not in the business of discarding us. He is in the business of restoring us, reinstating us, and redirecting us and giving us the grace to be his ambassadors wherever he sends us. That's why he rose to prove to us that he cares for us and is never going to give up on you until you are conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. And so we have to visit those appearances very, very, very often. And so I just chose a number of people. Thomas. That encounter led to that supreme confession, Jesus is God. Peter, same confession. Lord, you know everything. Basically, you are God. But what we didn't talk about was John. And so I wanted to use these three to bring us to the point of realizing that whatever you may think about your commitment John is forcing us to realize an unwavering commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't let anything come between you and the Lord. Don't let anyone dangle fruits from the Garden of Eden before your eyes to make you think that God doesn't care about you. Yes, you may be shedding tears. But this God is telling us today, because of all that he has done, we should have unwavering commitment and love for him. So now it comes to us. How do we do that? He's going to talk about his will His word and his worth. In other words, for all that Jesus has done for us, if we really reflect on them Then these three things are going to be important for our own sanity. You compromise on any one of them, you'll be anemic. You'll be ineffective, you'll be useless. The will, the word And the worth of Jesus Christ. So let's look at verse 20 I'm suggesting here, when you pick from verse 20 to 22, I'm talking about principled resignation to Christ's will. That's the first point. Think about the will of Christ. There should be a principled resignation You come to a point where you don't matter anymore. It's the will of Christ that matters. Listen to Jesus himself: my food, my hamburger, my hot dog is to do the will of him that sent me. That which sustains me is the will of God. And so here John is going to force us to recognize if we are going to hold unwavering loyalty to Jesus Christ. then we must cultivate a principled resignation to the will of God. You notice how you resigned to these pews, didn't you? When you walked in, you didn't check to see whether the pews could support you, did you? You came in and you just resigned. You're not even thinking about anything else. That is the kind of resignation I'm talking about in this text. You're probably saying, Pastor, where did you get this idea? So let's get to the context with you. Remember the the dinner, the breakfast they had at Lakeview Fish and Chip Restaurant? You remember that? Great food. They finished it. Jesus talked and even addressed Peter and said, Peter, this is how you're going to die. You're going to die like me. Peter, I'm honoring you. And then as Jesus was accustomed to doing, he just took the, he wanted to take his heavenly shuttle. Just to go. Because that's what he was doing. Moving back and forth. Remember he told Ma Mary, don't touch me, stop touching me because I've not ascended unto my father yet. So apparently our Lord was just going back and forth. It was better than BWR Shuffle. So he got up And while he was leaving, Peter followed him. Presumably Peter had heard Jesus tell him, follow me. So Peter followed. And I suspect it was at this time that probably John also got up to tag along. I don't know whether the other disciples did that as well. The text doesn't tell us. But then all of a sudden, here is imagine Peter walking with Christ When you are walking with Christ, where should you be looking? Straight up. For some reason he turns around. And then he sees someone following. And what did he say? The guy following was not any other person, not Thomas, but the one that has been already identified. The one who put his head on the chest of Jesus Christ. Oh man, I wish I could preach on that. Think about it. Don't you underestimate John? He put his head on the very chest of God. And he comes and tells us, I saw him, and these things that I saw with my own eyes, I'm telling you, so you may believe. He's the one following. And then Peter turns around and he noticed. So he asked Jesus, literally, what this fellow, what a way to describe a friend of yours! What this fellow Here is somebody he has been with for so many years. They've been on the mountain of transfiguration together. They ran to the tomb together. These are friends. And he doesn't say, what about John? Because the Lord has said, follow me. And now he turns around and he sees him. What this guy Now, immediately you have to use your imagination and just indulge some of these critics for a moment. They say that statement and the way he referred to John, his close friend, indicates a hidden contempt for John. To some degree it makes sense if you are crazy. Because what they are saying is this that one John is always the favorite child of Jesus Christ because listen to the text, the one of whom Jesus was fond. Follow him It was John who put his hand on the chest of Jesus Christ. And it was John who was always perceptive. It is John who is always smart and thinking ahead. So he was a favorite guy. Now Jesus has repositioned Peter Restored his dignity and image and reputation. Now Peter is a good a big shot now. So he turns around And guess whom he sees? John. Oh no. Is he trying to steal my light again? You see the contempt? So he's a little suspicious of John. That's why they say he talked the way he did. I guess you can say this is just simply a cynical approach to this existential encounter with a text. I think Peter is more than that. Peter is a new Peter. He's the new and improved Peter. So I would agree that he was rather speaking out of concern, not contempt. This is his best friend. This is the one to whom Jesus entrusted his mother. This is the one who has been through everything with him. So he had a legitimate concern. Lord, you have honored me to die like you died. What about this precious guy of yours. Is he also going to be privileged and honored this way? That's legitimate, isn't it? There's nothing wrong humanly speaking to be concerned about your friends and your loved ones There is nothing wrong. But when you begin to meddle into God 's will and agenda, you are a carnal meddler. You have to know your place. That is essentially what our Lord is talking about. Listen to our Lord here. He said , Peter, if I personally want him to hang around until I come What to you? Or what business is it to you? In modern parlance I learned from the young people, it is an A B conversation, so see your way out. Peter, if it is my will, as your sovereign Lord, as your boss, if I should choose To let him even stay around. Is that your problem? Peter Get your priorities straight. There are certain things that belong to God. I choose your destinies You don't choose your destinies. See, Peter resigned to my will. My will is that you die. My will for him is going to be different. And even though I have restored you, Peter, I've not given you the right To do what only God can do. I determine his life. I guess at this point I probably could stop and ask you, parents Sometimes we we fall into the trap of trying to play God. I didn't hear the Presbyterians respond. This calls for humility. I pray for my children, I pray for my wife, I pray for my family, I pray for my loved ones, but my goodness. There are certain things that belong to God. You have to just give them over to God and let Him handle them. It's an A-B conversation. You see your way out. Peter, recognize your limitation. Relax. I am your sovereign Lord. If I have invested in John, I'm not going to leave him to flounder. I know how to handle my sheep. I will never lose one of them. Peter, relax. Do what I've asked you to do. In other words. Prioritize your duty and leave other businesses that only God can do. Leave them with God. What is your job? Your job is to follow me. Your job is to follow me. Sometimes we like looking over our shoulders to see, but what about hair? But what about him? But what about that pastor? What about that music director? God says it's none of your business. It's none of your business. We have to trust a smart God. God will do right by us. Look at this woman called Hannah. She gave birth to a boy after much prayer when even the Pope had said, You drunk, as if the Pope had been supplying booze to Hannah. And oh please, Pope, don't call me drunk. I've been pouring out my heart to the Lord. Oh, okay. May God answer your prayer. She had a baby. Special baby. Where did she send the baby? To a rotten cesspool The house of Eli. What has she done? It's the Lord's. You don't think she prayed for her son? She did, but she left everything to the Lord to control. That is the resignation. I mean, once you come to a point of understanding that God is smarter than you God is smarter than your husband. God is smarter than your kids. God will handle the situation. He will take care of it. All you have to do sometimes is just keep on crying. Sometimes just keep praying. Our sovereign God is able to handle everything. This will of God is contingent on understanding that God is. Sovereign and smart. Peter, that's my prerogative. The secret things belong to God, but the revealed things are for us. If you and I will grab on to this point, I must hold on to the will of God. Whatever it is, I will latch onto that. Even if you kill me, I'm going to hold on to God's will. My food is to do the will of him that sent me. and to accomplish his task. Your job is to work. It sounds A little abstract, isn't it? It reminds me of the 19th century conductor Sir Michael Custer Who was going to have a big concert so there was a rehearsal and the orchestral had come together and they brought in even a choir to join Right in the middle of the rehearsal, we are told, the guy who was playing the piccolo stopped. And Cercosta in the middle of the presentation suddenly stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Piccolo player. Where is the piccolo? You know piccolo? That little thing Oh, I didn't think it mattered. Because you have the trombone, you have trumpet, you have all this. So what Well it didn't matter, but the train conductor knew something was missing, and sometimes Christians behave that way. I'm not a preacher I'm not this big one. I'm not a conductor. I'm not that. And so the little gifts, see so-called little gifts God has given us We bury them. We don't use them. We are always thinking about the other person's gifts. Oh, if I could play that organ. You know how I envy that? When she was playing the first one, man. It brings something out of your system. You are so used to it, you don't pay attention. Man, I wish I could play that. That's a gift given to her. Play your piccolo. The great conductor is listening. He has given us different gifts in this place. I refuse to believe that the resurrected Jesus Christ has made us impoverished church members. He has placed at our disposal everything we need to represent him. Everything we need. I'm daring you. Where is your gift? Pay or piccolo. Resign to the will of God. He just made you a cook. He just made you a letter writer. He just made you a visitor. He just made you somebody who just can touch, somebody of comfort, somebody of hospitality. Use all that. That is the will of God. Use it. But you see, this is interesting. We can go through all that And then let's just quickly move on. Notice from verse 23. If you want to follow up, you can go through 2 Corinthians 10. You can see that we have been given all kinds of gifts and whatnot. Don't let us compare ourselves to each other. Look straight. Don't look behind you. When you are walking with Christ and you are resigned to his will, you don't look to find out what another person is doing. But you have to match that resignation to the will of God with a passionate commitment to the word of Christ. You can know the will of God and still be disobedient. You realize that? You can know God's will and still be disobedient. You can also know God's will and still be distracted. But John is talking about passionate commitment to the word of Christ. And this is what we see from 23b to 24. See, look at look at the text carefully. Jesus had said, if I will that this guy remain till I come, what is that to you? Is that your business? And all of a sudden we are told something happened They started posting on social media, on WhatsApp, and FaceTime and Instagram and Nosebook and all that. Did you hear that? Did you hear? And people started retweeting. He will never die. He will never die. It was all over the place with over a million followers. But that's what happened in the text. That John is immune from death. People believe that Oh, it reminds me of the story that the late uh Dr. Morris, uh Leon Morris said about a guy who lived in the county and one time he was oh persuaded to come and visit the city. And that very first night in Philadelphia he realized the lights were on everywhere. And these were his words. Wow! It looks like everyone is home tonight. In the village When you see just one light, you know that people are home. But he's never been to the city. And he doesn't realize that in the city the lights are on 24 hours. So he had a misunderstanding based on his own little experience, and that's what a lot of us do. And in this particular verse, that is what people were doing. They heard one thing. John, Jesus said, supposing I want him to remain. And then they extrapolated from that. They conflated that with the second coming of Christ, and so they said, Now, as long as John is alive, we know Jesus is not coming. But when John dies, we know Jesus is coming. That was the rumor. Think about the implications for the church. If it is true that Jesus was saying that John would live forever, then what they are saying is John is going to be like Elijah. John is going to be like Enoch. John is not going to die. Now, if John died, what happens to our faith? That means you cannot trust this word. Because he said John would live forever and John died. What becomes of this? This is very important to Jesus Christ. Don't take parts of the truth and extrapolate or build mountains out of them. So Jesus issued what I call sanctified correction. That nonsense on TV, that nonsense on social media. Jesus made sure he corrected that through this particular prophet. through this John that we're talking about here. Look at the way the correction went. The correction had to do with grammar He corrected them. I didn't say that he was going to live forever. I never said that. Because it's a very strong contrast. On the contrary Jesus never said that. The word of Christ was not contaminated. The word was true. If I said this It was a supposition. It was a hypothesis. Supposing I chose to let him live. Is that your business? That's what he said. And then they say, Oh, we heard that. He said, John is never going to die. So look at what the Holy Spirit is doing here. He's correcting that error. He's drawing attention back to the word of Christ. If you Don't have unflappable commitment to the word of Christ. You are sitting duck for people's nonsense You're soon going to deny even the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. So here he says, if I want him to hang around until I come, what business of that is yours? Peter 's death, says the text, like that of John's, would bring glory to God. John 's longevity would also bring glory to God. So it doesn't matter whether by death or by life, both of them are going to bring glory to God. That is what Jesus had in mind. But on guarded, indiscriminate understanding based on partial evidence is always going to derail our faith. Jesus did not allow this nonsense to continue. That's why he corrected it. I didn't say that he was not going to die. John is mortal. Christ's word remains true. And that's why John himself says in 24, this is the very person, the disciple who is presently bearing witness. Christ's word is credible because it is being supported or testified or witnessed to by a living person. I was there. I heard those words myself. Jesus never said I would not die. He says, this is the very person who has written these things down. And we know for a fact that his witness is reliable. That person is John. He's correcting us. He's drawing our attention. And then he tells you he's not only a living witness, but he's not a ghostwriter either. He wrote it himself. Look at this message. He said he has written all this. It's almost like he went to Best Buy. And bought a tape recorder or CD recorder or DVD or whatever. And he put every information right there. That's what John did. It's all about the word of Christ. He recorded everything and said, Here it is, here it is. I was there, I heard him, and I recorded everything, and I'm giving everything to you. What is his point? All that you need to be effective is right here in this word. You don't need anything else. All you need is the word of Christ. That's all you need. And that is why you should never allow anybody to stand here who plays fast and loose with the word of Christ. Never, never hold on to the word because it's this word that saved you. It's this word that nourishes your faith. And if people come with more than knowledge and oh yeah the Bible says this, but these days we know better than that. Run that person out of this place. Your soul is more precious than the latest philosophy. John says, have unflappable commitment to the word of Christ. Once you hold on to his will And you latch on to his word, you'll be in good shape. And I notice an interesting thing here John is now lost for words. He says, All that I've said, the will of God and the word of God, they don't even come close. to understanding the worth of Jesus Christ. The value of Jesus Christ. And that's what we see in the last section of this particular passage. What I'm saying is simply we must develop a pointed appreciation of the worth of Christ. You have a principled commitment, a resignation to his will , unflappable Commitment to his word, but now there must be appointed appreciation. You get to a point where you really relish the value of Jesus Christ. He is more than you think you can think of. What is he doing here? In this text he says By the way, there are many other things which Jesus did. If they had all been written down One by one. I doubt, or I suppose the world itself would not even hold or contain the books which would be written. He's talking about, I have only selected a few things that he did. Selective That's all we need. But these things go to the immensity of Jesus Christ. You couldn't have enough libraries to contain them. They talk about the greatness of Christ. Go through the whole book. You start with John chapter 1, where he talks about The beginning of Christ, that is before the foundations of the earth. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God. Basically, the word was standing face to face with God, and that word was God. Begins with God and then he ends with God. That God who brought the whole world into existence It's more than you can imagine. If we were to just bring distill everything that we know about God, we would never have enough time. What excites me about John is that he says the rest of the story is sitting right here in the spew. What this Jesus has done for this wretched soul, the half has never been told. The Savior has come in his mighty power. And your life is a continuation of that story. Thus Jesus is so great, is so immense A tiny fragment of his record has been given us here. He began with him, but doesn't end with him. He continues through us. It is that appreciation of the value of Jesus Christ that stilled the hearts of people like Joseph. When he was put under pressure, he was able to stand for God. I know when I mentioned Joseph, some of you probably were wondering, did Joseph meet Jesus? You better believe he met Jesus. Proleptically. Abraham met Jesus. Do you remember Jesus saying that? Abraham saw my day. You can't confine Jesus. He's that great. He can surprise you in your life. He can shock you. He will show up when you don't expect Oh, he will show up when your boss gives you the pink slip. He will show up when the doctor says, ah, we have this diagnosis. This great Jesus will show up to comfort, to strengthen, to encourage, and to continue that ongoing story in your own life. I'm afraid to uh I 'm even at a loss to tell you how Jesus has been belittled in our culture We don't value Jesus. We pay lip service to him. And yet the book of Colossians tells us in everything he must have the preeminence. He must be the number one in our lives. He is that immense. He's that great. He's worth every inch of your life. If you don't appreciate that, the world will bully you. They will tell you Jesus is just one leader among so many leaders. No, my Jesus is God. My Jesus is Lord. Let the world say whatever they want about our Lord. How Jesus stole remains king. Nabucadnezza found out. He says God rules over the affairs of stinking, smelly, skinny men. It is this Jesus. And John knew that. He would see something about him also on the Pathmo, on the island of Patmos. But now that he's come out of the tomb and appeared to his disciples, he has redeemed them, he has reclaimed them, he has reoriented them, he has redirected them, he has empowered them. He says, now the rest is yours. Stick to my will. It may not make sense to you. It may be like me asking Ananias to go and preach to Paul, to Saul. You know what Ananias said? Lord, let me ask the elders at Liberty Presbyterian Church, and you know what they would have said, You crazy? Where did God talk to you to go and talk to Saul the murderer? You crazy So he registered, Lord, it's a little challenging to go to this guy. He's been killing people. You sure you have the right guy? God said, I know. Okay. If that's your call, I'm all game. Where? Go to that street. You'll find him. And he went. He took the risk, the risk of obedience. And he went. And sure enough, he found that guy. The guy who had been killing Christians. And he hugged him, Brother Saul. That's this Jesus. See? So sometimes his work may not make sense to you. He might ask you to go to places you didn't want to go. He may ask you to say things you don't want to say. That is this Jesus. If you are resigned to his will, you may not understand every part of it, but you just say, I know you are smarter than I am, you will do right by me. I am sure that you will do the right thing by me. You know, one of the things I was saying last week to another group, I I felt there were times I was arguing with God I have a crazy habit. I'm not encouraging you to do it. But I'm going to share it anyway. When I really get frustrated , Angry, scared, and whatnot, that is something I do. I pull a chair. And I say, God, sit down. I make him sit down. And we talk. Sometimes I cry. And I can hear him saying, You think you have enough tears? Let me give you a bucket and pour your tears in. And in the middle of the prayer, he gives you the answer. And then later on you realize, God, you know you're smarter than I am. I'm glad you didn't answer that prayer. Because if you had, it would be different. So I'm not embarrassed to go to God with my stupidity. See, some of us are too proud and too arrogant. We think we know better than God. No, you don't. He 's sitting there, he knows what is going on. on. He knows your stupidity. He knows your foolishness. He knows the mistakes you're going to make. He's already factored everything before he went to the cross. On that cross, he took my stupidity there. I cannot surprise him. So resign to his will. He's smarter than you and I. Hold tightly unto his word. It's not, oh Pastor Ebenezer said this. The word of Christ said this. Case close. I was debating with a Muslim girl. No, this is wrong. And I looked at her I said, so you're telling me that somebody who comes about 1500 years later Knows the truth. On what basis did he know the truth? Because this Christian Bible also tells me that Jesus was crucified. But your text tells me he was not crucified, a mere appearance was given unto them. Roman documents tell me historically he was crucified. And your scripture says he was not crucified. It's almost like somebody comes to me and says, There's never been a president in the United States called Ronald Reagan. And you have followers. Believe in that. There was never a president called Ronald Reagan. All you have to do is go to the Smithsonian. Go to the Congress. You will see there was a president. You cannot deny history. Jesus was crucified. John was there. He saw that the word is true. It is settled. It will never be broken till heaven and earth shall pass away. Not one word. Not one job nor title shall pass away. That's the credibility of our Lord. He's reliable. You can trust him. He's worthy of your allegiance. So why don't we just give our all to him? Let him surprise you in the coming week. So turn with me to the next hymn, 492. And let us think accordingly. If Jesus is the Lord that we're talking about If Jesus is really the one whose will outsmrites every will in this world If Jesus is the one who is worthy of all praise, then let us really pray. Take my life. Let it be. An offering