Let's open to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. We're going to be looking at verses 6 through 13 this morning, and I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. First Corinthians chapter five, beginning in verse six Your boasting is not good. Do you know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, as you really are, unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. Not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother, if he is guilty of sexual immorality, or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler. Not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside Purge the evil person from among you. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a brief word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and we are thankful, O Lord, to be in your presence, to be able to pour out the songs of our praise as we've done. Lord, even as we come to sit at your feet and to to learn from you and from your word this morning We pray, O Lord, that you would take your word, that you would open our minds and our hearts that we might understand and receive with joy what you have for us this morning. Lord, though we look at a text like this that may not seem as positive on the surface, we pray that you would use it to open our eyes to the beauty and the majesty and the glory of your Son Jesus. Lord, that we would fall in love with him even more because of what is in this passage And we also pray, O Lord, that as we prepare our hearts to come to the table of the Lord's Supper here in just a moment , Lord, we also ask that you would use this time to help us examine our hearts to prepare ourselves to come to that table. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this passage continues right on the heels of the last one, and it has been a while, it's been about a month since we were in 1 Corinthians. Um and it is really interesting looking at this passage now. I was gonna preach this on December 14th when we got all that snow and canceled church. But actually I think in God's providence it's better to deal with it today because I think that this is a good passage to prepare us for coming to the table. of the Lord's Supper, especially as Paul talks about Passover and keeping the feast. What a way to prepare for the Lord's Supper. But it is a little preparation in a little bit of an unconventional way. The main idea of this passage, picking up on the last one, is this. Church discipline is important because the gospel calls us to cleanse sin from our midst. and to separate from people claiming to be Christians who live in unrepentant sin. That's the idea. It's a two-fold idea. Let me repeat that. Church discipline is important because the gospel calls us to cleanse sin from our midst, talking about a body. And to separate from people claiming to be Christians who live in unrepentant sin. Where were we at last time in this passage in verses 1 through 5? I won't go into all the details because we don't have time, but if you remember, big picture, there was a man in the Corinthian church who was living in sexual immorality, having an affair with his own stepmother. As gross as that sounds, Paul has to deal with that. The Corinthians were not dealing with it, and he was calling them to work through that situation and explain Expel that man from the community of believers because he was living unrepentantly. That's the context of what we have this morning before us. And as we notice, this breaks into two convenient sub-points. Our first sub-point in verses 6 through 8 is church discipline and what I'm calling keeping the feast. Church discipline and keeping the feast. Let's look at verses 6 and then the first part of verse 7. You see this idea of leaven and the feast. So talking about church discipline Paul begins in verse 6 looking at the leaven of arrogance. Notice what he says. Your boasting is not good. This theme of boasting or arrogance comes up over and over and over again in this letter that Paul is writing to the Corinthians. We can look back at verse 2 of chapter 5. He says, and you are arrogant. It just comes right out and says it You go to the passage before that. In chapter 4, verses 18 through 21, he mentions it twice. He says in verse 18, some are arrogant as though I were not coming to you. And then he says, I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people, but their power. So arrogance, boasting, seems to be at the heart of the problem here in the Corinthian church. And the fact that he mentions it now three times tells us that this is the problem that Paul needs to deal with directly. And that's what he is getting at in this passage. So he broadens out the scope to get the Corinthians to look at their own hearts and to deal with their hearts even as they seek to discipline a brother who is caught in sin. And so that's what he's dealing with here in verse 6, the leaven of arrogance. But we need to understand the context of leaven in the feast of Passover. And so he builds his argument by making a point And he makes that point in an overarching principle, and then he gives the response to that principle. What's the principle? We'll look at the end of verse 6. We see the principle of Levin. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? We have to ask ourselves, what is leaven referring to? In the New Testament, leaven is always indicative of something. It always represents something. In Matthew chapter 16, Jesus uses leaven as an object lesson when he says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And as we read that story, what we find is Levin is a reference to the teaching, the doctrine of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And if you know anything about them, it's They just layer tradition upon tradition upon tradition over the Word of God so that people really can't see or hear God's word. Speaking to their hearts and consciences any longer because their conscience is bound to something that is not God's word, but is the teaching of men. That is leavened in that context. The Apostle Paul, speaking in a somewhat similar way, Galatians 5, verse 9, uses leaven to refer to the teaching of the Judaizers. And if you remember anything about the Judaizers in the New Testament, they were arguing that in order for a person to be saved, particularly if you're a man, you need to be circumcised first. But for all people, men and women, in addition to that, you have to keep the law of Moses. And if you are circumcised and you keep the law of Moses, then you will be saved. You will earn God's glory And Paul argues against that in the letter of Galatians to argue that we are actually saved or justified Not by faith plus works, but we are made right with God because of faith and faith alone in Jesus Christ. And so what Paul was arguing there is the leaven of good works, theology, leavens the whole gospel of grace and then ends up corrupting the whole thing. A little leaven, a little false teaching, a little self-righteousness leavens the whole lump of the gospel and corrupts it Here, in our passage before us, leaven is a reference generically to sin in the body. And the sin I think that he's dealing with in context. is the boasting and the arrogance that the Corinthians are manifesting. And so what Paul is saying here essentially is a little boasting, a little arrogance will come to permeate the rest of the church body, the church congregation, because it will refuse to deal with sin in its midst and get rid of it. That's what he's getting across. But it brings up the question of why is Paul using leaven as an illustration? Why use leaven in this passage? In the Old Testament, in Exodus chapter 13, and then again in Deuteronomy chapter 16, there's a command given to the Israelites in the law as they're preparing to celebrate the Passover. What they were called to do was they were called to cleanse their house by sweeping it, usually, of all the leaven. There was to be no leaven among God's people for the feast of Passover, which would then Carry on into a seven-day feast of the feast of unleavened bread. Why? Well, for a few reasons. Historically, when Israel was called out of Egypt after the tenth plague, they had no time to leaven their bread. Some of you in this room might be in the habit or hobby of making your own bread, whether that's sourdough bread or anything else. And you know that when you make your own bread, you've got to leaven it so that the the bread rises as it's being heated up and cooked. But that takes time, doesn't it? It doesn't just happen all at once. These people had no time to leaven their bread, and so they had to get out of Egypt. But even in the Old Testament The cleansing of the leaven was symbolic for the Israelites to cleanse themselves of their sins sin by the blood of the Lamb, so that they might be able to sacrifice or celebrate rather the feast of Passover. It was very symbolic. They don't just come to Passover. They have to prepare themselves for it. Much like we prepare ourselves to come to the table of the Lord's Supper. And so there's a command here. So that's the principle. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. Therefore, we need by implication to deal with this leaven of sin in our lives. So how are we to respond? Look at the beginning of verse 7, the command of response to the feast. Cleanse out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. Hmm. Let's work backwards here to understand what Paul is saying. I want to start with what he ends with saying, and then we'll go back to what he begins saying. He ends by saying, as you really are unleavened. Now when you look at the whole teaching of the New Testament as a whole, What you can do is you can trade out that word unleavened for like something like a new man. So what he's saying here when he says, you really are unleavened. Is that the old man is gone? You are a new lump. You are a new, you are unleavened, you are a new man. He gets it the same idea in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 7, when he simply just comes out and tells the Corinthians, you are a new creation in Christ. He uses this same theme of an old man versus a new man in Ephesians as well as Colossians, particularly Colossians chapter 3 and he's saying the old man in Christ has been put to death you are a new man and live out as a new man this Christian life And so he's reminding the Corinthians, look, the old leaven of sin and arrogance and boasting, that has already been done away with at the cross of Jesus Christ on Calvary. That's been put to death. It's been swept away, so to speak. And the result is that you are now righteous before God through faith alone, apart from your good works. And that status of being a new creature, a new man, something fresh, is already true of them, and because it's already true of them, it requires a response. from them. And that response is where he begins by saying at the beginning of that verse, cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump. Now again, this has the idea of dealing with the leaven of sin within themselves, individually, but also dealing with the leaven of sin in the broader congregation together. And so the cleansing carries the implicit idea of removing it from their mist, just like Old Testament Israel would sweep and clean out their houses, removing the leaven before the Passover. And so when you put this all together, because the Corinthians are a new creation in Christ, And because a little bit of sin spreads throughout the whole body, they are to clean out the sinful attitudes, the sinful tendencies, the sinful actions and habits from their own lives and from the corporate life of their church. That's the idea. And that leads to verses, the end of verse 7 and verse 8, we see the sacrifice of the feast. Why do we do this? Again, Paul continues the theme of Passover and the feast of unleavened bread as he applies this to their context. Look at the end of verse 7. For Christ, our Passover Lamb, has been sacrificed. Now this isn't really the only time in the New Testament where the Apostle Paul uses the theme of Passover and the Passover lamb and applies it to Christ, but it's not a foreign concept in the New Testament. In John chapter 1, verse 29, in the beginning of, well really the beginning of Jesus' ministry, John the Baptist is coming to the end of his ministry. It talks about how he's standing there with two of his disciples and sees Jesus walking by. And he says, as he's looking at Jesus to these two disciples of his, he says, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. What an amazing statement to make to two Jewish disciples of his. The Jews obviously understood the Passover had to be sacrificed every year. And so they knew that though the Passover would kind of temporarily cover over sins as a sacrifice, it could never have the power to take it away. And so for them to hear, as Jesus is walking by, behold the Lamb of God that covers the sin of the world temporarily? No, takes away the sin of the world. John, the gospel writer, identifies Jesus as the Passover Lamb, as Jesus is crucified in John chapter 19. It tells us in verse 14 and 31 that Jesus was crucified on the day of preparation. You might be wondering, well, what's the day of preparation? Well, the day of preparation was the day that the Passover lamb was sacrificed. And when was the Passover lamb sacrificed? Listen to this. This is really interesting because this shows the precision of how God works out our salvation. When was Jesus crucified? He was on the cross at a certain point in time, right? From the third hour to the ninth hour. And then at the sixth hour, so the third hour is 9 a. m. The sixth hour, 12 p. m. The ninth hour, 3 p. m. The earth got dark at noon Jesus dies at 3 p. m. Why is that precise and why is that important on the day of preparation? Because in Exodus chapter 12, particularly verse 6. It tells us that on the 14th day of the month, the Passover lamb was to be sacrificed, which is really interesting. Our ESV says at twilight You know what the Hebrew says? Literally? It says between the two evenings. Like, what are the two evenings? Well, the Jews typically understood that to be between 3 and 6 p. m. Between 3 and 6 p. m. , the Passover lamb was to be sacrificed for God's people. And Jesus dies at 3 p. m. on the day of preparation for Passover. Brothers and sisters, our Passover lamb, as Paul tells us in this passage, has been sacrificed. What precision on God's part! And lastly, notice here that this last part of verse 7 begins with the word 4 When it says for Christ says our Passover lamb has been sacrificed, why is that for important? It shows us that this gives the basis for why we are to cleanse the old leaven of sin out of our lives. What's really fascinating to me is in the Old Testament context God's people were to cleanse the leaven before they sacrificed the Passover lamb so that they could eat the Passover lamb. Notice how in the new covenant that flips. It's because Christ has cleansed us through his sacrificial death on the cross. as our Passover lamb, that we in response to that after the sacrifice are now to cleanse the sin out of our lives. Please understand, this is not saying we cleanse ourselves of our sin in some kind of saving way. This is talking about sanctification, the ongoing life of the Christian. And notice what he says in verse 8. It rounds out our first point by saying, Let us therefore celebrate the festival, or you could translate that, celebrate the feast. Not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil. Which has been cleansed, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Notice that contrast: malice and sincerity, evil and truth Paul is describing to the Corinthians the manner of their new covenant celebration of Christ as the Passover lamb. And that celebration is to look like sincerity and truth. In their lives. Their current context or con conduct, rather, was characterized by two other things: malice and evil. And they're both they're supposed to cleanse these things from them both personally and corporately. So we ask ourselves as we step back and seek to apply this today, how does Paul's use of the Passover fulfilled in the gospel of Christ? instruct us about church discipline today. Because that is the context, isn't it? He's been talking about church discipline in the context of this whole passage. And I believe the answer to that question is this. The Passover fulfilled in the gospel reveals that church discipline is a practical cleansing of sin. from the body as a response to the reality of cleansing that came from the sacrifice of Christ. That's the idea. But the first thing I want to unpack here by way of application is this. The gospel gives us a new status before God. Now, aside from highlighting all the details of Passover, what I want to highlight here in the application is Paul's statement to the Corinthians. That they really were unleavened, which is what he said in verse 7. That applies to the Corinthians 2,000 years ago. That applies to us today as Christians. When we come to God through faith in Jesus Christ, our Passover Lamb who takes away our sin by his death on the cross, You and I today are cleansed from the leaven of sin, the leaven of boasting, the leaven of malice, the leaven of evil. And our sin is removed as far as the east is from the west, to use the language of Psalm 103, verse 12. And because of that, that gives us a new status as righteous before God through faith. And it's not a righteousness that comes from ourselves, it's a righteousness that's a gift from God. A new status. Some of you this morning, if you have put your faith and your trust in Jesus Christ for salvation, then this new status belongs to you already. You are considered unleavened. You are a new creature in God's eyes. The things that you may have done in a past life when you lived in sin, those things are no longer imputed to you. You are not identified by those things. And that's freedom indeed, isn't it? You don't have to live shackled to some ghost of a past somewhere. Christ has shone his light on you, and you are a new creature. If you're here this morning and you have not put your faith and your trust in Jesus Christ for salvation. Then this invitation to this feast, this invitation is for you to come and receive the free gift of grace. which is the forgiveness of sins, a new status, a new creature, and eternal life. The promises are for you too. You just have to come. You just have to claim Jesus Christ as your own and hold to him in faith, knowing that it's not the tightness of your grip on him that will save you, but his grip on you. You come to the feast that is offered in Christ. But by the way, that's only the beginning of the Christian life, isn't it? Because the gospel does require a response of cleansing out sins from our lives and from our church. And I want to Be true to the context of our passage. The context is addressing overall sexual sin, and we need to respond in two ways. First, we need to cleanse out the sin of our own lives first. I had a conversation with a friend last night on the phone and he was telling me about this podcast that he recommended to a friend and he's like, you know, I always try to be careful. when I listen to to podcasts and I think to myself, oh, that would be good for this person to hear. You know, some of us hear sermons that way too, don't we? It's like Oh man, I can think of a few people that this would apply to. Um I think this passage calls us to cleanse the sin out of our own lives first. Before we think of other people. We're called to deal with the arrogance, the malice, the evil in our own hearts, first and foremost Why? Because as we do that, think about what Paul says in Galatians 6, 1 and 2. And this goes back to the church discipline context. Brothers, if anyone is caught in a trans in any transgression, You who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Okay, that's the church discipline part. And notice the gentleness that's supposed to characterize that. But what comes first? Paul says, keep watch on yourself. Why? Lest you too be tempted. As we Work through the sin issues that our brothers and sisters have around us, whether that's going to them one-on-one, whether that's taking two or three along with us or whatever wherever we're at in that process, let's remember humbly that we are not above being tempted with whatever they are dealing with. We need to look to our own hearts. But if we have a new status in God through Christ, then let's respond. to that new status by removing the very thing that Christ died to save us from. We need to understand this is a progressive, a continuous work in our own lives. This is what Paul meant when he said in Philippians 2 , chapter 2, verse 12, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. It doesn't mean you work to earn salvation. It means starting from a posture of being saved already, you work that out practically in your life. And then, when we've looked at the sin in our own lives, then we are in a position to cleanse out the sin in the church body corporately. Now I want to be clear about something. Again, the context here is about the sin of sexual morality and the Corinthian church having to deal with that as a body because they weren't dealing with it before. I want to be clear, not every sin requires church discipline in the sense that we tend to think of when we think of church discipline. When you think of a trial or excommunication, not every sin rises to that occasion. There are some things that you just deal with privately between one person or another. The sin that Paul is dealing with that led to excommunication in verses 1 through 5 of this chapter was a scandalous sin that was not private. It was notorious. And so we need to think about that. And we need to think about the fact that cleansing sin from the body of Christ It's a lot like administering medicine to an illness in the body and removing that illness so that it does not spread further. At the risk of trivializing the point. Many of you know I wasn't here last week. Why was I not here? Because I was horribly ill. Why would I come here and spread that so that more people got sick? No, I took myself out of the way. It's an illustration of how we deal with sin, right? That leads us to our second point in verses 9 through 13. Church discipline in the pursuit of holiness. And the pursuit of holiness. Look at verses 9 through 11. He says, do not associate with those who shun holiness. That's the point that he's making. Look at verse 9 and then verse 10 as well. I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. Not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy , or swindlers. Or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. Two verses, nine and ten right there. What's interesting is we find that we call this 1 Corinthians, but we find here that there was a previous letter that was really 1 Corinthians. We don't have it anymore. God in his sovereignty and providence did not preserve that letter. But what's interesting is Paul already spoke to them about this very issue. And the word here that he says that we translate as associate, do not associate with sexually immoral people, is the idea of mixing or mingling two things together. Now think about the historical context of the Corinthians at this point. They were known for being a church, not a church, let's talk about the city, bigger context, right? They were known as being a city that was full of several things, idolatry, sexual immorality, and even the sexual immorality that existed in Corinth was even shameful by pagan standards around the rest of the Roman Empire. And so that would have been a very, very poignant thing for Paul to point out to the Corinthian church in this other letter that we don't have anymore, when he says, don't associate or mingle or mix with sexually immoral people. You can imagine how they would have taken that. Great. That's like everyone around us. What are we supposed to do? And you can imagine the temptation to take that command, that counsel and advice, and to absolutize it. without nuance. And Paul's calling them to see, look, there are some important nuances here. He doesn't change his fundamental counsel, but he refines it based on their misunderstanding that they have of what he previously meant. And so he gets to that in verse 11. Well now we know what the previous letter said. What does the present letter in front of us say? Verse 11. But I am now writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of a brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed or is an idolater, reviler, drunk or drunkard, or swindler, not even to eat with such a one Okay, this is the fine-tuning that his advice previously uh needed. The principle of not associating with sexually immoral people He fine-tunes it to say, don't associate with those who claim to be Christians. That's what he means by brothers, right? If someone claims to be a Christian and yet they continue to live in sexual sin, just like this guy in verses 1 through 5, do not mingle, mix, or associate with someone like that. By the way, notice he adds a whole bunch of other sins there, doesn't he? That's a lot. That's a good list there. Greedy, idolatrous, reviling, drunkards, swindlers, so on and so forth. And the point is that a true Christian should be repentant in his or her lifestyle. And he gives two responses that are really interesting. One, don't associate with them. I'm not going to camp out on that one because we already said that. But notice what he says second. He tells them not to eat with such a one. What is he talking about there? Well, in the Greco-Roman world of the first century, which is very similar to the ancient Near East context of the Old Testament, if you were going to sit down and eat with someone and have a meal That very action of sharing a meal with someone communicates that there is a fellowship and an unhindered intimacy in the relationship. That's what it means. You don't just sit down and have a meal with your enemy. Right? And so what he's saying is that look, if someone is is in any of these sins and they're living unrepentantly, and yet they somehow claim to be a Christian. There's a problem. There's a problem between the walk and the talk. And because there's a problem there, you really can't have unhindered fellowship with them. Don't even share the meal. So it's interesting that some commentators apply this by extension to even the Lord's Supper, the fellowship meal that was shared oftentimes in the homes of believers in the early church. Don't even let them come to the table is what he's saying. Why not? Well look at verses 12 and 13. It's basically summarized by saying, purge the evil from your midst. By the way, that passage we read in Deuteronomy earlier, by 21st century American standards, sounds pretty uncomfortable But you may have noticed the constant refrain that was repeated, purge you shall purge the evil from your midst. Why did we read that? Well, one, because it was dealing with sexual immorality in context like this passage, but two, because Paul quotes from it. Look at verses twelve and thirteen. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? That's a question, by the way. Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? It's another question. God judges those outside. Purge the evil person from among you. There's the Deuteronomy quote. There's some really interesting things here that I want to just take a very quick look at. You see in the beginning of verses 12 and 13, those are parallel statements. The end of each verse is parallel. Look at the judgment of those outside the church. In verse 12, for what have I to do with judging outsiders? That's a rhetorical question where the answer really is nothing. Paul is saying as an apostle, look, I have nothing to do with judging those on the outside of the church. Now, if you're a carefully reasoning thinking person, you might be you might have the question come up in your mind, well then, uh, is there ever any justice that comes to those outside the church who are not believers? Well, the answer is yes, because look at the beginning of verse 13. God is the one who judges those on the outside. Yeah, I have nothing to do with judging them, Paul says. God will see to that. We don't have to worry about that. By the way, let me add this careful nuance because it's going to come up next week. Look at chapter 6, verse 2. Very interesting. Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases? Boy, that's confusing, isn't it? Uh who am I to judge the world? Chapter 5, verse 12. And answer, nothing. We don't judge the world as believers. Chapter 6, verse 2. Don't you know that the saints are to judge the world? What do you do with that? Well, let's be clear here. Again, the context is church discipline in chapter 5. In the context of church discipline in chapter 5, it is not the church's job to judge. uh or pronounce excommunication or any kind of church censure sent or sentence on those who are not believers outside of the church. It's not our job. In the here and now. What Paul's talking about in chapter 6 is at the end of time when Christ returns, you better believe that we as the saints will judge the world. Isn't it interesting how when people you you call out sin in the world and people are like, well, who are you to judge? Well, I suppose right now nobody, but there will come a time when that question will be no and void So how are we to respond when we talk about church discipline? Well look at the end of verse 12 and the end of verse 13. The judgment of those inside the church. Verse 12 gives the contrasting idea. Is it not those inside the church whom you you are to judge? The rhetorical answer to that is yes. By the way, the judgment he's talking about here is not pronouncing ultimate judgment like, okay, that's it. You are definitely going to hell. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking the judgment he's talking about is judgment that comes at the end of a process of church discipline to say if you're going to live in unrepentant sin, you cannot be a part of this body of believers. That's the judgment he's talking about there. He's not pronouncing, not talking about pronouncing the ultimate eternal sentence And verse 13 corresponds with that. Purge the evil from among you. By the way, if you were listening to that Old Testament reading, That had to do with the death penalty. That was old covenant. We are in the new covenant. We don't put people to death in the church, brothers and sisters. But we do excommunicate when it's necessary. And so not only does the Old Testament establish a pattern for the New Testament church to follow, but this also functions as a command. So how does the old covenant pattern of purging the evil from the midst of God's people point us to the power of the gospel in church discipline today? Well, as the old covenant brought judgment and death, the new covenant holds out the promise of life and restoration through church discipline for those who do repent. of their sin. The gospel is in a sense about second chances, isn't it? You can't get a second chance when you're put to death in the old covenant And so I want to just unpack that very briefly as we think about choosing our associations with discernment. That's where Paul started, didn't he? Don't associate with these kind of people. But he's talking about, let me clarify these kind of people who claim to be believers but live this way. Look, I really think that this speaks to this distinction speaks to where we're at today as Christians and as a church We need to be discerning with our associations within the world. The Bible does make it clear that we are in the world and not of the world. If you read Jesus' high priestly prayer, he prays to the Father, I'm not asking, Lord or Father, that you take them out of the world, but that you will keep them in the world. In other words, protect them in the world. We are in the world. We are not of the world. He makes mention here. You cannot just take yourself out of the world entirely. This means that we're going to be around and associating to some degree with those outside the church that are sexually immoral, that are greedy. That are idolaters, that are revilers, that are drunkards, and that are swindlers. These kind of people are all around us Right? We might be related to some of them. We might work with some of them. Some of them might be our neighbors. Some of them might be our family members. And the encouragement from God's word this morning, and I do think it's encouragement, is to maintain a witness for Jesus Christ Among these unbelieving friends and family members. Don't just shun them But at the same time, remain faithful to the Lord in your interactions with them. It doesn't mean that every time they do something wrong, you point the finger at them. You discern when the Lord opens the door to say something. or when not to say something. It takes great wisdom. Proverbs is all about that. Read Proverbs. But don't shun your unbelieving friends and family. You have to associate with them to some degree. But remain faithful to the Lord in your interactions. The second thing I want to just say quickly is discerning our associations with those claiming to be Christians who live in sin. I want to be clear here. When somebody makes a credible profession of faith, I think that our first inclination as believers should be to give them the benefit of the doubt. And as long as their life seems to be consistent with their profession, you go ahead and you assume that they are truly born again and saved. Right? It's not up to me or you or anyone else to judge the heart. We take people at their word. But we also have to acknowledge, and this may be hard for some of you to hear, we have to acknowledge that a profession of faith in and of itself is not what saves. You're like, what? You kidding me? No. Actually, the profession of faith is the result of the saving work that God has already done in the person's heart when he causes them to be born again. He breathes new spiritual life into them. The result of that is that they do make that profession of faith because there's a consistency between what they say and what's really happened inside of them. But we also have to understand not everyone who professes faith is truly saved. And again, it's not up to me or you to judge the heart of any other individual other than ourselves. But Jesus does say in Matthew chapter 7, verses 21, I think it's verse 21, somebody fact-check me on that later. Look, not anyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Some are going to say, but Lord, we prophesied in your name. We did miracles in your name. We cast out demons in your name. And I will say to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice iniquity. There are people who claim to be Christians around us whose lives look no different than the world, revealing that their hearts are no different than the unregenerate. People use the phrase all the time, don't they? Well, I identify as a Christian. That's the catchphrase today. How do you identify? I identify as a Christian. Well, that's wonderful. But does God identify you as a Christian? That's what justification is all about. God 's declaration of your righteousness through faith. Brothers and sisters People who identify as Christians, but who may be living in sexual morality or any number of the sins that Paul lists in this passage, we need to be discerning about these associations. And how we the extent to which we choose to relate to them. We are called to purge the evil from our midst. That is a command. It is not an option. And it's something that the Lord gives us a responsibility to carry out. But why do we do it? Because of the value of what Jesus Christ has done for us. As he says in Romans 6, he's destroyed the power of sin over our lives. But we still struggle with the presence of it, don't we? That's what this passage gets at. We do so out of the victory that Jesus has already accomplished. Well, let's let's pray and we'll prepare ourselves to come to the table of the Lord's Supper where we will keep the feast. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful, O Lord, for the precious promises that we have in Jesus. We are so thankful, O Lord, as believers. for the new status that we have. We are not living under the law. We are living under grace. We are not tied to previous sins that we once committed. But we are new creatures in Christ, a new status, a new identity, new life. And we pray, O Lord That you would take your word, write it on our hearts, that as we go forth this week, Lord, that we would continue to look to Jesus Christ The author and the perfector of our faith, because he is our Passover lamb that was sacrificed for us. Help us to deal with our own sin in our lives. And as a church, out of that reality and out of the power of the gospel. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.