If you have your Bibles, go ahead and open them to Isaiah chapter 9. Isaiah chapter 9. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 7 this morning. And I would invite you to stand in honor of the reading of God's holy word. From Isaiah chapter nine, verses one to seven But there will be no gloom for who for her who was in anguish. In the former times he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil For the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken, as on the day of Midian. For every boot of the trampling warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. This is the reading of God's Word. Thanks be to God. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you once again to present ourselves and to sit at your feet, to hear from your word. to learn from you and to be transformed by it. Lord, we pray that you would take your word this morning. We know from Isaiah 6, Lord, that The prophet was told to keep on speaking to a people that could not see, a people that could not hear, and could not understand spiritual truth. And yet he prophesied and spoke anyway. Well, Lord, you have given us your Holy Spirit in Jesus Christ. And so we pray. That you would open our eyes, open our ears, open our minds and our hearts that we may see, hear, understand, and receive the comfort and the joy that comes from your word this morning. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, this week we are taking a break from our normal sermon series through 1 Corinthians to really prepare our hearts for for celebrating Christmas this week. We'll come back to 1 Corinthians in the new year, but it is appropriate for us on this fourth Sunday of Advent To take time off of that, which is our normal program, and to focus our hearts and our attention on the incarnation of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior And for that, we want to look this morning, as we've just read, at Isaiah chapter 9, verses 1 through 7, which is one of the passages that is traditionally read at Christmas time, specifically because of verses 6-8. And seven. The rest of it you may not have it may not have sounded very familiar to you, but once we got to that, for to us a child is born, you probably thought, oh yeah, I know where we're at. This is a passage traditionally related to Christmas. And with that, we find our main idea this morning that Christmas shows the downtrodden, that Christ is the light of the world. The victor over our enemies by pointing to his glorious birth. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning or you're not aware that we do this, you can see on page four. of your bulletin, that sermon idea printed there for you. And I'll say it again, because that's the idea we want to unpack this morning from our passage. Christmas shows the downtrodden that Christ is the light of the world and the victor over our enemies by pointing to his glorious So that's the idea. I want to unpack this in our first point here in verses 1 and 2 as we look at the light of the gospel at Christmas. The light of the gospel at Christmas. And in that we see in verse 1 the light of Christ's glory. Let me go ahead and read verse 1 for you again Uh it's it is a longer verse. It says, but there will be no gloom for who for her who was in anguish In the former time, he, being God, brought into contempt the land of Zebelun and the land of Nephtali. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. Well interesting. Um this theme of light, this theme of gloom and darkness, kind of standing in contrast. You know, in in the scriptures of both the Old Testament and the New Testament alike, light oftentimes stands as as an indicator of God's presence. And it is meant to communicate this peace This idea of purity, uh holiness, or even God's presence and comfort. Darkness, as many of us know, tends to communicate the idea of evil and suffering and the place that you don't want to be. Right? We think of the Psalm 23, though I walk through the valley of the what? The shadow of death. Shadow being associated with darkness. But the idea in verse 1 here, in our passage, which speaks of light, a great light that shines, this light is associated with God. And it is meant to bring encouragement to God's people. It's meant to bring hope to them. Now, we'll see here in just a second why they need hope, but We see very clearly that the light breaks through gloom and anguish. That's really important for us to see here. The word for anguish that the prophet uses here, you could translate it as hardship from the original Hebrew. It's a word that is used in some contexts to talk about being surrounded and besieged by the enemy in a city. Now none of us live in the ancient world today, obviously. We don't have city walls and we don't worry about being besieged by enemies, but in the ancient world that was a real danger. That was a common concern that people had. Are we going to be overrun by an enemy and surrounded and starved out Now in the context that Isaiah is speaking in in this particular passage, the Assyrian Empire had already and will continue to oppress God's people in Judah so that the times were very dark. The times were full of anguish for God's people. And let's face it, when you live in dark times and people experience anguish, And anxiety, there's oftentimes little hope for recovery or freedom from that kind of oppression. In fact, if you go back to Isaiah chapter 8, verse 22, you get the idea. It says this. And they will look to the earth, but behold darkness, the gloom of anguish. And they will be thrust into thick darkness. Now, again, contextually and historically, what is going on in this passage that would make Isaiah the prophet say this to God's people? Well again, if we go back even further to Isaiah chapter 7, just two chapters before, what you'll find is that Israel and Syria, Israel was was a kingdom just north of Judah, and Syria was north of them. These two kingdoms north of Judah kind of band together and they invaded the southern kingdom of Judah and they laid siege to the city of Jerusalem. King Ahaz, who was the king of Judah at that time, in David's line, was reigning at the time, and What happened is Isaiah comes to him and he makes a prophecy, which I'm not going to get into this morning because I don't want to steal my thunder for Wednesday night. But he makes a prophecy of hope that God is going to redeem him or rescue him from these two kings. Well, Ahaz didn't actually trust the prophecy and decided to take matters into his own hands, and he went to the king of Assyria, not to be confused with Syria. Assyria was a rising empire in the ancient Near East at that time. And King Ahaz makes a covenant with the king of Assyria and says, come and rescue me from these two kingdoms. And he does. He goes in and takes Syria captive, overruns Damascus, kills their king, and deports their population. And then it begins slowly, not all at once, but slowly to do the same thing to the northern kingdom of Israel, just north of Judah. And so you can imagine, as Isaiah is prophesying this in verse 1, talking about the former time of bringing into contempt the land of Zebel and the land of Nephtali, those were two tribal areas in Israel, in the northern part of their territory. They would have been subject to those invasions by the Assyrians. Subject to captivity, subject to oppression, subject to warfare, subject to all kinds of cruelties against humanity. A time of anguish and darkness. You can imagine living in Israel at that time, the lack of security or the insecurity that God's people probably lived under. with that shadow and that threat. Again, it's hard for us to understand this as Americans living in the 21st century because we're part of a nation that is so large. And this nation is so armed because of the Second Amendment that it would be almost suicide for anyone to come in and try to take over the United States of America. But it wasn't so. back then. And these people lived with that constant insecurity that the Assyrians could come at any time, this world power, and likely crush them. And so to use the language of Isaiah in this first verse, they're living in contempt, they're living in anguish, and they were previously living in gloom. But here's the idea, and this is where the good news comes in, is that anguish and contempt and gloom do not have the final word in this passage. Why? Because there is light for those who need it the most. As I unpack this verse here and continue to work through it, I want to highlight for you the contrast between contempt. and glory in this particular passage. Again, these these tribal allotments of Zebelin and Nephtali, these like, if it was in the United States, it'd be like, you know, two different states, right? Being subjected to contempt. I mean during Jehu 's reign in the 800s, the Syrian king came and captured most of their territory on the east side of the Jordan River. During the reign of Pekka, the son of Remaliah in Israel, the Assyrians came in and captured a ton of portions of their land in 2 Kings 15. And then finally, after this passage happens, another Assyrian king is going to come in and capture the capital city of that northern kingdom, Samaria, and deport most of that population to Assyria. That's the contempt. But later God is going to make their territory glorious. And here's what I want you to see. Here's the point. The point is that the death of the people signified in their exile will soon come to an end. And that end is going to be a glorious end, which leads us to verse 2. We see in verse 2 the light that shines in the darkness. Darkness in verse 1 Although light is glimmering in verse 1, it shines in verse 2. Look at verse 2. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. Okay, stop there really quick Again, what you you see there as you look at that, there's another contrast here. Again, the light contrasts with the darkness. And it communicates the same idea as verse 1, only it intensifies it. How does it intensify it? It intensifies it by looking at intensifying the promise. Notice the imagery there. There's a kind of a progressive intensifying nature to that imagery. The people who walked in darkness, and then the parallel in the third line, those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness. Walking and dwelling, or you can translate that as sitting or living, is not exactly the same thing. Walking is like I'm passing through, this is for a season. But dwelling is a little more permanent. Right. It's the same in it, it's the same kind of imagery that's used in the first verse of the very first Psalm Right? Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the seat of sinners, or nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. Notice the progression there, walking, standing, sitting. In other words, someone who becomes so obstinate in their wickedness that they are fixed in it. That's the same idea here. Walking in darkness. And then it doesn't just say darkness after that when it talks about dwelling. It's deep darkness. And the Hebrew actually literally says, in sitting in the shadow of death. That's pretty deep darkness. That's pretty hopeless. But then the contrast, if that, by the way, that doesn't sound so comforting on the surface, does it? But The other side of that contrast is comforting as well. Notice those lines. Verse 2. They have seen a great light, and then the final Clause there on them has light shone. Again, that's the progression. Seeing a great light is not the same thing as having the light shine on you. Sometimes when I drive home through the mountains in Maryland and then in Pennsylvania when I go back to Illinois, you go through a few tunnels in the mountains on the turnpike. And it's amazing when you get into those tunnels. I've been in there where the lights are not working on the ceiling, and it's very dark in there. The only thing you really have to go by is the light at the end of the tunnel. And you know you're gonna get there, but for the moment you're in the dark, right? And that that's the idea here These people, they see a great light, but it doesn't mean that that great light has yet reached them, or they have reached that light. But notice the intensification in that last clause. The light on them has shown. It's very different from being in the tunnel from then walking out into the sunlight and having the warmth of the sun hit your face. An intensity to God's promises here. Light and darkness. Now, I want to just say that when it says that, when it looks in verse 2, when it says they have seen a great light, and this light has shown on them, what tense is that? It's past tense. It's past tense despite the fact that the prophet is speaking of a future event. Now, I don't mean to get too technical here, but I think that that is an important observation for us to know. Because Isaiah is writing this to people who are in the midst of a dark and a hopeless situation. They can see the light at the end of the tunnel, but it has not yet arrived. And he's speaking to them as if they have already reached the light at the end of the tunnel, despite them not getting there yet. And the point in sharing that detail is that God's word often makes promises that speak of future events as past tense events. to heighten the certainty of our faith that God will bring it about Himself. Let me give you another example from the New Testament where you see that same dynamic. You see the same dynamic in Romans chapter 8, verse 30. Again, a context talking about suffering and the hope that believers have because of the work of Jesus Christ and his resurrection. This is what it says. For those who whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. In the original Greek in which the New Testament was written, that word predestined, called, justified, and glorified are all written in a past tense verb. Now, predestined clearly happened in the past. Called happened from his point of view in the past. Justified has already happened, but glorified has not. We will not be glorified until the day that Jesus Christ returns and raises us from the dead, or if he returns in our lifetime, calls us to glory in heaven with him where he made will remake all things and we will be risen from the dead. Look, that's what glorified means. That is future And yet Paul writes it with a past-tense nuance to communicate the certainty that God will fulfill his promise. And that's the same dynamic we see here. Those have seen a great light. That light has shone upon them. It is so certain, even though it hasn't happened yet from the prophet's point of view, that it's a done deal. You can take that to the bank, is what he's getting across. And so by the way of application this morning, it leads us to ask this. What does it look like today for the gospel to penetrate the deep darkness? the gloom and the anguish that many people experience in our world today. And yes, they still experience these things despite the fact that it is Christmas time and look, life doesn't stop at Christmas, does it? can still truck full force ahead. Well, the gospel shows us that Christ is the light of the world who calls us to repentance over sin and faith in Him. This idea of light that we see in this passage calls us to repentance from the darkness of our sin. That's the connection between the people's experience in the Old Testament and our experience today. Fundamentally, our hearts are no better than theirs back then. You hear people talk about, oh, humanity has evolved and this and that. Well, guess what? The human heart doesn't evolve. It's still falling. And this passion speaks to those who are living in present darkness for whatever reason in their lives. Just as the sin of the people of Israel led them eventually into captivity, an exile, living in anguish and gloom, so often does our sin lead us into the captivity. and the anguish and the gloom that we sometimes experience in our lives. We make a sinful decision thinking believing the promise of sin that it's going to deliver some benefit that we're after, and then we sin, and then what happens? We are left high and dry. But it's not only our lives. Sometimes the sin of other people can lead us into dark valleys as well, where we may not have done anything wrong, but somebody did something to us, and it leads us into this valley of despair. That happens too. And by the way, this is how the New Testament takes our passage this morning and applies it. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 17, Jesus has just defeated Satan. He's just been tempted three times. He didn't succumb to that temptation. He was victorious. And he comes into Galilee. And then you know what Matthew does? He actually quotes this passage here. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness On them has light shone. And then it immediately opens into what Jesus began to preach in Galilee. And this is what he said. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It's interesting that God's The kingdom of Judah and Israel historically was crumbling at the time of Isaiah the prophet. It would come to an end They were expecting a kingdom of glory. They were getting a kingdom in the form of the Assyrians of oppression. And yet during all that hope, Jesus hits the scene. And he preaches, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. In other words, when Jesus first came, the light of God's kingdom had come. Christ, the light of the world, had shone in Galilee, the very region that God said through Isaiah would see this great light and have it shine upon them. Now that was two thousand years ago. That was two thousand years ago. The question this morning For you, is there some besetting sin that you wrestle with? And by the way, don't answer that out loud. Is there something that consistently gets you down when you fall short? Is there something that has happened to you that has put you in a valley of deep darkness or maybe feeling contempt and anguish and gloom this morning? Well the application of this passage this Christmas first and foremost is the call to repent of our own sin when we examine our own hearts. Because Jesus is the light of the world that shines in the darkness. I love what the Gospel of John says in John chapter 1. Verse 5. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness could not overcome it. That's an amazing statement. And you can see a perfect illustration for that Every time you walk into a dark room and you flip the light switch and the light comes on, the darkness flees. When an image of Christ coming into the world, not just historically, but offering to come into our lives spiritually with his presence. He'll enlighten our hearts. He'll show us the things we need to repent of. Where maybe there's sin in that corner area of our lives that needs to be dealt with. But he's come to say, I can handle that. There's nothing that you are going through that I cannot handle and redeem. And that light calls us to faith in Christ. The other side of the coin of repentance is faith. If you ever hear somebody talk about faith and never mention repentance, it's not really biblical faith. that they're talking about. If you ever hear someone talk about repentance and you never hear them talk about faith, it is not biblical repentance. The other side of the coin is faith. Now, the Gospel of Mark in chapter 1, verse 15 gives the same event. Jesus has defeated Satan. He hits the scene in Galilee. He begins preaching the gospel. Now Mark adds a little bit of a different nuance to what Jesus says. It's the same event with one exception. He doesn't just say, as Matthew says, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He says, repent, he says, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. Faith and repentance go hand in hand. And by the way, when we talk about faith, that does include an intellectual ascent. Like you have to understand what's being communicated to you. At some level. But it goes beyond just intellectual sense or even agreement to say, yeah, okay, I agree that that's true. It's actually also going a step further and trusting in what you've just been told about Christ. A resting in him. Now I I'm not gonna say much now about what Christ has done because I'm going to get to that in my second point, which I'm going to just jump to right now in verses 3 through 7. Our second point is the joy of the gospel at Christmas time. Let's look at verses three through five. We see the joy that comes from restoration He's already been talking about death and exile and the shadow and darkness and gloominess, but he points forward here So the restoration of Israel by alluding to a previous redemptive action that God has already done for his people from in the past, from their point of view, even. Let's take a look at verse 3. God is the one who gives joy. Look at verse 3. You have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy, they rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest. And they're glad when they divide the spoil. Okay, again, I want to just highlight the verbs here, multiplying and increasing, right? So it's very clear, you have multiplied the nation, you've increased its joy. Both of those are in a causative stem in Hebrew, which is a technical term, which just means God is the one who accomplishes it for them. It's not like they have to multiply themselves as a nation. It's not like they are responsible for increasing their own joy and that they don't just sit there and be like, well if I just have enough joy, it'll come. That's not the idea. God is the one who does this for them. How does he do it? Well, think about it. When he he multiplying the nation is the opposite of what he did when he judged them by cutting them off little by little and Sending them into exile. So this implies that they're going to come back. Increasing their joy is a complete turnaround from the doom and the darkness and the anguish and the sense of content that they experienced in the exile. Farmers don't often feel the joy when they're planting and or tilling their field, right? Or even watering or working it, but they start to feel the joy when they start to harvest. The food. This is the light that this is where the language of harvesting comes from in this passage. God brings his people back from exile. He harvests them from the nations, and even in the deepest and darkest of situations, God's people are being taught that their joy goes beyond their circumstances. I've said this before, I will probably end up saying it again sometime. There's a difference between happiness and joy. Happiness depends on your circumstances. You can be happy one day and you can be sad another day, right? Because of your circumstances. Joy goes far deeper than that. Joy transcends the circumstances, and the joy in this case rests in what God does for them. So what does he do? Well, look at verses four and five By the way, notice how verse 4 begins with the word for. For the yoke of his burden and the staff. For his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken is on the day of Midian. For every boot of the trampling warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned. As fuel for the fire. How does this point to restoration? Well, notice the imagery there. At the end of verse 4, you have broken as on the day of Midian What is that pointing back to? Well, that points , if you're a careful reader and you've read your whole Bible, which not everyone has, and that's fine, that goes back to Judges chapter 7. Gideon 's time. You remember the Midianites and the Amalekites and the people from the east, they kept coming in and they kept ravaging the land. They kept taking all of the crops of God's people and basically starving them out until God's people cried out to God for deliverance and God sends little Gideon. I say little Gideon because he was the youngest son of the least family of the least tribe at that time. And God uses Gideon, and you remember the story of About 10,000 people rally to Gideon and God says, your army's too large. Your army's too large for me to use them to deliver you from those enemies. And it's kind of an interesting story. Take them down to the brook. And have them drink water. And those that that scoop the water up with their hands and drink while looking around. Those are the people I'm going to use to deliver you from the enemies of these people, the Amalekites. But those that get down on their hands and knees and lap it up like a dog, send them home. And he was left with 300 people to fight off an army of about 120,000. Not great odds. But you remember the story. They stand on the mountains and the hillsides and and they have torches in their hands and um some of them have trumpets and they have jars and pitchers and they light the torches, they shatter the jars, it makes a loud noise in the valley. And they blow the trumpets and they shout, A sword for the Lord and for Gideon. And then did they rush down the mountain and slaughter the enemy? No, they stood there. Not exactly a genius battle plan. They stood there and how did the Amalekites and the Amidianites and the other people from the east respond? They freaked out, they were sleeping 'cause it was in the middle of the night. They got up, they grabbed their swords, they started killing each other. In the confusion. Quite an amazing victory. God's people didn't have to fight the battle. The battle belonged to the Lord. Yeah. Amen indeed. And what God is saying here through Isaiah the prophet is, yes, you have the Assyrians coming in. They're oppressing you. They're causing you to live in darkness and anguish and gloom and contempt. And yet there's going to be a victory I am going to break their yoke from off of you as I broke the yoke off of you from Midian. Now, I don't there's different ways you can say that that was fulfilled historically. Maybe it was partially fulfilled when God slaughtered 185,000 Assyrian troops. They were laying siege to Jerusalem later in Hezekiah's day. By the way, that's a lot of dead Syrian soldiers. But even if that's not what the prophet had in mind, it would have been finally fulfilled and 612 BC when the Babylonians and the Meats destroyed the city of Nineveh and marking the beginning of the end of the Assyrian Empire, which then finally crumbled for good in 609 BC. Look, if you don't remember any of those dates, that's fine. Remember this Remember that God keeps his promises, and those promises can oftentimes be seen historically for those who look for them. God fulfills promises for real people in real time, in real history. And if he does that, he's going to fulfill his promises to us too. That's what we're to take away from that. But that's not all. It's not just that God will destroy the Assyrians. That is a small deliverance. That is too small of a deliverance for what God has in mind. Look at verses 6 and 7. It's not just joy at the restoration of his people, it's joy at the birth of a child. And with that restoration comes the one who will ultimately bring that restoration, right? I always I always marvel when I talk to parents who are experienc uh you know expecting a child to be born really soon and as Jared said earlier we we've had plenty this year in this church. We have more, praise God, coming. It's always interesting to hear parents talk about their hopes for what that child would grow and become. It's really interesting. Most parents don't think about those things until they're expecting a child, but this is 700 years before the birth of the child, and we're being told what this child is, what's going to be expected of this child. Take a look at verse 6. For to us, this is the Christmas promise, right? For to us, a child is born. Again, notice the present tense there, despite the fact that this is 700 years before the fact. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. That's the heart of the promise of Christmas. This child to be born is to be the Son of God. He's to be the Messiah himself. If you go back to Isaiah 7, 14, this son is called Emmanuel. He is going to be born of a virgin. All that's the same person. And you want to go back even further, all of this is the same person as the one that God promised David that he was going to send from his own line when he made a covenant with him in 2 Samuel 7. 14. And here the government is going to rest on his shoulders, and that is opposite, or stands contrary to the staff of the oppressive Assyrians resting on the shoulders of the people back in verse 4. Again, this is a passage of contrasts. This is your present experience. This is the promise of the gospel for you. And in verse 7, we see a little bit more of his government described of the increase of his government and of the pe and of peace there will be no end. on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. And then I love the way that this caps it off. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Before we get to the application, there's only two things I want you to notice about this that I want to highlight. First There's going to be no end to the scope and the duration of this king's reign or his government. That's important. Why is it important? Because it stands in contrast to the nations of this world. I don't care if you're talking about the Assyrian Empire. the Babylonian Empire, the Persian Empire, the Hellenistic or Greek Empire, the Roman Empire, or after that crumbled, the various empires of Europe that came, various empires in Africa or Asia that have come and gone. historically or in more recent times, the British Empire, the Soviet Union, or brothers and sisters, yes, even the United States of America Empires rise, they fall. They have a dawn, they have a dusk in history But this king, this Messiah, when his kingdom comes, it will not end, it will endure forever. Yes, praise God. Secondly, his reign will be established on the foundations of justice and righteousness. Again, continuing our theme of contrasts this morning, just think about how the nations and empires of this world historically have been founded. I can think of two things that they have been founded on, every single one of them. War and bloodshed, which includes conquest of lands that don't belong to you. Or economic exploitation or both. I love when Jesus is standing before Pilate in uh in John chapter 18 and then the beginning of John chapter 19 And Pilate's asking him, are you a king? Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus says, My kingdom is not of this world. If it were of this world, my followers would have been fighting so that I would have not been handed over to the Jews. Who then handed them over to Pilate? In other words, the way that the kingdom of God comes and is established is not the same way that the kingdom of God and the kingdoms of this world are comes established. The Messiah's kingdom will be different. And I love this again, God Himself will accomplish this in His zeal. So again, what reason do we have to rejoice this Christmas season? Well, we can rejoice this Christmas because Christ has defended or defeated, excuse me, our greatest enemy, which is sin and death, because he was born to establish a kingdom that we get to be a part of. That's part of the good news here this morning. We are rejoicing at the defeat of sin and death at the cross and the resurrection. You're thinking, wait a minute. I thought we're talking about Christmas and the birth of Christ. You're talking about the cross and the resurrection? Yes. Why? Because he was born to go to the cross and rise again from the dead. That was the whole point. And remember, idea of writing to people who suffer under the oppression of the Assyrians, which brought them death. Really, because of their sin, if you read your Old Testament. But we live in a day and age and we hear a lot about oppression, don't we? We hear a lot about injustice, and it's usually in the context of our political discourse. We have things like critical race theory, critical gender theory, critical political theory, and the those can go on and on. We're used to hearing about this. But the reality is that our greatest enemy is not these systems and these things in place. The greatest enemy is sin and death. My greatest enemy is my sin. My greatest enemy is not your sin. My greatest enemy is my sin. The same is true of you. What's interesting here though is while our greatest enemy is our own sin against God , Which if you think about it, our sin functions a lot like the Assyrians in this passage. I don't mean to allegorize here, but I do think that there's a legitimate connection. Like the Assyrians laid siege to God's people, so also does your sin and my sin so often lay siege to us through the pressures of temptation. And sometimes as we wrestle with our own sin or the consequences thereof, we find ourselves in despair thinking, how can we ever be redeemed from this? How could God ever love someone like me? Is there any hope that this will be over with at any time soon? And the answer is yes, because when we talk about God, breaking the the yoke of our burden. He did this by destroying sin and death on our behalf through his son that Isaiah 9. 6 tells us is to be born And they did this at the cross. This is where where Paul says in Romans 8:3. And again, I've said this before, I will say it again. It is a crucial verse. If you're one to memorize scripture, this is a good one to memorize, right? What does it say? For what God has done with the law, weakened by the flesh, was powerless to do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, there's your Christmas right there He condemns sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. This is not about pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps and trying to earn God's favor through our own good works. We can't do it. Sin dwells in us. It's like a disease. It is a disease. It's not like a disease. It is a disease. And it's a disease that leads to death and separation from God. And yet, Christ in his own body, in the flesh that he took on when he was conceived in the womb of the Virgin and then born of her at Christmas time That same flesh of that child in the manger went to the cross And that same flesh was the arena in which God went to battle for you and for me to redeem us and break the power and the yoke of that sin. And in breaking the yoke of the burden of sin, Jesus invites us this Christmas from Matthew chapter 11, verses 28 through 30, with a very familiar invitation, but we need to hear it again. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. And learn from me. For I'm gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. What a cause for rejoicing. Does your soul this morning feel burdened? Does your soul need rest this morning? Then come to Jesus. He makes precious promises for you to apply this morning. And those promises give way and have substance because of who he is as the one Who makes those promises? We're called to rejoice in the birth of our Messiah at Christmas time. In this part of the application, I want to focus on who this Messiah is, who makes these promises. And I want to just look at the four titles that he's given and just say something very quickly about each one as we wrap up our application. Notice he's called Wonderful Counselor. You know what this tells us? This tells us that the Lord Jesus is the one person, the only person who will always understand your heart and your lives. Your lives. Plural. How many of you have ever felt like you were misunderstood or other people just didn't get what you were going through? Now I'm here to tell you one that's not really true because Paul tells us there's nothing we experience that is not common to man, right? But we feel that way. Most feelings are real. We have the wonderful counselor offered to us who understands what we're going through. And by the way, I just want to Just a value of something really quick on this passage in this title. When it says wonderful counselor, this does not carry all of the therapeutic baggage that we tend to attribute to the word counselor today. It's not Devoid of that, but it's not limited to that. It's not like you're going to lay down on this little you know couch and Jesus is going to sit there in a chair like a shrink and you know psychoanalyze you. That's not the idea of the wonderful counselor A counselor in Scripture, a counselor in the Old Testament period was someone who came alongside of the king and actually counseled him on decisions that he should make and how he should live. And oftentimes the counselor to the king was someone who knew God's word, so he can tell the king this is what God's word says. This is not a counselor. Jesus is not a counselor who's going to come alongside you and affirm every little feeling that we have. That's not a good counselor. A good counselor doesn't teach you to look at your own heart and dwell there to find your own healing within. A good counselor points you outside to the source of healing, and this counselor points you to himself as the one who is the source of your healing because of what he's accomplished for you in his perfect life. Fulfilling the law on your behalf. In his death on the cross for your sins, for whatever you may be feeling down about, he's covered it at the cross and taken away that sin. And in his resurrection to give you new life. There's a reason he said in John 8, I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. What a wonderful counselor. We have. Mighty God, that's an interesting one, highlights the true divinity of the sun that we celebrated this Christmas. We are often commonly say in our Christian circles, Jesus is truly God and truly man. It's not like me. Like I'm half Mexican, half American. I'm like 50% one or the other. Jesus is like a 200% being. Isn't that incredible? Everlasting Father. Okay. Now when it says Jesus is everlasting Father, this does not mean that he is God the Father. Okay, that would be heresy, right? What is he saying here? Rather, he is the author and the finisher of our faith because he is of the same substance with the Father, and also again fully divine. But one commentator said this, and I thought this was really good. He said, this points to the fatherly shepherding care that this child will have over his people as their king. I think that's pretty good. And Prince of Peace. This highlights the fact that only in Jesus Christ can we find peace for our soul And again, I'll just reference you to Matthew 11, 28 to 30, that invitation I just gave you. But it's the fact that we will never find true and lasting peace until we lay down our burdens and come to the Prince of Peace. And this isn't just internal peace to make you feel good. I think it's that. But It's also peace with others and peace with God. And that's why the choir of angels told the shepherds in Luke 2:14: Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, what? Peace. Among those with whom he is pleased. Brothers and sisters Friends and visitors, I would put before you this child who was to be born. Who was born. In the person of Jesus Christ, as the one who brings peace, and through whom God can be pleased with you. Brings us back to our main point, doesn't it? Christmas shows the downtrodden that Christ is the light of the world, the victor over our enemies, by pointing to his glorious birth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today and we are thankful that you have sent your son. Or I suppose you didn't have to do that, and yet you did. Is John , the Gospel of John Uh tells us, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. He writes later in 1 John 4, 7, and following, in this is love. That God sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins, in other words, to take the punishment for our sins on his shoulders. What a gift! Lord, I pray for anyone that's here this morning who does not know you in a saving way, who has not claimed you as their Lord and Savior, Jesus. I pray that you would open their hearts. I pray that this Christmas, this would be the year, oh Lord, that they would receive the gift. of eternal life, the gift of forgiveness of sins that is offered in this child who was to be born and who is now born. And not just born, but risen and seated at your right hand, Father. For those of us who do know you, I pray that you continue to comfort us this morning Christmas. So Lord, with your presence and with your promises as we look back on the first advent and as we look forward and anticipate your return, Lord Jesus. Jesus. We ask these things this Christmas in your name, Jesus. Amen