1 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 14 to 21. This is the word of the Lord, and I believe it is a timely word. I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children. For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. I urge you, then, be imitators of me. This is why I sent you Timothy, my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, to remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach them everywhere in every church. Some are arrogant, as though I were not coming to you, but I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people, but their power. For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk, but in power. What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod? Or with love in a spirit of gentleness. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together this morning with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. presenting ourselves as your children spiritually, having been born again by the word that has been implanted in our hearts, as Peter talks about in 1 Peter 1. Lord, we have been adopted into your family. And so as Paul speaks of fathers. And children, Lord, we pray that you would open our hearts to understand and to know and to receive what it is that you are saying to us this morning. Speak, O Lord, to our hearts. And impress upon us once again the wonderful promises of the gospel, even as you call us in this passage to respond to those promises. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, you might remember last week in the previous passage, the Apostle Paul used what I said was hyperbole. In other words, he was speaking in a very exaggerated way to draw the contrast between what the Corinthians, on the one hand, were expecting from him and the other apostolic leaders and also how they fell short in the eyes of these church members But also from what the reality was as to what God has called these leaders to actually be. Paul was making it very clear that their expectations were off. I think a little more than just a little bit for what the apostles should have been. The apostles were not these overly impressive men that had this long educational pedigree or things that would bring them honor or prestige in the world, they were seemingly the lowest of the low If you remember what he said at the end of verse 13, we are still like the scum of the world and the refuse of all things. I won't go into uh illustrating that this morning as I did that last week, but as we jump into our passage this morning in verses 14 through 21, Paul kind of shifts the argument and he also shifts The emphasis in the illustration that he's going to use. And the whole point of this passage this morning is simply this There is a great need for spiritual fathers in the faith whom God's people can imitate and who can exercise discipline with a spirit of gentleness. That's the main idea. If you're visiting with us this morning or you've never been here, or you can see on page four printed the sermon idea there for you that I just said. But let me just say that one more time, because that's what we're going to unpack in three main points this morning. The idea is that there is a great need for spiritual fathers in the church or fathers in the faith whom God's people can imitate and who can exercise discipline with a spirit of gentleness. Our first point this morning in verses 14 to 15 is the need for spiritual fathers. The need for spiritual fathers. We see this in verse 14 that spiritual fathers admonish their spiritual. Again, picking up on this contrast that he has set forth uh in the previous verses and saying that they were the lowest of the low in verse 13. He switches that gear in verse 14 when he writes this. I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children. Notice the contrast between the purposes of making someone ashamed or shaming them and on the contrast or opposing that idea, admonishing them. Those are not the same things. Shaming someone and admonishing them are two very different things. Now, he says that his purpose is not in shaming these spiritual children. Now, there will be other times, believe it or not, in the book of 1 Corinthians, where Paul does say, I'm writing these things to your shame. He says that in chapter six, when he's talking about they're taking each other to court and suing one another and going to the judges um and these judges were unbelievers and Paul saying aren't you guys don't you guys have at least one wise person In your midst to be able to stand as an arbitrator and a judge between these conflicts you're having between brother and brother as Christians? I write this to your shame. That you go to these unbelievers and sue one another for what you can get out of each other. He'll say it again in verse 15 where he says Talking about the resurrection and their misunderstanding where they should have understood the importance of the resurrection of Christ. He writes, I write these things to your shame. But he doesn't do that here. And that's very interesting. And it's very intentional. This is not one of those times where he is out to shame them. And the reason he's not out to shame them is he is speaking to them. In the role of being a father speaking to his spiritual children. Speaking to his spiritual children. Now, maybe they sh maybe they should have been ashamed of their arrogance that he talks about in the last passage and he'll talk about later in this passage. But shame in and of itself is not his point in this particular place. Hmm. Some of you who are parents know if you've had to discipline your children, sometimes children will act out in public and do things that might embarrass you I remember one of my kids telling me uh when I was a teacher, um, Oh, Mr. Lira, uh I was so embarrassed that my my mother did this to me or said this to me in front of people in a store and I said, Well have you ever thought about how you embarrass your mother? And he looked at me, what? Sometimes, right, children will do things or where they act out in public where you you have to step in as a parent and and address the issue and discipline them somehow. But most people who are parents know that right there in public is not the time to do it. Why? Because you will end up shaming the child or your teen or whoever it is that's your kid. You don't want to shame them in public because you will embitter them if you do that in public. Paul is kind of getting at the same idea here. Shaming someone when you're trying to deal with their pride is only going to harden their heart further, make it more difficult to work through the issue as a parent, and Paul knows that. Now maybe they should have been ashamed, but that's not how he's going to deal with the issue here. Which is an interesting application to the gospel, isn't it? Shame is not always the best tool if you're trying to work through a redemptive solution. So if shame is not the tool that he's going to use, and that's not his point, what is the alternative? Well, look at what he else he says in verse 14. He says he writes this in a sense to admonish them. Now, not to get too technical here, but the American Dictionary of the English language defines to admonish is this, to warn or notify someone of a fault, to reprove them. with mildness. In other words, when you admonish somebody, you're not out to just slap them down with the reality or throw it in their face. Mildness. is the key. The word has a very fatherly quality to it. Now again, if you're correcting someone else's kid, they're probably not going to listen to you with the same weight of authority as they would their father. I remember when I was a child. I mean, I was usually the kid running around making all kinds of noise in church that bothered people. And sometimes people would say something to me, but when my father said something, it carried a different weight or authority to it. But usually when fathers correct their children, I would hope, it is done in a spirit of love. And in this case, you can see the the heart of Paul coming out. He's wearing his heart on his sleeve when he calls them my beloved children. Don't miss that. Like to admonish with a fatherly mild quality to it. My beloved children, this really sets the stage for how Paul intends to work through whatever issues he has with the Corinthians. And by the way, I I said all this time that up to the this point in the letter, the problem that Paul is dealing with is division in the church. This is actually the passage where he ties all of that up. How is he appealing to a divided church as a father to his beloved children? The children not getting along. Most parents understand what that's like. The Lutheran commentator R. C. H. Lensky says this of this passage. Kind of contrasting shame and admonishing. He says, shame touches only the feelings. I'm parenthetically pausing his quote there. Feelings can change with circumstances, right? Shame touches only the feelings, admonition reaches the heart. That's a very different aim and target as a father to be addressing Shame touches feelings, admonition reaches the heart, and just as Paul wears his heart on his sleeve in addressing the Corinthians, he seeks to speak to their hearts as he corrects them And so this reveals to us in principle that biblical discipline and correction seeks to go far deeper than simply behavior modification. But it goes to the heart of the issue. Because behavioral modification can can turn into just simply control. It can turn into manipulation. And though deceit could be thrown in the mix there. And that is not the means that the gospel uses. The gospel is not out to manipulate people. It's not out to just simply control them. The gospel is out to transform them. And in order to transform people, you have to speak to the heart. of the issue because out of the heart comes the overflow of words, comes the overflow of actions. And so admonition, if we're understanding this correctly in a biblical sense, can mean to i i it can be quite direct in its appeal. And and let's face it, today in our day and age, directness is not always appreciated, but from a biblical perspective, there are times where it is quite necessary. Now, he doesn't just go there, he doesn't just Talk about how spiritual fathers admonish their spiritual children. In verse 15, he carries this further to say spiritual fathers can be in can be rare. Spiritual fathers can be rare. Look at verse 15. For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Very interesting there when it says you have though you have countless guides. I don't know if your Bible has a little notation there next to that word countless, but the the word in the original Greek is like you have thousands of fathers or guides in Christ, but not many fathers. That's really interesting. The word that he uses there for many guides in Christ. I'm inclined that he to think that he's talking about those who are fueling the division in the church. But I don't mean I don't think that these guides are necessarily false teachers They might be well-intentioned, and I do think that they're probably saved, because he uses that phrase in Christ. That's why I'm interpreting it that way. But misdirected. Well intentioned, but misdirected. And the word he uses here for guides is really an illustrative one. In the Greco-Roman world historically, it had it had somewhat of a negative connotation for a time because it referred to someone who would make sure that the child gets to their tutor on time. The guide would also could be the tutor But the guide is really the one who is responsible for raising the child and oftentimes disciplining the child. Historically in Greco-Roman culture, this kind of a guide, at least initially, was usually a role that was given to slaves in the household. The father would give the slave the responsibility. And at times if the slave was not doing his job to properly um get the kid to school, or if the you know guide was the tutor himself. and was not educating the kid and disciplining the kid properly, which included beatings for the kid when the kid was on the line. If the slave was failing that responsibility, the father would then beat the slave. Now, as time went on, it became much more of a favorable position in Roman society because it wasn't always given to slaves. It did become a profession as time went on. But Paul's point is very interesting here. Despite the later nobility that this role took on , Early on, it was carried on by the slave, and Paul's point is there's a contrast between the voice of a guide and the voice of the father. It's really interesting Paul uses this same term in Galatians chapter 3 when he talks about previous to Christ's coming, God's people were under the schoolmaster. Under the tutor of the law. But now that Christ has come, God's people are no longer under the tutor. They're no longer under the guide. They are, in a sense. spiritually mature and complete in Jesus Christ. It's the same word here. And Paul's point here is he's drawing another comparison, another contrast between The voice or the training of the tutor or the guide and the voice or the training of the father. Both have a different authority. One commentator writes this in the exposit uh the expositor 's Bible commentary. He writes this In the Roman world, the authority of a father was not to be challenged. Talking Particularly if to be challenged by the child. If your father told you to do something, you do it in Roman society And some of you parents today sitting here understand what it is like when you are raising your child You're trying to educate them a certain way. You want to instill a Christian faith and foundation in their lives, but there are all kinds of other voices. speaking to your children things that you really don't agree with. Right? Maybe it's their friends. Their friends have a different perspective. Some of you may have heard the words before. But I'm making up this name. But Jimmy's parents let him do this. And you're like, well, Jimmy doesn't live here, does he? You understand that frustration. And that that's what Paul's dealing with here. He's dealing with, okay, I'm talking to you as a father spiritually, you see this in verse 15, but there's all kinds of other influences. from these other guides that you seem to be listening to, and and it's making my job as the apostle difficult because they're dividing you and you need to be united. And so he brings up that need very clearly. You do not have many fathers. You have thousands of guides. You don't have many fathers. Now Paul says that he is different because he did become their father in Christ. Now, if you're a careful reader of the scriptures, a question might come up in your mind, as it did in mine when I was studying this Well, what about Jesus who said in Matthew 23, 9, and call no man your father on earth, for you have one father who is in heaven. Don't you have a contradiction here? Isn't Paul violating what Jesus said by saying in verse 15, wait a minute, I am your father in Christ. I don't think so, because he simply means, what does he mean by saying that he became their father in Christ? He just simply means that he is the one who was the means of preaching the gospel to them initially. To use Peter's analogy in 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 22 to the end of the chapter, where the seed of God's word was planted in their hearts through that preaching. And yet, if you remember what he said before, I planted, Apollos watered, but God is the one who brought the growth. He's already framed this entire discussion, making it very clear that their salvation from beginning to end is the work of God, the triumph God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, right? And yet because he's the one whom God used to bring salvation to them, he was there when the these first Corinthian Christians among them were born again, just like parents are usually there, when Fathers are usually there, I'll say, when their children are born. He's the one who spent a year and a half nurturing them as he planted that church and established it in Acts chapter 18. He was the one who protected them as a father spiritually as they were growing, being willing to even throw himself into the mob that was riding in Corinth for the protection of that little fledgling. Church. And then after all that, these myriads of guides have come along, but they don't have the same weight of investment. into the Corinthians as Paul does. That is the difference between a guide or a teacher and a father, isn't it? The father is the one who is used by God to bring you into the world. The father is the one who works hard to protect and provide for his family. He is the one who has that responsibility to bring his children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. There is a weight of investment that corresponds to the weight of authority in that role. Paul fit that role with the Corinthians. He is their spiritual father in that sense, and thus his voice should carry more weight with them than these thousands of guides. What are we supposed to pull out of this passage by way of application at this point? I said from the beginning when I read this that I think that this is a pretty timely passage. I think the principle of application is this. We have the same need for spiritual fathers in our own day and age. Simple enough. We have the same need today. Nothing has really changed between Paul's day and our day One of the things that comes with every single generation of the Church of Jesus Christ is the need to raise up godly, mature men who will be spiritual fathers in the faith to those coming up after them. And I'm just going to say, you do not have to be married or have your own children biologically to be a father in the faith. But these do need to be men of conviction who are willing to say unpopular things by the world's standards, men who are willing to take responsibility in investing themselves into the lives of those coming up after them And when I say men of conviction, I want you to hear me distinguish something very clearly. Josh McDowell years ago came out with a book called Beyond Belief to Conviction. What was the premise of that book? Well you can believe certain things, but that doesn't mean you have the conviction to live it out and stand on it What Paul's getting at here when he's talking about spiritual fathers, in contrast to s to just all these guides in Christ, is a true spiritual father is one who stands upon conviction. He lives out what he says he believes consistently. The walk matches the talk. That's what he's getting at. Now, as most of you know, we had um a very dear brother's funeral this week, Chuck Klein. I don't mean to touch too soft of a nerve here, but I can't really think of a more relevant example that most of you would know today, this morning. Um who was a spiritual father to many of you here at Liberty. And I'm not going to get into all the stories. I think the people who spoke at his funeral, who told the stories, did it far better than I could, but I was I was just rejoicing sitting back here listening to all the stories of this man's faithfulness and how he continued to pour himself and invest into many here at Liberty. Not just in his family, but as as a ruling elder. As a school board member, serving faithfully and selflessly. And I want you to think about this. As one generation gets older and passes into glory, as happens Every generation, the need of the hour here at Liberty Today is for us to raise up the next generation of spiritual fathers. Because there is a danger lurking in the background where there is a lack of spiritual fathers. The danger is that if men do not step up to fill this role of evangelizing and discipling those after them , That generation will find someone else to follow I know we live in a day and age where everybody wants to claim that, well, I I I can you know determine my own destiny and make my own decisions, but let's face it, every single person out there follows someone or something. And it's not a question of if, it's a question of who or what are they going to follow. And that's the need that I think Paul is getting at here. We live in a day and age where social media or media in general are filled with what are called influencers. This is the first time I remember the first time I heard that. Someone say, oh, I want to I want to become an influencer and make my living as an influencer. I'm like, what is an influencer? influencer. And then I found out on the internet. And many of these people, some of them claim to be Christians, and yet if you listen to them, they promote such grossly unbiblical teachings that do lead to the division in the body of Christ. I'll give you two examples that I can think of right off the top of my head of two teachings that surprisingly show up in Reformed churches today. Much to my shock when I realized this, one is something called kinism. It's the idea that that people should live in separate communities and nations and there should be no real interracial Connections or marriages producing children. Well, that can be a little personal for me because my parents come from two very different cultures, but I'm not the only one. Right? I think of Timothy. He's going to come up in our passage in a minute. Timothy had a Greek father and a Jewish mother. And according to kinism, that would have been sinful. Well, God had other plans, didn't he? War anti -Semitism Believe it or not, you jump online, there are certain reformed forums out there where you see all kinds of disgusting anti-Semitic Comments and attitudes that come out. And you know, it's sad because it's usually found in particularly young men in reformed backgrounds. What's missing here? Well, according to Paul, spiritual fathers. Discipline, not disciplining in this case, because he hasn't gotten there yet in the passage, but really investing themselves into the hearts and the minds of these young people. And by the way, let me just say, don't look for spiritual fathers among those who have no personal investment into you at the local church level. Or maybe at the very least, in some kind of campus ministry where the person knows you. That's the difference between a guide and a father. There's a lot of guides out there that don't know you and have no investment into you personally because they don't know you. They're just some person on the internet. But God has placed many quality, quality, mature, godly men in this church. Whom you could get to know. And let me just add one other thing before I get to my second point here. I'm talking about spiritual fathers for the most part, because that's what Paul is talking about. But ladies, the same thing is really true, the same principles are really true of spiritual mothers. Now there's other places Paul talks about spiritual mothers being needed in the church. Take the same principles and apply it there as well. as you hear me say this. He goes on in our second point to talk about the exhortation to imitation. Okay, once you have spiritual fathers and they've been identified, what do you do with it? Verses 16 and 17. Look at verse 16. He says to imitate spiritual fathers. I urge you then, in other words, based on what I just said, be imitators of me. You know, this word imitators in in the original Greek is actually one of my favorite New Testament words because it's so familiar. It is the Greek word mimeti, which is where we get our English word mimic from. Isn't that interesting? Those of you who have raised children, again, know that your children learn their mannerisms, sometimes their temperaments, from observing you as their parents. As they were very when they're very young, they tune in, they they learn to mimic, there's that word, your actions, your words, your phrases, your facial expressions, and maybe Maybe even your laugh. But here's what's interesting. They do that when they're young. Because their character is still being formed by who you are as their spiritual parent, as their biological parents. But as they get older, those things kind of crystallize into their own character. their own personality, but there's usually some kind of resemblance to the parents. And that's what he's saying here. It goes from being mimicking to they're not mimicking anymore. That's who they are. are. And the same is true spiritually here. These Corinthians, they spent a year and a half with Paul. They observed his his character during some of the most formative years of their spiritual lives. They've seen his humility. They've seen his faithfulness among them. Even when life got hard, he stuck through it. And continue to minister to them. They've watched him live out the gospel. They've watched him suffer persecution. They watched him take up his cross and follow Jesus to use the words of Mark 8. 34, which is the summary of discipleship, they watched Paul walk the walk that he talked. For a year and a half. And he was doing this to be an example to them. So now he tells them, go ahead and mimic or imitate the same things that you've seen in me. Do that. This is not the only time in the letter he's going to tell them, you know, imitate me. Later on he'll say it in, I believe it's at the end of chapter 10 or the first verse of. chapter 11, he says, mimic me or imitate me as I imitate Christ Paul had Christ's character poured into him through the Holy Spirit, transforming his heart, and he's telling them, This is what it looks like to live out the gospel. And if it wasn't enough Paul says that I was among you for a year and a half, and you've seen this? Look at verse 17. I am sending you Timothy. That's why he says, that's why I'm sending you Timothy. Excuse me, my beloved and faithful child in the Lord. So it's not just that you've seen me as your spiritual father. I'm in a sense sending you your older brother spiritually Your older brother's character is formed after mine. He looks just like me in his Christian walk. I'm sending him And why am I sending him? Look at verse 17. To remind you of my ways in Christ. To remind you, by way of illustration, once again, not just words, of what godly character looks like. That you might even look at Timothy in case you've forgotten who I am as your spiritual father, that you might see it afresh. It's sending one spiritual child to teach the others who are behind him This is what it looks like to follow Christ. This is what you should be imitating. Listen to Timothy, your brother in the Lord. I know most of us tend to think, you know, if you ever heard growing up, why can't you be more like your brother? You know. This is probably the most gentle way of saying that. But not in a shaming way, right? In an admonishing way. So again, as we look to apply this, we can see that there is also a need for Timothy's in the church today. who grow into maturity themselves, importance of those behind them. So if we're talking it by application of our first point, we need more Pauls as fathers in the church. The second point kind of highlights we need more Timothy in the church as well. It's not just one or the other, it's both. And the call to imitate spiritual fathers in the faith is so important because that is the one command in these two verses. I'd be remiss if I didn't say that. We are called to imitate those that pour into us spiritually as well today. And so if I were to just make this very clear on the nose, on the surface, very practical. Here, do this. This is what I would probably say. I would say, I'm exhorting you this morning from God's word to imitate your deacons, your elders, your pastors. In as far as we imitate Jesus Christ, notice I put that caveat there. We are still fallen men We still make mistakes, and we're not up here to tell you imitate everything, but imitate us as we imitate Jesus Christ. Why do I say this? Because we're the ones who are personally and relationally investing ourselves and our lives into you, and we actually know you. This is why we have shepherding elders who are there to really shepherd the families and the individuals under their care in a more direct, more hands-on way. They're investing into you. That's what they do. And so I would also like to encourage you, pray For those who minister to you, because they pray for you, and their desire as they minister to you and invest into you, is they want to see Christ's likeness formed in you. That's what gives us joy in the Lord is when we we see Christ being formed in the people that we're investing in. At the end of the day, I don't need to see Aaron Lira formed in anybody. I'm spending most of my time trying to put the old Aaron Lira to death. He doesn't need to be invested in anybody. But Christ does, and that's why we're here. And it's also a call in this passage. To the young Timothy's today, just like I said, spiritual fathers can be in short supply today. I think spiritual maturity in general can be in short supply today. Now again, I don't say this to shame anyone, okay? Um, but it's just an illustration, it's just a fact, um, it's just an observation. that when you look at the world today that we live in, people are maturing at a much slower rate than they did, say, maybe 50, 60 years ago. Um that's just a trend. We we can see the average age of people getting married goes up. The average ages of people having children goes up. We can see the n unnecessary, I call it unnecessary, extension of adolescence. into adulthood. We can see trends of parents removing all obstacles from their children's lives, resulting in a lack of problem solving in life. Our world is one and I don't think it's really hard to really I don't have to really illustrate this. You don't have to think too hard to see this. Our world, relatively speaking, is one of comfort compared to the rest of the world here in America. And comfort isn't always a bad thing. But with that comfort can be a lack of needing to rise to the occasion because someone else will do it. Right? Many of us kind of struggle with that, I think. And those kind of patterns also exist in the churches, not just in the world. And with that kind of lack of maturity and lack of seeing the need to rise to the occasion, there can also be a lack of faithful Timothy. In the body of Christ. There can be a lack of young people, both men and women, who prove faithful in imitating their spiritual fathers and mothers. And so today, we just like we have a need for spiritual fathers among us, we have a need for Timothy 's. There's a call to Looking at our lives, our character, our actions, and asking, Am I maturing the way that Christ wants me to mature? Because he paid a very heavy price in his death and resurrection. for us to be redeemed. Peter tells us, you know, you were ransomed, not from from the He says, you are ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. He's talking spiritually. Not with silver or gold. But with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb, without blemish or spot. If he paid such a heavy price and invested himself, we need to ask ourselves, are we seeing what Christ invested himself for, formed in us? In terms of spiritual maturity, holiness, sanctification, unity in the body One of the things I think you can practically do, again, this is just kind of one of the on those on the surface, on the nose kind of things, is to encourage the young Timothyes in our own congregation. By the way, those young Timothy's, I know Timothy's a boy name, I'm not just talking about encouraging young men. I want to encourage young women too. Encourage them in our congregation. Just like we need Paul's, we need young Timothy's to encourage and then to imitate as well. That leads to the last thing here. Uh verses eighteen to twenty-one, the manner of fatherly discipline. This is kind of there this passage has kind of three sections to it. One, Paul's talking about himself as the spiritual father. Then he sends Timothy ahead of him to demonstrate what this is what my character as a spiritual father looks like. But in case that doesn't work and it might not, lastly, I myself am coming to you, God willing. Look what he says in verses eighteen to twenty. He says very clearly, some are arrogant as though I were not coming to you. Well, okay. But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people, but their power. For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk, but in power. Hmm. Okay He makes his point by saying he himself is coming. Notice what the key word here is. It's used twice. It's the word arrogant. Again, one of the main problems in the beginning was a lack of spiritual fathers. Now you don't have many spiritual fathers. Well, what's part of that problem? What's the other side of that equation? Why are you running after all these guides? Because you're arrogant is what he's saying. There's arrogant people in Corinth. And I I tend to think these arrogant people are probably the same as these many guides in Christ Again, maybe well-intentioned, but misapplied. They're causing division, they're causing problems And Paul is essentially saying, it's gotten to the point where I've appealed to you, I've admonished you here, but I might have to come and deal with this in person because of arrogance. How are they exercising their arrogance? Notice they're doing it through their talk. Isn't it interesting that talk can be the tool of dividing the body of Christ? It doesn't always have to be false teaching in a doctrinal sense. Talk can be slander. Talk can be gossip. What does gossip do? Gossip never goes to the heart of the issue and goes to the person you have the issue with, it triangulates and goes to other people and tries to kind of form a coalition against someone else. And what does it do? It breeds mistrust, it breeds broken relationships, it breeds division in the body. Talk can be like gangrene. It's like what Paul says to Timothy later on. You know, Hymeneus and Philetus, their talk is like gangrene. When you think of gangrene, this is disgusting. It's Some kind of thing that rots the body and then it just goes from there. It rots more and more and more. It's gross. They're doing this by their talk, but he's saying, I'm gonna come and I'm not gonna look for their talk. I'm gonna find out not the talk, but I'm gonna find out the power. What does he mean by that? Is he going there to like have this like miraculous showdown? Like Alright, turn that rock into bread or something like that. Let's have a competition. I don't think so. What's the power he's been talking about all this time? The power is the power of the cross. The power is the message of the gospel. The power is the fruit of wisdom that it produces, the fruit of a transformed life. I think what he's saying here, and he's not worried about coming and having this showdown, because when he comes, it's going to be evident Whose character is formed like Christ? Whose life has the Holy Spirit been working in? His? As an apostle? Or all these people who have caused division by fleshly means? I think that's what he's getting at. And then he does this. So we see the fatherly discipline of the arrogant in verses 18 to 20. And then in verse 21, it really ends kind of like: take your pick. What's it going to be? It's open-ended. Look at verse 21. What do you wish? He says, shall I come to you with a rod or with love in a spirit of gentleness? Wow. Okay, that word rod that's used there, that that on the one hand, is the same word that is used in the Greek Old Testament version of Psalm 2 when it talks about the sun coming to Dash the nations with a rod of iron. It's the same term that's used in the Greek New Testament in Revelation to talk about Christ doing the same thing, right? He's been given the rod to shatter nations. In other words, discipline bring judgment. It implies a very harsh imagery A very firm imagery. And so he's asking them, are you guys really what's it going to be? Are you ready for me to come and deal with you firmly? As a father sometimes has to with a child. Or, on the other hand, um, shall I come with love in a spirit of gentleness By the way, I think that's his preferred method. Why do I say that? Well, one, no father likes to wield the rod. Um, if a father likes that, it's called abuse I don't think Paul's abusive here. But I really think that he prefers the spirit of gentleness because notice he ends on that. And what do you do when you're making a speech? This is just, you know, speech 101 in college or something. You know, you make your final appeal and the last thing you say is the thing you want to to say Stick in the m uh memory of your hearers. That's the last thing he says here. I think he's trying to say to them, look, I prefer to come in a spirit of gentleness and work through this. But what's it going to be? I'm willing to do either one. So as we look to apply this, part of the role of spiritual fathers is to exercise a measure of discipline when it is needed to deal with the arrogance and rebellion against. the spiritual authority that those fathers have. And that's something God has given them to do. Now There is an occasional need for church discipline in the local church. There's times when it's necessary. I think the desire of any spiritual father, any spiritual leader, there's a calling in this passage. That should be done with a spirit of gentleness. That needs to be the first and the primary attitude and approach to dealing with discipline With love, with a spirit of gentleness. You know, the Book of Church Order gives several purposes and reasons for church discipline: the glory of Christ, the reclamation of the lost sinner. But think about that second one. Why would you want to start with a spirit of discipl uh of gentleness and love? Because you're not out to just Smack somebody down and punish them. That's not the point of church discipline. The point of church discipline is to bring someone to a spirit a place of repentance. so that they can receive forgiveness of sins and then that everyone can just forget what happened and move on. And nobody needs to bring it up again. But it doesn't always work that way. There is a time when discipline needs to be firm, and that is needed. Why is the difference? Why is it that sometimes you can do this very gently and other times it requires a much firmer hand? Well, I'll tell you why the heart Where is the heart? Remember what I said earlier? Admonition, shame, what does it do? It speaks to the feelings. What does admonition do? It speaks to the heart. Church discipline is never about shaming someone. It's about speaking to the heart. Sometimes that heart is very hard in its sin. And when the harder the heart is, the more firm the hand of discipline needs to be. I can use a perfect example when you look at Pharaoh in Egypt. Every plague got worse and worse and worse. Why? Because his heart was hardened. Let me give you an example here because I've kind of already said this, but I just want to elaborate as we're talking about discipline. We're not aiming at behavioral modification. It's not okay for church leaders to simply control or manipulate their people. It's not okay. What are we aiming at? The heart The example I thought of here was something I had this conversation years ago with a uh a father when I was a teacher. This father was very astute. This guy had a really good hat on his shoulders. But so let me just give the example this way. You know, if your daughter, let's say, gets into her teen years, as I saw often as a high school teacher. And she begins to dress inappropriately at school, wearing clothes that maybe are a little too revealing and provocative. Let me just say something. If you were just to tell that young lady, don't dress like that, you're really not going to get very far. You're just not. And there's a whole host of reasons for that. Partially, and I feel really bad for young ladies like this, but the whole fashion industry, it it's very hard to find modest clothing. I had one mother tell me that And that is a legitimate struggle. But there's other issues there. You want to know, well, why does she want to dress that way? Right? It's not okay I mean you can just tell her don't dress like that, but you gotta get further. Why does she want to dress that way? Is she looking for the attention of some young guy at school that she might like In other words, she's looking for attention and validation in someone that is not prepared to bear the weight of that responsibility Is she just trying to fit in with the crowd by dressing in a way that captures the attention? In other words, there's kind of the fear of what others think, the fear of man. You can you can see just by those two kind of examples, like there's something just far deeper than just the way she's dressing going on. There there's heart issues there. And you you want to deal with that. You want to work through that because it reflects something else that's going on. It's a parent's job, isn't it, to shepherd the hearts of their children. Not just to seek to control them. Why Because those kids are going to grow up. Whether it's a boy or a girl, those kids are going to grow up and the your your job is to send them out. Into the world. You know, pro uh not Proverbs. Psalm 127 talks about, you know, children being like arrows in the quiver of a man. What do you do with an arrow? You aim it, and you aim it to hit The bullseye, the target. You're all you're all to aim your children in the right direction into the world There's going to be a time when they're not under your control. They're not under your roof. They're going to be living away from home and not subject to hearing your voice every day telling them what to do. And you want to know that as you raise them Both in the church, biologically and spiritually, that you are aiming them to think for themselves and to deal with their hearts while they're young so that they're prepared for what's going to hit them in the world. Paul has that kind of heart here for the Corinthians. And church discipline, again, always seeks to aim at the heart. Why the difference between a gentle, loving spirit or a rod? One should always start with the gentle expectation that repentance is coming soon. Giving the benefit of the doubt on the front end is what the gospel calls us to. And there are times where the arrogance and sin That come from bad influences even in the church can be so pervasive and deeply rooted that repentance is not forthcoming, and then the manner of discipline needs to match the hardness of heart. I saw a pastor probably ten years ago had committed adultery. Um And we had to conduct a trial at the Presbytery level, and I was absolutely appalled. And how this man in the middle of his trial basically turned around and told the Presbytery when he was in the st the little stand there giving his testimony of what happened. He blamed us for what he did and then said, You guys didn't care for me this way, you guys didn't support me that way, and then when you did this trial, you missed this one little step and and hardness of heart. We had to defrock that man. That's a heavy, heavy, firm consequence because of a hardness of heart. What's really the problem? Lack of spiritual fathers. What's the encouragement? Let's be spiritual fathers. Let's seek them in our midst because discipline is not the end of the game. Christ's likeness is the end of the game, brothers and sisters. And so that brings us right back to our main point as I finish. There is a great need for spiritual fathers in the faith. Let's identify them and encourage them in our midst. Spiritual fathers whom God's people can then imitate. Let's do that And who can exercise discipline with a spirit of gentleness when the Lord calls us to do that? That's what this passage is all about. And I'll just end by saying Paul do not Paul, the author of Hebrews, says, do not um spurn. The discipline of the Lord. The Lord disciplines those whom he loves because he's a father who longs to glorify his children in his son. As we think about spiritual fathers and raising Christians today here at Liberty, let's keep the ultimate goal in mind. Christ's likeness, because we will one day be with him. Let's pray. Father God, we come before you. This passage has a lot of encouraging things, but it also has some sobering things for us to consider this morning. We pray, O Lord, that you would take your word. You would write it on our hearts, O Lord. We cannot change ourselves. We cannot change our own hearts. And Lord, we ask that you would fill us with your Holy Spirit, taking your word, writing it on our hearts, which is the promise of the new covenant. That you will take your law, put it in our minds, write it on our hearts, so that we might be transformed. We ask, O Lord, that you would do that today. We also ask, Lord, that you would raise up Paul's and Timothy's in this church and that we would be known, O Lord, as a church that really invests into our people. Help us, O Lord, to do that because we can't do it in our own strength. We ask this in Jesus