Well, tonight's passage, as I just read, was Matthew twenty-two, thirty-four to forty. This passage takes place during the week. Between Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem in Matthew 21 and his crucifixion in Matthew 27 If you were to go back a couple chapters in Matthew 21 and 22, you would see Jesus being interrogated by the Pharisees and the Sadducees over and over again in the temple. They do multiple things. They challenge his authority. They ask him about paying taxes to Caesar. They ask him about the resurrection and several other things. And then coming to our passage, they ask him about the greatest commandment in the law. The Pharisees and the Sadducees were essentially trying to spring a trap on Jesus here. They were trying to trick him into condemning himself or saying something that they knew they would disagree with. At the time there was a debate amongst the Jews about which portion of the law was the greatest, hence this question that they posed to Jesus. By asking this question, the Pharisees revealed both their grave misunderstanding of the law as well as the position of their hearts towards God. And this brings us to the main point for this evening's sermon. Man's duty to God is fully loving him, and man's need is for a savior. I'll say that again. Man's duty to God is fully loving him, and man's need is for a savior. So let's dive into the first point here. Man's duty to God is fully loving him. So I won't be spending any more time on the first three verses of this passage because they're fairly self-explanatory. We don't need to go too deep deep into those. Instead, I'll be concentrating mostly on verses 37 and 38. And the reason for this is because, as you all remember, this evening's sermon series is on the Ten Commandments. So, because of that, I would like to concentrate on the part of this passage that is the summary of the first table of the law. So later on, uh probably a few months from now, when we finish the second table of the law and preach to the rest of the Ten Commandments, either myself or Pastor Aaron will be preaching on this passage again, most likely. and concentrating on uh verses 39 and 40. So I'm not sure which one of us will be up on deck for that week, but that's what we'll do. So when the Pharisee lawyer in this passage asks Jesus which is the greatest commandment of the law, Jesus simply quotes from the Shema. So the Shema, if you were to pull up Deuteronomy 6, 4-9, you would see that. It says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. And then he goes on, he goes on to explain this a little bit, and what you should do with this. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. So what Jesus said here in our passage in Matthew 22 is an almost direct quotation from the Shema here in Deuteronomy 6. If you were to look at Deuteronomy 6. 4, that verse calls attention to God's status as the one true God. The PCA pastor Stephen Spinnenweber points out that you can almost sense the word therefore right after this. The Lord our God, the Lord is one, therefore Because of this, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, and soul. God ought to be the ultimate aim of your affections and your actions. And this is simply because he is God and He redeemed you. The Shema that Christ quoted here was a pretty central part of the Jewish faith, and it was something that all Jews should have been familiar with. And this is really a summary of that first table of the law. If you remember from previous sermons in the series, the first table of the law is the first four commandments. And this is how you can distill the entire Ten Commandments down into the first table, which is your duty to God, and the second table, which is your duty to man. So if you'll remember, the first table contains the first commandment, having no other gods before the one true God. The second commandment, creating no images of God. The third commandment, not taking the name of the Lord in vain. And the fourth commandment, remembering and keeping the Sabbath day. Now our passage I mentioned a minute or ago, our passage does deal with the summary of the second table of the law if you look in verses 39 and 40 there, or mainly verse 39 actually. And like I said, one of us will be preaching on that in a few months once we get through the second table of the law. But tonight we'll deal with the first summary listed here. If you remember back to my first sermon in the series on Exodus 20, verses 1 and 2, I talked about how each commandment, each of these ten commandments, has both sins forbidden and duties commanded. So using that model, that sins forbidden and duties commanded, I would like to briefly walk through each of these sections of this greatest commandment here. What does it look like to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind? The great Presbyterian minister Matthew Henry. writes in his commentary on this, he writes that the heart, soul, and mind are the will, affections, and understanding. He goes on to write that our love of God must be a sincere love, and not in word and tongue only. So we must love him with all that is within us. Matthew Henry is really pointing out here that you are to love the Lord your God with the entirety of your being. In fact, the Greek word which Jesus uses for all in this passage implies wholeness. Or completeness or entirety. This means that as Christians, your will, your affections, or the desires of your heart, and your understandings are changed by the Holy Spirit. When you are saved, the Holy Spirit begins to sanctify you. He begins to change you. He begins to mold you more and more into the image of Christ. Throughout the course of your life, you are conformed to that image of Christ further and further. None of you here, myself included, are able to fully love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, and soul. None of us can do that. And Christ is not simply trying to compete for the affections of your heart, but rather he has seized. He has taken control of the affections of your heart. In the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5-7, Jesus expounds upon the Ten Commandments by reminding his hearers of the heart of the matter, that all sin begins in the heart. Hating someone or desiring them to be dead is the same as murdering them. Lusting after another person sexually is the same as committing adultery or fornication. Coveting another person's belongings, status, or wealth is the same as stealing those things from them. Just as Christ expounded upon the law in Matthew 5-7, so does he also expound upon the law here in our passage. The Pharisees and the Sadducees were so concerned with keeping the law, every little detail of the law, that they were missing the forest for the trees, so to speak. They are so focused on each individual facet of God's law that they are missing the bigger picture. Likewise, your human hearts tend to believe that if you simply can keep God's commands, then somehow you'll be made right with God. But that is the furthest thing from the truth. Not only will keeping God's commands never save you, but it is also impossible for you to keep his commands entirely. You may obey the first commandment on the surface level by having no other gods before the true God. You may obey the second commandment and make no images of God. You may obey the third commandment and not use the Lord's name in vain. You may obey the fourth commandment and keep the Sabbath day. So you may follow the letter of the law, but still fail to follow the spirit of the law. You may obey the law at a surface level and still fail to obey the law at the heart level. Do you love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, and soul? You don't, and neither do I. I know that I am woefully inadequate when it comes to this. R. C. Sprohl writes that we have a terribly low view of what the law of God requires and a frightfully high view of our own performance. What about you? Thankfully, you have a great high priest, a savior who does love the Lord God with all of his heart, mind, and soul. Thankfully, the Savior sends his Spirit to dwell within you and to enable you and strengthen you to love the Lord your God in a pure way with the righteous mind of Christ. The children's catechism, which is taught to our younger kids here at Liberty during Sunday school, has a question about this. So Children's Catechism 4, question 4 asks, how can you glorify God? And the answer is by loving him and doing what he commands. By loving him and doing what he commands. Brothers and sisters, you love the Lord your God when you obey his commandments and you follow his word. That is why this greatest commandment in our passage is a summary of these first four commandments or the first table of the law. Now, how do you go about growing in this area by way of application? So at the risk of being somewhat repetitive here, you grow in these in these ways by observing the ordinary means of grace. Now I know I mention this all the time when I preach and during pastoral prayers and stuff, but it really is true. God has given you, the church, these very ordinary, normal things by which you grow. When you come to church on the Lord's Day and you pray with the saints, you are submitting your heart and your will and your mind to that of God. You are sending him your petitions and praises. And when you pray, you are bowing in acknowledgement. You're acknowledging that he is sovereign and providential over the world. Why would you pray to him if you didn't believe that? When you take part in and observe the sacraments in the Lord's Day, you are calling to mind the covenants of God, His covenant promises for His people. You are reminded of God's covenants and you are strengthened and given hope. When you hear the word read and preached, you conform again your hearts and your minds and your thoughts to God. R. C. Sprohl writes, are we people who love the Bible? We should be. For in it we hear from him, and he reveals to us who he is. The more we study it and learn it, the more more our hearts will be inflamed with affection for Him The word of God, brothers and sisters, inflames your hearts with affection for God. Think about the psalmist in Psalm 119. He says, Oh how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me. I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts. I hold back my feet from every evil way in order to keep your word. I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me. How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth. Through your precepts I get understanding. Therefore I hate every false way. Think of how the psalmist phrases that. He says the word of God is sweeter than honey. You don't really hear people talk about God's word like that very often. But that's what the psalmist says. So tonight I would exhort you to continue to make it a priority to attend Lord's Day worship. Make it a non-negotiable thing. Don't come up with excuses to miss Sabbath worship. Obviously, if you're sick. Don't show up. That's not what I'm saying. But you don't just wake up in the morning and think, ah, I don't feel like coming to church and just not show up. Or oh, it's been a busy week. I need some more rest. No. Come to church. Come see these ordinary means of grace and take part in them. That's how you're going to grow as a Christian. And I promise you you'll be encouraged. Think about professional athletes. They spend years perfecting their craft, becoming faster runners, becoming stronger by lifting weights. improving their hand-to-eye coordination and whatever athletic skill their sports require. But this doesn't happen overnight. It takes years and decades to reach the skill level. And level of strength and speed. It takes hours on the practice field, in the gym, in the weight room, in the recovery room. It is an accumulation of all those little moments in training. In much the same way, your sanctification takes a long time. It's an accumulation of all those little moments, like that short prayer you utter as you drive to work in the morning. That passage of scripture you read in the morning while you drink your coffee. That word of encouragement you receive from another Christian, a brother or sister. That sermon you sit under where something sticks with you. It's an accumulation of all those little moments of the ordinary means of grace. Twenty years from now, you will love the scriptures more than you do tonight. Twenty years from now you will love Christ more than you do tonight. Twenty years from now you will show more fruit of the Spirit than you do tonight. Twenty years from now, you will be more in love with the Bride of Christ, the church, than you are tonight. Over months and years and decades of sitting under a ordinary means of grace ministry, The Holy Spirit will sanctify you. He will conform your minds and your hearts and your strength to that of Christ. As you are sanctified throughout that course of your life, your affections, your desires, your will, your minds will grow in love for God. And this brings us to the second point, second and last point of the sermon. Man's need is for a savior. Think about the last few months of evening sermons on the first four commandments. When you look at the full depth and range of what each commandment requires, when you read the Ten Commandments, And then read Jesus' exposition of them in the Sermon on the Mount, what are you left with? Do you read all that and you think, yep, I'm doing a great job? I know I don't think that. I think the exact opposite. I read that and I'm left feeling pretty exposed. If you are commanded to love the Lord your God here, and you cannot truly do that, what are you left with? You're left as a sinner in need of a savior. Sproull points out that this is an unbridgeable chasm between our performance and the demands of the law of God. Think about Romans 1. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. That's a pretty hard saying, is it not? As sinners, you are left with a desire and a will which not only does not want to obey God. But you're left with a desire and a will that actually hates God and actively rejects him. But brothers and sisters, for us as Christians, this shows your need for a savior. If you as a sinner have a heart which hates God and his law, a heart which despises all good things, and which yearns to do things your own way, then you have a heart which is dead in your sins and trespasses. Think about Ephesians 2, 1-10. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world. And then skipping ahead a few verses, but God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together in Christ. Is that not encouraging? You were dead in your sins and trespasses. You were left with a heart which hates God. But God, in his great mercy and love, made you alive through Christ. God removed that heart of stone which hates him and gave you a new heart of flesh which loves him So what do you do with this now? When you're confronted with your sin and you become aware of this position you're in, how do you respond? You respond by repenting of your sin and believing in the gospel. Craig Blomberg, in his commentary on Matthew, writes that your motivation for obedience to God should be your gratefulness. for what he has done for you. So by way of application here, I encourage you to throw yourself upon Christ. If you are here tonight and you're not a believer, now is the time to repent of your sin and throw yourself at the foot of the cross. If you're here tonight and you are a believer, then remember what Christ has done for you and for his people. Never forget that he's pulled you out of that pit of sin and death, and he's made you alive in him. Now, how do you do this in a practical sense? Ask God to examine your heart and its loves and priorities. Ask God to examine your heart and its loves and priorities. David writes in Psalm 139, 23-24: Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. and see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. I would encourage you to pray to God. Pray that God would show you the ways in which you do not love Him the way you ought. Pray to God that He shows you areas where you sin Maybe where you don't trust him, where you don't believe in his promises. Pray to God that he will show you areas where you're prideful or trying to control things your own way. And I know this is not an easy thing to do. That's not easy work to do on your life. But God is faithful. as he sanctifies you and conforms you into his image. So pray to God that he will show you those things and grow you in that way. Another practical application for this is to ignite your affection for Christ. Ignite your affection for Christ. Throughout your life, I've mentioned this already, the Holy Spirit will slowly sanctify you more and more. It's often a long, slow process. But once again, I'd like you to encourage, I would like to encourage you rather to continue attending worship on the Lord's Day. Continue reading the scriptures and having private devotional time. Continue praying and bringing your requests and fears and concerns before the throne of Christ. Continue taking part in the sacraments on the Lord's Day. Continue sitting under the word read and preached. Just as you stoke the flames of a fire by slowly adding wood and oxygen to it. So also does the Holy Spirit stoke the flames of your affection for Christ by slowly strengthening your will and your desire through the ordinary means of grace. Brothers and sisters, remember that the first four commandments contain your duty to God. The things which you are to render unto Him, the service, the things you are supposed to believe about God. Examine yourselves tonight and ask God to strengthen you to love Him more and more each day and to more closely follow his commands each day. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, thank you once again for your word. Thank you for breathing your word out, Lord, for giving us the scriptures which not only are just, they're not just things to live a better life or a motivational speech or something empty. They are living, breathing words, Lord. Thank you for giving us that. Thank you for giving us your heart and your desire for your church here in your Word Lord, we pray that we take this to heart, that we that the Holy Spirit, your spirit, strengthens us, Lord, to love you more and more each day. So like I preached a few minutes ago, 20 years from now, we can look back and see how much more we love you than we do tonight. In your son's name we pray. Amen.