Do you have your Bibles? Turn with me to Romans chapter nine. And I want to say the outset here a few things. This is a flyby of the doctrine of election. We could certainly spend many, many weeks on this uh precious doctrine of the church. And we're not going to get into the branches of this doctrine, the eternal decree, which would be predestination. but in God's calling. But we're going to stick to primarily this idea of election. And we're going to introduce some some rather large words, which I think is great to do. And And I think it's helpful for the church to always have robust theology in front of us and to stretch our minds as well as our hearts. uh to put God's truth, which is inexhaustible and vast and wide, uh, right before us. And and hopefully what happens is not only do we worship God, who is far v more vast and wide and greater and deeper than anything we can ever imagine. But you also go home and be uh exploring this on your own, digging further into scripture. A a deep love for God's word is is hopefully one thing that can come out of this. And I mentioned we're talking about the doctrine of election and uh I thought of this obviously due to of recent current events. No surprise there. And uh as the world has turned its attention, the whole world has really turned its attention. to the election of our President of the United States, a more important election can often be forgotten. And I thought of that as I've I've been glued to the the news probably like many of you waiting and anticipating and seeing what's going to happen And never once, never once, until earlier last week did I think, when I thought of the word election, and that there's going to be someone elected to this unbelievable position. Position this this uh privileged position of president of the United States. Never once did I think, wow, God, you elected me. Not as President of the United States, of course. you elected me to be your son. And it just made me think, in light of these current events, what a great doctrine to look at. to get our minds not on presidential elections, but on this doctrine of election. And just as the presidential election has some very strong feelings associated with it, on both sides, so too this doctrine, this Christian doctrine of election, has violent feelings towards it. Many have despised And have been repulsed by this doctrine of election. The idea that God has chosen some to be saved and and not others is is uh anathema to many people. And just as the doctrine of the elect emphasizes as That we'll see God's sovereignty in all things. So, too, just a reminder as we think about the presidential election, that it is indeed God who is sovereign. It is he who lifts, exalts, and humbles. He builds and he tears down. He does what his sovereign will. will uh decide. And yet he does not disallow secondary causes, as which what we saw in our confession Well, so the doctrine of election is found throughout Scripture. It's not a Pauline doctrine, it's not just found here. And Christ Himself teaches it, Matthew 24, 24, for false Christs. And false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. Again, Matthew 24, and he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather the elect from the four winds from one end of heaven to the other. Peter talked about in 1 Peter 1-1, to those who are elect exiles. This is an important point to make is uh when people have a problem with doctrines like predestination. And they basically ignore that idea from scripture. It doesn't seem to be very intellectually honest. You have to at least deal with it. It's in there. Predestination, that word, is is found in Scripture. The elect, the idea of being elect is found. We see this in Acts thirteen. Luke writes that as many Gentiles who were, quote, appointed to eternal life believe, and there is the sense of predetermination there. But the greatest articulation Of this doctrine of the elect comes from the pen of Paul and specifically this chapter of the book of Romans as well as chapter 11. And we have to understand election in light of Israel. You have to tie this all back to the Old Testament. And this is exactly what Paul's doing. I mean, he's writing to the church in Rome. He's not wrying to just Jews who are familiar with the Old Testament, certainly. He's wrying to Gentile believers too. That the church in Rome was a mixed bag of Jews and Gentiles. And probably Gentiles actually outnumbered. Jews in that church. And yet Paul here is is connecting the doctrine of election as well as many other doctrines. to the Jewish understanding of scriptures. And we're going to see this throughout. But Paul is answering a rhetorical argument that is being posed to him by himself. Now maybe someone in the church has asked him, but we think probably this great treatise is is from the the mind of Paul given to him by God, and there's rhetorical questions that are throughout the book of Romans, and this is another rhetorical question. that precipitates Romans 9. And the question is this, what to do with Israel? What to do with Israel? You have a country, you have a nation that was chosen by God and was blessed by God, and God made all these promises. for Israel and yet it seems that they failed. It seems that these promises that God's given to them are no longer valid. And there's a legitimate obstacle to believing the promises of God, and namely Israel's behavior, Israel's idolatry, and rejecting the true God. But how do we make of this promise that we find in Scripture that Israel is God's chosen people? When I came to Christ at age of 19, all I had was the Old Testament. I mean I had the New Testament too, but all I read first was the Old Testament. Started reading Genesis, and then went on to Exodus. And There in my apartment by myself twenty some years ago, I could not help but think I had to become a Jew. in order to be saved. Because clearly Genesis and Exodus so far are what I had read and I had no idea of the differences between Old New Testament. I was completely biblically illiterate. But I thought this I you gotta become a Jew. And so I stopped being pork and to my friends all thought I was weird for a little bit. And and then I understood, right, the New Testament. But this idea of Israel seems to be the chosen nation. Shouldn't we all be Jews? Well, Paul answers this rhetorical question in a most profound way. And here is what he says, not all who are from Israel are of Israel. Not the word descended here is probably in your translation in verse 6, not there in the Greek, but it just conveys the same meaning. meaning, this idea of of generations, of descent descendings, descendants. But in other words, to answer the question about God's promise to Israel, Paul has raised another question. Who constitutes Israel? So the question on the Jews' mind is what about Israel? Right? What about Israel? What about the Old Testament? What about all this these promises to Israel? And Paul raises a different question, and he asks, who? And this is actually a repeat of what Paul's already done in this exact same letter. You look back at Romans chapter 2. In Romans 2 throughout, he's comparing this idea of the good Jew, right? The good Jew who follows the law. And what's he saying? Romans 2. 28, for no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly. Nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. So what Paul is saying is that being a Jew is more than being a certain ethnicity of a certain nation. It's a spiritual inclusion into a people of God. And so, in a similar vein, Paul examines who actually belongs to Israel. Look what he says. Not all are children of Abraham. Recall in the Gospels the the people would come and who oppose Jesus and say, We have Abraham as our father. And does Jesus say, yeah, you're you're absolutely right. You do No, he doesn't. He says, nope, you don't have Abraham as your father, you have the devil as your father. Not all are children of Abraham, because they are his offspring, but through Isaac. Shall your offspring be named? This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but children of the promise are counted as offspring. And what Paul is making a claim on is radical, especially for a Jew, especially for a Jew of Paul's thatcher and Paul's training and Paul's education. Paul's upbringing, what he's claiming is that those who think they are of Israel, descendants of Abraham, are actually not And that there is a remnant, and there has always been a remnant within ethnic Israel, but it's included others. Other Gentiles as well. But it's in it's uh a remnant that is actually the descendants of faith. And this is where we depart from our non-reformed brothers and sisters, typically, on this understanding of Israel. And the purpose of Israel and who is Israel. And typically you have, from the non-reformed perspective, two sides. Of the spectrum, you have one the dispensational side. There are two tracks that are separate. One for Israel, one for the church. And then you come over here to those that are so close to stepping their foot into a reform. Theology and they have a progressive covenantalism, which is basically their their the church does uh embody some of Israel, but there's still some promises. that remain for ethnic Israel, quite a few actually, promises that remain for ethnic Israel. And I was reading a commentary, a very well-known commentator. Who was exeguting Romans 9, just wanted to see what he says on the tight. You know, these are some of the passage when I look at a commentary. If I pick up a commentary or a book, I kind of know what are the Well you know, what passages do I want to kind of uh flip through very quickly? And uh I I quickly turn to Romans 9. uh six and seven just to see what he says. And I was tracking along with his soteriology, his understanding of of Christ's salvation. We weren't at odds about this. This is well known reformed evangelistic uh evangelical scholar, but when he gets to this part, this idea of this question between Israel and the church and this relationship between the two, he said, quote, we must reject this interpretation that these two uh entities are connected or are related. I was I was actually I wasn't too surprised By that. But if the question of Israel is being raised, this is why this is actually important. If the question of Israel is being raised, then it also has implications for all the rest of the Bible. How you view Israel has to be directly connected to how you read the Old Testament. Is this a book or the first 39 books for Israel? What can the church take from it? When the church reads the Old Testament, are we just gleaning some great principles that have been applied to Israel? And yet we can just try to we can try to sift through these to find out what applies to the church. How does one read the Old Testament? And this gets into the doctrine known as supersessionism. That's our first big word. of the evening. We are this is all building up to election. You have to discuss this in my opinion before getting into the meat of of election. This is the backdrop of election. of the elect. This idea of supersessionism, I think scholars just try to come up with the biggest word they possibly can. We're going to have a couple other ones here. later on. They're even bigger. This idea of session, if you're on a session, we have a couple session members here tonight. It's just being seated. So a session is a person who is seated in authority. And so the idea of supersession is that something is superseded, has supersat, so to speak, in the seat of Israel. And that would be the church. Another term for this is replacement theology, and maybe you've heard that before, this idea of replacement theology, that the church has replaced Ethnic Israel, in some capacity, and there's various definitions. There's an economic supersessionism. There's a punitive superset. These all these that we're not going to get into all these things. But but by and large, they all they all fit into this one category that Israel is uh is no more. as a people of God, and they have been replaced by the church. So I I rarely name examples of people uh by name. I I rarely say uh quote somebody and say who that person is. I just did that with a commentator. Uh and the the reason why is I I typically like to keep examples universal. Like they apply to more than just this one person or this one case or one instant. I I I typically try to to make it broad in in that sense because I think it captures more of the meaning. But I do I will mention some names here because it's well known it's a little fun to do this and it's um and and this person may Some good points that I disagree with. I was listening to John MacArthur, who was on a talk show, a radio show of uh Ben Shapiro. And uh Ben Shapiro is an Orthodox Jew. And it was a discussion about conservative things and whatnot. And it's a good, and John MacArthur did a great job, and I really encourage you to to to listen to it. I had a few quibbles with some of the things he said. There's a peculiar interpretation of the letter of Philemon that he mentioned that I I didn't really drive with, but other than that, he s it was an hour-long interview. I was uh I was great with it until the very end. There's ten minutes left in the interview, and he gets in I couldn't believe it. This is unbelievable. So I actually uh quote I I went back and I I word for word I looked and wrote down what I'm going to read the this portion in its entirety because I think it's very helpful to understand you're going to understand my position, but you're also going to understand this idea of like a progressive covenantalism or uh a non-reformed view. And MacArthur makes bold claims often, so uh we're we're going to test test his claim. But there's a dilemma that he kind of alludes to. He doesn't He does mention it, but it's this dil this dilemma found in Romans 11 that Paul says all Israel shall be saved. So what do we do with that? And so then John goes into um quite a uh uh a diatribe here, and he says this, there is a certain kind of peculiar doctrine, I'm sorry, there's a certain kind of popular doctrine that I reject with all my heart. And that is that the church has replaced Israel and the promises of God. It's called supersessionism. I don't believe in that. I think that, honestly, I hate to say this, it is a Latin form of anti-Semitism to say that. You can't tell me that God made promises in the Old Testament to his people Israel. concerning his future kingdom and salvation, that he would give them a new heart, a new spirit, he would write in his law. Skip some of this, they would be saved, he would be their king, that they would be his people. You can't possibly tell me all this. And that God did not mean what he said. That is one of the reasons I am an originalist. I think he's making that in connection to the Constitution. It doesn't really have much to do with with uh the word. It's very popular in Christianity to say now this so why do I bring up this quote here? It's because of what he's about to say next. Alright. Things have to logically follow your theology. Like how you think about certain particular doctrines. then have consequences in the way you think about other doctrines. And so here's listen for the consequence of of this idea. It is very popular in Christianity to say that the Old Testament is interpreted by the New. That is not true, he says So the New Testament does not interpret the Old Testament. Because if that's the case, nobody in the Old Testament had any idea what was going on. That's not revelation, that's obfuscation. That's just a pile of riddles, he says. Well, other people say you have to superimpose Christ, a Christological hermeneutic. That's not true either. So like I said, there's there's consequences to how we think about these things. And and MacArthur is a very uh Great man, he's a great preacher, is very intelligent, but this statement I fear is intellectually dishonest. Because if pressed, and I'm sure he's been pressed at some point , He has to ask the question, then what are these verses of the Old Testament for? Who are the promises actually for? And if they're for both , As I suspect he might say , then are there two tracks of salvation? That some are being saved? In the system of Israel and the law, and there's some that are being saved by faith in Christ? Or is there one track, one people of God? Now, I don't like the term supersessionism first because it's very complicated and convoluted, but I like the uh and I don't like the term replacement theology. I don't think the church has replaced all these as if they're they're non-existent. It gives the impression that they are no longer applicable. They're not applicable to Israel of the past. It just has some it lends some confusion to that. I prefer a term of fulfillment theology. That God did not replace Israel with the church. The true Israel is the church. Why do I think that? It's because Christ is the true Israel All the scriptures, all the New Testament are making a very concerted effort to show you that Jesus Christ is the one man who fulfilled What Israel failed to do, obey God and worship him and love and love him with all your heart. It's Jesus that went down into Egypt. It's Jesus that was wandering in the desert for 40 days, just like the wandering of Israel for 40 years It's Jesus who's called now my son, just like Israel is called God's son. It's Jesus Christ that replaces him. Jesus is Abraham's offspring. Genesis 3. 15 makes this very clear. Galatians 3 makes this very clear. Galatians 3. 16. And if Jesus Christ is the new and greater Israel, just like he was the new and greater Adam, then those in Jesus are of this new and greater Israel. Galatians 3, 26. In Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. There is neither Jew nor Greek. If you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring. Why? How are you Abraham's offspring? Because Christ is Abraham's offspring. And you're in Christ. And your heirs according to the promise. It's all throughout Scripture. It's all throughout Scripture. But the most convincing scripture that I want you to go back tonight or tomorrow and read through is Ephesians 2, 11 through 22. And I do want to read this Passage, because I think this this scripture explains it in far better words than I could ever use about this union that has taken place between Israel and the church. And it's a union that's not something that's been replaced. Israel's not been replaced. Israel's been fulfilled. Israel has expanded. Now I'll get more into that in a second. Ephesians 2. 11. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles, okay, we you know, red flag, we we know now who Paul. It's always great to know whose Paul Paul is addressing. When you get that clue in Scripture. You you take note of it, all right? Because that's not always the case. Sometimes Paul is writing and it's is this to a Gentile audience, is this to a Jewish audience? But here he says it very clearly. Therefore remember that one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision. Which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off All of us, all of us Gentiles, we're so far away from Israel, from being included in Israel. We're the Gentiles who are hated by ethnic Israel. But you who are far off and brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace, who has made us both one. Who's the both? It's the Gentile Jew made us both one as broken down in this flesh, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing the law of commandments. express in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two. So making peace and might reconcile us both to God in one body to the cross. You get this one, one, one. There was two. Now there's one. And he came and preached peace to you who are far off, and peace to those who are near, for through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens. But you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone. I didn't even recognize that. Great God's prov providence we preached this morning about Christ being the cornerstone. In whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by him. the Spirit. That's a powerful, power-packed passage about this union that has taken place when in Jesus. And so we have a specific timestamp on this union. Gentiles were not included. Now there were Gentiles included in the covenant of with Israel. They would they would they would gather together and they would they would come and um they would worship God. They were God fearers. We see this in the New Testament, right? But when Christ came, that union was now solidified. And we see in verse 7 of back to Romans 9. That Paul claims that God has sovereignly sovereignly determined who is Israel and who is not. He's determined who is his people, who is not his people. And the doctrine of election is built on out of God's relationship to a people. It's always built on this. on God's relationship to a people, starting with Adam, moving to just two people, and then to the the children of Adam and to the children of the line of Seth. And so on and so on to the children of Abraham. So now it's been expanded out. God's people are no longer just Adam and a few others. It's now the children of Abraham. Then national Israel. And now finally and fully the church. So what does this have to do with the doctrine of election? Much in every way. So within ethnic Israel, God chose some and rejected others. And he chose based on his own divine pleasure. He decreed He gave an eternal decree originating from his divine mind and will. And this decree was based upon his own prerogative. And this eternal declaration came before anyone, anyone had done anything, right or wrong, good or bad. And Paul makes this point clear in the case of Jacob and Esau. He holds up right these these uh tremendous examples of of Israel. Abraham first, and now Jacob and Esau. And verse eleven. Though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might continue Continue, not because of works, but because of him who calls, she was told, The older will serve the younger, as it is written, Jacob I love, but Esau I hated. So what then is this purpose of election that Paul talks about here in verse eleven when he says, in order that God's purpose What would be God's purpose of establishing this rule of election? It's this: God will be no man's. He will not owe anything anyone anything at any point in time He will never be obligated to pay you something for something that you've done. And he's certainly never going to be obligated to give you forgiveness for all the rebellion, all the sin, all the transgression that you and I have committed against him. He will not owe anyone anything. Therefore, salvation has to be by grace. It cannot be by works. It cannot be conditioned. Can it be conditional based upon what anything we do? Well, it's important to note here that election is different than the doctrine of foreknowledge. And this idea is an Arminian idea that God foreknew Who was were going to exercise faith in Christ? Who was going to repent and believe in Jesus? And so those are the people God saved. And this is not uh compatible with Scripture. God chose before the foundation of the earth. And the idea of foreknowledge and the doctrine of foreknowledge is true in Scripture. There is foreknowledge in Scripture, but that doesn't uh circumvent this problem that we have of being elect and being predestined. And this doctrine of election is also different than predestination, even though they're very closely related. Predestination has to do more with the tell-offs, the end of what election is accomplishing. The idea is to be predestined to something And that is to the image of Jesus, that we're being predestined to be conformed to Christ, and that we're being predestined to be adopted and to be heirs. of God and to have eternal glory with Him. Election is kind of the beginning process of this. It begins, like I said, an eternal mind and will of God. And this election process, which is far greater obviously than a national election, is one in which God calls people to Himself in an irresistible way and grants them undeserved grace And this cannot be just, Paul says. It cannot be just, for no one has a claim to divine grace. We're all guilty. And this is what Paul has he spent m much of the book of Romans, the beginning book of Romans, uh establishing this case. This guilty verdict on all mankind, Jew and Gentile alike. So that God saves one is a tremendous display of his mercy and grace. Why do people hate the doctrine of election? And maybe you've heard somebody that That hates this idea. Well, one, I think peop people want to accomplish something by their own works. And that's, I think, the fundamental vein that runs through all of mankind. to to to work for my salvation, to accomplish with my own hands the result of that. And The other part of this that I think people are repulsed by is if there is an election of those who are saved, then it follows that there's a non-elect of those who are to be condemned. And again, this is not foreknowledge. We can't apply foreknowledge to this idea of reprobation any more than we can apply foreknowledge to the idea of God saving God electing. So there is a sense that God in his divine will and pleasure both decreed That some would be saved, and he chose them, and that some would go to hell, and he chose them. And that is a hard, hard doctrine To wrestle with the implications of that. And there are people even in this congregation who have I've had many conversations with over in tears about that particular Particular aspect of the doctrine of election, that God would do that. God is just because everyone deserves Wrath and judgment, and yet he chose to save some to stick with this pastor. This is why the confession, if you continue reading on from Westminster Confession three, the last number, I think it's six, says this doctrine of election needs to be handled very, very delicately. This is not something that we pro proclaim out just to anybody and everywhere. This isn't the first step in the the four E's uh bo gospel uh message booklet here. This this is something that I think is a certainly a uh invaluable doctrine and something that all Christians need to be aware of and to wrestle with, but it's it's not something that we necessarily have to shout from from the rooftops. But this doctrine of this this idea of God has elected some and he's uh reprobated others. Leads us to this other doctrine uh or this other aspect of election, which is supralaps and And infra-lap scenarios. You guys have probably heard of those words. Again, two words that people just try to try to sound smart with, I think. Pre -Lapsarianism is a better one versus post-lapsarianism. And so this idea of lapse, lapsing is is sinning, so it's either before or after. And the idea is this, is was the divine decree of God of election, of election to save? And election to reprobate. Was that made before or after the fall? In other words, did God create those who, at the very beginning, He created those who were elect and those who were reprobate? Or did he create man holy in the very beginning and blessed in a blessed state? And then man fell, and he permitted him to fall, and then God saved a certain number from this group and and and left the remaining to punishment. Does that make sense? These two two terms. And very solid people stand on both sides. Calvin, I think, was a super lapsenarian. So he believed that God created both at the very beginning, both elect and both reprobate. And the Westminster Confession though leans towards infra-lapsarianism. And uh though a few of the Westminster divines, including the moderator of the assembly itself, was uh super And Paul seems to indicate this idea of supralapsarianism in Romans 9, 22. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction? In order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory. This idea of prepared, this word prepared, is is also this idea of created, formed. He made these vessels of prepared for destruction. And he did that beforehand, Paul says in Romans 9. But in reality, both are true, in my opinion. And that one describes the the mind of God from the very beginning, before anything was ever established on earth. The mind of God that there would be elect and he would obviously know who he's going to choose and that there are going to be those who are non-elect, and he knows who those are going to be. And the other, the infralapsarianism describes a historical order. So what actually happens in in time and space. Man was created. In a blessed state. It was good. All was good. It was very good. And he was sinless at that time. And yet he fell into sin. But the truly important point here is that you are numbered with the elect. And this theology should change the way you think. and act. It really should. I was I was speaking to somebody last week about their view of themselves and I was asking about how are you going to correct that that view Yourself. And everything that came out of their mouth was something about doing something different, doing something better. And I said to them, God chose you before you. You did anything, good or bad. He picked you. And he says, I love you. You're mine. That theology changes the way we act. the way we live, the way we love not only others but ourselves. It changes us because when we're riddled with guilt of actions that we've done, of things that we've said, of harms that we've committed against other people, especially God Himself, first and foremost. Love God first, love your neighbor second. And we're riddled with this guilt, and it can be a crushing guilt at times for many people. And yet God says, I knew that you were going to commit those sins. I knew you were going to offend me. I knew you were going to rebel against me. And before you did anything good or bad. I chose you. So I want to challenge us, as we are going to hear, I'm sure, unfortunately, much more of the presidential election for the days And weeks to come, I want to just challenge you that whenever you think about, whenever you hear, that you remember that whether this presidential election is just or not You know, that's a whole nother thing. The election of God to for you was completely unjust. You did not deserve it. You did not deserve Christ standing in your place and yet God chose you for time again. So when we hear election in the news, just remind yourself you've been elected, I've been elected, to something far, far greater, far more valuable than even the President of the United States United States. Let's pray.