Ephesians chapter 4 for our scripture reading this morning. I'd like to begin at verse 17. And as you turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. Ephesians chapter four, verse seventeen This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord, that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk, in the futility of their mind. Having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart who being past feeling have given themselves over to lewdness, to work all uncleanness with greediness, but you have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus, that you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lust. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new man, which was created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness Therefore, putting away lying, let each one of you speak truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal no longer But rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give to him who has need Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, and be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Therefore, be imitators of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also has loved us. and given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling aroma. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray. Speak to us now, Father. Feed us through your word. We plead with you. In Christ's name. Amen. Several times in this series, we've cited the findings of authors James Patterson and Peter Kim. They conducted an in-depth study of what Americans actually believe. They did this by guaranteeing to people that no one would know their identities. And they gave them over 1,800 in-depth questions. They think they may have even paid them for their time. And what they came up with was a scientific sampling of over 2,000 Americans that was done in 50 different locations all over one week. And they believe it was the most massive in-depth survey of what Americans truly believe and how they truly behave. The most massive one that's ever been done. One of their startling conclusions was this. Americans are making up their own rules, their own laws. In effect, we're all making up our own moral codes. Only 13% of us believe in all of the Ten Commandments Forty percent of us believe in five of the Ten Commandments. We choose which laws of God we believe in. There's absolutely no moral consensus in this country, they wrote. as there was in the nineteen fifties, when all our institutions commanded more respect. Today there is very little respect for the law, they concluded, for any kind of law Well, any kind of law includes God's moral law, and God's moral law includes the eighth commandment, you shall not steal. In our day, it's very hard to think of something that you can be confident that someone will not attempt to steal. Jewelry, tools, appliances, furniture, computers, TVs. Car stereos, GPS systems, uh antennas, tires, airbags, horn uh hood ornaments, uh cars themselves, lawn mowers, lawn ornament ornaments, virtually anything you can imagine. In Kansas City, someone reportedly stole 30 concrete parking stops from a parking lot, those big long, heavy things, each weighing about 250 pounds, and each worth about $25. Someone stole 30 of them. 6,000 lambs were stolen from a feedlot in San Antonio. Time magazine reported a few years ago an increase in the theft of hogs, dogs. Brass, human hair, and coupons used in grocery stores. In early 2008, it was reported that a presumably very strong criminal had stolen a bridge from the Czech Republic. The iron bridge stood on a disused rail line. The bridge weighed, we're told, four tons. In Shelbyville, Tennessee, someone stole a commode from a ladies' restroom. When Patterson and Kim asked about theft on the job, and they wrote these results in their book, The Day America Told the Truth, they got these responses. They asked people about theft on the job. Our night manager steals from the company nightly. We call him the burglar, someone said. Everybody steals supplies out of the warehouse. Co-workers take money out of the cash register. People are cheated out of their pay. There's a shameful misuse of company materials and company time. There are cover-ups for jobs not done. There are falsifications of a lot of sign-in cheeks which get billed. According to their study, 74% of us, 74% of Americans said, quote, I will steal from those who won't really miss it Seventy-four percent of us affirmed that statement or agreed with it. Yet through the ages, God thunders, you shall not steal. Consider the seriousness of this sin. It was involved in the original sin. Adam and Eve took the fruit that was forbidden to them. It was the first sin of God's people in the promised land. Achan took of the spoil of the Canaanites, hid it in his tent. You could say it was involved in the very first sin recorded In the New Testament church, Ananias and Sapphira kept back a portion of what they received when they sold a piece of land, but they told the church they were giving all the funds to the Lord's work. Their primary sin, of course, was deceit You haven't just lied to men, you've lied to the Holy Spirit. But the deceit was evidently prompted by covetousness, and it resulted in the strange case of a couple, in a sense, stealing from the church that which actually belonged to them and was clearly theirs to keep. That which would have remained theirs had they not declared they were giving it away. In each of these three cases, the result was death For Ananias and Sapphira, for Achan and his household, for Adam and Eve and their posterity, which of course includes each of us. Although, when encouraged to be utterly truthful, and when they're utterly anonymous, about three out of four Americans, as I said, admit to a willingness to steal from those they believe won't really miss it. We call that the Robin Hood syndrome, I suppose. Almost 90% of adults respond to telephone polling on the matter, as it seems. uh they think they are expected to respond, or maybe as uh we would all feel constrained to respond talking to a a live person on the other end of the line 86% of all Americans, according to the Barna Research Group, say they're completely satisfying God's command to abstain from stealing. 86% of us say that. And only 9% of the evangelicals polled, only 9% of evangelicals said that they had fallen short of God's glory regarding this commandment. In other words, 91% of us say that we have not violated this commandment in any way. Well, how about you? How do we violate this commandment? Well, first of all, by the outright theft of another's property. Time magazine reported several years ago that Vin Tomlin, a 45-year-old handyman in Milwaukee, was so fed up with crime and the lack of values in America that on election day he went to the polls and for the very first time in more than a decade he abandoned his political party and he voted across the board for the law and order candidates He was gone from his home for about an hour. He returned to find someone had stolen his stereo, TV, and all his money Now I suspect that not many of us have violated this commandment uh quite so blatantly as to break into someone's home and steal their possession. But the outright theft of the personal property of an individual is not the only way we violate this commandment Some who would never rob an individual would have no qualms about robbing an impersonal organization. A woman seemingly pregnant walked out of a store to give birth to a pound of butter, a chuck roast. a bottle of syrup, toothpaste, candy, and hair tonic. One California mother was observed tapping various articles as she made her way through a supermarket. Her kids came along, behind her, two children, who pocketed the designated items. Billions of dollars are lost annually in grocery store shoplifting alone. I just looked over, saw a retailer over here. How much uh how much you guys lose over there and your the children what's it called? The children's children's place? How much is it? The children's place, $700,000 a year. Tim Booker says he's a manager at the Children's Place. Each individual store loses approximately $700,000 a year. in uh in theft. And that's not all theft that you did. You committed. That's other people Some professing Christians who would never rob a neighbor have no qualms about stealing from a cable company or from the federal government or from their employer. I think it was Pastor Leslie Flynn in his book on the Ten Commandments who noted, quote, the manager of an aircraft company ordered the workers to assemble in the yard for a group photograph. The guilt-ridden workers thought it to be an inspection. Suddenly the ground was littered with quickly abandoned tools and equipment that they had hidden away in their lockers. Ketchup packets, sugar packets, napkins, plasticware, silverware stolen from restaurants. And anything that's not nailed down is stolen from motels. We violate this commandment by bilking insurance companies, claiming debilitating injuries that we did not really suffer, suing companies for damages that we did not really receive. We violate this commandment by false advertising. It's reported that in an examination of 500 products chosen at random, 50% of them use lies in their labeling. In other words, boxes claiming to have 100 bolts had only 60. There were 90 vitamins in a box, in a bottle of vitamins that said it had a hundred. Products that are sold by weight had the wrong weight listed, etc. Proverbs 11. 1 says, a false balance is an abomination to the Lord, and a just weight is his delight. What does that mean to us? It means if you sell your house or your car or anything else without being truthful about what's wrong with it , Are you not violating the eighth commandment? We break this commandment when we cheat in school. Young people, you break this commandment when you cheat in school. For example, when we use someone else's work as if it were our own, we're attempting to steal the work of another. We're attempting to steal a grade that we don't deserve. I saw this when I taught at Westminster Academy with the Christian High School, and I taught for a semester or two at Clearwater Christian College. It was particularly disconcerting to see students attempt to cheat in Bible class. I remember uh watching, I saw this student, he op he pulled out a a what you would call a cheat sheet, I guess, an answer sheet, and he was surreptitiously looking at it under his desk during a a Bible test. I tried to help Him to see and others to see that it's far better to fail a Bible test and ace the test of character than to ace the Bible test and fail the test of character. It's a Bible test. We violate this commandment when we don't give our best at school or at work. Patterson and Kim noted, quote, the so-called Protestant ethic is long gone from today's American workplace. Workers around America frankly admit that they spend more than 20% seven hours a week of their time at work totally goofing off That amounts to a four-day work week across the nation. Almost half of us admit to chronic malingering, calling in sick when we're not sick, and doing it regularly. One in six Americans regularly drinks or uses drugs on the job. Drinks alcohol, they mean, of course, or uses drugs on the job. Only one in four gives work their best effort. Only one in four works to realize their human potential rather than merely to keep the wolf from the door. Michael Horton Said this. Secular historians lament the loss of the so-called Protestant work ethic, sometimes known also as the Calvinistic or Puritan work ethic. Yet it is Christians themselves who have lost the sense of the worth and dignity of work. How many of us, like the world, are working for the weekend? Perhaps the weekend activities to which we are looking forward differ somewhat from the world. But the toll this mentality takes on excellence in work is devastating. We have become a nation of consumers and debtors rather than producers and givers. Uh I'm sorry, savers, he wrote. Instead of using our vocation as an opportunity to glorify God, to gain independence and to give to those in need, we so often see it as a means of making money in order to spend it on luxuries. And dropping a check every now and then in the offering plate. We need to realize that the purpose of work is not even to make money in order to give to the church. but to fulfill our destiny, to find an avenue of giftedness through which we may bring honor and praise instead of shame and mockery to our Redeemer's name. There was a time when even the cynic had to admit that Christians were the most trustworthy business persons, clients, customers, borrowers, and lenders. People were known more by what they did and made than by what they bought and sold. If we're to restore the tarnished splendor of the Eighth Commandment, he wrote, we must recover something essential to it, the value of work. Do you see your job as a vocation, as a calling? Are you called to that job? Is it a place where you're using your gifts to glorify God? He that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. Proverbs 18. 9. He that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. He that loves pleasure shall be a poor man. Proverbs 21, 17. The scripture says, whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord and not for men. Colossians 3. I remember reading an account of a domestic worker, a cleaning lady, who was brought before a C. H. Spurgeon for admission into the church. She had made a profession of faith. And Spurgeon asked her, Well, how do you know that you're really converted? And and uh you know, what's the evidence that you have? And she says, well now I sweep under the rugs. I sweep under the rugs In other words, she wanted to do her best for the Lord, even areas where no one else could see it. How else do we violate this commandment? Borrowing something and not returning it. Of course, we do that with money. Borrow money and don't return it. William Webb, a butcher of West Worthing, Canada, West Worthing, Canada, put this notice in his shop window This business has been compelled to close owing to bad debts. A list of the names and amounts owing will shortly be shown. Well, as you can imagine, the money rolled in. The shopper. The shop opened and the business flourished. Uh the late D. James Kennedy noted that the state of Delaware uh opened a a a turnpike, a new turnpike, with an automated toll booth. I saw some of these in Florida. You drive up to the toll booth and there's nobody there. It's automated and you've got to have exact change And if you don't have exact change, you're you're in trouble. But uh so they had this automated toll booth, and because they knew there were people that wouldn't have a single dollar bill or three uh quarters or whatever was necessary, they had envelopes there And they said, take an envelope and then when you get home, mail in the dollar or whatever it was. The sign said, for those who don't have exact change. To quote Dr. Kennedy, that little experiment and personal honesty lasted twenty days Uh during that time, 26,000 people picked up an envelope instead of putting in money. Of those 26,000 envelopes, only 582 were returned. And get this, the majority of them had blank paper or paper clips or some other kind of junk in them instead of money. If you borrow money, whether it's at a toll booth or to buy a house or a car or to attend college or for any other purpose, you have an obligation before God to pay it back. Now financial reversals happen, we all know that. And sometimes it becomes very difficult. You have to call the bank and say, look, I can't make that payment every month, but I could pay you this much Would that be acceptable until I get another job or whatever? But you have a responsibility to repay what you borrow. The wicked borrows and does not repay. Psalm 37, 21. The wicked borrows and does not repay. And of course that applies not just to money, right? But to anything you borrow from another. Tools, library books, furniture, clothing. Christian, listen, you cannot afford to be careless in this area. The honor of Jesus Christ is at stake. You call yourself a follower of Jesus. We violate this commandment by causing damage to a person or his property and not reimbursing him. Intentional damage, perhaps, graffiti, breaking windows. uh vandalism, inadvertent damage. You know, you bang into somebody's car. Happened to my wife when she was working at Chick-fil-A a few months ago. Somebody banged into her car And then decided to just keep going. And somebody and somebody stopped her and said, wait a minute, you can't just bang into somebody's car and then leave. You gotta go find out whose car you banged into And uh but that's a way of violating this commandment, causing damage to somebody's property and then trying to avoid having to pay for it We violate this commandment by not speaking up if we find something of value or if we are undercharged at a store. Children need to be taught this lesson, of course. A little girl was crying after being punished for taking a toy that belonged to a friend, wrote D. James Kennedy. Her parents said to her, now you go in the bathroom and wash your face and stop your crying. She went into the bathroom, washed her face, and dried it on the towel that her parents had stolen from a holiday inn. There are aggravations of the sin of stealing. There are, in other words, conditions that make the crime more heinous and more reprehensible. First of all, robbing the widow or the orphan. Exodus 22, verse 22 and following, you shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child. If you afflict them in any way and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will become hot. Stealing from anyone is a sin. Stealing from a widow or an orphan, scheming to defraud a widow or an orphan of their limited resources is a vile aggravation of the sin of theft God pronounces his judgment upon unscrupulous nursing home operators or funeral home directors or scam artists or identity thieves who prey on widows. or those uh who connive to profit from support that was intended for orphans. Secondly, the sin of theft is aggravated by stealing from the poor. Stealing from anyone is evil. Stealing from the poor is worse. The prophet Nathan proposed to King David a scenario in which a wealthy man declined to take a lamb from his own flocks to feed his guests, but instead stole and butchered the one lamb that belonged to his poor neighbor, the lamb that was kept as a pet in the neighbor's house. David's verdict, as the Lord lives, the man who has done this thing shall surely die. 2 Samuel 12 Today, uh uh debt consolidation schemes result in deeper debt for people Praying on the poor, praying on the people who need help the most. Thirdly, this sin is aggravated by asking other people to sin for us The sin is aggravated by asking others to sin for us, causing other people to stumble, increasing the scope of the sin. As when parents ask their children to lie about their age to save a few dollars to get into a theater or a a swimming pool or something. Or when the buyer of a car asked the seller to fill out the paperwork to say the price was less than it was, with the intention of cheating the state out of the the full sales tax. Oh, I paid 5,000 for the car. Just say I paid $2,000 for the car and I won't have to pay as much in taxes. Now what should be done when this commandment is broken? What should be done if you know you've broken this commandment? God's answer to theft is restitution. If a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it, he shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. Exodus twenty-two, verse one. What do we do in America's criminal justice system? If somebody steals, what do we do? We lock him up. We lock him up, he can't make any money, he can't work, he can't pay back anybody he stole from In God's plan, somebody who stole would have to repay the person from whom he stole. Zacchaeus was a chief tax collector, he was rich. As an evidence of his repentance, he declared to Jesus, Look, Lord, I give half my goods to the poor, and if I've taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold. That was the evidence of his genuine repentance. The Apostle Paul said, thieves will not inherit the kingdom of God. That's pretty clear. Thieves will not inherit the kingdom of God. But then he goes on to say, Such were some of you. But you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 1 Corinthians 6. Is the Holy Spirit convicting you of having violated this commandment in some way? Well then you need to follow Zacchaeus. You need to follow Zacchaeus. You need to, first of all, find a sycamore tree and climb it. But then, secondly, you need to make restitution. Genuine repentance is manifested by a change in behavior A few weeks ago I received an email from a student that I had taught for one semester, a senior philosophy class, 12 years ago now. At uh Westminster Academy in Fort Lauderdale. He wrote me to say that he found me on Sermon Audio, I think, and he wrote me to say that he's come to faith in Christ. And when he was on campus recently with one of his children, He walked by the classroom that we had together, and uh he r realized he remembered that he had been surly and disrespectful and uncooperative in class. And now that he had come to know Christ, he wrote to ask my forgiveness, which of course I granted. It would have been better for this illustration if he had stolen something from me. And he now wanted to return it fourfold. But tr try as I might I couldn't get him to think of anything that he had stolen from me, other than uh respect and honor, I guess you could say. But it does illustrate the point that believers should endeavor to make restitution to those whom they have in any way defrauded. To make restitution, if possible, to those who have in any way defrauded. Oh, now why should Christians stay far away from any form of theft? First of all, because we have our Father's eyes upon us. Stories told of two little kids that were walking to their grandmas, they had a basket full of uh cakes. I guess we'd say cupcakes uh covered over to give to grandma and of course halfway along the way they they they got curious what do these cakes look like? Let's check them out. They opened it up and and they counted them over and over again. And they decided that, uh, you know, let's say there were eleven cakes there, they said nobody's gonna care if grandma gets only ten. Why don't we take one of these cakes and And eat it. And then the the little girl looked up to her brother's face and said, Can't God count? Can't God count? That settled the matter. And all the cupcakes were delivered. The cashier at the fast food restaurant may miscount my change, but God can count. And God should count, right? I should not be willing to disobey the Lord for any amount of money, let alone for a few dollars. Am I going to sell my integrity for a $5 bill that I get in change? It should have been a one. I get a five. I'm going to sell my integrity for that. Or a twenty or whatever. Jesus said, He that is faithful in what is least is faithful also in much. Therefore, if you've not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? Listen to that. If you haven't been faithful with the unrighteous mammon, it's just money. It has no righteousness. Then who will give you, if you have not been faithful in what is another man's, she goes on to say, who will give you what is your own? Luke 16. And if I understand the Lord here, what he's saying is: if I can't be trusted in minor financial matters, why would God entrust me with more important matters, with real spiritual truth? With things that really matter. Secondly, why should we stay far away from theft when we steal or cheat or violate this commandment in any other way? We're saying, in effect, the Lord cannot provide for me. Or I'm not satisfied with what God has provided for me, so I have to take what belongs to somebody else. I cannot trust his providence, so I must steal. You see, the heart of the matter is it's a matter of the heart. It's a matter of the heart. Do I trust the Lord or not? Can he not provide for me even if I declare all my income and have to pay more taxes? Even if I'm honest with this potential buyer of my car or my house. Can I trust the Lord if I give him the first tenth of all that he gives me? Can I trust him to provide for me through the nine-tenths that remain? And then thirdly, the Christian's honesty is a testimony to the unbeliever. Let your light so shine before men, Jesus said, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Let your light so shine before men. There's a wonderful film. I would encourage you to watch it if you can. It's called The God of God of Wonders. No the, I guess, it's just called God of Wonders. Uh Ann and Nathaniel Doggett uh told us about it. We watched it the other night. One of the fascinating facts declared in it was this. The human eye has a sensitivity to light, scientists tell us, over a range of 10 billion to one. That is, we can distinguish a single photon of light. That's the one. And we can distinguish ten billion times that much light, say on a bright sunny day with snow on the ground In a spiritual sense, the darker the environment becomes in our culture, the brighter the Christian's light's going to shine. the more evident it will become that there's something different about believers. How how come you brought that change back to me? Most people just walk away with it. Well uh God saved me. I I'm his child. He uh it's all his. I I can't steal from the Lord. Uh The darker the culture gets, whatever that culture is, talking about America now, the darker our culture gets, the brighter it becomes when Christians are different. Now, as I've noted before in this series, there's a danger in preaching on the Ten Commandments. The danger is that someone uh w may walk away thinking, well, clearly I'm gonna have to do a better job keeping this commandment if I hope to attain eternal life. Listen very closely. Eternal life is not attained by keeping, nor is it lost by breaking the law of God. You were a sinner by nature before you took that doll out of your sister's closet and hid it in your room. You were a sinner by nature before you stole that Twinkie from your brother's lunchbox. And however hard you may try to keep the eighth commandment from this day forward, you can't change that sinful nature. You and I and every other mere human. Have violated God's holy laws and we deserve his wrath. What we need is a Savior. What we need is a substitute. What we need is a spotless lamp. What we need is a redeemer. God's love for lost sinners was so great, He provided that lamb, He provided that substitute, He provided that Redeemer. God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son. That whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Jesus Christ, born of a virgin, is both God and man. He didn't inherit that sinful nature, that depraved nature that so afflicts us. He perfectly kept his father's laws. He loved God with all his heart, all his soul, all his mind, all his strength. He loved his neighbor as himself every single day. Yet he endured the wrath of his father at the cross as our substitute. Jesus was crucified between two thieves, four thieves, and all other depraved sinners. And those two thieves demonstrate the two reactions to this message. One thief, you remember, was belligerent. If you're really the Christ, get us down from this cross. He was belligerent, he was unrepentant, he rejected Christ as his sinless substitute. He stood upon his own record, and he is no doubt enduring the justice of God to this day The other thief saw his sins as vile. He saw Jesus as God's holy son. He cried out to him for mercy. God have mercy. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He was redeemed through Christ's sacrifice. Jesus assured him that he would be with him in paradise. This is a faithful saying, worthy of all acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Paul looked at his own heart and said, Of whom I am chief. How about you? Have you acknowledged your sin? Have you repented of it, turned away from it, recognized it as vile and disgusting, and had a change of mind about it? Have you turned to Jesus by faith as your only hope? Have you laid hold upon him? Cried out to him, Lord, have mercy upon me. Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Lord, save me. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. Have you experienced the wonderful grace of Jesus? Let's pray. O Lord, forgive us for violating your commandments in our hearts, in our actions, in our speech. Forgive us for covetousness. Forgive us for theft. And Lord, if your Holy Spirit has brought to our mind anything that we have stolen from another. May we determine now to make restitution for your glory, for your honor. And Lord, remind us that it's a matter of the heart. May we have such a love for you, such a trust in you, such a confidence in your providence, that the idea of taking something that doesn't belong to us would would be uh uh heinous in our sight. And Lord, uh most of all we pray that if there be anyone here outside of Christ, this might be the day of salvation for that one. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's sing it together. Wonderful grace of Jesus. 702.