Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity to hear your word. Sing your word, pray your word, and confess it. We pray that the words of my mouth, the meditation of all of our hearts Would be pleasing in your sight. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I was thinking, I do that now and then, but I was thinking this week when I was going to be preaching It seems that when I've come, I've done more character studies than book studies. Well, that's easily explained. I don't preach regularly enough to do a book study, and therefore I'd forget what I would have done earlier when we got to the next section. But character studies for me , I find them very interesting. They have a lot of nuance to them. And have a lot of them already prepared, but I actually rework them all the time. And today we're going to be looking at Mary. And if some of you remember, I've spoken on Joseph. Elizabeth, Naaman, and the little Jewish girl who was taken captive by the armies of Nahum. Today we're going to look at Mary. And I think it's appropriate to look at Mary because we just came out of the Easter season. And of course, this story of Mary and John has to do with the weekend of the Passion culminating in the resurrection. And if you see in your bulletin, the title is There's Something About Mary. Well, that's the older movie that came out in 1998. I've not seen the movie. I don't know much about the movie. I'm not recommending it because I don't know much about the movie. But the title is cool. And it fits with my sermon. So there's something about Mary. So Mary Magdalene A name that over the centuries has conjured up the image of a sinful woman. She's a prostitute. A woman whom Jesus raised up out of the gutter and healed her of her sinful ways. This is juicy stuff. The stuff of legends. Legends that found its origin in the early centuries of the church by way of Gnostic works, like the Gnostic Gospel of Mary. And in an Easter sermon in 591 A. D. when Pope Gregory I identified Mary Magdalene with the unnamed sinful woman in Luke 7. Who anointed the Jesus ' feet and resulted in a widespread belief that Mary Magdalene was a repentant prostitute or a promiscuous woman. That has been the legend from 591 A. D. It's all tickling ear type of stuff. Except for one small point. None of it's true. It's all fake news. But boy, does it sell, and it makes for great cinema. Speaking of which, in the movies that came out in the 70s and the 80s, some of you remember these, some of you saw these. Jesus Christ superstar. Mary is depicted as a prostitute. Fiction. Jesus of Nazareth. Mary is a prostitute. Fiction. The last temptation of Christ. Mary is a tattooed prostitute. Fiction. But my favorite work of fiction regarding Mary Mary involves the first Easter egg. According to tradition, after the ascension of Jesus, Mary Magdalene traveled to Rome To preach the gospel. While there, she reportedly had an audience with Emperor Tiberius. And as the story goes, she held up an egg and proclaimed. Christ is risen. The emperor laughed and he said, A man rising from the dead was as likely as an egg in her hand turning red. At that moment, the egg turned a brilliant red, confirming her testimony of the resurrection. I have been so careful with these eggs. Some of you of course bring dozens here at a time. Can't have this one, but for nineteen ninety-nine So that's the story of Mary with Tiberius. Mary was from Magdala, a thriving fishing town on the western shore of the Sea of Galley. The Jewish historian Josephus says Magdala had a population of about 40,000 people, which was about the size of Annapolis in 2023, according to the local census. An interesting fact about Magdala are the remains of a synagogue that was unearthed dating from around 50 BC to 100 A. D. It was discovered in 2009. And soon after there was found a decorative stone called the Magdala stone, which shows a seven-branch menorah. That's the candlestick in the temple. Which was most likely etched by an artist who saw the actual seventh branch menoria with his own eyes in the Temple of Jerusalem before it was destroyed by the Romans. 70 A. D. Right now the ruins are lying there in Magdala. And so it is this town which our Mary is associated with. And whom we first meet in Luke chapter 8, verses 1 through 2. Along with other women, Luke mentions the casting out of seven demons for Mary by Jesus. She's not a prostitute. He exercised demons for Mary. Except for the gospel references to Mary, and she's mentioned over 12 times in the Gospels, which is, by the way, more times than many of the apostles are mentioned Mary outside the Gospels is never mentioned elsewhere in the New Testament. Here's the real news about Mary. She was healed of seven spirits. She was associated with a town called Magdala. She was one woman out of many who ministered to Jesus But also true, except for Mary, the mother of Jesus, no other woman is highlighted as much in the New Testament. These are the facts, nothing but the facts about Mary. So on the one hand, when we look at her name, we look at her gender, her ethnicity, and her service. Nothing really stands out as being that exceptionally unique about her from others. In many ways, she might be no different than us today What we see in the Gospels is what we often can see in ourselves. There is something different about Mary. though. I think to a large part it is this. We remember this about Mary. She's present at the cross. She's present at the burial. She's present at the empty tomb. And finally, she is in the presence of Jesus at his first Resurrection appearance. She's the only person in all four spots. What we see in the Gospels, and especially highlighted by John, is this: there is no one more loving More loyal, more determined than Mary. The Irish poet Eton Barrett has this to say about Mary. Not she would traitorous kiss her savior stung, not she denied him with unholy tongue. She, while apostle shrank, could danger brave, last at his cross and earliest at his grave You know, in various stages of the gospel accounts, we see Mary serving and waiting on her Lord and her friends. Morning, noon, and night. In the past, when he's alive, and even now, when we approach this passage, when she thinks he is dead, Mary is going to minister to her corpse. Put yourself in her sandals for a moment. The Lord who had healed her from seven demons And all that that must have been for her to endure, the newfound freedom and the new life that she's found in Jesus Christ, that Jesus had given her. Someone whom she knew simply loved her for who she was, Mary of Magdala. This Jesus, whom she had served and followed for a couple of years, was now suddenly gone. Her hope seemingly shattered. Her heart is broken. She's heavy with sorrow. The reality of death, the absence of maybe her best friend. Many of you know what that is like And if you don't, you will. That the death of a loved one is a devastating thing, that one's soul is immediately filled with a huge combination of emotions. Fear, disappointment, a sense of loss, pain, anger, maybe bitterness, and a prevailing emptiness that the person who even hours earlier was with you. Is no longer present. For the loss of a loved one comes loss and the resulting undefined emptiness that lingers I cannot remember if I've shared these next few lines with you before it's taken from a poem later, turned into a song during the Civil War. If you heard it before, I apologize. If you heard it before and forget, I don't apologize for that. It's called The Vacant Chair. It's a poem that was written following the death of John Groot, who was killed in the American Civil War at the Battle of Balls Bluff in October of 1861, right outside Leesburg, Virginia The poem was suggested by a friend of the Groot family, and the lyrics composed by George Root. One of the lines goes like this. We shall meet, but we shall miss him. There will be one vacant chair. We shall linger to caress him while we breathe our evening prayer When one year ago we gathered, joy was in his mild blue eye. Now the golden cord is severed, and our hopes in ruin lie Now, as Christians, our hopes do not lie in ruin. But this poem touches on the loss after the death of a loved one. 2,000 years ago or today. No longer is that person around the dinner table, sitting in that familiar chair, touching all the corners of life. Mary's vocation of ministering to Jesus, she thinks, is over. It's gone because he's gone. With the loss of her master, she has lost seemingly everything and she's lost her way. And what she does now is just weep and weep and weep. And you can be sure this is not the only time. She'd been weeping. You know, we see this reality of loss illustrated in the Old Testament. Joseph's response when his father Jacob died in Genesis 50. Says they lamented there with a very great and grievous lamentation, and he made a mourning for his father seven days. David hears of the death of Absalom in 2 Samuel 18. The king was upset. And went up to the upper room of the gate and wept. Oh my son Absalon, my son, my son, would I have died instead of you? And we remember, Absalom betrayed his father. And yet out of a father's great love for his son, he still wept over the loss of that son. Queen Elizabeth, after the attacks on 911 on our country, while sending a message of condolence to those affected by this attack, said, grief is the price we pay for love. And it is while in this state, in this shock of grieving, that Mary and the other woman left early in the morning for the tomb You know, of interest is that while Matthew, Mark, and Luke and their descriptions of these morning events, they incorporate other women, other Marys , John 's account focuses solely on Mary Magdalene. And what stands out in a very powerful way in all of the Gospels is that unlike the disciples, The women are not concerned to be seen at the tomb, and they're not afraid to be recognized as people who follow Jesus They're not afraid to be asked, you're not one of his disciples, are you? So Matthew, Mark, and Luke tell us that the women began their journey, and as they approached the tomb, It suddenly dawns on them as the morning dawn is breaking. How are we going to anoint his body since the stone will be rolled over the opening? That's a valid concern, since on average the ceiling stones of first century tombs weighed between one and two tons. And yes, they're in a trough. And yes, they are round and they can roll. Initially a lot of them were square. I don't know how you rolled a square stone, but initially they were square, but they're round. And if you've never seen one of those, go online. Type in Herod 's family tomb. The stone is moved out of the way, but it's in place, and it reveals the open tomb. Herod's family tomb. Hey, Herod's not buried there. Fiction, but there may be some family members. It shows you really in a in a good way what we're talking about with regards to stones. that rolled away. So Matthew, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they have these women coming They have them coming to the tomb. They're concerned because they can't roll away the tomb. And because they're very good size and they're very heavy and these these stones do their job really well. Uh they are in a fix. And then John continues that Mary arrives at the tomb. The stone, in fact, has been rolled away, and so she bewildered and in a panic runs to tell Peter and John. They, who they are, we are not sure, and we are not told when she's they have taken his body away, but he's gone. So let's pause a minute here. The last time we saw Peter was when? He's betraying Jesus. He's betraying his fellow brothers. And for good measure, he just betrayed himself at the same time. Forty-eight hours later, he still recognizes a leader. He's a member of the apostolic band. I have no clue what went on in the previous 48 hours. But you had to believe there was a whole lot of reconciliation going on. for this group to still be together. If there had not been reconciliation, this is over. Apologies are probably stated all around, for after all, they they did all bolt like jackrabbits that night. And I am sure forgiveness asked and forgiveness given. After all, it was Jesus, right, who taught them to pray, forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. In today's church, Peter would probably be out the door. But amazingly, he's right there in their midst. A far cry for what goes on in the name of reconciliation in today's church. Far too often we love the forgive us our debts part. We're not so excited about as we forgive our debtors party. And too often we forget that the two phrases are dependent on one another. You can't have one without the other. Thank goodness these eleven men could be reconciled to each other. If they can, there's no church on earth that can't, whether it's liberty or Whether it's up in Manchester, it makes no difference. Peter and John race to the tomb, as I said. They find it, just as Mary says, it's empty And they go home. Mary stays because she's determined to find out what has happened. And then she peeks in and sees two angels inside the tomb who ask her why she is weeping. And she tells them she does not know what happened to the body of Jesus. And then turning around, she sees a man whom she assumes is the gardener. Interesting phrase from the angels, right? Why are you weeping? Well she thinks Jesus is dead. They know something else. That with the resurrection there's no longer need for weeping. Mary doesn't know that, and that certainly doesn't make it easier, but they are already ahead of her. And then she tr turns around and she sees a man whom she assumes is a gardener. And she asked, and he asked her the million-dollar question, whom are you seeking? She tells him whom she is seeking. And as yet does not recognize that it's Jesus standing before her. Psalm 88. 8 tells us so. It's a good explanation for this. It said, My eye grows dim from sorrow. And then Jesus speaks her name, Mary. And in an instant, the scales far away from her eyes, and she sees clearly now who it is. For most of us, there is no name as precious as hearing our own. Whether it's in sales, any form of business. And the church and the neighborhood. We love normally to hear our name, if it's in a good context, right? Her name is Mary. Mary and in an instant the scales fall away from her eyes, and she sees clearly now who it is. I was reminded of Charles Wesley's phrase in his hymn. He says My chains fell off, my heart was Free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. And that's exactly what we'll see Mary do. You know, I like what Alistair Begg says here. He says, well, some of us, when we read that. about her not recognizing Jesus, we'll say, well, I would have recognized him. Beg says, really? Let's be honest. Before you and I came to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, you'd never recognize him even once. Maybe you read religious books, he said. You sat through sermons. Maybe even see sermons here at Parkside. Maybe at Liberty. You heard about him. You knew about him, but he was unrecognizable to you, and that is because Jesus is unrecognizable to us apart from the work of God's Holy Spirit, who does what? Calls us by name. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name. And then he leads them out. It was not until Jesus spoke her name that Mary recognized him. The good shepherd had laid down his life, he taken it up again. Now he called one of his sheep by name, and she recognized his life-giving voice. And now we see next one of the greatest privileges in all of history bestowed on Mary. It's right up there with Gabriel's announcement to Joseph's wife, Mary, the mother of Jesus. He says to Mary Magdalene, go to my brothers. Jesus tells her. Off she goes. She tells them. She says, I have seen the Lord. The first, the first herald of the gospel. What's special about Mary? She becomes the first herald. The first witness, the first evangelist of the good news of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Not Peter, not John, not Andrew, not James, not Billy Graham But Mary. It's not what we would expect. It's what God designed. A herald To the apostles. The Catholic Church refers to Mary as the apostle to the apostles. The apostle in Greek means to be sent. Jesus gave a woman whose testimony would not have been legally valid in a court of law in his day, the most important message in human history, he is risen. Her testimony shows that Jesus entrusts the good news to those who love him, regardless of their status. What a privilege, what an honor, what a thrill for Mary. She'd loved much, and she was God's chosen instrument to sing his praises that first Easter morning. And the response from the apostles that Mary received regarding this good news, the gospel writers tell us that the apostles thought her news was an idle tale. And the response , response from the apostles that Mary received regarding this good news, not only was it an idle tale, but they thought the women were a little bit off. Mary was dismissed. As we often are today, if we share the gospel, we experience the same rejection. We might be dismissed by the person we talked to. To. But dismissed or not, Mary was determined to share the news, and she knew that this was the best of all possible news. Nothing detracted her from sharing that news. And why is that? Mary had literally seen good news. Heard good news? How could she do otherwise but share the good news with her friends? Mary offers a challenge to me, and maybe to all of us. If we have heard and experienced the good news, provided we believe in the good news, Is it not our privilege to share the good news with our friends, those who we call friends, right? As we think about that first Easter and the resurrection of Jesus and our own recent Easter Sunday, could we not pray individually and as a church that we would have the same passion and love for Jesus As Mary had. I know I do. A passion fueled by faith in the person and work of Christ. Feeding and meeting with him daily in his word and prayer. And thereby convinced and then better equipped to share the good news. A few closing observations about Mary. You know, when the gospel is first introduced to Mary, Christ has healed and transformed her. Instead of remaining a victim of her past, she chose to move forward, following Jesus and supporting his ministry. No past is unredeemable, but is used by God in molding our future usefulness. for him. And Romans 8. 28 tells us, for we know that for all of those who love God, all things work together. The bad, the good, and the ugly. All things work together for those who love him who are called according to his purpose. And then further, when we think about her actions from Good Friday to Easter morning, her courage shows us that true devotion will require sacrifice. But in the end, it is seen to be worth it. Her boldness teaches us the importance of sharing our testimony. When God works in our lives, we're called to speak about it because our stories can lead others to Him. Finally, maybe you're sitting there wondering, I wonder whatever happened to Mary. Well, I don't have all that much time because there's a lot that people say happened to her, but I will share this. Elaborate medieval legends from Western Europe. Europe told exaggerated tales of Mary Magdalene's wealth and her beauty, as well as her alleged journey to southern Gaul, modern-day France Where she lived out the last years of her life in a cave and prayer and meditation. And actually where her skull resides now. Oh yes, Mary has left us lots of relics. But in 1969, Pope Paul VI removed the identification of Mary Magdalene with Mary of Bethany and the sinful woman. From the general Roman calendar. So Pope Paul righted a wrong over a thousand years old. But the view of her as a form of prostitute still persists in popular culture. Scripture is sound about her But in Acts 1, we read that the disciples were gathered once again in the upper room along with Jesus ' mother, his brothers, and the women, waiting for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. My guess is that Mary is right there in their midst, enjoying being in the body of Christ, and yet Taking further opportunities to herald the gospel, probably beginning in Magdala. And she's going to do it with passion And with certainty and with determination, because she knew who had called her name and whose name and message she was to proclaim. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him or her who brings good news, who publishes peace. Who brings good news of happiness? Who publishes salvation? Who says to Zion, your God reigns. So at the end of the day, is there something special about Mary? Sure there is Just as there is something special about each one of you here today. You're his called sheep, if you know the shepherd. Special because of who has called you. And is there anything more special than to belong to the great shepherd and to proclaim his name. That is what Mary did. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we we'd love to see Your people in the gospel records, not only because they're historical narratives, but blended in these historical narratives, Father, is teaching and application. and challenge. Father, it's not about good works. Christ didn't he didn't choose Mary because she had a whole lot to offer at the time. He chose Mary because he loved her, restored her, and in gratitude, and out of love. She followed him. Father, I don't know any of our hearts here really at times. It is so hard sometimes to fathom my own. Help each one of us today to be immersed in your word through prayer. Not so that we can emulate Mary, but so that we can be the actual disciple that you want each one of us to be, forgetting what lies behind us. Charging forward to what lies ahead. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.