That awkward moment, you never know going clap or what. I guess. Uh that was uh beautiful. Thank you so much. You did all that with just two hands, Glenna? Was that just two hands? I could only count two from where I where I was. That was amazing. Um Glenna will be uh this will be her last Sunday with us before uh she's uh headed off to college. Uh this is uh Boston University, do I have that right? Boston University where she'll be in the uh Boston Conservatory there is that something? I don't know. She's gonna be playing in there. She's gonna be learning more about the violin. Apparently there's more more to learn. And I think the deacons were gonna present her with the Stratavarius this morning. Was that who has that? That would be a nice that would be a nice touch. I think uh uh Erica Watkins is uh this is also her last Sunday with us. She's going to St. Kitts to study uh Veterinary medicine. St. Kitts apparently is an island in the Caribbean where the temperature in the winter, she told me, is 70 degrees. So And uh I I didn't want to neglect any other have any other college students who are heading off this their last uh maybe last Sunday with us? Somebody somebody's pointing back here. Oh Claire, is this this your last oh wow. And you're going to uh Delaware, right? University of Delaware? Okay, so uh Claire Piper's going to the University of Delaware. Delaware. And there may be others. Also, I saw Steve Hammett here. Steve and Nancy are here from uh from uh the east eastern shore. Is that what we call it? Delaware. So it's not the eastern shore of Maryland, it's Delaware. Gotcha. All right, uh if you have your Bible with you, if you turn please to the Gospel of Mark as we return to our study of Mark, look at Mark chapter six this morning. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs with uh Aaron and Todd Weisel. Mark chapter six. And let's uh let's begin at verse thirty and read through verse forty-four. Mark chapter six. Beginning at verse 30. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. And he said to them, Come aside by yourselves to a deserted place and rest awhile, for there were many coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat. So they departed to a deserted place in the boat by themselves. But the multitude saw them departing, and many knew him and ran there on foot from all the cities They arrived before them and came together to him. And Jesus, when he came out, saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep, not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. When the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him and said, This is a deserted place, and already the hour is late. Send them away that they may go into the surrounding country and villages and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat. But he answered and said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give them something to eat? But he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. When they found out, they said, Five and two fish. Then he commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. So they sat down in ranks, in hundreds and in fifties. And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven, blessed, and broke the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them, and the two fish he divided among them all. So they all ate. And were filled. And they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fish. Now those who had eaten the loaves were about five thousand men. May God bless this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Lord, guide us now, teach us, open our eyes as we come to this familiar passage to many of us. Reveal yourself to us. I do pray for those who might be here outside of Christ without any assurance of eternal life. Lord, may this be the day of salvation for them. And I pray for your people that we'll be strengthened and nourished and fed by your precious word. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Earlier in what we call the sixth chapter of Mark's gospel, you know, the chapter divisions came We saw that the twelve disciples, the learners or followers of Jesus, became the twelve apostles, that is, the sent ones, when Jesus sent them out on a preaching mission. This preaching mission included casting out of demons, healing the sick. And you'll recall that the message that they proclaim when they went out on this preaching mission, was the message of the Old Testament prophets, the message of John the Baptist, the message that they, the apostles, would later proclaim in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. of the earth. It is a message that many preachers in our culture have rejected as too negative and counterproductive. But it was the message that the Lord Jesus Himself proclaimed. Mark chapter 1, verse 15. The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. And so, in keeping with the Lord's example and command, the scripture says in verse 12 of Mark 6, they went out and preached that people should repent. But before Mark describes their return following their ministry, he gives his readers the account of the events leading up to the martyrdom of John the Baptist. It's the incident that we considered in our last message from Mark several weeks ago now. And the sordid affair ends in Mark's Gospel with the words of verse 29. When his disciples heard of it, they came and took away his corpse and laid it in a tomb. But in verse thirty Mark concludes the account of that first apostolic missionary journey with these words. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. The apostles were justifiably excited about what they had experienced. Imagine Andrew and Peter, if they had been paired together as brothers. Might have come back and reported, we met several lepers in that first village we entered, and when we had anointed them with oil and prayed for them, their skin became healthy right before our eyes. And Matthew and Thomas, if they had been together, might have excitedly reported on conversations , and rather confrontations with those who were possessed with demons. And casting out those demons. And the wonder of seeing these demons exit these people that they've been torturing. uh just by proclaiming the name of Jesus before them and commanding them to come out. Thaddeus and Simon, if teamed together, might have reported how the men and women and children in the village they visited Stayed with them till dark, listening to them tell of all that they could recall of Jesus' teaching. And how many of them repented of their sins and embraced the Lord Jesus as the promised Messiah The scripture says the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. Verse 31. And he said to them, Come aside by yourselves to a deserted place and rest awhile. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat. This is not the only place in the Gospels that refers to our need to get away from our responsibilities for a period of rest. The Lord who knows our frame knows we're in need of rest. And if you're one of those uh who tends to feel guilty every time you take a vacation or take a day off or Uh for some of you, even every time you just s sit and relax and put your feet up for a while, then you need to remember that Jesus said to his disciples, Come aside by yourselves to a deserted place. and rest a while. I read a pastor was rebuked by a member of his flock for taking a day off. Satan never takes a day off, she said. That's right, he answered. And if I didn't take a day off, I'd be just like him. I've uh I've been blessed these ten years or so to serve a church that has been gracious and generous in uh offering her pastors time to come aside. uh to rest a while. In the case of the disciples, there were many people coming and going and they didn't even have time to eat. Now I wouldn't be surprised if when the apostles went to these villages and preached the gospel and cast out demons and and to heal people Many of those new believers, or many of those who'd had the demons cast out, wanted to follow them, wanted to be with them. We see people responding to Jesus that way quite a bit. in the scripture. So uh it's not surprising that when the apostles returned to Jesus, uh that maybe other people came along with them and they wanted to learn more and they wanted to talk more. Maybe they brought their cousin or their nephew or somebody. They they needed healing for them. So look at verse 32. So they departed to a deserted place in the boat by themselves. But the multitude saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran there on foot from all the cities, and they arrived before them and came together to him. Now, so here's the deal. They're in a particular town. I don't believe we're told the name of the town here. It may it may have been Capernaum. That was sort of Jesus' headquarters. And the apostles returned from their missionary journey, maybe uh other people following them. Certainly there are lots of people the Bible says coming and going. Jesus says, let's get in the boat, let's sail away from this town, let's go to a deserted place So it appears that they go along the shoreline until they find a a quiet spot and they they uh dock the ship there and they get out, but the the multitudes have uh Watched. Oh, look, Jesus is in the boat. Look, he's headed this way. Let's all go. And they all went and they were there. Thousands of them when Jesus got out of the boat. Look at verse 34. And Jesus, when he came out, saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. He comes out of the boat, he sees this great multitude, and he was moved with compassion for them. Why? Because they were like sheep without a shepherd. Think about it. Who were their shepherds? Well, the religious leaders. Men who were spiritually blind, who were attempting to lead the blind. They were teaching that the essence of religion was performing ceremonies and keeping rules. And how unfulfilling that can be is known to some of you by personal experience. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, Jesus would say later, for you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. For you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Matthew 23, 13. Can you imagine not having your own copy of the scriptures and being dependent upon the scribes and Pharisees? To tell you what the scriptures say and how you are to live. Depending upon the scribes and Pharisees to explain the Word of God to you. Jesus was moved with compassion because they were like sheep without a shepherd. They had no one to lead them into green pastures, no one to provide them with clean, fresh water, and no one to bind up their wounds, no one to protect them from. The predators. They needed to learn so much. They needed to learn about God's holy nature. They needed to learn about sin. They needed to learn about grace. About God's unmerited favor poured out upon them, not because of stuff they did, but because God's a gracious God They needed to learn about God's eternal kingdom. They needed to learn about the joys that were awaiting them in heaven. They had much to learn, and so Jesus was moved with compassion, and even though he knew the disciples needed a rest, and that's why they went to this spot He saw them as sheep without a shepherd, and he began to teach them. R. C. Sprall wrote, notice what Jesus did. He began to teach the people. In the New Testament church, Jesus is the shepherd of the sheep, but the pastor is the under-shepherd. And his primary responsibility is to feed the sheep. We live in a time, he writes, when churches are weak, and one of the main problems is that the people demand that the pastor do everything but preach and teach. He said this. I believe about 95% of the labor of the pastor in the church should be preaching and teaching. When Jesus set out to feed his sheep, he taught them. He wrote that in 2011. Uh interestingly, I just run across a uh a note I took from a pastor's conference I attended where Dr. Sperl spoke uh 2005. So 2011, that's six years earlier, and he said this at that pastor's conference. One reason 16,000 pastors leave the ministry each year is that the congregations have such expectations. I believe 80% of your time should be spent on preaching and teaching. So he upped that figure from 80% by 15% over that six-year period. Clearly, the point is he believes churches are suffering from a lack of sound teaching and preaching. Look at verse 35. When the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him and said, This is a deserted place, and already the hour is late. Send them away that they may go into surrounding into the surrounding country and villages and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat. Now it's interesting, John tells us that earlier in the day , Jesus had said to Philip, Say, Philip, where shall we buy bread that they may eat? John 6 verse 5. But John tells us this he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. John 6 6. And Philip might have answered, Lord, I saw you still the raging storm with your word. I saw you heal lepers and cast out demons. You can feed these people. Just command the stones that they be made bread. Turn the grass into fish or something. You can do it if you choose to do it. But here's how Philip responded. 200 denarii worth is not sufficient for them that every one of them might have a little. And now, later in the day, the disciples come to Jesus and say, Lord, it's getting very late. We need to send these people away so they can go to the surrounding villages and buy themselves something. To eat. If you let them go now, maybe they'll get there before dark. That seems to be their point. Think about it. The people who were there in the wilderness listening to Jesus teach all day. Had not planned on that. That wasn't their intention. They didn't get up in the morning and say, let's go out in the wilderness and listen to Jesus teach. They saw Jesus get in a boat and and sail away, or they rode him away, or however they did it. They saw him leave. And they decided on a whim, let's go where he's going, and let's listen to him. Let's encourage him to teach us. And so the word spread through the crowd. They didn't have time to go go home and pack a lunch. They went and they're out in the wilderness and they have brought no provisions with them. Scripture says they had nothing to eat. Now , Jesus answered them, the disciples, You give them something to eat, verse 37. And they said, Shall we go by 200 denarii worth of bread and give them something to eat? Now that doesn't mean anything to us, 200 denarii, but a denarius was uh a day's wages, a laborer's day's wages. So this would be 200 days wages. That's a lot of money. In our terms, it would be thousands of dollars. Look, Lord, even if we had thousands of dollars, we could only buy enough bread so each of them could have a little. How are we going to feed this multitude? We don't have those kinds of resources. And do you realize how much it would cost? So verse uh 38, but he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they found out, they said, Five. And two fish. So they went to scrounge around and see what do we have? What resources do we have? Now this uh incident was recorded in each of the gospels. So Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And when John describes it, In John's account of the day, we find out that it was actually Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, who came to Jesus with a report. He said, Go find out what you have. And he came back saying, There's a lad here who has five loaves of bread. And two small fish. Now, if I had been in Andrew's shoes, I I would have been reluctant to even mention it. Peter, why don't you go tell him? Because I'm a I don't want to look like a fool. I I I I'm looking out at this mass of humanity, and I don't know how good he was at uh estimating the crowds, but the scripture says there were at least five thousand men, plus as we read on, there were women and children. There was a great mass of people And he says, all right, we'd have five loaves of bread and we have two fish. So, you know, uh Andrew probably says to Peter, you go tell him that. And Peter says, I'm gonna tell him, you tell him. So So, uh alright, we got uh just think about this. We g we're gonna have uh several thousand people. Uh let's say let's say he estimates ten thousand there, so uh so we got five loaves of bread, so two thousand people are gonna have to share one little barley loaf? And then and then we got two fish. So uh okay uh you thousand you get you eat the head, and and you thousand over here you eat the tail, and then all you other thousands you get the the body of the fish And you can share that. I mean uh this is this is uh uh obviously they would have recognized this is this is impossible. So Peter, uh so Andrew says, well, listen, uh there is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two small fish, but what are they among so many? He states the obvious. Verse 39. Then he, Jesus, commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. So they sat down in ranks, in hundreds and in fifties. So uh we might have about a hundred people over here. So uh he had him sit in ranks, so we he might have had if they weren't in pews, I don't know if supposed, but uh he'd separate them and that would make it easier to serve them. So there might if we were doing it here, you might have a whole pew where no one was sitting on it. So the men were in groups of a hundred, but each hundred was divided up into two groups of fifty. They've got approximately 5,000 men. That's a hundred groups of 50, right? Or 50 groups of a hundred. So Dad was right, I did have to learn math. But I'm holding my ground on the algebra. I didn't need that at all. So there were these groups of people divided up into the so let's just think about the men now. There are a hundred uh groups of fifty men each. And so Jesus has them sit down in the grass. So this makes good sense, right? Otherwise, you know, you start handing out food, there could be a huge influx of people. So they're all s seated on the green grass. And there may be a picture there, of course, of of our good shepherd feeding his people on the green grass, and the he makes them to lie down upon the greengrass. In this case they sat and he served them. And verse 41, and when he had taken the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven, he blessed and broke the loaves. And he gave them to his disciples to set before them, and the two fish he divided among them all. And so, verse 42, so they ate and were filled. Now as I picture this, the five barley loaves and two small fish are in a basket. Let's say the uh Jesus has a basket here with the five barley loaves and the two fish. And he has the apostles come before him with empty baskets that they scrounded up. And remember they were fishermen, they might have had baskets or had access to them. And so that so they come by with these empty baskets, and Jesus begins to uh distribute to the apostles from the five loaves and the two fish. And they carry these baskets full of bread and fish to those groups of fifty. And I don't suppose one basket would serve a whole fifty. I don't know. They might have had to go back several times. And there remember there's a hundred groups of fifty, just the men. So that's a lot of serving, that's a lot of carrying baskets, that's a lot of bringing the food. And they were all filled, the scripture says. The 5,000 men plus uh perhaps thousands of women and children, and if there were any teenagers there, you know how much it would take to fill them. And just to assure us that everyone ate as much as he wanted, and that we're not somehow misunderstanding this We read, now those , or we read verse 43, and they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fish Everyone ate, everyone was filled, everyone had enough. And there were fragments of bread left over, fragments of fish left over, and they took up, and there were twelve baskets left. What they did with that leftover food we're not told. I'm sure it wasn't wasted. The scripture says Jesus said, Gather up the fragments that remain so that nothing is lost. John 6, verse 12. And uh I wouldn't be surprised if they these people are about to head home now. They put these baskets around the perimeter and as people left if they w w needed some extra food for the journey they would take some from the baskets. It wasn't wasted Now, this incident is very well known to us. We see it in all four Gospels. You can't read a gospel, you can't read Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John without reading about the feeding of the 5,000 with the five loaves of bread and two fish. But uh I want to underscore a couple things. First of all, make no mistake about it, there is only one way to understand this incident as it is recorded for us in all four Gospels It was a miracle. It was a supernatural event. We're not told if Mark and Luke were physically present to witness this, but we know that Matthew and John were. And they saw the miracle before their own eyes. And of course, Mark and Luke were recording the testimony of eyewitnesses. And we believe the Holy Spirit preserved them, all the gospel writers, all the Bible writers. uh from any error. All scripture is God breathed. Second Timothy three sixteen. So the facts are, as described by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, Jesus fed five thousand men plus women and children, with five barley loaves and two small fish. Now the disciples had already witnessed Christ's power over disease. They'd witnessed his power over demons. They witnessed his power over nature. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And they feared exceedingly. And they said to one another, Who can this be? That even the wind and the sea obey him. Now they witnessed him turn a little bit of bread and a little bit of fish into hundreds of baskets of bread and fish And I'm sure that not only were they astounded, but all those present must have been astounded. Now you may not believe that Jesus could do such a thing. Or that God could intervene in nature in such a way. But it seems to me that you must admit that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John believed it. And they stated very clearly that that's precisely what he did. Uh to quote uh R. C. Sprohl again, he said that when he was a pastor growing up in Pittsburgh Uh well, I'm sorry, when he was a child, he wasn't a pastor growing up there. He was a a child growing up in Pittsburgh. His pastor uh taught that there were two possible explanations for this miracle. I'm sorry, for this event. The first possible explanation is one that I remember learning in seminary. I think I've mentioned it before. And and here's how it goes. Uh all these people came out uh to listen to Jesus and they all brought food with them, of course, but uh they're all thinking, yikes. Look at all these people. If I bring out our lunch, I'm gonna have to share it with all these people. I can't just we can't just eat this ourselves, not with Jesus standing right there So nobody wanted to go to bring out the food. So a little boy says, Dear Jesus, you can give them my food. You can share my food and everybody says, Oh, isn't that sweet? Well let's all share then. So they all bring out their food and everybody eats and they're happy. And uh and so that's the one the one way that that that uh what we would call modernistic scholars explain this. Uh and uh and here's the other one. Uh and this is This is uh even worse. Uh Sproul 's uh Pittsburgh pastor uh uh said, uh Jesus had prepared for this event by deviously filling a cave near the Sea of Galilee with a large supply of loaves and fish. He had one of those flowing robes with loose sleeves, much as you might see on a on a magician. And the disciples formed a bucket brigade behind him, and they're passing him lows, you know, right through the must be a slit in the robe, I don't know And uh and then he distributes them to the mass of humanity and all the people there say, Wow, look at look what he's doing But they don't realize, Hey, why why is he standing in front of that cave and who are those guys behind him? No, they didn't uh th n that wasn't revealed. And so uh so that's how he did it. It was all deception. You know, like like the he the modern healers, you know, and you realize the guys He's telling some stranger from the crowd that uh he he he has uh uh a a limp on his left leg a and and the guy says, Well, as a matter of fact I do and and they find out that the the the man's wife is in the back and she's been interviewing these people as they come in and she's got a he's got a little earpiece and she's telling them what's going on and you know so they figure oh there's some kind of a d deception like that. Now think about it. These two explanations are so preposterous on so many levels that the only possible way anyone could swallow one of them is because Satan has blinded the eyes of them that believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. 2 Corinthians 4:4. Literally it says, Satan has blinded the minds of them that believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel should shine unto them. And here's what I'm saying. If you don't believe the eyewitnesses who said Jesus fed over 5,000 with five loaves of bread and two fish, then why believe any of it? Why not conclude they fabricated the whole story? It's no wonder when you have pastors teaching such things that the saying has become proverbial. Can any good thing come out of Pittsburgh? It's proverbial. Of course R. C. Sproul came out of Pittsburgh, we just established that. So on the one hand, we must affirm this was a miracle. This was supernatural. He fed 5,000 with five loaves of bread and two fish. Secondly, you may have noticed the three indications of compassion in this passage. Jesus had compassion on his disciples. Come apart and rest. Jesus had compassion upon the multitude when he saw they were hungry for teaching. And in need of teaching, like sheep without a shepherd. Think about it. He might have said, Can you not see that my disciples are exhausted? Will you not grant us even a few hours' rest? Why do you think we took the boat to this deserted place? Don't you people have work to do? But his compassion constrained him And then thirdly, the disciples had compassion on the multitude. As evening approached, they realized there was precious little daylight left. They came to Jesus and said, Lord, we need to send them away now, or or they're going to faint along the way. They need some nourishment. They got a long way to go. So I'm going to ask you to consider that. Are you a man or woman of compassion? Are you typified by compassion for others? Are you attuned to the needs of other people? In the last of my messages at uh Harvey Cedars, there was this Bible conference uh It's almost two weeks ago now, Harvey Cedars. Uh in my last message, which was last Sunday, was the f the final message of six. I mentioned that I w I was blessed while I was there by the kindnesses of the people. We got there kind of late. We got stuck in the New Jersey Turnpike and uh we got there during dinner and somebody walked us over to the uh dining hall because we'd never been there before. The sh literally took us to the dining hall And then got to the table and there was a fellow there, uh uh Bill Nicholas, his name was, who's from New York, and Bill said, uh, let me help you with your luggage after dinner and which you obviously didn't need to do. And then uh later in the week I was walking around with a uh some uh some books, I guess probably the ribe red book I've had a a load of it. And uh somebody uh a lady just got up and opened a door way ahead of me and then opened another door for me. And uh you know, all of which made me stop and and ask myself Uh just how old and frail do I look to these to these people? I said, you know, I I'm not dead yet. But of course the point is, are you attuned to the needs of other people? Are you uh looking for opportunities to serve others? Are you compassionate? Are you a man, a woman, a boy, a girl of compassion? And thirdly, as Sprohl points out in his commentary on Mark, something I'd never noticed. Or I I don't think I I've noticed. The great contrast, uh Mark presents two consecutive narratives that revolve around dramatic feasts, right? The first one was Herod Antipas inviting the great no the mighty men, the nobles of Galilee. So it was hosted by Herodanthipus. It was uh uh the the entertainment was exotic dancing, you might say. The food was sumptuous and uh prepared by the finest gourmet chefs available, certainly And the evening ended with an execution of a man they all recognized to be a prophet of God. The second feast was hosted by the Lord Jesus himself. Uh the the common people of Galilee were the ones invited to this feast. And the first item on the agenda was the exposition of God's truth by God's Son. And the food was prepared by the Creator of all things. And the food was simple fare, uh wholesome fare , barley loaves and fish, and the underlying theme of that meal was the compassion. of Christ. How much better to attend Christ's simple supper than the extravagant and debauched affair celebrating Herod's birthday. You have put gladness in my heart more than in the season that their grain and wine increased. Psalm 4, verse 7. Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure with trouble. Proverbs 15, 16. And then John reveals a fascinating epilogue to this miracle in John 6. If you have your Bible, you might open to John 6 very quickly. He says, after he had fed the masses, Jesus perceived that they were going to come and take him by force to make him king. John 6, verse 15. So he departed to a mountain alone, sending his disciples by boat to Beth Seda. Now it was that night, as we'll see next week, Lord willing, that uh he saw the disciples laboring against the great wind, and he went to them upon the sea. But the next day, all right, so the day following the feeding of the 5,000, John tells us that the people found Jesus. And he said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Evidently, the people said to each other, let's think about this. If Jesus can feed a multitude with five loaves of bread and two fish, If he can do that on one day, he can do that on another day. He can do it on the next day. Suppose we make him king. Instead of a king who takes from us Taxes, servants, soldiers. We'll have a king who gives to us. He can provide us with bread. We may never have to labor again. So they come to Jesus. But Jesus says, You're seeking me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and you were filled He says, labor not for the food that perishes, labor for the food that endures unto everlasting life. You seek me not because of the signs, the miracles, both the feeding of the 5,000, and the scripture says there were healings accomplished there, Matthew says. So you're seeking me for the wrong reason. You're seeking me because you ate and you were filled, and now you want to be filled again. Evidently, Jesus would have been pleased if they had sought him because of the signs. The miracles, in other words, the signs were to verify him as the Messiah. The intention of the signs was to reveal that he was the promised one, the promised Savior. But you're seeking me not because of the signs, which would have been appropriate. You're seeking me because of the food. No, if they sought out Jesus and said, Lord Jesus, we witness what you did. You fed us with bread from heaven. You healed our diseases. You taught us of your Father's kingdom. We believe you are the promised one. We believe you're the true bread of life. We understand that if we personally appropriate you , the bread from heaven, we'll live forever. But instead they sought them because they ate and were filled physically. And even after he urged them to seek the true spiritual bread, John 6, look at verse 30. Therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then that we may see it and believe you? What work will you do? Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, as it's written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. You want us to believe that you're this prophet? Well, then give us bread from heaven again. Here's the score so far: Moses fed us 40 years in the wilderness. 40 years bread from heaven. You multiply that out, you figure that out, there's math again. It's like 15,000, almost 15,000 meals. So here's the score. Jesus won. Moses 15,000. You want us to follow you, Jesus? Then you give us bread to eat. Give us bread today. You see, that they were focused on the physical But Jesus kept redirecting them to the real meaning of the miracle, verse 32. Then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. That's me. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. And then in case that there was any doubt about it, he makes it crystal clear, verse 47. Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me has everlasting life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the mountains in the wilderness and they're dead. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, and that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world. Language, human language can't be much clearer than that. I'm the living bread The miracle was, yes, it was to feed you, but it was also to be a picture of the fact that God has given you the true living bread from heaven. So how about you? Are you following Jesus for what you think you can gain in this life? Are you following Jesus for what you think you will gain in this life? Are you following Jesus for material blessings? If so, you're like those who came to Jesus after he fed them and they just wanted more food. You're missing the whole point. Jesus said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. He said, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust corrupt and thieves break through and steal. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither mock nor rust corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be The prosperity preachers have so zealously proclaimed their message that the Pew Research Center reported a few years ago that if this 66 % of Pentecostalists, 43 % of all other professing Christians, Catholic, mainline, evangelical believe that God showers material riches upon believers. 66 % of the Pentecostalists and or Pentecostals, and forty-three percent of all other professing Christians believe that God just showers riches upon people. I like what Rick Warren, Pastor Rick Warren, said in an interview with Time Magazine. This idea that God wants everyone to be wealthy, there's a word for that. Baloney. It's creating a false idol, he said. You don't measure your self-worth by your net worth. I can show you millions of faithful followers of Christ who live in poverty. The poor have the gospel preached unto them, right? Jesus didn't feed those thousands of men and women to teach them that if they trusted in him, they wouldn't have to work again. They'd never have to labor again. Those who came to him the next day were focused upon the material, but the lesson behind the miracle was a spiritual one. And that's the spiritual truth that Jesus kept redirecting them to. I'm the living bread that came down from heaven. When he went to the cross and his body was pierced and torn, he was offering himself as a sacrificial lamb. On the third day he was raised The Father having accepted the sacrifice. Jesus was paying the debt of a sheep. The good shepherd endured God's just wrath for sin, that sinners could be forgiven. And if you're asking, how do I partake of this bread that he talked about here? How do I partake of this living bread? Just remember the three R's. The three Rs. Recognize, recognize yourself as a sinner. Repent, repent of your sin, turn from it in disgust, turn away from it, and rest upon Jesus. That's it, the three are. Recognize yourself as a sinner. God forgive me, I sinned against you. Repent of it. I I hate that sin. I hope I never sin again. I don't want to sin, Lord. I see it's vile and heinous and disgusting. God help me. You have a change of mind about your sin. And then you rest in Jesus, his finished work upon the cross. He's the only one who ever perfectly kept God's law. You rest in what he did for you. You rely upon him. You trust in him. The three Rs. If anyone eats of this bread, Jesus said, He will live forever. Let's pray. Almighty God, I do thank you for this uh account of this miracle. Lord, uh Satan would have us believe there was some uh uh trickery, uh some uh deceit , but uh Lord, we believe that the God who created this world, who made it all, who spoke and it was done, Who said that let there be light and there was light. We believe this God has power over nature. Lord, we we recognize that you're the King. And Lord, I do pray for those who might be here outside of Christ. May they partake of this true bread that came down from heaven. May they be filled with the bread from heaven. May they never hunger again. We ask in Christ's name, Amen.