If you could please let us stand together as we read this morning's passage. Taken from Luke chapter 23, verses 39 through 43. One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity that we have to Look at your word. Pray that the meditation of all of our hearts, words of our mouths, will be pleasing in your sight. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Jesus, remember me. Short, sweet, and to the point. This short phrase is right up there with, have mercy on me, a sinner. But for this morning, Jesus, remember me. is what we will consider. It is the thief 's, this thief 's last words. And in honor of Martin Luther, this Reformation Sunday, his last words are: we are beggars, this is true. Now, he did not actually speak those words after he died, rummaging through his pockets. They found this written on a scrap of paper. And that has become Luther's last words. We are beggars. Uh, this is true. I just finished a short book by J. C. Ryle entitled The Cross, and it got me thinking of this passage. three dying men on their crosses. And I don't know if you ever looked it up or not, but have you ever wondered what those crosses looked like? You don't have to go a whole lot further than looking right here. The Roman cross was on average between 7 and 12 feet high. And the crossbeam was in the neighborhood of six feet. So I was in church here Friday before the trunk and treat. And I measured up at least the cross piece from the ground up is 93 inches. I figured two more feet. So it's about 10, 10 and a half feet. Cross piece, you know, maybe 23 inches each way, nine inches, five and a half to six feet. I thought, how cool. We've been looking at this for, I don't know, you have anyway, been looking at this for decades. That's about the size of a typical Roman cross that these three guys were hanging on. So if you want a visual illustration, there it is. Without worshiping it, without doing anything out of the ordinary, that is what these gentlemen are hanging on. So it got me thinking about this passage, this final conversation that Jesus had with one of the criminals hanging with him. Last March, we looked at the centurion's last words, you might remember, that I preached on. But this week, the thief, the robber, or the criminal, depending on your translation. Word spoken by one of the dying men, actually one of three dying men, on Golgotha's Hill. The place of the skull is what it was called. In Aramaic is Golgotha. And it's still called that today. And believe it or not, and I would believe it if I were you, if you go to that rock formation today, that tourists are shown. And I have been there. The rock formation does look like a skull. You stand in front of it and you think, oh my, eye sockets, nose, round head. We have many people in church who look like that, but it's like, wow, it's one of those traditional sites That is full of uh that's all over Jerusalem. Go online and look at it. It is eerie. The place of the skull. But that's where these gentlemen were. Jesus, remember me. The Greek word is vanesco, to remind or to remember. In phrases such as I remember or call to mind, it's a verb that emphasizes actively remembering and intentionally Remembering. Not in an off-handed or merely incidental way, but it's intentional in its remembrance. So I want to take a look at the idea of remembering. Have you ever forgotten to remember to do something or to be with someone? Have you ever forgotten? Quote, was the oven and stove turned off when we left? This is one of my standard lines. I didn't use it this morning. But it's one of my standard lines we leave the house. And I'm always disappointed if Margaret doesn't know for sure 'cause I rely her on so much for her memory, but if she doesn't know And I start thinking about it, obsessing about it, some would call. And if I'm not that far away, I turn around and go back. So Marga and I went away recently for for about a few days, and she doesn't know this, but the last time I walked out of the house, I took pictures of the knobs of the stove in the oven. Yeah, it's the kind of guy you elect to be an owner. What's wrong with you? I took those pictures. She doesn't know until now and it's being recorded so the whole world might know But it's part of a necessity streak I have. And I did that so it would help me to reassure me to remember something I did or didn't do. It's just part of the way I'm made. What I should try to do is be more intentional in my remembering But let's talk about you. Be honest, how many of you have driven away and then you turn around and go back home because you left the garage door open? Come on, I'm not the only one that used to do that. You have, haven't you? Please? One? Can I hear two? Ever forget to pick up your kid from school Play day? Take care? Forget to meet somebody for lunch or a meeting? We do it all the time. Sometimes we put reminders in our wall calendars. We put them on our phone. I looked this morning, I got three meetings this coming week. One is lunch, I'm okay with that. The other one is a work meeting, I don't want to go. And the other one is an orthopedic meeting. I gotta go. But if I don't have my calendar, I don't remember. I just don't remember. And then there's the old tie the string around your finger. People did remember. I didn't, but somehow growing up in the 50s and the 60s, it seemed to be something people did. Actually, in The Wonderful Life, Uncle Billy has all these strings around his fingers, remember? And then he forgets. I would too. He's got all these strings. How are you supposed to determine what string was what memory? But anyway, he forgets. But that was a a learning device, I guess, that maybe people were doing back earlier on. You know, Proverbs does talk about my son, keep my teaching as the apple of UI. Bind them on your fingers, write them on the tablet of your heart. Well, maybe it didn't come from that, but that is yet another way that Israel had of remembering God's goodness. But I think we can find or we agree that memory is a complex and it's really an intricate faculty. Some of you may remember where you were when 9-11 unfolded. Some of you may remember when Reagan was shot and where you were. You may remember the first time you laid eyes on your spouse. And some of you hopefully remember guys when you proposed to your spouse Memory is a wonderful thing. And it's the loss of memory today in the associated disease of dementia which causes so much pain in the lives of families today, and it's on the forefront of so much of medical um research. And many of you have experienced this with a loved one. Memory is such a precious gift to be able to remember. We take it for granted until We can't remember. Or somebody else can no longer remember. We see it slipping away with somebody, and then we no longer take it for granted So it's a gift and it's a blessing in almost all instances. And we absolutely love it when somebody remembers us. Yes, you do. They remember your birthday, maybe your anniversary, some experience. We love the fact that people are thinking about us and they remember us. Because it's all about us sometimes. So we love it when people remember us. There are many biblical examples of remembering something or someone. They're scattered across the pages of the New New and Old Testament. Sometimes times of remembrance, periods of joy, sometimes periods of sorrow. Joseph speaking to the butler, when you restored your position and put Pharaoh's cup in his hand, remember me Show me kindness. Mention me to Pharaoh. What does he do? He forgets. It's not on his calendar. It's not on his iPad. He forgets. Until two years later, he says, oh my, I forgot to remember there's this Jew who can interpret dreams. And I love reading passages like, and the Lord remember Sarah, as he said. Then God remembered Rachel and opened her womb. And now Cana knew his wife Hannah, and the Lord remembered her. How special these three ladies must have felt that God had remembered them. In the midst of the lives that they were leading. Though everyone else at times might forget them, God had never forgotten them. There's a feeling of security and specialness in being remembered. It gives us warm and fuzzy feelings inside, does it not to be remembered and to be thought of? He has given help to his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy in the song of Mary after visiting with Gabriel. All wonderful examples of God remembering his covenant with Israel, both as people individually and as a nation. But there is a sad side to memory loss or forgetting to remember something. One of the saddest passages of all of the Bible, and Peter remembered the saying of Jesus , Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Do you think Peter ever forgot that night? It was a night to remember. And if you know a little bit about literature, that is the name of the book Walter Lourdes wrote on the sinking of the Titanic. For Peter, it was a night to remember, it was a night never to forget. I, for one, as you are, am very thankful that God's memory is better than mine. He does not have to second guess himself. And he never forgets what he has promised, whether to a nation, a prominent citizen like Sarah, or a condemned criminal on the cross. Or individuals like you and me today, he does not forget. He remembers our frame And so I love this little dialogue. Jesus, remember me. Jesus says, I say to you today. When you come, you will be with me in your kingdom in paradise. Short and sweet, personal to the point. Talk about comfort forevermore. Paradise is a Persian loan word for garden or park. Harkens back to different gardens of the Old Testament, especially to Eden. Where the tree of life through the resurrection might now be enjoyed for life evermore for those who die in and die with Jesus. Revelation 2. 7 says, To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life. Which is in the garden of paradise of God. Mankind will have come full circle From the garden in Genesis to the garden in Revelation. And it is the cross of Christ which bridges the two. Jesus is reassuring this man that there is no better time than the present to make this plea. Obviously, he is dying. On a cross. He doesn't have a whole lot of time left. Jesus acknowledges him, recognizes today is the day of salvation. Today, right now, it's a good time. Hebrews 3. 15 says, today, if you hear his voice, Do not harden your heart as in the rebellion. Today, if you hear his voice. And today you and I hear his voice too, through the reading of his word. To d tomorrow may never come. And yesterday is past and gone forever. It is a plea of a dying man. A needy man, needing beyond all else assurance that he would be with Jesus starting right now and into eternity. That was his plea. I want to be with you. But you know, not everybody does. Both Mark and Matthew mention that at the beginning of the crucifixion, both thieves reviled Jesus. Both thieves abused him. Interestingly enough, only Luke tells us, as Parr Harvey used to say, which a lot of you young people don't know who Paul Harvey is. Par Harvey used to say, and now for the rest of the story. So Matthew and Mark tell us, yeah, these thieves were there and they were abusing Jesus. Then Luke tells us the aftermath. And if you ask, well, uh, how do we know? Where did he get this information from that Matthew or Mark seemed to not mention? I think we can be correct in assuming his sources were the women who were still at the cross close enough to overhear what was spoken. I think it's pretty obvious. They stuck tight and fast to Jesus when the other people took off. They overheard. They were able to communicate. They remembered, they called to mind the conversation they heard, and were able to pass it on to Luke. These women, by the way, as you know, from Friday's crucifixion to the to the burial in the tomb. to the resurrection Sunday. They were there. They are the primary witnesses in so much of what we know of those three days. They are the sources of some of those events. And then you might be sitting there wondering, what about John? John doesn't mention this either. He talks about the two. He doesn't mention anything about this conversation. You think, well, why not? But my thought is simply this. John 's no longer there. Jesus commits Mary to John. I'm a simple guy. I think John took Mary home. It says within that hour, in that hour, John took Mary to be with him. I think he took Mary home. Why would Mary have wanted to stand at the foot of her son being executed? She's broken, she's exhausted, she's devastated. No mother will stand there and watch their son be executed. So I don't think so. We see something similar today, by the way. You've all been to burials. I have. You don't usually linger when they lower the cost, casket in the ground. It's usually after the service is over and people have left. Then they lower them the ground with the straps. I think that's similar. So I that's why John doesn't write about this He wasn't there, wasn't part of what he thought was necessary for his gospel, and he's taken Mary home. And so we're left with these three dying men. And we're privy to the last conversation. It's almost a private conversation that Jesus had before he died. It is the last conversation he had. He uttered other words, the last seven words, but this is a conversation. that he had. And we are privy to that. A man with a tender heart, a man with a defiant heart. And Jesus with a gracious heart. Two men, one on each side of great heart. Defiance The first criminal we hear from is the criminal with defiance in his heart. This man has the gall to even challenge Jesus as to his identity. Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. Pretty straightforward. He wants to get down. It hurts too much. The Living Bible paraphrases it this way. I kind of like it. It says, so so you're the Messiah, are you? Prove it by saving yourself and us too while you're at it. He wants to get down. The mocking tone, this language, is what he's been hearing all day long from the religious leaders, the soldiers and the people passing by So he chimes in and basically says, well, count me in two. If you're the Son of God, come down from the cross. He gives Jesus the same business everybody else is, mocking him, challenging to come down from the cross. You know it's interesting. He too, he too was there and heard the words of forgiveness that Jesus uttered. Right? Father, forgive them. They don't know what they do, and they certainly did not know what they did. He heard those words. But unlike the repentant thief, the one with the tender heart, this thief, his heart is hardened to it. His sin has bound him up. I think also that this taunt is directed at Jesus is not only to challenge Jesus and tempt Jesus in his sonship. But I thought this week, I believe Satan was also using him to try to discourage the other thief. Who is beginning to develop a tender heart? Satan is a crafty guy. He can point and shoot arrows in one direction, but maybe his target is right over here as well. Satan hates nothing worse than the seed of the gospel taking effect and working regeneration. He hates it Germinating, as it were. In the life of a budding believer who will soon be exercising repentance and faith, Satan will hate that and he'll do whatever he can to stop it and to thwart it. Not only with individuals, but with churches. denominations who do what he can to kill the seed. I see in this defiant one also Satan's last gasp His last opportune moment is a phrase we read in one of the Gospels after Jesus is tempted in the wilderness that Satan will return at another opportune time. This is his last opportunity to tempt Jesus to forsake his role as a son of God. Three years earlier in the wilderness, it's, you know, uh make stones into bread. Now his temptation is on Passover, the eve of Passover, to climb down for the cross before you are dead. Get down now. If nothing else, you think of this, he sure is one persistent person. Persistent attacks against God's people. Whether the church body or its individual members, like you and me. He seeks to wear us down. He asks us to count the cost. And he hopes that after counting the cost, that we find that it's not worth it. Sometimes he's subtle. Sometimes he's direct and overt. He will hit us when we're weak. He'll hit us when we're down, but he'll also hit us. When we are strong and confident in his ultimate goal, he wants us to chuck it all. I had a professor in seminary, an Old Testament scholar, archaeologist, named Gary Pradical. Probably Jared, you know who he is. I remember being in his house one time and he said, the times that worry him the most is when the times are the best. And I thought it's pretty novel. But it's because we take our eyes off of a lot of things. But Satan will seek to hit us, weak spots, strong spots, it through other people. That's what he's doing here. And he'll especially, as I said, focus attention on the people of the God, people of God when they are truly the people of the book. He loves to break up the family of God. He loves to cause disunity. He loves to cause dissension. He loves to cause discouragement. No one is immune from the tax of the evil one. And of course, our own indwelling sin. Church leaders, their spouses, young and old, male and female. He's no respecter of persons. He is always on the prow and he's on the he's on the cross with the defiant one, seeking his last hurrah. Here's a twist though in that passage. It's a little bit of a twist. Unlike earlier in the wilderness where Jesus answers Satan directly, in this passage, Jesus remains silent. If you notice, he never responds. The second thief responds for him. It was the second thief, the repentant thief, the one who was developing a tender heart. He reproves his accuser. He reproves the man for railing on Christ. He owned that they both deserved what was coming to them. They both deserved their punishment. He became Jesus' uh voice voice in his defense. And he says Jesus had done nothing wrong. And by the way, he said Did you hear him forgiving those who had treated him wrongly? Did you hear that at all? No, he didn't. Then he asked his hanging partner, don't you fear God? And the answer is, no, he did not fear God. And the one who did not fear God died as he lived, without Christ and without hope. Both these men saw what transpired that day, both heard words of forgiveness from Jesus to his persecutors, both were dying men, both were equally sinners. both in need of forgiveness. Yet one died in his sins as he had lived, hardened, impenitent, unbelieving. The other repented, believed, cried to Jesus for mercy, and was saved. The defiant one, so close and yet so far from paradise Where the other man was going. And this is what the women remembered that day, that conversation that they were able to pass on to Luke. As Geldon Hughes says in his commentary on Luke, he expresses it this way: the penitent thief stretched out still in time, the beseeching hand of faith to the Redeemer. As long as you and I and our loved ones are alive, there is always time. And that time could be today. What do we call it when we put off something till tomorrow? Procrastination? Is that what we call that? According to the scriptures, that may actually be death. Same circumstances, different reactions, different outcomes. Proximity to the things of God, the people of God, won't save anyone. Why is it that the same sermon which is heard by one person with complete indifference sends another person home to pray and seek Christ? Why is the gospel hidden from one person and revealed to another? Matthew Henry touches on this in this passage. He says, as soon as Christ was fastened to the cross, he prayed for those who crucified him. The great thing he died to purchase and procure for us is the forgiveness of sin. This he prays for Jesus was crucified between two thieves, and them were shown the different effects the cross of Christ would have upon the children of men in the preaching of the gospel. One malefactor was hardened to the last. This gives no encouragement to any to put up repentance to the deathbeds or to hope that they shall then find mercy. It is too certain, it is certain that true repentance is never too late. But it is as certain, Henry says that late repentance is seldom true. Notice a repentant thief again, the man with a tender heart. While Christ is in the depth of disgrace and he's numbered among the transgressors. This man, the criminal with a now tender heart, seeing beyond Christ's disgrace, made his profession Even before the wonders that were displayed that startled the centurion While hanging on that cross, God's Spirit had changed his heart, no longer reviler, but a repentant man. Our repentant thief wanted nothing more in this life but to be with Jesus in the next life. Remember me, he says to Jesus, when you come into your kingdom. And in effect, Jesus says, How can I forget you? Today you will be with me in paradise. There's no forgetting with Jesus. The thief's words indicate he realized at least that death would not be the end of everything for him. And that beyond death remained the kingdom, Jesus' reign. J. C. Rao comments on this passage saying, come, cry to him with the prayer of faith. And I know that he will listen. Come, lay hold upon the cross, and I know that he will not cast you out. Come, believe on him who died on the cross, and this very day you shall have. Eternal life. Loved ones, one thief was saved that no sinner might despair but only one, so that no sinner might presume. The world that you and I live in populated by people like these two criminals, tender, defiant. And so were probably all of us at one time. And maybe some of us still today. Loved ones, neighbors, colleagues at work, people we should pray more for, because the defiant can be turned into the tender, like the first thief eventually became. But we are surrounded with folks like this all around, which means that the fields are ripe for harvest, is it not? Our missions committee should never be discouraged because somebody in the field doesn't have that many, quote, conversions, but they're out there sowing seed and The little bit of planning I know, and I'm so impatient of almost being obsessive, but the little planning I've done, it takes a while for some of these things to grow. And then you're amazed when they grow. But again, the world, we're surrounded by folks like this, those whose hearts the Holy Spirit will tenderize by the hearing of the gospel. And then we are, of course, surrounded by those who will harden their hearts and are defiant in the face of the same preaching. of the gospel. But the gospel of the cross must go on. One final word from Martin Luther as he sums up the cross on this, our Reformation Sunday. When the offense of the cross ceases, when the rage of the enemies of the cross abates, when everything is quiet. It is a sign that the devil is the doorkeeper of the church, and that the pure doctrine of God's word has been lost. May that never be said from this church or this pulpit as we go into the years ahead. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you've given this church many, many fine ministers of the word. And of course, we have one right now among us. We pray that the proclamation of the gospel would continually go forth, knowing that some yes will kick back on it and others will receive it. But Father, we pray that the gospel never ceases to be preached. And may that be true also in our Sunday school classes, may it be true in our adult Bible studies, our small groups. Whatever we teach, whatever we discuss, help us to continually call to mind the cross of Jesus Christ. And if we ever forget that cost. To him, may we look on this wall at times and see that it was a device like this that gave freedom to us. An eternal life. We pray in Christ's name. Amen