Amen. Very nice. Thank you, Choir. We're continuing our study through the Gospel of Mark. If you have your Bible with you, turn to chapter 4. And uh we intend to complete or look at chapter 4 today. Gospel of Mark chapter four, beginning at verse twenty-one, and as we turn there we'll dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. Also he said to them, Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Is it not to be set on a lampstand, for there is nothing hidden which will not be revealed, nor has anything been kept secret but that it should come to light If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. Then he said to them, Take heed what you hear. With the same measure you use, it will be measured to you, and to you who hear, more will be given For whoever has, to him, more will be given. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. And he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground, and should sleep by night and rise by day, and the seed should sprout and grow. He himself does not know how. For the earth yields crops by itself, first the blade, then the head, after that the full grain in the head. But when the grain ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle because the harvest has come And then he said, to what shall we liken the kingdom of God? Or with what parable shall we picture it? It is like a mustard seed, which, when it's sown on the ground, is smaller than all the seeds on earth, but when it's sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all herbs and shoots out large branches so that the birds of the air may nest under its shade. And with many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. But without a parable he did not speak to them. And when they were alone he explained all things to his disciples. On the same day when evening had come, he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side. Now when they had left the multitude, They took him along in the boat as he was, and other little boats were also with him. And a great windstorm arose, and the waves beat into the boat, so that it was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep, on a pillow. And they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we're perishing? Then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. But he said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? And they feared exceedingly and said to one another, Who can this be? That even the wind and the sea obey him. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray. Almighty God, what a privilege we have to be able to gather together in peace and in safety and in comfort and read your word. And talk about it and learn about it. What a wonderful thing it is that our Savior has given us so much truth, so many things to help us in our walk. And so many things to help draw souls to himself. So Lord, speak to us now. Teach us. And work in the hearts of those who may be here outside of Christ, Father. We do pray together, those of us who are your children, we pray that you would draw souls to yourself. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As you know, Jesus taught with brief stories that we call parables, stories that he calls Parables. The word parable in the original language of the New Testament, that is common Greek, the Greek that uh the people would speak, the common people would speak, not the classical Greek of scholars. The word is parabole, and it's derived from two little words, para, alongside of, think of parallel lines, and uh balo, to throw, or to cast. So the telling of a parable then is the the casting of one truth, the tossing of one truth alongside of another. The tossing of one truth that may be evident alongside another that may not be so evident, not so clear. We know something about planting, in other words, and we know something about the growth of seeds, because we planted seeds ourselves, or certainly observed others doing so. So, in order to help us to understand something we don't know much about, for example, how the Word of God works in particular hearts Jesus takes what we do know something about, planting of seeds, and casts it alongside of what is unfamiliar. Now look at verses 21 to 23. Also he said to them, Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Is it not to be set on a lampstand? For there is nothing hidden which will not be revealed, nor has anything been kept secret, but that it should come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. I think we learn from these verses that we ought not only to receive God's truth, but to impart it to others. Remember, he had just given the parable of the sower who scatters his seed. And he told us about broadcasting the seed, sending it out. The seed, which of course represents the Word of God. But of course, the seed will never germinate if it remains in the farmer's barn. or in the farmer's seed bag. The seed must be distributed if it is to result in plant life, if it's to bear fruit. In the first century Palestine, oil lamps were in common use. Picture what might look to us like an elongated An elongated gravy bowl that you might place on your uh table for a holiday meal with a with a handle at one end and the other end crimped. Well, this would be filled with oil, and there'd be a little wick coming out of the crimped end, maybe nothing more than a piece of string or something like it. It would protrude, and that's of course what you would light. You would light that lamp and you would consume that oil, but only when you wanted to spread the light. It would make no sense to light the lamp and place it under your bed uh or under a basket, that would of course defeat the purpose. In the same way we wouldn't light a flashlight and then stick it in our dresser drawer, lit So I think Jesus is encouraging us to spread the light, the light that He's graciously given us. The good news then is not intended to stop with us. It's intended to be passed along. It's intended to give light to others. Look at it again. Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Is it not to be set on a lampstand? There's nothing hidden which will not be revealed, nor has anything been kept secret but that it should come to light. 19th century Anglican Bishop J. C. Ryle put it this way. We shall all have to give account of our use of knowledge one day. The books of God in the day of judgment will show what we have done. If we buried our talent in the earth, if we've been content with a lazy, idle, do nothing Christianity, and cared nothing about what happened to others so long as we went to heaven ourselves. There will be a fearful exposure at last. Jesus said there is nothing hid which shall not be manifested. So don't take your light and hide it under a basket. Don't take your light and put it under your bed where it does no good. The light that God has graciously given you, spread it. Let it shine upon others that they might have God's word. And Jesus continued, if anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. That is, those who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, those regenerated ones, as many of you hear, those of you who have spiritual eyes, spiritual uh ears, spiritual hearts, they will understand what I say, Jesus is saying. Now, those who do not have spiritual eyes, ears, and hearts, those who are not regenerated, not indwelt by the Holy Spirit, they will not hear. Therefore, he says, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Now, verse 24. Then he said to them, Take heed what you hear. With the same measure you use, it will be measured to you, and to you who hear, more will be given For whoever has, to him more will be given, but whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. Now These are parables. He wants us to think deeply about them, to contemplate them. They're not necessarily obvious at first reading. In the previous verse, he made a distinction between the believer and the non-believer. Here he seems to be making a distinction among professing believers. He says, take heed what you hear. In other words, I think he's saying, you will be accountable for what you know. As he said on another occasion, those who knew the master's will and did not do it. will be more accountable in the final day than those who didn't know the Master's will and did not do it. In verse 24 he uses a picture of a measure. Think of a measuring cup. You know, you got a quarter cup, you got a half cup, you got a full cup, uh teaspoon, tablespoon, etc. We're more familiar with that image from the Sermon on the Mount. Remember, he said, judge not That you be not judged? For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged, and with what measure you use. Half cup, cup uh gallon, with what measure you use, it will be measured back to you. There are many different sizes of measuring tools. We have them today, they had them in Jesus' day. Names like Bath, Epha, Hinn, Siya. But the truth is the same. If I'm harsh in my judgment of others, that's what he was saying in the Sermon on the Mount. If I'm harsh in my judgment of others, if I'm quick to find fault and slow to praise If I judge others by the gallon measure or by the bushel basket, then that is how I will be judged, Jesus said. But if I'm charitable and gracious in my dealing with others, And if I'm not easily provoked, and if I don't rejoice in iniquity, in other words, if I try to put the best construction upon the statements of others or the actions of others, And I don't go through life seeking my pound of flesh out of people whenever I'm mistreated. In other words, if I judge others by the teaspoon instead of by the quart or the gallon, then that is how I will be judged, Jesus said. Every couple of years, as you know, America has an election, and all manner of vile charges are made and circulated by those in each major political party about those in the other major political party. Intemperate speech, false accusations, slander, gossip, they're passed along, often without any apparent effort to determine if the accusations are actually true. They sound like they could be true, so let's spread them In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus reminds us that when it comes to judging others, with the measure we use, judgment will be measured back to us. Remember, that's also where he said, we're to do to others as we would want them to do to us. Well, I wouldn't want others spreading falsehoods about me, so I should be careful not to spread falsehoods about others, even if they're on the opposite side of the political divide. Now, here Jesus uses the example of the measure, but in a different way. Here he speaks not of judging others, but of hearing the word. Now, when judging others, the smaller the measure, the better, right? When hearing, that is truly hearing the word, the larger the measure, the better. The more you truly hear, truly understand, truly believe, truly embrace, truly put into practice. Then the more God will graciously give you. But if you don't embrace and act upon the truth you are already being given by God Why should you expect him to give you more? Look at it again. Take heed what you hear, with the same measure you use, it will be measured to you. And to you who hear, more will be given. If you're only a surface Christian, that is, if you're only a Christian in name and not in heart, note well what Jesus says: whoever does not have even what he has. Will be taken away. In other words, what he appears to have. In fact, that's how Luke describes what Jesus said later. Whoever does not have, even what he seems to have, will be taken away. Reminds us of what Jesus said, depart from me. I never knew you, Matthew 7. To professing believers who didn't really have, there was no oil in their lamp, is another way to put it. Look at verse 26. And he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. There you go, just like the sower was doing earlier. And he should sleep by night and rise by day, and the seed should sprout and grow. He himself does not know how. For the earth yields crops by itself, first the blade, then the head, after that the full grain in the head. But when the grain ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle because the harvest has come. Here's another thing the kingdom of heaven is like, Jesus says. He's trying to shed light on spiritual truths that are not obviously known to us. Here he speaks of the mysterious yet relentless growth of the Word of God in an individual's heart The mysterious yet relentless growth of the Word of God in an individual's heart. The kingdom of God is like a man scattering seed on the ground, and somehow, right, those of you who've done this, those of you who've ever planted anything, somehow uh wondrously, mysteriously, what happens? The seed germinates and it grows and life comes out of what was evidently lifeless. If you looked at an individual seed, appears to have no life there. And yet wondrously, mysteriously, life comes out of what appeared to be lifeless. The scatterer of the seed, all right, let's call him a farmer, farmer Luke The scatterer of the sea goes about his other chores. He milks the cows, he feeds the chickens, gathers the eggs, mends the fences, mows the lower forty , kicks the stall tractor. Paints the barn, shoes the horses, and he ties on the feed bag. Somebody rings the breakfast bell. He sits down to a hearty meal, flat jacks, bacon, corn pone, hot coffee. With his new wife Kate, his brother little Luke, his sister Patty, and the grandpappy Amos, the head of the clan. I know a thing or two about farming. And all the while, and here's the point, all the while the seed the farmer plant is doing what seeds do. It sprouts, and the new plant grows mysteriously, wonderfully. He's off doing other things. He sleeps, he gets up, he does his chores, but the seed is growing all the time. Jesus uses the sprouting of seeds, something that we've had some experience with, to help us understand the planning of God's Word. You invite a coworker to lunch. You do so because you want to talk to him about the Lord. You tell him about your faith in Christ. You tell him how you came to hear the gospel, how you came to believe in the gospel. You tell them who Jesus really is and what he did, that he's not just a good man, a good prophet, a wonderful teacher, that he's a very son of God, that he's God in flesh, that he's Emmanuel, God with us. That 's why the virgin birth. That's what that's all about. You try to put the pieces of the puzzle together for this man, who, uh, like most Americans knows something about these things. You tell them you have the promise of eternal life. You tell them you've been forgiven and redeemed, and you're going to heaven when you die, not because of any good thing you've done, but because of what Christ has done in your heart. It's all what he did. And then you give him a little gospel of John, or you give him a CD of a sermon, and you ask them to listen and read. And he, let's say, doesn't fully understand or believe when you talk to him. But by the grace of God, the seed of the word has not fallen completely by the wayside. It has not been immediately snatched away by the birds of the air. In other words, he thinks about what you said And he observes your demeanor. And he reads what you gave him, or listens to it, and slowly, imperceptibly, at first The word begins to take root in his heart. Perhaps he doesn't speak to anyone about it, about what's taking place within him, not at first, but it is taking place nonetheless. You may not be aware of this, but the seed that you planted is germinating and sprouting, and eventually it's going to begin to appear. And before long, it's full grown and ready for harvest. And he's he takes you aside and says, You know, that gospel of John you gave me, I read it and I believe it. I believe that Jesus is the Son of God And I place my faith in him. What do I do now? And then you help him. You give them more things to read. You invite him to church if you haven't already. And you you give them things that might help him to grow. Here, here, you're gonna read this. This is C. S. Lewis, this is great. And then you're gonna read this. And keep reading through the gospels, and pretty soon you'll come to Acts, and you hear about the new church and etc, etc. God's doing something in his heart, but you don't necessarily see it until it starts to sprout it. It it's been happening for a while, perhaps Well, the next parable Jesus tells describes the amazing growth of the kingdom. The parable we just talked about spoke of the wonder of the growth of the word, how it mysteriously takes root in the soul and eventually bears fruit, sometimes decades later. Right? I was trying to find this week that uh that illustration, I'm sure I've shared it with you before, of a man who I I believe he was in his nineties or maybe even he'd he'd passed the hundred mark. And he was a he had been a child in Europe, to probably England in the story, and and he and when as a child he heard a sermon And he remembered the words of the preacher, if you don't receive Christ, if you don't believe, let him who doesn't believe in Christ, the pastor ended the sermon this way, let him be Anathema Maranatha. In other words, let him be devoted to God for judgment, because our Lord's coming. Our Lord cometh. And here was this man, and he lived a whole life without Christ, and he was going about his business, and those words came to him. Anathema, Maranatha. And he's thinking, all right, I'm in my late nineties or early hundreds or whatever, I'm not going to be here much longer. And and he began to think about the gospel message that he had heard decades before. And God worked in his heart and he repented of his sins and laid hold upon Christ. That seed had been dormant in that man's heart for maybe 90 years. So well now he tells another parable, and this one describes the amazing growth of the kingdom from tiny insignificant beginnings. Look at verse 30. Then he said to, What shall we liken the kingdom of God? Or with what parable shall we picture it? It's like a mustard seed, which when it's sown on the ground is smaller than all the seeds on earth, but When it's sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all herbs and shoots out large branches so that the birds of the air may nest under its shade. Here he refers to a plant that was very familiar to his hearers, one that was notable for the great size of the adult plant as compared to the tiny seed from which it grew. Dr. William Smith's Dictionary of the Bible notes that the mustard plant found abundantly in Palestine in a wild state He said, quote, I'm quoting here, grows to a very large size on the banks of the Jordan. In comparison with any other garden herb, it would be called a tree. Well, Jesus was evidently speaking in the common vernacular here. When he referred to the mustard seed as smaller than all others, people have pointed out, well, you know, we have found other seeds that are even smaller than the mustard seed. But he's speaking in the common vernacular, just as we would say, you know, the ant, though it's the tiniest of insects, carries huge loads. And we'd all understand what was being said. The expression, small as a grain of mustard seed, was proverbial among the Jews. Remember in Luke 17, Jesus said, we don't need great faith to do great things, even a little faith. Faith, the size of a grain of mustard seed, can accomplish great things if our faith is in our great God. It's not the size of your faith, it's the size of the God in whom you have your faith Jesus is underscoring in this parable that his kingdom, as it manifests itself in this world, begins extremely small. That's the whole point. It starts out extremely small and evidently insignificant. But in the end, it's very great. Anglican bishop, 19th-century bishop J. C. Ryle said this. I think he put it very well. It would be difficult to find an emblem which more faithfully represents the history of the visible church of Christ than this grain of mustard seed. Weakness and apparent insignificance were undoubtedly the characteristics of its beginning. How did its head and king come into the world? How did the church's head and king come into the world? He came as a feeble infant born in a manger at Bethlehem without riches or armies or attendance or power. Who were the men that the head of the church gathered around himself and appointed his apostles? They were poor and unlearned persons, fishermen, publicans. men of like occupations, to all appearances, the most unlikely people to shake the world. What was the last public act of the earthly ministry of the great head of the church? He was crucified like a malefactor between two thieves. After having been forsaken by nearly all his disciples and betrayed by one and denied by another In all this, the mind of man can perceive nothing but weakness and feebleness. You see? What is there of strength and power and glory there? We can perceive nothing. But weakness and feebleness, like a mustard seed. What can come of it? Truly, the emblem of the grain of mustard seed was verified and fulfilled to the very letter, he wrote. To the eyes of man, the beginning of the visible church was contemptible, insignificant, powerless and small. Jesus said, You want to know what the kingdom of heaven is like? It's like a mustard seed. You put it in the earth and you think it's insignificant. And small, nothing's going to come of it. And then you end up with something greater than all herbs. It's more like a tree than anything. And the birds can come and land in the branches. Look at verse 33. And with many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. We have a few recorded for us here, but with many such parables he spoke the word to them. But without a parable, he did not speak to them, and when they were alone, he explained all things to his disciples. And so in this chapter we've seen Jesus teach by word, specifically by parable. But as the chapter closes, we see him teach by deed. Look at verse 35. On the same day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side. Now, when they had left the multitude, they took him along in the boat as he was, and other little boats were also with him. And a great windstorm arose, and the waves beat into the boat. So that it was already filling. Mark says this was the same day. Jesus, knowing of course, that a storm was brewing, nonetheless asked his disciples to cross the Sea of Galilee with him. The Sea of Galilee, as you know, also called the Lake of Genneseret, Lake of Tiberias, named after certain towns that were on the lake. It was about 13 miles long and about six miles wide. So this would have been a journey of several miles. This has crossed the lake. And go to another town. So they they get in the boat, and remember he had been teaching in a boat. He had been sitting in a boat off the sh the shore because of the masses, multitudes is the term that's used. the masses of people that otherwise might have crushed him. So he's sitting in a boat and he's teaching from the boat, and after a day of teaching he says to his disciples, Let's go over to the other side. So perhaps as he's sitting right there, they hoist the anchor and take off. And they did they they they go across the sea uh that very evening. Now R. C. Sprohl points out that several years ago, archaeologists unearthed an intact fishing boat on the shore of that lake, and it was dated to about the first century. It was twenty-seven feet long, so it's reasonable to suppose that this boat was about that size. Now I should have thought of this, but twenty seven feet. Can anybody tell me it would about thirty feet from here to that wall? Something like that. Be uh my guess. Uh thirty feet, is that ten yards? Is that what that is? People who do the math for me. So uh it's reasonable to suppose that that's about the size of the boat that Jesus was in. So you can see how he and his disciples could all be in that boat. And here's something else that's interesting that I'm sure most of you have heard of. Because the surface of the Sea of Galilee is 700 feet below sea level, the surface of the Sea of Galilee is 700 feet below sea level. Making it the lowest freshwater lake on the earth. And because it sits at the bottom of the Jordan River valley, surrounded by steep hills and mountains, valleys and gorges , In those mountains, sometimes those valleys and gorges can funnel winds from the Mediterranean in the west or from the desert in the east, causing violent and sudden storms. As you can imagine, the wind starts picking up and it starts swooping in. And so those today who uh I was uh we were there many years ago now, but uh there are still people who take boat rides on the Sea of Galilee and And visitors to Israel want to see it, of course. And uh and you're told that look, storms can arise very quickly here on the Sea of Galilee. Well, that's evidently what happened here. And the waves began to beat into the boat, the boat that held Jesus and his disciples, and presumably into the other little boats that were with him. And the boat began to be filled with water. Now look at verse 38. But he, Jesus, was in the stern asleep on a pillow. And they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we're perishing? He was in the back, he was asleep, he'd been teaching all day, he was tired. He was he's the God man, he was fully man and fully God. And as man, he got tired, he got hungry, he needed rest. And so he was asleep. And there was a great wind, the Bible says, a megawind. Literally in the Greek, a megawind. And the waves were crashing against the boat, and the boat was filling with water, and the disciples were no doubt doing all they could to bail out the boat. Bale the water out of the boat. And there was this great commotion and no little fear And Jesus is asleep in the back of the boat. They go back, where's Jesus? He's asleep. And uh Fearful, perhaps frustrated that Jesus would sleep through this while they're laboring to save their lives, they go to him and they wake him. And they say to Rabbi, Master, teacher, don't you care that we're perishing? And then look at verse 31, look at what he does. Then he arose and he rebuked the wind, and he said to the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. He talks to the wind, he talks to the sea He tells the wind, which by the way has no ears. He tells the wind, be still. He tells the sea, be calm. And immediately it happens. And the disciples were, of course, amazed. Jesus didn't wake up and start bailing. He didn't wake up and start rowing. He didn't wake up and start praying. He simply spoke to the wind in the sea, rebuking the wind, rebuking, and ordering the sea to be still. And the wind ceased and there was what the Bible calls a mega calm. There'd been a mega storm, now it's a mega calm. Can you imagine? You know, that's mega calm is when you see reflections of mountains in the sea. It was a megacalm. And these guys were fishermen, some of them, anyway. They knew what what storms would do, and they knew that you don't just talk to the wind and tell it to stop blowing. So there had been a mega windstorm, now there's a mega calm. And then Jesus says to them, verse 40, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? In other words, did you really think that I came to earth, I called you men as my disciples, just so we could perish in a storm after a few weeks of ministry? Is that what you thought was going to happen? Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? There had been a megastorm, mega windstorm, mega con And now the scripture says those who were witness who were witnesses of this were mega afraid. Verse 41. They feared exceedingly They feared exceedingly, and they said to one another, Who can this be? that even the wind and the sea obey him? They were afraid of the storm, but they were even more afraid now, that they had witnessed Jesus just speak to the wind and the sea. And the sea. Apparently, the wind and the sea obeyed him. Their fear was the fear of the supernatural, the fear of the other. You know, the fear of something utterly beyond their uh personal experience. Something clearly not of this world. I'd be afraid too if I was in that boat and I saw Jesus do that. Wow, wow. What manner of man is this? Even the wind and the sea obey him If Jesus had prayed to his father and asked him to deliver them and save them from the ravages of the storm and had the wind immediately calmed, I suspect the disciples would have been amazed, but they wouldn't have been terrified. They wouldn't have been mega afraid. To see this man asleep one minute, commanding the elements to obey him the next, that was terrifying. Earlier in the chapter, Jesus taught by word about the kingdom. Here he taught by deed. And what he did should have made it crystal clear to the disciples that Jesus was more than a great teacher. He was a great prophet, but he was more than a great prophet. He was the image of the invisible God. He was Lord of all nations, Lord of all time. He was Lord of all men, Lord of the sea, Lord of the wind. He was the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. Jesus said before Abraham was I am. He who has seen me has seen the Father. Who can this be? That even the wind and the sea obey him. Remember, Thomas was driven to his knees when he laid eyes on the risen Christ, and he was driven to that great confession of faith, my Lord and my God. I think of everything Jesus taught the disciples about the kingdom of God that day, I suspect nothing was as memorable, nothing made as great an impression upon them as watching him silence a storm by rebuking the wind and the waves. Earlier he taught them about the kingdom of God. In the boat he taught them not only did he know all about the kingdom, he was the king. King of Kings, Lord of Lords. Now, a few things to emphasize before we leave Mark chapter 4. First of all, remember Jesus taught us the light he has given us is not to be hidden. We will be responsible for what we have done with the measure of God's truth that we have been granted Let me say that again. You will be responsible for what you do with the measure of God's truth that you have graciously been granted. It's my perception, and I've been a follower of Christ style for over 42 years, by my reckoning, and I've been a pastor for almost 38 of those years. It's my perception that many American Christians in general, and many Reformed Christians, like Presbyterians in particular, tend to be very diligent about taking in the word Through sermons, through Bible studies, through Sunday school classes, small group studies, etc. but not so diligent about giving it out. Evangelizing, teaching, mentoring others, reaching out to the lost. It's not that our lamps don't have enough oil in them. Our lamps have plenty of oil. Sometimes the lamps are overflowing with oil. Enough oil to burn for years. But we tend to keep them under our baskets or under our bed. We keep them in our own homes. Well, they don't do any good to anybody else. They have a great deal of light, more it may be than the average believer, but we sometimes forget that it was not granted to us for our own illumination alone, but for the illumination of others as well. So, Christian, I would ask you: are you shining your light? Are you doing it here in our church? Are you teaching younger ones? Are you letting your light shine in the younger ones? How about those who are spiritually immature? Are you, as a more mature Christian, ministering to them? Are you shining your light in your extended family? Are you shining your light on your job? Are you shining your light in your school? And then, secondly, this passage reminds us that the word works mysteriously in the human heart. Once it's planted there, the Holy Spirit can do his work. I saw this in my own life as God used many things to draw me to Christ, and primarily the witness of my older brother Doug. Paul planted, Apollos watered, God gave the increase. So the word you've heard from your parents, the word you've heard from your grandparents, the word you've heard kids from your pastors, from your teachers. The word you may have read in gospel tracts, Christian books, films, hymns, songs, and all your personal reading of spiritual truth. All those things can be used by God in a wondrous way to bring you to saving faith and then to sanctify you. We all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image, from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of our Lord. 2 Corinthians 3. God has many ways to sanctify his people, many ways to get the word into your heart. Like the mustard seed, the gospel seed, when it's planted, may be very tiny and seemingly insignificant. The good news, for example, explain to a three-year-old or a four-year-old. I'm making this so simple. I'm trying to break it down and make it tiny. But God can use that tiny little seed to bear fruit. The things that kids that you learn at your mom's knee when she tells you the Bible stories, the things you learned from your dad. God can use all those things in your heart. To to to conform you to Christ, to draw you to him, and then make you more like him. That's how he does it. I know someone who heard the good news as a child in vacation Bible school. First time he ever clearly heard it. The seed was very tiny, but it bore fruit. The child believed and he grew and eventually was called to the ministry. He went to seminary. He was ordained. He was he pastored for decades. And then he went back to seminary and he got himself a doctor of ministry degree. He faithfully served his church in suburban Maryland longer than any other pastor in that church's 45-year history. Going on 17 years now. And Dr. Barry Kuratin is with us here today. And in a few minutes, we're going to celebrate his recent Accomplishment. Well let me close by asking you if the seed of the kingdom of God has sprouted in your heart. Have you recognized yourself as a sinner who deserves God's wrath? Have you repented of your sin and trusted in Christ alone as your Lord and Savior? Do you have the assurance that you'll be with him in heaven when you leave this earth, whenever that will be, and no one knows the day nor the hour? If not, I pray that the seed of the word that you've heard today will be watered by other believers and that God will graciously use it to draw you to true saving faith. Faith in the one who has authority over the wind and the wind. Waves and the souls of men. Let's pray Oh Father, what a glorious Savior we have. What it must have been like to be in that boat and hear him speak to the wind and the waves and see them respond. Lord, we thank you for the word of God. Even as small as a mustard seed placed in a child's heart, how it can grow and spread. And how we thank you that it it grows even when we're not paying attention to it. It continues to sprout and grow as we go about our business. It's a wonderful thing that you've done, Lord, and you allow us to have a part in your reaching the good the world with your good news. It's a wonderful thing that we can have a part in it. Lord, I ask now that uh you'll uh bless our time of fellowship to come. We ask your blessing upon the food and and we thank you so much for Barry and the gifts you've given him and uh and what he's accomplished and we pray that we might be a blessing to him this day. All this we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Would you stand with me and listen