I'm asking, is it all right if we just stood together and and uh corporately re uh read and it's in it's found in your bulletin, so you don't have to to recite it from memory, but would you stand with me please? And if you if you have uh either you can you can read you can read it in your own translation that you've memorized or we can use the one here in front of us, but Psalm 23 is a just one of those go-to passages of scripture. Scripture. So will you join me as we read this portion of the Old Testament? The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me like We continue. Father, we thank you for calling us to worship you and to engage in times of Singing and celebration and confession, acknowledging our sin, the time of acknowledging your grace and your love I pray, Father, that as we contemplate this particular portion of your word that is so familiar and maybe There's the temptation for us this morning to think that this is perhaps so familiar that anything that would be said pertaining to it would be boring and mundane. I pray that somehow your Holy Spirit would be at work in our lives and would enable us to have a fresh understanding of Psalm 23. Thank you for your love, for being our shepherd. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You may be seen it. I don't pretend to know what your reading habits are like. We we all have different habits, right? Some of us are not too enamored with reading so we don't we don't spend a lot of time reading hardly anything. Some love to read the papers and different periodicals and some of you, I'm sure, maybe many of you you like to read books. I know that as you're approaching summer, you'll be fishing around for the right book right for your summer reading. And uh I don't know if you are the type of person who enjoys those books that challenge us in regards to uh what people have experienced and they write about these these very different So for example, uh a book like Endurance uh by Ernest Shackleton who went uh who backed you know, before World War One, uh took this expedition down to Antarctic uh and uh his ship got stuck in the ice basically and the story is of how he And the men got off the ice and into these smaller boats and and really all of them made it to safety in in time. But it's just an incredible story. that people aren't familiar with, but it's it's the uh uh the forgotten men of Shackleton and there was another uh group of men who were preparing for Shackleton's expedition in terms of supply depots and most people don't know about that and that book makes endurance look like spending time on the beach. And uh and so these kinds of books that that remind us of what people have been through in terms of pure endurance is just the kinds of things that I for some reason like like like to read. There's another book uh out there that maybe you ha you have read. It's called A Long Walk by Slavomir uh Rowicz who was a Polish soldier back this is World War Two And he was captured by the Russians as they were coming west and they took him to Moscow and there he was placed on trial and sentenced to, I think, twenty-five years if I recall correctly to uh Siberia. Very, very uh uh difficult experience as you could imagine being somebody in your young twenties and Now you're thinking for the next twenty-five years. So the story is of him then uh going to this trial and then being taken to Siberia where he's in this camp Where it's very hard labor. And eventually, in time, he realizes that, you know, twenty five years here isn't going to be such a good idea. And he, along with some six or seven other guys, decided And they're able to get out somehow and make a very long walk to what we would Referred to now as British India. Now think about a map and where Siberia is and then walking from Siberia, right? Some of you like Sunday walks, right? Sunday afternoon walks, think about going from Siberia to British India. And so the book is about their experience experience and what it is like. And at the end of the book, uh he speaks about what it was like to end up in India, and he said that they were so incredible incredibly exhausted that in his case he slept for a month. Now can you imagine how have you been that tired? Where you felt like, not only that you felt like, but you actually slept for an entire month. So there's kinds of books, again, you know, you may or may not be interested. interested in but when I think about what people have endured because in this case these guys just wanted freedom. They by the way they didn't all make it uh to British India at the time. But to to be that dedicated to wanting freedom or wanting to accomplish something Something like crossing the the South Pole or whatever it may be, and then just finding yourself totally spent. So in some ways I hesitate to take it to Psalm 23 because it's super familiar. I I hesitate to talk about the whole dynamic of what I'm going to call this morning uh is gospel rest because I don't want you to think that this is a time for Now if you do go to sleep during the sermon, it's perfectly fine. I will we'll wake you up. The ushers will wake you up afterwards to make sure that You get home okay. Uh and sometimes, you know, if you're that tired, maybe that that's what you ought to do. But at the same time, I think we're all aware of the fact that God has called us to work I mean w we're on this side of heaven, there is a lot of work to do, and the Bible speaks about the importance of us being being active in terms of not only in regards to taking care of ourselves and and making sure that the work that we do is done in a in a way that brings him glory. But at the same time, there is there is a lot of gospel work that needs to be done. And there's a lot of the there's a lot of of need out there. So I don't want you to somehow misunderstand what we're accenting here because this morning we are going to talk about what it means for us in Christ to have a proper proper gospel rest mindset. And so this is not a this is this is not uh a treatment in terms of the Sabbath, although I think some of these things may pertain to the Sabbath. But some 23 to me is the go-to passage that helps me understand some of the fundamentals of what it looks like to experience This gospel rest. One commentator uh wrote this about Psalm 23. He says, Psalm 23 presents a picture of being in the presence of our Lord. Shepherd, guide, provider, protector, in pastures of fresh and tender grass, where one lies at ease and rest and enjoyment and And combined, he says, it is a resting dwelling place, specifically an oasis verdant spot in the desert, where the weary find a most pleasant resting place. I like what he accents there in terms of what it looks like for us to think about Psalm 23 and to say to ourselves, this is a model, a friend framework so to speak for us in regards to this gospel rest. Now there's a number of things that we need to understand if we're going to to apply it to our lives. The first is simply this that when you think about this gospel rest that is presented to us us here in Psalm 23, there has to be a understanding of the condition for this gospel rest that needs to be met. If you think about David's life, David is the one who, of course, we understand wrote Psalm 23 three, when he is writing this particular psalm, we're told that he's doing it in a time of darkness for him personally. This pertains to the circumstance With his son Absalom, who was going through disastrous times. And we we don't have time to go into all the details, but it was difficult times. for David when he wrote this. I remember a professor in seminary sharing with us that when you read Psalm twenty three, you have to ask the question when you think about David's life in general, when did this man ever experience a Psalm twenty-three type life? I mean think about it When he was under Saul, that was pure misery for a long time. He had to be running for his life because Saul wanted to take his life. And even when David became king, there were challenges always in regards to what it was like for him to be a In that position. This is long after King Saul had died. And then you you think about David's own sin. And What that was like for someone who for a long time, a fairly long time, did not want to own his sin. And Psalm twenty Psalm thirty-two reminds us of how our bones waste away when we deny our sin. That's why when we're together in worship and when you're in private times of of worship It's important for us to stop and to own our sin. But David didn't own her for a long time. And then when he did, you can see again that it wasn't an easy time for him. So the condition of rest, of biblical rest, is really important for us. And I would say this that when we're in a period of time in our lives where we're in significant need of gospel rest That we need to understand that if we don't pursue it properly, that that's even more dangerous. There is a there's a book out uh I don't mean to be just Constantly referring to other people's writings. So I apologize, but Henry Nowen is a is a writer, he's deceased. Um he wrote a book called The Return of the Prodigal Son. And in that book, uh he basically is re- referring to the painting, the Rembrandt painting the of the return of the prodigal son. And he he uses that picture and describes the details in that picture as a way for us to better understand Luke chapter Chapter 15, which is the passage that you'll find the parable of the prodigal son. And he accents things there in the picture He says there is this stark contrast of the lost son who he says. is is a is in the appearance of a prisoner. And he says that he he doesn't have a name. And a prisoner doesn't in a sense doesn't have a real name, but but they have a journey. The the left foot is badly scarred and has slipped out of the worn sandal and the right foot only partially covered by a broken sandal. So he he's helping us uh look at this picture, this Rembrandt picture and to see sort of the the degree of what it looks like to be physically spent. And then he goes on and he describes he says when the younger son was no longer considered a human human being by the people around him. He felt the profundity of his isolation, the deepest loneliness that one can experience. He He was truly lost, and it was this complete lostness that brought him to his senses. He was shocked into the awareness that that that of his utter alienation and suddenly understood in that In the midst of his alienation, that all had been lost. He had nothing. I mean, if you think about the parable of the prodigal son , I mean he had you know eating eating them the same meal as the pigs, you know, would have been a luxury for him, right? So he has nothing. He has no family. He he he has really no friends. There's nobody to to to And so I think about the way in which Henry Now Allen is describing the picture, which is an artist rendering of the parable, right? But when Jesus speaks about the lostness that is described in Luke chapter 15 in regards to the prodigal son, that is A picture of someone who is in dire need of gospel rest. He just has nothing. Now, I don't pretend to think that this morning as you came here that you felt your life was quite that way. But maybe at certain times, if you're honest And under certain circumstances, there's a degree of that. What are the things that cause us to feel spent? Maybe I I should also use the term gospel tired. Sometimes it's anxiety, right? I know what that's like in my life. And I know the circumstances that will bring in this cloud of worry and anxiety. That's a sign that I I need what the psalmist is talking about in Psalm twenty-three. You know, in some cases we we look at certain parts of our lives and We're just kind of discontent. We're single, but we would really like to be married. And the right person just doesn't come on the radar. The last coffee date or whatever uh took place it just didn't work and but we would really like to be married and that that that sense of of not being for for full so to speak or or satisfied kind of hovers over us. Or in some cases you're married and you wish you were single. And your marriage isn't worth working out very well and you're finding it to be just absolutely exhausting. Or maybe you're a mom and you find dealing with with young children and all their needs is just just puts you in a state of being totally spent. Or maybe you're not a mom, but you would like to be a mom. And you you get the picture, right? And or maybe you have a job and you love your job, uh except for the fact that it's become such an idol in your life that it's just It's just constantly uh drawing you into this idolatry and and you're successful when it's all really working out great and you have a lot to be thankful for, but it can It consumes you and people around you see how it consumes you. Or maybe you don't have the right job, or maybe you have a job that is wearing on you. In our lives that can exhaust us. And things that some in some cases, some of our habits Some of our i idols, some some things that we're involved in that aren't healthy at all. Certain sin That keep creeping up. All those things combined, or separately, individually, can put us in a state of just being totally exhausted. And if we don't if we don't recognize that, you see, we're we're kind of running spent but we don't own it. And I believe that when you look at Psalm 23, we're being reminded of the fact that that the psalmist God Really, is speaking to us in such a way that says, Do you need a shepherd? Right? In other words, the great thing About the gospel is that it speaks to those who see their need. And the truth is, there are, I would say, the majority of people in the world who don't see the need for gospel. Rest. They're perfectly fine. Now I'm not saying they're not spent. They are spent. They just don't see it. And that's one of the wonderful things about the gospel. Is that it shows us that we're spent. And if you don't see it, then I can assure you, you won't see the gospel. Secondly, not only do we need to understand the problem proper condition for this gospel rest, but we need to see the consequences. And the consequences can come uh maybe down in uh I should say down in two different ways. On the one side, I believe there is this confirmation That when I apply Psalm 23 to my life, it means that I am willing to be quiet enough That I'll be confronted with things that maybe I wish I wasn't confronted with. Now think about it. So maybe on the one side I I'll own the fact that my life is being totally Oriented towards my anxiety or towards my compulsions or towards my discontentment or whatever it may be. And I'm in a sense saying to God over and again, I hate what you're doing in my life. not giving me my life. If we're really honest. But when you're quiet by those quiet waters in those beautiful pastures And you're able to be still enough, all of a sudden you're gonna see certain things in your life that maybe you wouldn't see otherwise. You might see the sin. You might see the discontentment. You might see the loneliness in a way that you hadn't before. And when you're when you're in a position Where God is showing you things in your life that you haven't been willing to own, that's a great blessing. I think, personally, one of the most significant prayers that we could pray on a daily basis Daily basis is to ask God to show us well our sin. If I see, if Chuck Garriot sees well his sin That he'll see well the need for Christ. He'll see the need for repentance. He'll see better the consequence of those of that sin. But so often if I'm too busy and I'm too loud, I'm too distracted, I won't see it, I won't hear it. won't feel it, so to speak. So there is a there is a danger. You know, if you think about it, whenever someone in the older New Testament were in the presence, when they were in the presence of God It was uncomfortable. Think about Adam and Eve in the garden after they had fallen, after their sin. Were they looking forward to spending time with God? No. They were afraid of him. Think about Moses, for example, who. Who when uh he was in these times where he was was God God said, Look, I'm gonna have to put you behind a rock because otherwise my presence will kill you And you think about Isaiah 6, etc. And all these other passages where when you have these these little snippets of what it was like for someone to be in the presence of God, it was very uncomfortable. I think we need that. So to be to be with our shepherd may mean That it's going to be uncomfortable. But if you go on in the passage, he says in Psalm 23, he says, He restores my soul. God is not just in the business of putting his finger On our sin. He's also in the business of taking his gracious hands and like going back to that picture of the prodigal son, embracing us. And loving us and restoring us. Again, you could think about all the different images that are given to us throughout the scripture, but but think of the ways, the means that God gives to us us to restore us. To remind us of his grace and of his presence. His word. That's why that's why there really isn't much in the way of gospel rest in our lives if we're not One of the things that I found in terms of working with my friends in DC is that s in so many cases because of their backgrounds, because of maybe where they've been worshiping or whatever the case is, their the word is totally absent within In their lives. I had a privilege for uh for a number of years to spend time every Monday morning with the chief of staff on the Hill, and we would we would spend time reading and talking through the Word of God. He wasn't he wasn't going to get that in his church, and he wasn't he wasn't getting it within other parts of his life. life and I could just see the privilege it was to spend time with this friend only a few months ago after spending over two years with her. him he passed away in his early fifties. I don't think we realize how much time we have or we don't have, because I don't know. When God will just will take us. This this friend left his wife, three boys, young boys. But I do know that when he went to heaven Heaven, he went with a better understanding of God's Word because he he just saw the need for it and he was reading it on his own. Prayer is an important part for us. Are you ready? Spending time in prayer. I know it's hard. I know that there's a lot of challenges for us in terms of our time. But just to be quiet long enough to spend time in prayer? Do you ever find that there's value in observing what I'll call God 's common grace, God's general revelation that this is this this is a whole thing that would take us much longer but but you know when we talk about general revelation we're talking about the fact that we can see Now this will sound really odd. I get I get one of the biggest charges of going to a meeting in Washington and having to walk from my house to the metro Then going down into the metro, getting on a crowded metro. And then sometimes, I'm not exaggerating, like you like you don't get this close to your date Right? And you're and you're there on this on the on the subway and you're looking like you can't even look around because you c like you can't move. I mean it's really it can they just tap you In there. But I say to myself, now look at this. This this car and this whole train is full of people, right, who have been made in the image of God and they're all properly dressed and they've prepared themselves and they've taken they've showered and they've done their hair and the women have done makeup maybe and and they you know they They just they're all ready to work. Do you realize when you see that kind of organization, that kind of dedication, etc. And as far as I know, I don't think there's many Christians on that on that car, right? But I say to myself, look at these people are are so are are are so dedicated. Where does all that come from? That's part of God's common grace. That's part of what God is doing. God made each of these people in his image, and they're all dressed differently. Now, I've been to parts of the world that when I get on a metro or a subway or whatever, I look around and I'm the only odd guy there, but everybody likes They look like they're dressed the same. I won't talk about where that is, but they that's just how they're oriented. But in our culture, you know, everybody's dressed differently. Someone created The threads that they're wearing, someone spent time designing the shoes that are on their feet. All that is a reminder about intricate it is for God to create us in his or how wonderful it is for God to create us in his image. Do you get the picture? I get a big charge out of that. That that reminds me Reminds me of God's presence. So maybe that sounds really weird to you, and you won't ever have me come back, but God's hand, God's presence within our world. is what enables us to re to to be reminded that He is truly our shepherd. Now Being in a position to both be confronted and to be restored is significant. But thirdly, I want to say this. And because of time, I don't have the bandwidth here to go into great detail, but I think it is important to recognize that when you look at Psalm 23. It does provide us a picture of a place. Right? The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the quad. Now, a place, and some will talk about the theology of place. I haven't spent a lot of time studying that, but I I I have a sense of what they're referring to. God is all about the place, right? I mean I mean he he tells the disciples, Jesus tells the disciples, I go away to prepare a place for you. And there and and we'll we'll talk in a moment uh or so about heaven But to think about where you might find opportunities to experience, in a sense, that quality Quiet time with God. Now it may be very different, and there are going to be different levels. So, for example, on the one side, I hope that there's some place that you go to, that on a daily basis, you can experience the gospel rest that is found here in Psalm 23. Now May not be green and there may not be any water around. Okay, that's fine. But it's some place that you go to and you can be quiet. And you can be Still before God. And you can enjoy. Enjoy that time. It may be for you a bench at a park or someplace outside or maybe it's a special room or I don't know where it would be because I don't know all the d details of your life but you know that there are places where you can find life to be a little bit more quiet. But there's also, I think, seasons. or periods within the year where you ought to have some kind of rest. Now, I I realize that we all like to do vacations if we can, and maybe that's possible. Maybe it's not possible. And vacations sometimes, to be honest with you, really are not very restful. I mean, they're just a lot of work. Right? You know, just traveling can be a lot of work and And preparing for a vacation can be a lot of work. So maybe that's not it. But but maybe there is there are certain places that you can experience The gospel rests. And I'll just simply say, wherever that is, whatever that means for you, you need to pursue it. Fourthly, there needs to be some understanding of the section here where it where where the psalmist says, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. So rest being tested, I think, is important. So the condition for rest, the consequences for rest, the place of rest, the testing of rest, this is one of those things where we could really spend like weeks weeks talking about this. But the psalmist doesn't ignore, doesn't ignore those dark times that come within Our lives. And one of the things that I've noticed over the years, uh having the opportunity to minister in different places where there have been really significant tragedies and uh difficult times. So for example, the Oklahoma City bombing in nineteen ninety five In that city, what people don't realize is just hardly 30 minutes before Timothy McVeigh uh ignited that that rider truck full of nitrogen, there was a huge gathering of prayer breakfasts only blocks away from the Murrah building. It was an annual event. Twelve, fourteen hundred people were in a prayer breakfast talking about the gospel. When I was in South Africa and in Cape Town back in the early 90s, I came to Cape Town to spend a little bit of time lecturing at the Bible Institute of South Africa, and when I arrived, the phone rang, and it was someone sharing That only a few miles away at an Anglican church, conservative Anglican church, men had come into the worship center. This was in the evening worship. began to uh fire and and shoot and kill people and lob grenades in the midst of people worshiping. And I can think of lots of examples where I the the picture is people orienting themselves towards things of God and And then experiencing almost within the same breath this horrible tragedy, the shadow of death. Somewhat speaking here, the valley of the shadow of death. He says, I will fear no evil. I don't pretend to understand all the details and what God is doing when When you see these kinds of things take place, especially when people are drawing close to him. But what I do know is this That when I look at the scriptures and I see the very heart of the gospel, I see suffering. I see the suffering servant. I see the Lamb of God who comes to take away the the sins of the world, who is sacrificed. I I see I see the the Savior ex trying to explain or explaining to his disciples what's going to happen and the the suffering that's going to And so Peter says to him, This will never happen to you. Because it just sounds absurd But it was significant, it was important, it was critical, it was absolutely necessary that that shepherd go through that kind of sh of of suffering. So I don't always understand what God has in mind in terms of the suffering that is brought within our lives, but what I do know is that he understands it well. And so that if within our lives we are going through some degree of discomfort We know that this shepherd, the one who gives us this gospel rest, understands it well. And then last of all, I should say this. He speaks at the very end by saying, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord. I think one of the important aspects of the gospel rests that is ours in Christ. And again, the focus isn't on the just sort of going through some kind of quiet meditation on anything that I want. The gospel rest is always a focus upon Christ. His presence, being reminded of his death and of his suffering, the price that he paid for us. But I know that ultimately it's all going to become clear Because those who love Christ, those who recognize their sin, recognize their need for this gospel rest, will spend eternity in heaven. So that there is the in a sense the Bible uh instructs us To experience what I'll call the shadow of heaven because there is a reality. Right? So just like we talk about the things in the Old Testament being a shadow, Of the reality in terms of the gospel, I believe that on a regular basis we should be experiencing this gospel rest because it's a shadow of the reality That's going to come. I mentioned to you about this Polish soldier, Rowicz, who ends up in British India, and in his book he describes what it was like when they arrived in British India. This is after months and months and months of going through just enormous difficulty and trials and seeing their friends die, you know, falling off cliffs when and they're walking through uh mountains and passes and the list goes on and on and now he's finally in British Columbia and he describes what it was like to conclude this long journey. He said this. We started to laugh and jig and restraining arms. Can you picture this? Growing uh going around in a crazy hopping polka, we were both laughing and crying at the same time. time I do not remember starting to dance, but there we were, the four of us, stomping around, kicking up the dust, hugging one another, laughing hysterically. To the blur of tears until we collapse one by one on the ground, we sprawl out, repeating softly the words, we are safe. We are safe. We should be able to live again. And I thought a little about that. It sounds it sounded a it it sounded A wonderful thing to say all that misery, all that sorrow, all that hardship, all that time, the that entire year he says for four thousand miles we might live again. I think that's a little bit of a picture of maybe the kind of celebration We're going to experience in that ultimate rest that the psalmist speaks about. That we can experience a shadow here, but the reality is going to be Heaven. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Pray with me. Father, thank you for loving us. Help us to work hard on this side of heaven. Help us to understand the need to dedicate ourselves to our family, our loved ones, to whatever career you have given us, but certainly to the Great Commission and the need The engage in ministry, not only here within this part of Maryland, Randallstown, Libre Road area, but around the world. Help us to see the need to be, in a sense, running exhausted for the sake of the gospel. But at the same time, Lord, help us to rest well. Help us Us to understand the need to be trusting in Christ alone. Help us to see all the things that are going on in our lives that are that are nipping at our heels, that are keeping us from experiencing your ongoing rest. Help us to understand and see your grace and to embrace it. But we need you. Our shepherd every bit of the way, every moment, every step, by your grace we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.