If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open together to 1 Corinthians 2, verses 1 through 5, as we stand together for the reading of God's holy word. First Corinthians chapter two, verses one through five. And I when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling, and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in a demonstration of the Spirit and of power. So that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you, and we are thankful for the word that you have given and preserved for us. Lord, we are thankful that this word has been translated into the language of our hearts. Lord, that we might be able to hear your word. with uh open ears, that our eyes might be opened. And Lord, we pray that today as the word goes forth preached As the gospel is again clarified for us once again, week after week after week, Lord, that you would strengthen us today. Lord, that you would take your word, that you would write it on our hearts, and that it would go forth, not in the power of the speaker, but Lord, in the power of the Spirit who inspired it. That is what we ask this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, the Apostle Paul has been dealing with division in the Church of Corinth. And he's looked at this division from several angles. He's looked at this division from the angle of having a party spirit. He said to the Corinthians, Some of you say I am of Paul, some of you say I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, or I am of Jesus. And he always calls them back to the simple grace of God revealed in Christ. Last week, as we saw in chapter 1, verses 18 to 31, he's talking about forming a contrast between how the wisdom of God works on the one hand, and the wisdom of the world. And how the way that God works, the message of the gospel is not according to the wisdom of the world. The wise intelligentsia could not guess what God was going to do. And he ended last week in verses 26 to 31. Reminding the Corinthians of how when Paul visited them the first time, they heard the gospel and they received it. He reminded them of their experience. of his ministry, their experience of hearing God's word, their experience of receiving it. And now he transitions in chapter 2 verses 1 through 5 to look at it from his experience of ministering it to them In fact, the main idea of our passage this morning is very simple. The gospel focuses on the cross of Jesus Christ as the power of God unto salvation. That's it. That's the idea. The gospel focuses on the cross of Jesus Christ as the power of God unto salvation. If you're visiting with us this morning or you have never been here before, you can see on page 5 near the bottom, right below the liturgy, you can see that sermon idea laid out clearly for you in case you missed it. But that's what we want to unpack this morning. We want to begin unpacking it with our first point from verses 1 and 2, the content of the gospel. Paul clarifies here the content of the gospel. And in verse 1, we see that the content is not with polish And wisdom, kind of brings that same theme again, transitioning from their lived experience the historical background of the Corinthians themselves, hearing the gospel and receiving it. He says in verse 1, if you want to look there with me again. And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. So we can tell that his focus is on his experience among them, because the main verb in that section is I came or I did not come, more specifically. He's describing the manner in which he preached to them. And if you remember, that brings us right back to the historical context, which is given to us largely in Acts chapter 18 verses 1 to 17. That that's the story of when Paul planted the church of Corinth when he went there the very first time. So the question we want to ask this morning as we unpack this is, what does he say about that experience of ministering to them? Well, notice we see the mystery of God and wisdom here. He says, I did not come proclaiming to you the mystery of God with lofty speech or wisdom. Now, maybe you're sitting there looking down at your Bible thinking, wait a minute, Pastor, it says testimony of God. I heard you say mystery of God. Why did you do that? Well, I'll tell you why I did that. Actually, I do think the original word that Paul used there was mystery. I don't know if you have an ESV like I do. But there is a little note there about this textual variance next to the word testimony Interestingly enough, in the original Greek, which is what the New Testament was written in, of all the manuscripts we have, it is true that most of the manuscripts do say testimony. Which is is the Greek word Marchion. So the earliest manuscripts that go back the furthest, closest to the date in which Paul wrote this tend to say not testimony but mystery which is the Greek word musterion. You can musterion, marcherion, they sound the same, and a lot of times the scribes that copied the Text of the New Testament didn't necessarily know Greek themselves, but they could see it and they can copy it accurately, and that's likely what happened. I think aside from the manuscript evidence pointing us in the direction of the word mystery being the proper reading here, I think this makes the best sense contextually. And when we talk about context, think about we talk about what comes before and what comes after. In fact, if you remember, back in chapter 1, verse 21, it says very clearly That God for since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the f the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. In other words, the gospel was a mystery to the intelligentsia. That's why I'm going with mystery here. And then you look at chapter 2. Verses 6 through 16, which we'll explain more next week in more detail, he highlights the fact that There's something mysterious about the nature of the gospel. Again, he talks about how the wisdom of the wise cannot figure out what God is doing. The only way that man can understand what God is doing, the only way that man can understand the gospel is if the Holy Spirit comes in, opens their hearts, and gives them eyes to see, ears to hear, minds to understand, and hearts to receive And so we go with mystery. The mystery of God is bound up in the wisdom of God, not in the wisdom of men. And so, because Paul knew that the gospel could not be apprehended and comprehended by human wisdom alone, he did not come using human wisdom as a means by which he preached it to the Corinthians. But we go on. Why did he choose not to use wisdom? Well, we he had to make a decision. Is he going to contextualize his message or not? We hear a lot today as we you talk to missionaries and you hear missionaries speak as you hear different preachers. And there's a lot of us online that you can listen to. One preacher says one thing, another preacher says another thing, and you oftentimes wonder, well, what is the difference? Well, oftentimes the big difference is different preachers and missionaries tend to, what they say, contextualize the message to the audience to which they're speaking. Now there is a sense in which you have to do that and it's inevitable. But when we think about Paul going back in his first encounter, preaching the gospel in Corinth back in chap Acts chapter 18. You will notice if you go back to Acts chapter 18, he comes to Corinth immediately after he was in Athens at the end of Acts chapter 17, verses 16 to 34. And if you remember that episode of Paul being in Athens, I mean remember where Athens is? It's in Greece. I mean Athens and Corinth are really, I think as the crow flies, probably about fifty to sixty miles apart. They're not very far. in southern Greece. But Athens in the ancient world was the center of Greek philosophical thought. It was like the intellectual center. It it's like when we think of in the English speaking world, you might think of like Princeton or Yale or Harvard this side of the Atlantic, or you might think of Oxford and Cambridge. I mean, these are intellectual centers. And you remember Paul preached to the Epicurean and the Stoic philosophers of the day, going to Mars Hill and going to the area Pagus and preaching the gospel. And if you actually look at very carefully what Paul does in Acts 17 as he's preaching to the intelligentsia of the Greco-Roman world in the heart of this academic soil, he doesn't quote the Old Testament a single time. In fact, what he does He actually quotes two different uh Greek philosophers and puts two quotes together to essentially show that, look, what I'm preaching is not Something you've never heard before, you just maybe didn't put it together the way that the gospel presents it. And you remember the the example or the uh result of his presentation. Even though he didn't quote Scripture, he seems on the surface to contextualize his message for his audience. And yet at the end of the day, you remember at the end of that chapter, what was the response? Some believed, only some. But most mocked, especially as soon as he mentions the resurrection from the dead. That was completely foreign to their worldview. That was completely foreign to the wisdom of the age, the spirit of the age. And so this has led some Bible scholars to think that Paul changed his tactic when he went to Corinth in light of his experience in Athens. You can maybe understand where he might be coming from. Well, I tried this over here. I tried to contextualize it over here to meet these people halfway and that didn't work. And so I'm gonna go over here to Corinth in my next step in my travels and I I'm not going to contextualize it. I'm just going to give it to them. Now, I'm going to be honest with you. I don't know that we can actually prove that definitively. Okay? I don't know that we can actually prove that Paul contextualized in Athens and because of that experience he decided not to contextualize in Corinth. It's possible? It's not certain. But one thing we can observe from 1 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 1 is that Paul chooses definitively not to change his message based on the whims. And the perceived needs of his audience. He decided to preach the gospel unadulterated. And that's what we see in verse 2. of 1 Corinthians chapter 2. The content of the cross. So if he doesn't decide to contextualize, what does he focus on? Look at verse 2. For , telling you he's explaining what he did in verse 1, for I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. That explains his course of action in preaching the gospel to the Corinthians. And as we look at some of the details of this statement, remember that this stands in contrast to the wisdom of the world. Notice the resolve to preach the cross. That's the first detail I want to highlight. When he says, For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. Let's just stop there for a moment. That verb decided is the same verb that means I judged in the original Greek You could legitimately translate that and kind of add the sense to say something like this. I've given this a lot of thought and deliberation. And after careful consideration, I have come to a firm conviction and resolution to preach to you only this. That's the sense in which he's he's getting at here in verse two In fact, the very tense of that verb in the original Greek highlights that he made this resolution, this decision, this conviction. He came to this conviction. before he came to Corinth. He already made up his mind by the time he arrived in the city to know nothing except Jesus Christ And him crucified. And when he says to know nothing, it means I'm just going to focus on that. That's what he's getting at. So in other words, Christ, and Christ alone, is the object of Paul's preaching. He did this because, as he argued previously in verses 26 through 31 , He's not out to boast in anything but the Lord, quoting from Jeremiah chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. He is not going to add anything to the gospel by way of human wisdom or any kind of philosophical speculation. Christ and Christ crucified. Notice what is fascinating here is he doesn't just say I'm going to focus on Christ, but the association of Christ as the one who is crucified. He adds those words. and him crucified in order to clarify what he means specifically about his focus on Christ. It is the focus of the gospel. You hear people today say, well, in our church we are Christ-centered. Other people might specify, in our church we are gospel-centered. In Paul's mind, they are one and the same. They're interchangeable. And one observation I would like to draw your attention to is that that verb crucified here is in the perfect passive crucifix Participable use. And you're like, why do you get into such detail? I'll tell you why. Very simply, a perfect tense indicates a past action that has present continuing results. And that is important. What does this tell us about the preaching of Paul among the Corinthians? One, because it highlights a past action, it highlights the historical fact that Jesus Christ lived and Jesus Christ was crucified He was historically crucified by the Romans at the behest of the Jewish religious leaders under the governorship of Pontius Pilate in the Roman province of Judea. The fact that this happened historically is so crucial. The gospel makes no sense whatsoever. It has no binding authority. If Jesus did not historically exist , And if Jesus did not historically get crucified by the Romans in history. The historical fact of this is what connects us to Jesus. This didn't happen in some fairyland or in Narnia or in a land far, far away. This is not a fantasy. This is not a myth in which we're trying to get at the little kernel of religious truth to somehow make ourselves feel better. No, this happened in history. to a real person, and that is the connection to us. Paul gets at the same idea later in this book of 1 Corinthians, when you get to 1 Corinthians 15 verses 3 and 4. This is what he writes. For I delivered to you as of first importance, he says, what I also received. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures. That he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures. Notice he repeats that phrase twice So the scriptures prophesy it, then it happened in history in fulfillment of it. And then he goes on in the in verses five through eleven of chapter fifteen to highlight the historical fact that Jesus appeared bodily, visibly , dare I add again the word historically to sound redundant, in different circumstances to different witnesses at different times over a period of 40 days. What is the point? The historical fact of Christ His crucifixion, and not to mention his resurrection, are the centerpiece of the gospel that cannot be negotiated away. That's why the perfect tense of that verb was crucified, Christ who was crucified, is so important. The historical fact of Christ crucified But that that perfect tense also means that there are continuing benefits to Jesus Christ being crucified So what are the present continuing results and benefits that flow from that cross which happened historically? Well, in this case, we have to let Scripture interpret Scripture. That is a main interpretive principle and how we responsibly deal with the Scriptures and understand it. Scripture interprets Scripture. Look back at chapter 1, verse 30, which is what we looked at last week. And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God. The righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. He gives you four things right there Four benefits that because of the historical reality and power of the cross continue on in the present time. When he mentions that Jesus Christ became to them wisdom, it was in the wisdom of God that he ordained that the cross of Jesus Christ would be the means by which we might be saved. That's what God decided from eternity past. And in other words, as the culturally Greek Corinthians sought for wisdom, Paul is reminding them back in chapter 1, verse 30, that Christ is the substance of what they were looking for. He will say to the Colossian church in Colossians chapter 2, verses 3 and 4, that it is in Christ that all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden. And remember what he said last week in chapter 1, in verse 22. You know, the Jews demand signs. What do the Gentiles? What do the Greeks look for? Wisdom. Christ is the very thing that their hearts long for. That's one of the continuing benefits of the cross. He opens their eyes so that they might understand. It was at the cross that resulted in a demonstration of the righteousness of God against sin, as Paul argues in Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 31. Answering the very question, how can God be just in forgiving sinners who are justly guilty and justly deserve his punishment and justice and wrath? How can he then turn around and be just and and forgive them and show them mercy? The answer is the cross. Again. And God's infinite wisdom and min and and um knowledge and understanding, that was the means by which He demonstrates His righteousness so that they might become the righteousness of God through faith. By the way, that's what we call the doctrine of justification, right? We are justified or declared righteous in God's sight because of our faith in what Christ has accomplished on our behalf at the cross. It's through the power of the cross that we continue to be sanctified and continue to return to Jesus day in, day out. As we battle sin in our own lives, and as we are set apart as holy to the Lord as his covenant people, it's through the cross that we are redeemed from the power of sin and death. Christ pays the price for our sin in our place so that we might go free. Please understand that when he says in verse 2 that I determined or decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. and him crucified, it means not just talking about the physical, historical aspect of the cross, as important as that is, but he also preached all of these important doctrines that flow from the cross that we see throughout his letters. That's what gospel preaching is all about. So we ask ourselves this morning as we seek to apply this What are some of the temptations that face us today with respect to sharing the gospel? Whether you are a preacher, Or whether you're someone who sits in the pew but then goes out into the world and shares the gospel with their friends. What are some of the temptations we face today? Well, I think by way of application, we need to say that the focus on the cross should caution us against unintentionally changing the message to fit our audience. And at the same time, it should, we should be holding out the cross and the benefits of salvation that come from it as the thing that our friends and family really need to hear. There is a temptation, brothers and sisters, to change the message based on the audience Why is it that that always seems to be the temptation for Christians today? The Lutheran commentator R. C. H. Lensky writes this, and it's a lengthy quote, but bear with me because it really just hits the nail on the head. He writes this: the plea that our age demands certain modifications of the gospel captivates many today. And they do not decide as Paul did. Of course, they intend to lose nothing of the gospel, but only to aid it in finding a more ready and widespread acceptance among men. He goes on to say Paul offers no excuse for preachers who desire to eliminate certain teachings of the gospel on the plea that they can thus reach and attract more people than if they instead or insisted also on these teachings. Paul intends to omit, even in his own mind, any addition to the gospel, any admixture, and sugarcoating of it by human worldly wisdom and quote. This is nothing new today. This has been going on since the first century. But I think of like even a hundred years ago in the 1920s when liberalism was spreading like a cancer in the mainline churches, they sought to remove all of the supernatural elements of the Bible. Like the virgin birth, the deity of Christ, the resurrection. And they did it because, in their eyes, it was offensive to modern, rational , thinking people. What's the intention of essentially denuding the gospel of its power? Well, the intention was to make the Christian faith more palatable, more acceptable to the modern unbeliever. At the same time, as liberalism was doing that, it was leading pastors and churches to focus more on what was called at that time. the social gospel emphasizing the social action as the message of the Bible In both of those cases, the content of the gospel is changed as the true gospel is laid aside. When I was in college, It was the same problem, but it just looked a little different with the rise of the what was called at that time the emergent church movement, where relationship and community was really the focus. that everyone always talked about. That was the gospel. The gospel was we are in relationship and community. Well, guess what? Muslims have a stronger community and a tight-knit community than most churches in our day and age. Is that really what the gospel message is all about? Today, in our own day and age, 25 years after the Emergent Church movement , The gospel of social justice has become the paradigm through which preachers try to make the Bible and Jesus more palatable and acceptable to unbelievers. Now, I don't care if you're talking about the social gospel 100 years ago, the emergent church, and the focus on relationships 25 years ago, or social justice today. By the way, is social action a bad thing? No. Is community and relationship and fellowship a bad thing? No, absolutely not. Is justice in our civil society a bad thing? No. Absolutely not. But here's the thing: those are results of gospel preaching and changed lives. They are not the gospel itself. And when we change the gospel for the benefits that come out of the gospel, we end up losing the message of the gospel in the process. Listen to this warning from the Apostle Paul from Galatians chapter 1, verses 8 and 9. And if you're tempted to add something to the gospel. To make it more palatable to unbelieving friends or family you may have, this will be a gut punch. Listen very carefully. Paul says this, the apostle Paul, but even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one that we preach to you Let him be accursed. That word accursed in the original Greek is the word anathema. Many of you have heard that word before. It means cut off from Christ. And then verse 9, he continues on. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you've received, let him be accursed. So what we see is there is a necessity of holding out the benefits of the cross as the promise of the gospel. As you sit here and think about unbelieving friends or family that you might have, people that need the gospel. Remember, our focus should be on what Jesus accomplished for us at the cross and the continuing results, such as things like justification by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. We should be focusing on sanctification and redemption, which is essentially the idea that we have been bought from the power and the slavery of sin, because we live in a world where people live in slavery to sin. And that bondage does horrible things to their lives. These gospel doctrines, the cross and the continuing results of the cross are speak to the greatest needs. That our friends, our family, our loved ones, our coworkers, our neighbors, this is what they need. You do not have to add something to the gospel. You do not have to sugarcoat The gospel to get it across. John MacArthur, who passed away this past July, former pastor of Grace Community Church, once said in an interview that I saw he did not realize going into ministry as a young man that I mean he said, you know, I went into seminary and you learn all about liberalism and you go into the church and you think I'm going to spend my life fighting liberalism and all this. And he said, what I really didn't realize is a 29-year-old young man stepping into uh the senior pastor at a Grace Community Church was that I was actually not necessarily going to be fighting the liberals all my life. I was going to spend my life really clarifying the gospel for those who actually profess to know Jesus Christ. Because I didn't realize that most people who profess Jesus don't actually know the gospel as clearly as they think that they do. Why do you think Paul is saying what he's saying in this passage? He himself had preached to the Corinthians. They heard the gospel straight from an apostolic witness of his mouth, and yet They were not as clear on the gospel as they thought. I once spoke with a college student, I won't say his name. It was a very interesting conversation. I asked him how things were going in college. He was involved in a college ministry at a very prominent university and one of the things he said to me was, and this is of someone who was raised in a reformed context like our church, uh he said to me, you know, one of the things That kind of shocked me. I never really I never really had Christian friends from a wide variety of traditions. And then I get to this campus ministry and I start relating to all these Christians. Some of them are Pentecostal. Some are charismatic, some are Baptist, some are non-denominational. There's a few that are reformed, but by and large, as I had conversations with these other Christians, It became apparent to me that they really lacked the clarity and the specificity that I grew up learning in a Reformed church in understanding the gospel. Because it was so wishy-washy. Let's make sure that here at Liberty Church, we preach the gospel. Let's make sure at Liberty Church, brothers and sisters, that we cling to the gospel. And that we have the same attitude as the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 1. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God. unto salvation, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. We have nothing to be ashamed of. And that leads us to our second point here in verses 3 through 5, the power of the gospel We see in verses 3 and 4 of our passage, we see what I'm terming here as the weakness of gospel messengers. He moves from focusing on the content of the message that he preached to them when he was among them to looking at what was I like, what was my demeanor and my example like in my preaching when I was among you. So what was Paul like among the Corinthians? Well look at verse 3. It tells us. He says, and I was with you in weakness and fear and much trembling. Let's stop there for a moment. By the way, that's pretty descriptive, isn't it? I don't know about you, but when I think of the Apostle Paul, I've got this like mighty man in my in my sanctified imagination marching into the synagogue every weekend, throwing down his little, you know uh old testament scroll be like alright guys let's reason from the scriptures you bring your objection you I'm gonna take you down you know that's not like what he presents himself as being like in this passage It 's actually very humble. The idea of Paul being there in weakness is consistent with what he's been arguing all this time, contrasting the wisdom and power of God, which in the world's eyes looks like folly and weakness, with what the world can uh believes power and wisdom is to be. When he talks about weakness, he's highlighting not his strengths, but his humility. The word in Greek here, that's translated weakness, can also be translated in some contexts as sickness. It's the same word. In fact, if you look at uh 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 7 through 9, Paul speaks about some unspecified thorn in the flesh. Scholars postulate on what that might be. I'm not going to because we don't know. But what was the point of this weakness or thorn in the flesh? It was used to keep him humble. And you might remember, he asks God and pleads with God to remove this thorn in the flesh, whatever it was, this physical weakness and ailment. And what does God say to him? What's God's response? He says, My grace is sufficient for you. My power, says the Lord, is made perfect in your weakness. The mighty apostle, humbled by a thorn in the flesh, to keep him humble and highlight his weakness to those he's ministering to. I think that may be one of the reasons he deals with in 2 Corinthians as well. There are many who boast and say, Oh, this guy talks so high and mighty in his letters. But when he's present He's weak and unimpressive. But he also brings in the idea of being fearful among the Corinthians. And again, you look back at Acts chapter 18, verses 9 and 10. Paul was so fearful in the city of Corinth as he was preaching the gospel and experiencing resistance. That it took the Lord Jesus Christ coming to him in a vision, encouraging him not to be afraid and not to keep silent, but to keep on preaching. Why? Because he said, I have many people in this city. Paul, it may not look like it outwardly. But I've got my people here. Don't shut up. Keep keep your mouth open and keep talking is what he's saying Sometimes there's great fear among people who share the gospel and have the responsibility of calling sinners to repentance for their sin and calling them to faith in Jesus Christ. And if it wasn't enough for him to say that he was fearful, he adds the phrase thirdly that I was there in much trembling with you. Much trembling. Well, what was his preaching like? Let's take a look at verse 4. We see what he was like, not impressive by worldly standards. But verse 4. And my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. Again, let's stop there for just a moment. This does not describe what he preached. We already saw that in verse 2. This describes what his preaching was like. And it forms a contrast here between plausible words of wisdom, which he's been doing all along, and a demonstration of the spirit and power on the other hand. You have to understand, Saints, that in the Greco-Roman world of the first century, not only did the cultural and intellectual elites value things like rigorous philosophy, logic , Rationality, which we've already discussed, and I'm not going to go into all the details there again. But they also valued rhetoric. What is rhetoric all about? Rhetoric is kind of designed to teach you how to speak publicly and persuasively Why was rhetoric important in the Greco-Roman world of Paul's day? Well, it was something that was used and cherished and valued very highly by those who were preparing for a career in politics. How about that? Has anything really changed? You can listen to a politician and man, they sound great. Man, this is going off on a rabbit trail, but this is a good one. I remember uh when Hillary Clinton was running for uh president against Donald Trump in twenty fifteen and sixteen, uh I think it was during the primaries, um they got Bill Clinton, her husband, to Um, talk about Hillary and why, you know, the in the primaries they should go with her as the runner up against the Republican nominee. And man, I I watched that that speech. His like precision when it comes to rhetoric, you can't take anything away from Bill Clinton. I listened to that speech and I thought, whoa. It almost makes me want to vote for her. And then you take a step back and you take a day to think about it, and then you're like, okay, that sounded really good. But he didn't say anything. He took 20 minutes to use a bunch of words, make a word salad that tasted delicious, but then at the end of the day, didn't do anything to nourish the body. That's rhetoric. You want an example of rhetoric in the ancient world? You go to the book of Acts, chapter 24, when Paul is before Felix and Caesarea. He's been in prison, right? He's on trial. The Jewish religious leaders come down and they hire a man named Turtleus. A spokesman, as the ESV calls him. Or in the original Greek, the word rhetoros, which is where we get our English word, rhetorician from. And a specialist in rhetoric. And then you read what Turtleus says in his accusation against Paul, boy, it sounds good. Sounds beautiful. Terms of public speaking is concerned. But then you take a step back, you know, but he didn't say anything of any substance. There's nothing that he said that they could have convicted Paul of. Paul is saying here, look, I did not come to you as a rhetorician. I did not come to you like the public speakers of your day that are flashy, that have a lot of words and say nothing. I didn't come to you like that. That's what you would expect I didn't come to you like that. I came to you in the power of the Spirit That's what he says. I came to you in the demonstration of the Spirit and of power. That's what describes his preaching. Now, by the way What does that mean in a demonstration of spirit and power? I think we could take it one of two ways. I'm going to present to you both And I can do this very shortly. First, it can be interpreted as demonstr a demonstration of the spirit and power relating to apostolic signs, miracles, and wonders that were performed in the early church in order to validate. the preaching of the apostles as true. Later in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 12 Paul writes, I have been a fool. Now he's defending his ministry in context there. I've been a fool, he says. He's speaking hyperbolically You forced me to it, for I thought to have been commended by you, for I was not at all inferior to these super apostles. Even though I am nothing. The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works. Now, Acts chapter 18 does not record any Paul doing any miracles in Corinth, but he says very clearly there in the second letter to the Corinthians that he did. You could take that demonstration of the Spirit and power to mean he did miracles among the early church there. And that those miracles God used to validate his preaching. Which seemed unimpressive. The other way to take this, that you can interpret this, is simply pointing to their resulting faith in Christ, as the demonstration of the Spirit's power in their lives. So the logic would go something like this. Paul would say, I came to you in weakness. My preaching was not waxing eloquent as you would expect. It was not impressive. And yet you still ended up believing. And not only that, you ended up believing in some of the worst situations of persecution and suffering and tribulation. What could possibly account for your believing such an unimpressive message? Such an unimpressive servant who made an unimpressive speech to you. Only the Holy Spirit working in your lives could possibly account for your belief in your changed lives. Now maybe this doesn't have to be a either-or kind of interpretation. Maybe it is both and, but I'll leave that with you. All of this culminates in verse 5. The result of their faith is from the power of God. That might actually lend a little more Wait to the second interpretation there, but he says in verse 5, so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. By the way, just as Paul was humble and had a thorn in the flesh to keep him humble, this is meant to keep them humble. From beginning to end, the salvation that they experienced was the work of God. And again, taking the step back and just looking at the context of division in the church that Paul is addressing, what this tells you is if they have the same problems, if they have the same weaknesses, and they're saved the same way by the same Savior. Why could why would you possibly entertain the notion of being divided? We're all together in this, is what he's getting at. We're all united. And so the question then as we think about today, sharing the gospel with those around us, how does this affect our outlook? on sharing the gospel. This is a reminder to be encouraged to continue sharing the gospel in spite of fear. Because it is the Holy Spirit that works in you and through you. That's the principle of application here. And I want you to think about that. The reality of fear and weakness in those who share the gospel. Now, if I were to interview every one of you, I don't know who shares the gospel in this room with their friends and family and who doesn't. And for the sake of argument, it's not important in this moment. If I were to interview each of you and ask you, let's just assume why you do not share the gospel with others regularly, there might be any number of answers that you might give me Right? You're all a little different. Perhaps you don't know what to say. Well, I don't know what to say. I don't know how to start the conversation. And I I I'm kind of fearful. I I what if I say the wrong thing? Right? Perhaps you fear not having an answer to questions or objections that you might come across. I hear that one quite a bit from people. Well what if I'm asked this and I don't know the answer? Well, the short answer to that question is then just tell the person you don't have the answer and be honest. They're likely to respect that than you making something up off the top of your head. Perhaps you fear the anger and the backlash that you might experience. You might experience the loss of friends or the social isolation or ostracization. I can't pronounce that word, you know what I mean. Um that you might experience. Being ostracized. How about that? But here's the thing. With what all of these possibilities That you could tell me what they all share in common is the common root of fear. And it's not the fear of man, it's not the fear of God, it's the fear of man. And I want to encourage you this morning, lest you feel inferior as a disciple of Jesus Christ in your ability to share the gospel, that even the mighty Apostle Paul. who planted churches all across the Mediterranean basin. Very effectively, by the way, even Paul experienced fear and trembling and uncertainty about his ministry to the point that Christ had to encourage him. And so I want to encourage you this morning with remembering what the Lord Jesus said to Paul. And I'm going to quote it from Acts chapter 18, verses 9 and 10. Do not be afraid. Go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I am with you. And no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people. Liberty, adopt those words for yourself this week. God has many people in Eldersburg in Sykesville God has many people in Randallstown, Owings Mills, and the surrounding community in that direction. God has many people in Westminster and Finksburg and all the places that our members tend to live. Marriott 'sville, and places south of here. The Lord has his people. Be encouraged. Do not be silent Paul says to young Timothy in 2 Timothy 1, verse 7, For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God. Which is in you through the laying on of hands. For God did not give us a spirit of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Do you lack boldness this morning? Ask the Lord for boldness. And he will give you of his spirit. And the call for us is not to rest On what we are capable of doing in the flesh. The call is to rest our efforts to share the gospel on the work of the Spirit. Don't fall into the trap of believing that someone's salvation depends on your intellectual rigor to answer all of their questions and all of their objections. Don't fall into the trap of thinking that the gospel and that person's salvation depends on the polish of your presentation. Or your powers of persuasion. And by the way, don't hear me say we shouldn't be persuasive. We should try to be persuasive. Paul tried to persuade Jews and Greeks when he ministered to them. My point is simply that we are called to avoid believing that God's Spirit is limited to our gifting and our performance. We are faithful. to share the gospel, and then we trust that the Holy Spirit leads the right people at the right time into our lives for his purpose And we're called to trust that the Spirit will work in us and he will work through us. The results are not ultimately up to you. Boy, isn't it wonderful being a Calvinist? Being reformed? The results are not up to me The results are not up to you. The results depend on the power of the Spirit and the demonstration of his work of power unto salvation. But we are called to be faithful. And that leads us to our back to our big idea, doesn't it? The gospel focuses on the cross of Jesus Christ. The cross, not me, not you, the cross. As the power of God unto salvation. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you again, thankful for the cross. And the many benefits that come out of it. We are thankful, Jesus, that as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1:31, that you, Jesus, Are the wisdom of God unto us. You are our righteousness, you are our sanctification, you are our redemption, and we rest in you today. And we humble ourselves as we rest in you today. But we ask that out of that humility you would give us tremendous strength. Out of our weakness, Lord, that you and your power would work through us. that you would empower us to be witnesses as we go out from here to friends and family and neighbors and coworkers. Strengthen us this week, Lord, because we are going out into a world like Corinth that is hostile to the message of the gospel. We cannot do this on our own, Lord. And so we ask that you would be glorified in us today and this week. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.