Gospel of Mark chapter 7 as we continue our study through Mark. Mark chapter 7. As we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. Mark chapter seven, and we'd like to read the first twenty-three verses. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to him, having come from Jerusalem. Now, when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders. When they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they have received and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands? He answered and said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips. But their heart is far from me. And in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cups, and many other such things you do. He said to them, All too well you reject the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition. For Moses said, Honor your father and mother. And he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death. But you say, if a man says to his father or mother, whatever profit you might have received from me is Corban, that is, a gift to God. Then you no longer let him do anything for his father or his mother. Making the word of God of no effect through your tradition. Which you've handed down, and many such things you do. When he had called all the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, and understand. There is nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. When he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. So he said to them, Are you thus without understanding also? Do you not perceive that whatever enters a man from outside cannot defile him? Because it does not enter his heart but his stomach, and is eliminated, thus purifying all foods. And he said What comes out of a man? That defiles a man. For from within, out of the heart of men. Proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, and evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness, all these evil things come from within. And defile a man. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Father, speak to us from your word this day Remove from us anything that would hinder the working of your powerful word in each one of our hearts. May we desire your word and not mere tradition. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Many of us, of course, have family traditions. Particular meals that are served on particular holidays. Probably every one of us here has turkey on Thanksgiving, I would imagine. We have perhaps vacation destinations that we visit every year. I know many of you go down to the ocean, go down to the same place, go down to the same motel or hotel or condo every year, sometimes the same week of every year. As you know, people groups have settled in America, often bringing with them traditions from the old country, which by maintaining in the new land Give their children and grandchildren an appreciation for their heritage and a sense of belonging. Tradition can, of course, be a good thing, a noble thing. But not if it is viewed as equivalent to or taking precedence over the clear word of God. Look at the first verse of this chapter. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to him, having come from Jerusalem. Now it was a journey of eighty to ninety miles, depending on what town on the Sea of Galilee you were in, to travel from Jerusalem all the way up to the Sea of Galilee. So it's a figure 80 or 90 miles. That was a pretty good jaunt. Several days' journey, no doubt. Why would the scribes and Pharisees, the religious leaders of Israel, venture 80 or 90 miles to come to see Jesus Well, this is not Mark's first mention of the Pharisees, of course, a strict religious sect in Jesus' day In chapter 2, we saw them complaining about Jesus eating with tax collectors and sinners. He eats with tax collectors and sinners. Surely he's not a holy man, or he would discern that they're tax collectors and sinners. They complained that his disciples did not fast, that is, abstain from food for religious purposes. The Pharisees would fast twice a week. Disciples didn't bother to do that. And they protested when Jesus and his disciples, particularly the disciples, I guess they're mentioned, plucked some grain on the Sabbath day as they walked through the fields. Walked through the fields of grain. It was the Sabbath day. There was some grain that was still standing. Hadn't been all completely harvested. So they gleaned a little bit. They ate a little bit. Because they were hungry. Well, they're violating the Sabbath day, according to the Pharisees. In chapter 3, we read, they became so angry that Jesus healed a man with a withered hand. who was in the synagogue on a Sabbath day, and it looks like they might have planted him there to see what Jesus would do. They were so angry that Jesus healed this man with a withered hand. That it says they went away and they began to plot immediately with the Herodians how they might destroy Jesus. Herodians would be the Jewish followers of Herod, the king of Jerusalem Those who were loyal to or had allegiance to Herod. Later in the very same chapter, they accused Jesus of casting out demons by the power of Satan himself. Chapter 3, verse 23. 22. So when we read in Mark 7 that the scribes and Pharisees had come from Jerusalem to see Jesus, we're already inclined to think that they're coming not to sit at his feet and learn of him. But to find more reasons to accuse him, to find fault with him, maybe find something that'll stand up in court, you might say. And if that is in fact why they came, they were quickly satisfied. Look at verse 2. Now, when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault. Now, lest we think that these scribes and Pharisees were way ahead of their time in matters of personal hygiene and disease prevention. Mark explains for the benefit of his Gentile readers, verses 3 and 4. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders When they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they have received and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. Now, if we ask where did this tradition come from, we can only assume that like most of the Jewish traditions, it arose from the scribes' comments upon and eventual expansions of the precepts and principles and practices stipulated in God's holy word. You see, the Lord God wanted his people to know that they were called to be holy, to be separate, to be set apart. Set apart from sin. And to drive home that point, they were given numerous ceremonies and rituals to conduct. We call it the ceremonial law. Many of those ceremonies involve cleansings with water. For example, Numbers 19. Whoever in the open field touches one who is slain by a sword or who has died, or a bone of a man, or a grave. Shall be unclean seven days. And for an unclean person, they shall take some of the ashes of the heifer burnt for purification from sin, and running water shall be put on them in a vessel. A clean person, oh, that's happening me, I guess, a clean person, shall take hyssop and dip it in the water, sprinkle it on the tent, on all the vessels, on the persons who were there, or on the one who touched a bone, the slain, the dead, or a grave. You got that? If you're out in the field, you happen to touch a dead uh a body or a a bone of a man One who was slain with a sword or one who had died, or you happened to touch a grave, you were to be re uh reckoned unclean. Now you're you're not really unclean, right? You're just uh called unclean, again it's an object lesson. And for seven days you're to be you're to be considered unclean And then there was to be fresh water involved and the ashes of a heifer, and someone who was not unclean was to take hyssop , little branch of of uh uh tree or bush, take some hyss hyssop and and dip it in the water and sprinkle it on the tent and on all the vessels in the tent and on the persons who were there, or on the one who touched a bone, the slain, the dead, or a grave. Now somehow over the years The tradition of the elders had expanded on God's word, and evidently they reasoned like this. If it's a good thing to ceremonially wash from defilement, uh if we should happen to have touched the grave or dead body, etc. then would it not be a better thing and altogether honoring to God to ceremonially wash every time we enter our home or before every meal? And as even the vessels in the tent were to be sprinkled with the waters of purification, then why should we not, for the glory of God, purify our cups and pots and tables and couches with ceremonial sprinkling? Doesn't take very long. It's a simple thing to do. And we're covering all the basics. I don't think I touched any dead bodies, but one never knows. Guy looked pretty sick to me. And uh so it was to go beyond. You see, the Pharisees were constantly trying to go beyond. We don't want to just be holy, we want to be holiest. So they would even take this and ceremonially cleanse their couches and their pots and their vessels in the house. Do you remember John chapter 2, the first miracle recorded for us? First miracle of the Lord Jesus recorded for us He was at the wedding in Cana, and the scripture says, John chapter 2, that there were set there six water pots of stone after the manner of the purifying of the Jews. What in the world does that mean? There were big pots of water containing, in our translation, 20 or 30 gallons apiece. That's a pretty good-sized clay pot, I would imagine, of water. There were set there six water pots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews. Remember, Mark says here, all the Jews did this, they all followed the tradition of the elders. So apparently at that time in every house there was at least one big pot of water, and you would use, whether it's a branch of a bush or whatever, you would purify those things, as we just mentioned, using that pot of water. If that wedding in Cana was well attended, and we have every reason to think it was , because we read that Jesus took those six water pots of stone and he commanded the servants to fill them to the brim. 30 gallons approximately in each pot, six pots, six times thirty, you figure it out. That's a lot of wine. Remember, I don't do math. That's a lot of wine. To serve to those guests. So there were a lot of guests. Why would they have six water pots of stone there? I I I'll tell you why, I think. If I if I were going to host a big wedding like that, and if I knew that everybody walking in that door was going to have to ceremonially cleanse themselves, we're going to have a big bottleneck at the door. Honey, we're gonna have to borrow some pots from the neighbors because everybody's gonna be stuck at the door. So they have six pots. So you have three people come through on this side, three come through on that side. Before you know it, everybody's at the party having a good time. Now, the scribes and Pharisees found fault with Jesus' disciples when they noticed that some of them did not follow the tradition of the elders by going through that ceremonial hand washing process that the elders had recommended. Now, by the way, let me point out here as an aside that one reason I believe that baptism was done by sprinkling or pouring the water over the recipient. A recipient who might or might not be actually standing in water at the time. We know Jesus was, right? It's a Jordan River. We don't know anything about Paul when he was baptized. It doesn't appear that he was standing in water. It doesn't appear that the Philippian jailer was standing in water. It doesn't appear that uh Uh the uh Ethiopian st well, I guess the Ethiopian steward may have been standing in water. But sometimes they appear appear to be standing in water, sometimes uh like Cornelius for another example. They said simply, who can forbid water that he should be baptized? So I believe baptism was done by sprinkling or pouring the water over the recipient. And one reason I believe that is because the ceremonial cleansings of hands and cups and tables and couches that are described here in Mark chapter 7 in verse 4 in the original Greek are called baptisms. Baptismas. It's translated into English as washings. The Jews and all the others and all those who followed them The Pharisees wouldn't even eat unless they'd first baptized their cups and pots and tables and couches. I believe that means uh ceremonial sprinkling Now it's also found in Hebrews 9, verse 10, where the various Old Testament ceremonial rites, which involve the sprinkling of water and/or the ashes of a heifer, he describes them there. The sprinkling of those uh persons, the sprinkling of persons with those items are described in the Greek as deaforoi baptismoi. The Aporoi Baptismoi, diverse baptisms, would be a literal translation. Or uh into the English, diverse washings or various washings, is probably what you have in Hebrews chapter So I believe the application of water in baptism pictures the pouring out of the Holy Spirit upon the recipient. It pictures cleansing, it pictures new life. John said, I baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. I didn't point that out while preaching through Mark 7, I have to forfeit my Presbyterian membership card. Uh the card w I was promised I'd get a discount somewhere with that card. Calvin the Calvin Cafe or something. So the scribes and Pharisees confronted Jesus on this matter. Why don't you go through the ceremony? Why don't your disciples do the ritual? That was according to the tradition of the elders. But look at Look at verse 5. Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to their tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands? And he answered and said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites? As it's written, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. And he he then says to them , Laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cuffs, and many other such things you do. Now, let me remind you, I don't suppose most of you need reminding, that Jesus knew all men, and he knew what was in all men, and he knew that the Pharisees were already plotting to destroy him. He knew they'd made this several days' journey not to embrace him as God's son, certainly not , not even to sit at his feet and to learn of him. With an open mind. No, no, they came to find fault with him. And apparently to bring back to Jerusalem even more evidence that he was a danger who had to be dealt with. Maybe they could tell Herod. Remember they were league in league with the Herodians. Herod, you've got a uh uh you've got somebody who's causing trouble. And you need to deal with it. They wanted evidence that he was a deceiver. They knew he was a rival to the affections of the common people. And so they found fault. But to make matters worse, not only were they coming to find fault with Jesus, but look at what they found fault with. It did not involve the Father's word. It didn't involve any violation of God the Father's word, which ought to have taken precedence with them. But rather his supposed violation, or permitting his disciples to violate, some of his disciples to violate, the tradition of the elders A tradition that loomed so large in their minds that they didn't seem able even to distinguish between that tradition and God's holy word. Their traditions and God's inspired word had become so commingled in their minds that they seemed incapable of discerning between the two. Furthermore, they were so confident in the righteousness of their traditions that they clearly expected everyone else to towtow to them. It's one thing for you to have convictions about something that's not biblical. It's quite another for you to require other people to tout out of your convictions. So Jesus called them hypocrites. Hugh hypocrites And originally the term, you know, meant a stage actor, one who would wear a mask. The personality of the man wearing the mask was hidden behind the mask. Today actors and actresses try to the convey their emotions from their facial expressions and body language, etcetera. But if you're wearing a mask, that's a little hard harder to do. So they were hiding, their true personality was hiding behind a mask. That's the idea. They were just playing the role of holy men. Pharisees were just playing the role of being holy and weren't really holy. And so Jesus says, you keep your silly traditions And that wouldn't be so bad. Apparently he allowed you know some disciples might have done it, some did not do it. It's neither here nor there. Not harming anybody by going through some ritual cleansing. You not only keep your silly traditions, but you require everyone else to keep them. And in the process, you lay aside the commandments of God. That's what makes it really bad, right? It's one thing to keep the silly traditions, but you're laying aside the commandments of God. And I'm sure they thought, what? Who are you to accuse us of laying aside the commandments of God? Everybody in Israel knows. We keep the commandments of God. We go beyond the commandments of God. And so Jesus says, well, let me give you an example. Verse 9 He said to them, All too well you reject the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition. For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and he who curses father and mother let him be put to death. Well, you say If a man says to his father or mother, Whatever profit you might have received from me is Corban, that is a gift to God, then you no longer let him do anything for his father or his mother, making the word of God of no effect. Through your tradition. Now let's try to put the best construction on this current teaching of the Pharisees. Dr. Sinclair Ferguson gives this example. Here is a young man, he says. He doesn't anticipate that his parents will ever need his help. Maybe they're relatively well-to-do. So in his desire to be wholeheartedly devoted to God, he pronounces all his possessions Corban, set apart for God. You might say he makes out his will and leaves everything to the uh scribes and Pharisees. And uh he can still use his possessions while he's alive, evidently. But no one else can benefit from that. Now , quoting again Sinclair Ferguson, but what if some unexpected tragedy strikes and the parents stand in need? Surely, in these circumstances, a way must be found to honor father and mother. Ah, the ruling of the Pharisees was that nothing could be done. I'm sorry. You've already declared Corban, you've already dedicated everything you have to God. You can't take it now and use it to help your parents Even to alleviate sickness. Under the guise of religious faithfulness, they encouraged disobedience to the law. The very moral law of God. Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. End of quote. And that's just putting the best construction on things. Remember, Jesus said these men were hypocrites. He calls them thieves who devour widows' houses. Men who are clean outside, but inside they're full of extortion and self-indulgence. Matthew 23. So they may have actively encouraged other people to have you have you made Corban of your possessions yet? Have you devoted them to God? You should do that. Oh wait a minute, what if my parents are God will take care of your parents? You need to do this, you see. And somehow they devised a way to make it seem spiritual. Well, it reminds you of the prosperity preachers today, doesn't it? Finding or if you'll just give this and then you'll write you know give me a check for fifty dollars and I'll send you this prayer cloth or whatever. And then Jesus, I recognize some anger here, perhaps we know that he was angry with the scribes and Pharisees on occasion. In any event, he calls together the crowd. And he drives home an important point, verse 14. When he called all the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, understand. Remember, he saw them as sheep without a shepherd? We just saw it. uh in the previous chapter? This is these are their shepherds? Here, everyone, understand, there's nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him, but the things which come out of him. Those are the things that defile a man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. See, the scribes and Pharisees had it all wrong. They were concerned about foods and drinks and rituals and ceremonies. External cleansings so that you don't defile yourself. Jesus says your defilement's coming from inside of yourself. It's your own pride, it's your covetousness It's your hatred, it's your uh your lust, etc. It's coming from inside. Look at verse 17 When he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. So he said to them, Are you thus without understanding also? Do you not perceive that whatever enters a man from outside cannot defile him? It doesn't enter his heart. It enters his stomach. And your body takes what it needs and then It's cast out, it's eliminated, thus purifying all foods. Notice something here, uh your translation may have it slightly different. It may be that Mark intended that final statement, thus purifying all foods. as his comment on what Jesus had just done. Why all that Jesus said and did here, he purified all foods. And he made it very clear later in the book of Acts, right, with corn uh with uh uh Peter and the image of the the Sheet and his visit with Cornelius and all that. So uh so Jesus spells it out very clearly in verse 20 and following. What comes out of a man that defiles a man? For from within, out of the heart of men, perceive evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness. Wickedness, deceit, lewdness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. You could have gone on and on. There's a lot more stuff that comes out of our hearts. So he says, what really defiles a man? It's not touching a bone. You can wash your hands if you're afraid of germs. It's not touching a bone or a dead body or grave. All those things were lessons to point you forward to me. I'm the Messiah. You need a Savior. You're a sinner. God is holy. You're not. That's what all that stuff was about. It's not stuff from outside of you that can defile a man. The Pharisees ignored the weighty matters: justice, mercy, faith. And they were concerned about rites and ceremonies and rituals. Now, let's apply some of these truths to ourselves. First of all , I think you know this, there's a tendency in all of us to substitute religion In all of its forms, with all of its rituals and ceremonies and man-made traditions, in place of a living, breathing relationship with Jesus Christ. And this has unfortunately become the rule rather than the exception for huge segments of the Christian church. It was about 40 years ago now that Don and I had a chance to visit Israel with students from Shelton College. That was the Christian college that I attended in my last year of college, the college from which I graduated Uh while I was we had already moved on to seminary, but the college my college class and I think the following class were invited to go on this trip to Israel. So we carved out the time and went. And I remember our visit to the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. Remember that, Donna? The Church of the Nativity. Built originally, it said about 380 years after Christ's birth. Built on what was believed to be the very spot where Jesus was born. The site now is administered by three churches. I think it's the Catholic Church, the Greek Orthodox Church, and the Armenian Apostolic Church. Now, you get invited to go to Bethlehem to visit the birthplace of Jesus. Of course, you're hoping you might be able to get a sense of the simplicity. of his birth, the maybe a a cave okay, some of you have been there. A a cave, a a stable, you know, uh for lodging livestock, maybe a a a uh beating trough. But instead, what you find if you go are the trappings of religion. A cavernous edifice, stained glass, statues everywhere, incense burners, all kinds of uh medieval paintings, and uh crucifixes and beads and icons and and uh and long bearded, long-robed priests chanting in various languages that you don't under understand. All of that tended to get in the way. Wait a minute, so he was born right here? And it's incense, and all this, and you you just can't imagine it. This passage reminds us that external trappings are not at the heart of Christianity. The good news is not about ceremonies and rituals and chalices and pilgrimages and images and glorious edifices. It's not about outward things at all. The good news is about sinners being redeemed by the sacrifice of the sinless Son of God, who gave his life and then rose again. That's what it's about. The perfect life and sacrificial death of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Secondly, the Pharisees failed to make a distinction between the traditions of men, mere human inventions, and the eternal word of God. You must maintain the distinction between the traditions of men and the eternal word of God. Now, they're not the only ones who made this mistake. One old commentator wrote of how, for many Christians, tradition had supplanted God's word hundreds of years ago Quote, the scriptures teach that there is no difference to be put between meats in regard to holiness, but that every creature of God is good This they make void by teaching that it's a matter of religion and conscience to abstain from meats at certain seasons The Scriptures teach that we should pray to God alone. This they make void by their manifold prayers to saints departed. The scriptures teach that Christ alone is our mediator, both of redemption and intercession. This they make void by making saints intercessors. The scriptures teach that Christ is to be the only head of the church. This they abrogate by their doctrine of the Pope's supremacy, whereas the Word of God commands children to honor their parents They teach that if a child has vowed a monastical life, he is exempted from duty to his parents. Now we may not have fallen into such errors, thank God for that, but we must also be on our guard against confusing traditions, even good and reasonable ones, with the Word of God. Even churches such as ours, churches that are diligent to try to follow the scriptures, have our own traditions. We traditionally meet on Sunday mornings. But worship could also be in the afternoon or evening. We traditionally have Sunday school before worship, but that could be reversed. And Sunday school itself is a tradition. You don't find the words in the Bible. Printed bulletins, hymnals, ushers, announcements, calls to worship, printed confessions, pianos, organs Standing up to sing, bowing down to pray, pronouncing benedictions, opening and closing hymns. Much of what we do is based on tradition And that's not wrong, as these traditions seem to follow biblical principles. You've got to worship somehow. You want to try to get it in conformity with the word of God as best as you can determine. But just as the Pharisees seemed to confuse in their minds what was scriptural and what was traditional, it can happen to us. And it's interesting to me anyway. that in God's providence we come in our study of Mark to this chapter at this time because we've been discussing on the session, that is your elders have been discussing, tradition versus scripture Uh some members of the flock have asked if we might consider offering wine along with grape juice in communion, inasmuch as it seems clear that it was in fact wine that Jesus used as a picture of his blood when he instituted the grape. The Lord's Supper. The scripture says he took the cup after supper, but that cup was filled not with welches, but with wine. Perhaps that slightly bitter, slightly sweet taste of wine was intended by the Lord to remind us of his sacrifice, both bitter and for us sweet. But it's been traditional in many American churches, at least since the temperance movement, to substitute grape juice for wine in communion. And it's been traditional here at Liberty to offer only unfermented wine, that is juice in communion. And it's been traditional to the best of my knowledge since Liberty was started 45 years ago. So it is for us a long-standing tradition of the elders. A tradition that was no doubt established with the best of motives. But my point here is just this Every church and every Christian needs to be diligent to try to distinguish what is traditional from what is biblical. We want to be disciples of Jesus, not disciples of the scribes and Pharisees. Amen? Amen. All right. Now this might be a good time to mention that your elders are also thinking of replacing the traditional pulled pork and sliced beef at the Labor Day picnic. with Mrs. Paul's fish sticks, which you got you got Paul and and then you got fish. So that's sounds small fish. It's biblical. Sounds biblical to us. Alright, thirdly, Jesus drives home the point that defilement comes from within. It's not primarily what's outside of us. It's certainly not from meats or drinks or failing to keep certain ceremonies. Now think about it this way. If you could isolate your child from every harmful influence, if you could keep him or her from all bad films, all bad books, that is uh Books with inappropriate material for a child, let's put it that way. All harmful influences, all uh bad uh acquaintances that might lead the child astray. If you could be his only teacher And if you could only teach him what is good and what is true, you would still be unable to isolate him or her from his own sinful heart. Right? You see, it's not just the world and the devil that we have to war against, it's the flesh. I heard someone say recently, I think it might have been Werner Klutzley. Werner, are you here today? Where's Werner? Warner. Oh, he's this is the usual spot here. He's missing. Uh I think Werner might have said to me, Anyone who believes in total depravity can't be all bad. And uh I thought that's a great line. I wish I had thought of that. African American pastor uh Bodie Baucom of Grace Family Baptist Church in Spring, Texas. Preached a tremendous message at the recent Ligonier National Conference in Orlando. And here was his topic, the world, the flesh, and the devil. He preached from this passage in Ephesians. And you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walk according to the course of this world. according to the prince and the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh. Fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And we're by nature the children of wrath, just as the others So here you have the course of this world, the world, the Prince of the Power of the Air, you have the world and the devil, and then you have the flesh. We all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh. We were by nature children of wrath. Let me quote a segment of his sermon. He said, So here's the world and the devil, or here's why the world and the devil are so powerful Because they give us exactly what we want. That's who we are. We're not individuals who would otherwise pursue God if the devil would just leave us alone. Far from it. Since the fall, with the first Adam as our federal head, we're averse to all good things. Our sins come from our sin nature. It's who we are. It's what we want. It's what we desire. So don't think of it as though we've come into this world and we're innocent and we're really looking for a way to find God and a way to please God, but all of a sudden the world says, no, don't do that. And the devil says, no, don't do that. Actually, no, that's not radical enough. That's not sinful enough. That's not who you were. Here's who you were before you came to Christ. You came with fleshly desires that were against God. You came with desires of your own body and your own mind that were alienated to God. You came with desires that were evil. And the devil in the world didn't have to seek you out. You rested in them. And because they gave you exactly what you wanted. The devil knows your name and you know his voice. You were convinced that he loved you as much as you loved him. The world was a comfortable place to you. It was all that you wanted. And that's because your very nature craved it This is why the doctrine of original sin is so important, he said. If we don't understand this doctrine of original sin, then we don't get this. We don't understand the sinfulness of our sin. Because somehow we think that we're innocent and that it was our environment that somehow made us all go wrong. Nothing could be further from the truth. And then he said this people who don't believe in original sin don't have children. Right? People who don't believe in original sin don't have children. And then he said, Amen, somebody. There you go. And then he said this: I've said it before and I'll say it again. That's not a little angel. That's a viper in a diaper. There's something wrong, even in the little one, you see. And then he goes on. You come into this world, you can barely open your eyes. For months you can barely hold up your head. Grab his head now. You can't sit up, you can't talk, you can't crawl. You can't walk, but you can let everybody know that you're running things And then he goes on, the angry cry happens early. The stiffening up of the body, that happens early. Oh, look at him. He's so cute. Oh, he says, that ain't cute And then he said this one of the reasons God makes them so small is so that they won't kill you. And one of the reasons he makes him so cute is so you won't kill them. Jesus said it comes from within, out of the heart of men. Perceive evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, etc. These things wouldn't be able to come out if they weren't already inside. One would think we wouldn't need to have children to convince us of original sin. Just a few moments alone with our own hearts ought to do it. During the question and answer session at the same Lillianair conference where Pastor Bauckham preached, a question from the audience was addressed to the panel of pastors and theologians. The question was phrased this way. Both of my brothers are unsaved. One believes there's no such thing as sin, therefore there's no need for a savior. How do I answer this question? How do I explain sin? Without hesitation, R. C. Sproul answered, Steal his wallet. Steal his wallet. How in the world can you deny the existence of sin? As soon as somebody steals your wallet, suddenly you believe in it. One more thing. This passage reminds us that the Lord is not impressed with our honoring him with our lips if our heart is far from him. There is truth for the believer here. Bishop J. C. Rile wrote, let us remember this in the public congregation. It must not content us to take our bodies to church if we leave our hearts at home. The eye of man may detect no flaw in our service. Our minister may look at us with approval. Our neighbors may think us patterns of what a Christian ought to be. Our voice may be heard foremost in the praise and prayer, but it is all worse than nothing in God's sight if our hearts are far away. It is only wood, hay, and stubble before him who discerns thoughts and reads the secrets of the inward man. There's a truth here for For the believer. And there's a truth here for the unbeliever. God wants the heart. The Lord wants the heart, not what your lips say. This is what the Lord desires from you, nothing less than your heart. The term the Bible uses for the inner man He doesn't want lip service, he wants the heart. He doesn't want ritual, he wants the heart. He doesn't want ceremony, he wants the heart. He doesn't want legalism, He wants a heart Your problem is your heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. That's the problem the unbeliever has. His heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. The last thing he wants to do is submit to God. See, that's why he needs to be regenerated. That's why we need to be born again. Born anew. The Bible says we're spiritually dead. We only hope for a dead man. We only hope for a dead man to be resurrected. Is that a power outside of himself does the resurrecting? He has no power in himself. And you were spiritually dead. You who are outside of Christ, you are presently, right now, spiritually dead. You're dead in your trespasses and spiritual sins. Your only hope is that God who is rich in mercy, Ephesians 2, would make you alive together with Christ and raise you up, Ephesians 2. Your only hope is that you should be saved by grace through faith, and that none of yourselves. But the gift of God. The workings of the Spirit of God in a sinner's heart, that's a mysterious thing. We can't see it going on But you can be sure that he's at work in your heart if you see your sin as real and vile and you turn from it in disgust and you embrace Jesus as your Lord and Savior, as your master, as your king. He's the one whose word takes precedence over that of all Pharisees and scribes, all bishops and archbishops, all cardinals and councils, all priests and popes. all sessions and boards, all pastors and chaplains, and his word takes precedence over all the traditions of men. For God has raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power. And might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And he put all things under his feet. And he gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Amen. Let's pray. Almighty God , you created us, you know that we are but dust. You know our frame. You know the temptations into which we fall. Lord, we do pray that you'll help each one of us in our own personal lives to distinguish between your word and tradition. We pray that you'll help us to do that as a church. We pray, Father, that you'll help the Church of Jesus Christ worldwide to do that as well. Lord, I pray for those who might be here this morning, those who have never yet placed their faith in Christ Jesus as Lord and Savior. Savior. Lord, you know if there be some here in that condition. If so, Father, please have mercy upon them as you did upon us. Draw them to true saving faith. Show them their need of a Savior. Open their eyes. Draw them from darkness to light. And those of us who are yours, Lord, Forgive us our sins and help us to follow you more diligently this week than in the week that's past. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Please stand with me and let's close our service with Amazing Grace number 402.