Amen. Thank you, Clark. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the book of Job, chapter one? As we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. with uh Dave and Joyella Stafford. Just a point of personal privilege, if you will, before we get into First of all, thanks so much for all the cards and calls in reference to Donna and her uh illness. I appreciate that. That's been a blessing to us. But I I was thinking of the uh the celebration this weekend for the two hundredth anniversary of the writing of the Star Spangled Banner. And uh we were able to watch some of those festivities last night and it struck me and I wasn't surprised, but I was sad that in all of the presentation with all the fuss and uh singing and et cetera. No one actually read uh the entire uh poem that uh at least I didn't catch it that uh Francis Scott Key wrote. And uh what's interesting to me is that that the poem climaxes with his last stanza or the the song if you will, and I believe it goes like this. And thus be it ever when True men shall stand between their loved homes and the war's desolation, blessed with victory and peace. Peace, may the heaven rescued land, praise the power that hath made and preserved her a nation. And conquer we must when our cause it is just, and this be our motto in God. is our trust. And the star-spangled banner in triumph shall wave or the land of the free and the home of the brave. I would like to have heard that on Nashville. television. After all, he wrote he wrote the poem. But anyway, got that off my chest. Somebody want to write a letter to Congress, that would be fine. Job chapter 1. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. And that man was blameless and upright, and one who feared God and shunned evil. And seven sons and three daughters were born to him Also his possessions were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a very large household, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the East. And his sons would go and feast in their houses, each on his appointed day, and would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. So it was, when the days of feasting had run their course, that Job would send and sanctify them. He would rise early in the morning and offer burnt sacrifices according to to the number of them all, for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and curse God in their hearts. Thus Job did regularly Now, there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. And the Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? So Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking back and forth on it. Then the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? That there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil? So Satan answered the Lord Lord and said, Does Job fear God for nothing? Have you not made a hedge around him, around his household, and around all that he has on every side? You bless the work of his hands. And his possessions have increased in the land. But now stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse you to your face. And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your power, only do not lay a hand on his person. So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house. And a messenger came to Job and said, The oxen were ploughing and the donkeys speeding beside them. When the Sabaeans raided them and took them away, indeed, they have killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you. While he was still speaking, another also came and said, The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them. And I alone have escaped to tell you. While he was still speaking, another also came and said, The Chaldeans formed three bands, raided the camels, and took them away. Yes, and killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you. While he was still speaking, another also came and said, Your sons And daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house, and suddenly a great wind came from across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they are dead. And I alone have escaped to tell you. Then Job arose, tore his robe, shaved his head, fell to the ground and worshipped, and he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this, Job did not sin, nor charge God with wrong. Let's pray. Oh God, give us such faith. Strengthen us in our time of need, in our time of trial, in our time of tribulation or tragedy. Give us the patience, the faith of Job. We ask it in Jesus' glorious name. Amen. If you were with us last Lord's Day, you may remember that we came in our study of the Gospel of Mark to that interaction between the Lord Jesus. And a woman from the region of Tyre in Zidane. Jesus and his disciples left the historic borders of Israel and went to the Mediterranean coast for some well-deserved rest. But their rest was interrupted by a Gentile woman who cried out for Jesus to have mercy upon her daughter, her daughter who was demon-possessed. At first, Jesus apparently simply ignored the woman, did not respond to her pleas, but she persisted and actually came and fell down at his feet and worshipped him, pleading with him. To have mercy upon her daughter. She's severely demon-possessed. Lord, son of David, have mercy on her Finally, he answered this Gentile woman, but even his answer seemed unkind. Let the children be filled first, for it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. She responded, as you recall, with both humility and faith. Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs. And Jesus said to her, For this saying go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter Now, we didn't mention this last week, but that's striking to me that somewhere in that one or two seconds between the time that she responded to Jesus, yes, Lord. Um yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs. Somewhere between that and Jesus answer to her for this saying, Go your way, the demon has gone out of your daughter. Jesus evidently sent that demon Out of that daughter in that one or two second window there. And sure enough, the woman went home, and even as Jesus said the demon had gone out of her daughter, her daughter was rest Resting on her bed. But Jesus dealings with this grieving mother, first seeming to ignore her, then seeming Center and the Pentagon, that aborted attack that may have been headed for the White House or the Capitol. Thousands of people died on that tragic day, thirteen years ago Now. But that day, as traumatic as it was for Americans, was by no means unique. What we would call tragic events take place every single day, scores of times every single day. Single day. Tragic fires, tragic bombings, tragic murders, tragic accidents Tragic floods, tragic earthquakes, tragic suicides, tragic kidnappings, plane crashes, ship sinkings. We could of course go on and on Now, usually these tragedies affect people that we don't know personally. We see them on the evening news, perhaps. They're someone's loved ones who are dying. They're not our loved ones. They're someone else's loved ones. But they are someone's loved ones. And for most of us, it's just a matter of time before a tragedy of some sort darkens our own door. The scriptures don't answer all the questions we may have about tragedies, and of course, no one sermon could consider all the scripture says on any subject, even if the pastor were able to do it. But let's think for a few minutes about what we do know, what we can know about tragedies from the Word of God. First of all, Let's think about the certainty of tragedy in this life. The Christian, no less than the unbeliever, may expect to face what we commonly call tragedies. in this life. Job's friend Eliphaz seemed to be right about at least one thing. Man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. Y kids go to a campfire, there's you're cooking the you're roasting the marshmallows, and there's uh fire and then there's sparks. Which way are they headed? They're headed upward. It's the nature of the sparks to fly upward, it's the nature of man in this fallen world to have trouble. David prayed, Lord, make me to know my end, and what is the measure of my days. that I may know how frail I am. Surely every man walks about like a shadow. He heats up riches and does not know who will gather them. Psalm 39. The message of Paul and Barnabas to the new believers in the cities of Iconium and Lystra and Antioch, cities in what is now Turkey. included this warning. We must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. Acts 14, 22. And of course, the Lord Jesus said something very similar to his disciples, John 16, 33, in the world you shall have tribulation. In the world you shall have tribulation. Christian, underscore that. Write it down. Memorize it. In this world, you will have tribulation. Don't be surprised when it happens. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, Jesus said. I have overcome the world Adam and Eve cast out of paradise. Their secondborn son was murdered. And worse, their firstborn son was the murderer. Abraham was separated from his family. His son Ishmael was taken from him when he was but a youth. Joseph sold into slavery by his brothers. And then when a false witness was brought against him, cast into a dungeon, because he refused to submit to Pontifar 's wife and her desires for him. Daniel saw his land destroyed and invaded. He was carried into exile, where he served his captors in a strange land. Jeremiah's preaching was disregarded. His nation was enslaved. He remained with the remnants and then followed them into Egypt, where he died. The disciples of Christ, the apostles, of course, were imprisoned, beaten, exiled, many of them, most of them martyred. We are to expect tribulation, and it may be severe. The psalmist cries out in his Severe affliction, all your waves and billows have gone over me. All your waves and billows have gone over me. He cried out, O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Psalm 42. Tragedy, as we commonly uh phrase it or call it, is uh is a certainty. Let's think for a few moments about the cause of tragedy. A Gallup poll surveyed Americans, if you could ask God anything, what would it be? Think about that for a minute. If you could ask God anything, what would it be? Well, the most common response was: why is there so much suffering in the world? God Why is there so much suffering in the world? That's the big predicament, right? If God is good, why is there so much suffering in the world? Is God powerless to do anything about it? Does he just not care? Well, the most basic answer of Scripture to that question, why is there tragedy, or why is there suffering, or why is there tribulation? Is that there would be no suffering, no tragedy, no crying, if man had not rebelled against God? If we had not rebelled against God. So we have to face this basic truth. The world, according to Scripture, is out of plum. It's off kilter. There's something seriously amiss. Now I don't have to convince you of that. You shouldn't have to convince anybody of that if they Open their eyes and walk around, read the newspaper, or watch the evening news, you know something's wrong here. The creation, according to Romans 8, is in the bondage of corruption. And the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs. The whole creation Groans and labors with birth pangs. The image there, as I understand it, is that all creation is laboring and struggling in waiting for the new creation, right? When the world will be delivered from sin and all its consequences. It's as if the world is in birth pangs and struggling for the new creation Now, God doesn't answer all our questions about suffering and tragedy, but he does make it clear that the beings who sinned deserve full blame for the evil that resulted from their sin. Francis Schaefer said something to the effect that God can be furious with natural and moral evil or evil without being angry with himself. God can be furious with a natural and moral evil without being furious with himself or angry with himself. The reason there's sickness and death and tragedy here is that we are members of a rebellious race living on a condemned planet. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Romans 1. 18 And because of that, what we call tragedies are now an ever-present fact of life. Remember, the disciples saw that man who was blind from birth as they were walking along in Jerusalem, and they said. said to Jesus, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents, that he was born blind. He was born blind, so you wouldn't think it was anything he did. Well was he born blind because of something his parents did? Who did sin? This man or his parents? That he was born blind? John 9. And Jesus answered, Of course, neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God should be revealed to us. Jesus now wasn't declaring that neither the blind man nor his parents were sinners. He wasn't saying that the blind man and his parents were both were all sinless. What he was saying was that this man's affliction was not the consequence of some particular sin. You see? It's not something this man did. It's not something his parents did. Remember in Luke 13, Jesus said, those 18 on whom the tower in Siloam fell. This is a current event. It would be like all those people who died on 9-11, we would say in our day. But those 18 on whom the tower in Saloon fell, do you think that they were worse sinners than all those who dwelt in Jerusalem? I tell you, no. But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. In other words, tragedies are not necessarily indicative of God's displeasure. on the person who uh is the recipient of the tragedy, you might say, or the person who uh is having the tragic event happen to him or his family. Herod Agrippa, Acts 12, gave a great oration, and he was immediately stricken of God. Belshazzar, Daniel 5, saw the writing on the wall, the kingdom is departed from you, and it's given to the Medes and Persians. Miriam suffered leprosy because of her rebellion, you might say. But those are clearly revealed in Scripture to be judgments, tragedies that resulted from God's displeasure with the individual So it's sometimes the case. It's just not always the case. This was the mistake of Job's friends. Remember now, whoever perished being innocent, or where were the upright ever cut off So let's face it, you lost all your property, you lost your entire family all in one day. So fess up. What have you been doing in secret? I know that you appear to be a righteous man, but clearly this sort of thing doesn't happen to a righteous man. Someone who is trying to please God, obviously, you must be sinning in some way, and it must be pretty uh uh pretty uh uh severe A sin. Remember now, whoever perished being innocent, or where were the upright ever cut off? Job 4. 7. The truth is, in individual cases, we can never know for certain why a tragedy has occurred, apart from divine revelation, of course. Thirdly, there are benefits which may come from tragedies. Think about that for a minute. There are benefits which may come from tragedies. They may bring the unrighteous to repentance and faith, for example. Nebuchadnezzar was stricken with temporary insanity. Remember, is not this great Babylon that I have made? Look at all that I've done. And he was manifesting pride, and immediately God struck him. Stricken with temporary insanity as a judgment for his pride. But as a result, what happened? He humbled himself, he repented. He declared later of God, how great are his signs and how mighty his wonders. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. His dominion is from generation to generation. generation. So in this case, the tragedy, you might say, the tragic fall of this man was ultimately used of God to bring him to repentance. We read in the prophet Hosea, In their affliction they will seek me early. Many have been sobered standing at the graveside of a loved one. The young man reportedly said to an evangelist, I've heard all your sermons on the deity of Christ and the inspiration of Scripture Etc. I can answer the logic of every one of them. But a few weeks ago, as I stood with our mourning family by the grave of my invalid mother, and as loving friends lowered her crippled little body into the ground, I said, I cannot answer the argument and logic of that wonderful life. I want that which made my mother what she was. The evangelist wrote in a few minutes he found the Savior, not by the power of logic, but by the power of a godly, quiet life. Many events which viewed in themselves we would call tragic ultimately result in the advancement of the gospel. When Paul was imprisoned for preaching the gospel, effectively sidelining one of Christ's most faithful servants, most effective servants, we would say, certainly in the first century. uh if not the most effective, it'd be hard to argue that he wasn't, the most effective uh servant of God and perhaps most Faithful, when he was sidelined, believers might have considered that a tragic loss to the kingdom of God. Did you hear what happened? They put Paul in prison. Now, what's going to happen to the advancement of the gospel? And Paul said this, the things which have happened to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. Presumably, he never would have reached those men had he not been imprisoned. And so the gospel was spreading where it wouldn't have spread otherwise. The martyrdom of Stephen, the persecution of the church, they that were scattered abroad because of the persecution. Persecution is not a good thing, but as a result of the persecution, they were scattered abroad and they went everywhere preaching the word. In more modern times, we could point to the experience of Betsy and Cory Tenboom and that Nazi prison camp at Ravensbrook described in the book The Hiding Place. The martyrdom of Jim Elliott, Nate Saint, and several other young men, young missionaries at the hand of native tribesmen that they were attempting to reach with the gospel, all described in the book Through Gates of Splendor And of course we could point to the advancement of the gospel that's bloomed and flourished out of that tragic diving accident that left Johnny Erickson, now Johnny. Erickson Todd a paraplegic, but ultimately gave her a worldwide ministry that she probably never could have conceived of or imagined before So tragedies may, in God's providence, advance his kingdom. And then tragedies may also be used to sanctify believers. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Psalm 119. It is good for me that I have been afflicted that I might learn thy statutes. statutes. That's verse 71. And then verse 67, before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I have kept your word. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But that affliction brought home to me, you know, the the error of my ways, and now I've kept your word. Every branch that bears fruit he prunes that it may bear more fruit. John fifteen Many a Christian has been challenged by tragedy to redeem the time. And it certainly would focus your attention, wouldn't it, if you got a diagnosis, if I got a diagnosis this week. week that I have about six months to live, that would focus my attention. And I would serve the Lord hopefully with more zeal in that last six months than the past six months. Thirdly, tragedy may, in God's providence, spare the one who experiences it a great deal of sorrow or pain that might otherwise have caused. Come. Think about that. The Apostle Paul said that for this cause, that is, partaking of the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner, many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep. First Corinthians eleven verse thirty. The early departure from this life of believers who were dishonoring the Lord, in this case at his own own supper not only purified the church and and served as a warning to others, but it prevented them, those brethren, from continuing behavior that could only, if continued, diminish any eternal rewards they would otherwise have received, right? So God has reasons for permitting tragedies in our lives, what we would call tragedies in our lives, reasons that we can't be expected to understand from our perspective. Right? I mean, i if the Lord foresaw that I or one of us were going to commit some sort of a uh a a sin that would bring such dishonor to Christ and to ourselves, uh uh uh that it would uh effectively uh uh cause the loss of uh rewards that we might otherwise have received. Wouldn't it be in my interest for the Lord to take me home before I did that Michelangelo was questioned by disgruntled workers at the construction of St. Peter 's because they couldn't see the big picture. He reportedly responded to them, even if I were able to make my plans Plans and ideas clear to you, which I am not, I'm not obliged to do so. I must ask you to do your best to help me, and when the work is complete, the conception will be better understood. See? For now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know just as I am 1 Corinthians 13, 12. And then tragedies remind us of our dependence upon God. In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider God has set the one over against the other to the end that man should not discover anything about the future. Ecclesiastes 7:14. Tragedies remind us that we're dependent upon God for our daily blessings, and that all good things come from Him and by His grace. Uh remember uh James, uh if the Lord wills we shall do this or that. Don't make your plans as if God's not in the picture. So uh uh catastrophes, tragedies, afflictions, tribulations, these things remind us of our dependence upon it. Oh yeah, Lord, it's all up to you, isn't it? We have to depend upon Him. Tragedies tend to turn our thoughts to God, don't they? Wasn't it true that after 9-11 the churches began to fill up and everybody was looking for answers? Why did this happen? What's going on? It was 19 years ago this week, there was a tragic uh severe uh earthquake that devastated Mexico City. City. Thousands, I believe, were were killed nineteen years ago this week. And the headline, in at least the one major Mexico City newspaper, reportedly was The very next day the headline was, Oh Dios, oh God, oh God. Tragedies tend to turn our thoughts to God They remind us of our utter dependence, of our frailty. And then a tragedy can bring glory to God by the way a Christian responds to it. When uh someone in the first church I pastored, which was near Buffalo, uh w when someone in the church, a young woman, I think she was probably in her thirties at the time, was diagnosed with cancer, uh one of her Her friend said to her, I don't know how you can bear up under this. If if I got that diagnosis, I would be unglued. That was her word. I'd go I'd be unglued. But she saw something in the face of that uh believer, something that she did not have. And then tragedies can provide opportunities for demonstrating and expressing Christian love, of course, whether it's an accident, an operation, a death in the family, an outbreak of an infectious disease. Tragedies present opportunities to demonstrate Christian love, to express Christian love, to put feet to Christian love. Behold how these Christians love one another. That's what the early uh unbelievers say. Said. And then tragedies can harden the hearts of the wicked, and God is glorified by that. Plagues brought upon Egypt resulted And the plagues described in the book of Revelation will result in the hardening of some hearts. But that only manifests in the end God's holy justice, God's righteous wrath. So we've considered briefly the certainty of tragedy, the cause of tragedies, the benefits that may arise from them. Now think for a moment about the test of tragedy. The Apostle Paul heard that the Christians in Thessalonica were undergoing severe affliction. He wanted to go to them, but he wrote, Satan hindered us. He wasn't able to go to them. Therefore, he writes, when we could no longer endure it, we sent Timothy, our brother and minister of God and our fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ to establish you and encourage you concerning your faith. And here's the key, that no one should be shaken by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are appointed to this. For in fact, we told you when we were with you that we would suffer tribulation just as it happened. For this reason, I sent to know your faith. Lest by some means the tempter had tempted you, and our labor might be in vain. 1 Thessalonians 3. So what was Paul's concern? That their tribulation might turn their hearts away from Christ. That the tempter might use the tribulation to cause them to turn away. And it's true, isn't it? No sooner does tragedy strike than Satan is at the believer's ear. He doesn't love you. Curse God and die. Or he's powerless to help you, or he's not really there. We say we believe in heaven, we say we believe God's word. Robert Murray McChain said in a sermon: Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of the saints. Do you believe it? You witness a young man in the bloom of youth, and you say, There, there 's a blessed man. But you see a man in a long box cold and still, and you say, What a pity How sad, how horrible. God calls him blessed. Who is right? Do you believe it? He asked Now, some practical considerations about tragedies. First of all, remember the time of each individual life is determined by God. Job 7 1. Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? Man that is born of a woman is a few days and full of trouble. His days are determined. The number of his months are with you. You have appointed his limits so that he cannot pass, Job 14. It is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. Hebrews 9, 27. He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and he has determined their pre-appointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings. And think about it, if the time is determined, then clearly the means is determined, whether by disease or Or accident by a drunk driver or pilot error. And just as that is true for you and for me, so it's true for everyone in your family. Everyone you know, and everyone else, when tragedy strikes, it often seems chaotic, doesn't it? The planes that just came out of nowhere, they struck the building, the whole thing collapsed The Sabaeans, they raided, they took the oxen, the donkeys, they killed the servants. Fire fell from heaven, consumed the sheep. The Chaldeans took the camels, they killed the servants. A great wind caused the house to collapse and take the lives of your ten children. It all seemed so chaotic. You mean if they hadn't met that day in that house, they'd still be alive? If they had a stronger stronger walls, whatever. What seems to us like chaos is not outside of the providence of God. And then God declares his ultimate sovereignty over all things. He does, according to his will, in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. Daniel 4:35 None can stay his hand nor say unto him, What doest thou? He works all things after the counsel of his own will, Ephesians 1. 11 Does he counsel with anyone? He works all things after the counsel of his own will. His sovereign hand extends even over the evil acts of men. Joseph told his brothers, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. What you did was evil. You for no good reason. uh uh uh thought at first of killing me and then decided to sell me as a slave so you wouldn't have my blood uh actually on your hands. You meant it for evil, God meant it for good. His sovereign hand extends even over the evil acts of man. The Apostle Paul's thorn in the flesh was a messenger of Satan to buffet him Satan had one reason to send it. God had another reason to let it be sent. It was that he wouldn't be puffed up because of the abundance of revelations that had been given to him. Of course there was no more vile act in the history of the world than when men conspired to put to death the Lord Jesus Christ. Was there ever a more wicked act? And yet, we read the apostles say, after the resurrection, as they prayed to God against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined. They were responsible for their wicked action, but that was not outside the the providential control of God. Acts 427. Something else to remember about tragedies, it's never wrong for us to mourn and weep in response to tragedy. That needs to be underscored, because some Christians get confused about that. Well, if it's coming from God, I guess I just should grin and bear it. No, it's never wrong for us to mourn and weep in response to To tragedy. Pain and loss are real. We're to rejoice with those who rejoice, we're to weep with those who weep. There's a time to weep. Ecclesiastes reminds us. The time to weep as well as the time to laugh. And Jesus wept, of course, at the tomb of Lazarus, even though he knew in a few moments Lazarus would be alive again. He was weeping at the whole sorrow of death. What a horrible thing death Is. Look at the effects of it upon people. How sad it brings them and makes them. But our sorrow, even though we weep at death, we weep at tragedy, our sorrow Sorrow is ultimately tinged with hope and joy. We don't sorrow as those who have no hope. And then of course the Christian strength in tragedy comes from the very same source as his strength for all other things. The Lord said to Paul in his affliction, My grace is sufficient for thee. My grace is sufficient for thee. That's our source of strength. God's grace. You and I should prepare ourselves for tragedy because we may expect it. It will certainly come in one form or another. I was listening to a message of R. C. Sprohl a couple days ago, and he said in the message that, you know, we sing Amazing Grace. We all know the song. But he said, in my experience, Christians seem more amazed More amazed than they are at grace. More amazed at suffering. They're amazed when things go wrong. What? How could how did this happen? I have cancer? Wait a minute. I've been doing my devotions every single morning. They're amazed by suffering. More amazed by suffering than by grace. In other words, instead of saying, why me, when something horrible happens, I should be saying, why not sooner? I'm living in a sinful world. I'm a sinner myself. And everything I've received thus far is by God's grace and his mercy. He could have cut me off in my youth, but he extended my life So many times. That's how we need to look at this world and and our relationship with the Lord. So how do we prepare ourselves for tragedy? Well, I would uh say we need to make sure, insofar as it's up to us, that our relationships are strong, right? You don't want to say after a sudden death, oh man, I I never got to ask her for Forgiveness. I never got to say, I'm sorry. Or I never told him that I forgave him. And then make sure your loved ones know how much they mean to you before they're suddenly taken away from you. And then examine yourself to see where your true affections are. lie. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For you're dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. Where do your affections reside? Here or there? Where is your treasure? Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Lay it on up for you. yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust corrupt and thieves break through and steal. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Are you ready to go or are you desperate to stay? And then the most important way to guard against tragedy is of course to hide yourself in the cleft of the rock. Hide yourself in the cleft of the rock. Make sure you're in the ark of safety. See, death is coming for us all. You could picture him as a relentless enemy. He may catch catch up to us at 19 or 90, but he will catch up. The last enemy who shall be destroyed is death. See, sometimes the Bible pictures death as an enemy who's pursuing us because it is ultimately an enemy of one What God had in store for this world in his original plan, you might say. Have you repented of your sins and laid hold upon Christ? Are you resting in him And his finished work for you. When the Titanic sunk, you know, over 2,200 people were on board. And as news reached the shore, the names of the passengers were posted in two columns. Saved, lost, saved. Lost. When thus death overtakes you and tragedy strikes your family, in which column will your name be listed? A closing word to believers, we uh we read of the faith of Job, who on receiving word of that sudden loss of his children was able to say, the Lord gave, the Lord has taken Taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord. And we wonder, and I guess rightly so, if any of us could have such faith at such a time. Well, the story behind our closing hymn is a reminder that God's grace is sufficient for us. And that even in the darkest hour. We can trust him. It's possible. Even in our day. Like the story of Job, this uh story has been strengthening believers and glorifying God for generations now. Many of you know the story, uh still grieving over the death of their son, 43-year-old Chicago businessman Horatio Spafford and his wife, suffered financial disaster in the Great Chicago Fire of 1870. Knowing that their friend D. L. Moody was to be preaching in England that fall, Spafford decided it would be good for the family to get out of Chicago and spend some time Time in England. So he sent his wife and their four daughters across the Atlantic by ship, planning to join them in England soon. But their ship was struck by an iron sailing vessel, and it sank in twelve minutes. Survivors were brought to Cardiff, Wales, and Mrs. Stafford cabled her husband with those two tragic words. Saved alone. Spafford booked passage on the next ship. As soon as they crossed the Atlantic, or as they crossed the Atlantic, rather, the captain pointed out where the previous ship had gone down and where Spafford's four daughters had been tragically lost. That night in his cabin Spafford wrote the words that would later be put to music we know what is the hymn it is well with my soul would you stand and sing it with me 580