Our scripture reading is from Mark chapter 13. As you turn there, let me just say a couple things. Uh Steve Byrd's mother is uh is the last I heard uh approaching uh death it appears, not eating or drinking anymore. I don't know, Matthew, do we have any any other word on that? Uh Matthew Byrd? Are you That's that's all we know at this point. And I think Steve is up there with her, is that right? Yeah. In uh Pennsylvania And so please remember Steve and his mom. And also it was mentioned by Chuck in Prayer that Carrie Cox's great aunt, that's Betty Cox's sister. has been diagnosed with a brain tumor. And uh Carrie who's in the nursery this morning wanted us to know that and be praying for her aunt, uh I believe her name is Carol, her aunt Carol. All right, so if you'll uh read with me from uh Mark chapter thirteen, let me start in verse one and we'll read through verse twenty-three Then as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Teacher, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here. And Jesus answered and said to him, Do you see these great buildings? Not one stone shall be left upon another that shall not be thrown down. Now, as he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately, Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled? And Jesus, answering them, began to say, Take heed that no one deceives you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am He, and will deceive many. But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be troubled, for such things must happen. But the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and troubles. These are the beginnings of sorrows. But watch out for yourselves, for they will deliver you up to counsels, and you will be beaten in the synagogues. You will be brought before rulers and kings for my sake for a testimony to them And the gospel must first be preached to all the nations. But when they arrest you and deliver you up, do not worry beforehand or premeditate what you will speak But whatever is given you in that hour, speak that. For it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit Now, brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all For my name's sake. But he who endures to the end shall be saved. So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing where it ought not , Let the reader understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let him who was on the housetop not go down into the house, nor enter to take anything out of his house. And let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babes in those days. Pray that your flight may not be in winter. For in those days there will be tribulation such as has not been since the beginning of the creation which God created until this time, nor ever shall be. And unless the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect's sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days. Then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ, or look, he's there, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will rise and show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. But take heed. See, I have told you all things beforehand. Let's pray. Lord, help us now as we approach this prophecy. Guide us with your Holy Spirit. Speak to your people. Build us up. And speak to the lost, Lord. Draw them to Christ, as only you can do. We ask in Christ's powerful name. Amen. As we come in our study of Mark's Gospel to the prophecies of chapter thirteen I can empathize with Ebenezer Scrooge at the appearance of his last spirit visitor. Ghost of the future, he exclaimed, I fear you more than any spectre I have seen. It's one thing to attempt to understand, explain, and apply the narrative portions of the Gospels, what took place on the Mount of Transfiguration, for example. The significance of Christ's triumphant entrance to Jerusalem or his rebuke of the hypocrisy of the scribes. But interpreting and applying prophetic passages is more difficult, it seems to me And the preacher is more prone to misinterpretation and error. So let's just hop over chapter 13 and go to chapter 14 this morning. No, we don't do so because all scripture is given by inspiration of God, and all of it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete. Thoroughly equipped for every good work. 2 Timothy 3. 16. So as we come to chapter 13, we are, of course, in the midst of the week that will culminate in Christ's arrest. trial and execution. Jesus has just upbraided the scribes and Pharisees for their hypocrisy and covetousness. We look at it last week. He had just taken notice of a widow's sacrificial gift to the temple treasury. And now we read As he went out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Teacher, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here. The first great temple of Jerusalem built by King Solomon was destroyed during the Babylonian invasion of 586 BC. But the temple was rebuilt in less grand fashion about 70 years later. That temple was greatly expanded and made much more magnificent by Herod. the first, the one we call Herod the Great, the same Herod who was on the throne when Jesus was born It said that Herod kept 10,000 workmen on the temple reconstruction for eight successive years Imagine that, 10,000 workmen working on reconstructing the temple, expanding it, and making it more beautiful. for eight successive years, which made the temple project one of the largest construction projects in that entire era. To expand the temple, huge stones shaped into rectangles, or huge bricks, if you will, were laid, some reportedly 60 feet long, 11 feet high, and 8 feet deep, weighing over a hundred tons. Built with an abundance of gold, silver, bronze, and marble, the temple was viewed as one of the wonders of the ancient world. It was described as, quote, a mountain of marble decorated with gold, unquote. It covered thirty-five acres to a hundred and fifty feet in height. It reflected the sun 's light to pilgrims who approached the city from afar. The temple complex must have appeared uh immovable, indestructible One of the disciples remarked upon its grandeur. And what Jesus said next must have come as a great shock Verse 2, Jesus answered and said to him, Do you see these great buildings? Not one stone shall be left upon another that shall not be thrown down. Jesus predicted the coming utter destruction of this glorious edifice. Look at verse 3. Now, as he sat on the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately, Tell us when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled? Jesus had just said this whole temple is going to be destroyed, not one stone left upon another. When is this going to happen? I'm sure they must have been wondering, are we going to live to see this? Jesus peers forward through time, foreseeing the destruction of Jerusalem, which was only a few decades away. And he doesn't tell the disciples precisely when this would take place. He doesn't answer their first question specifically, when will these things be? But he fully answers their second question, what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled? First, He warned them not to be skittish , not to run off at the first sign of trouble. Look at verse 5. And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed that no one deceives you. For many will come in my name, saying, I am he, and will deceive many. There were in fact many deceivers before the destruction of the Holy Temple Josephus and other historians cite the appearance of many false messiahs claiming to be the returning Christ before 70 AD, the destruction. Look at verse 7. But when you hear wars and rumors of wars, do not be troubled, for such things must happen, but the end is not yet. In 40 A. D. Emperor Caligula tried to erect a statue of himself inside the temple. It led to violent protests among the Jews. There were rumors that the Roman armies were going to attack. But they were just rumors. There were various other conflicts throughout the empire. But Jesus told the disciples not to be troubled, for the end, he said, is not yet. Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places. There will be famines and troubles. These are the beginnings of sorrow. In fact, the Roman Empire was convulsed in the days leading up to the destruction of Jerusalem. Rivals were vying to become emperor. There were times when someone would declare himself an emperor. At one point, at one spot in the Roman Empire, by winning some great battle, by the time he got to back to Rome, someone else had declared himself emperor. They were rivals. There was kingdom against kingdom. Jesus said there would also be before this destruction of the temple earthquakes, famines, troubles. Well, a major earthquake struck the region of Phrygia north of Antioch, that's west of Galatia in what we now call Turkey, in A. D. sixty-one. Just a year later, an earthquake with an estimated magnitude in today's terms of between five and six. Devastated southern Italy, bringing major damage to the cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii. Some say it may have been a precursor to the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, which would take place in seventy-nine A. D. Had Jesus not foretold these calamities, the disciples might have assumed that the destruction of Jerusalem that he had prophesied had come, that it was time to flee into the mountains. There were several serious famines in the ancient Near East between A. D. 41 and A. D. 54, but Jesus said, don't be alarmed, these are the beginnings of sorrows. And then he gave specific warnings to his disciples, verse 9. Watch out for yourselves, for they will deliver you up to counsels, and you will be beaten in the synagogues. You'll be brought before rulers and kings for my sake for a testimony to them. Now if you've read the Acts of the Apostles, which recount recounts what the uh apostles endured from both the Gentiles and the Jews when they declared that Jesus was the Messiah and that he had been crucified uh by the Jews and by the Romans and that he had risen from the dead Then you know that the apostles were in fact delivered up to councils. They were in fact beaten and brought before rulers and kings for Christ's sake to testify before them. Good verse 10. And the gospel must first be preached to all the nations, to all the ethnoi. The preaching of the gospel, as you know, turned the world upside down in the first century. Before the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. the gospel had spread like wildfire through the nations. Many of those people groups heard it, the gospel, on the day of Pentecost. The Apostle Paul spoke to the Christians in Colosse of, quote, the truth of the gospel which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit. Colossians chapter 1, verses 5 and 6. R. C. Sprohl points out, certainly the gospel was not preached to every corner of the globe in the first century. The gospel didn't get to southern Africa as far as we know, East Asia, Australia, or the Americas. How then could Paul write that the gospel had gone to the whole world? Well how could he say to the Colossians, the gospel that you've heard has gone into the whole world? Well, he was speaking about the the known world of the time, and the gospel was preached across the world in the first century across that world, he said. Look at verse 11. But when they arrest you and deliver you up, do not worry beforehand or premeditate what you will speak. But whatever is given you in that hour, speak that. For it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. The apostles and other believers would be arrested. They would be brought before rulers and kings in order to be a testimony before them. Verse 9. But they were not to fret about what to say in that hour. The Holy Spirit would bring to their minds what to say. Consider Peter and John and Stephen speaking before the Sanhedrin. Consider Paul before Felix and Festus and Agrippa. There will be grievous persecutions of Christians before this destruction of the temple, Jesus said. Even assisted by blood relatives. Look at verses twelve and thirteen. Now brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end shall be saved. You'll be tempted to recant, Jesus said to the apostles, you'll be tempted to deny me. He said, but don't despair. If you endure to the end, manifesting you're a true believer to the end, you'll be saved. No, the disciples asked, Well, how will we know when this destruction To the temple, the destruction of the temple is about to happen. And now Jesus answers them with some clarity. He had already told them not to be alarmed when they heard of wars and rumors of wars, earthquakes, famines, troubles. Don't assume by these things that it's the end of Jerusalem. or uh the end of the world, and don't uh be deceived by some who come claiming to be me, and don't be surprised when you're persecuted. Don't assume that that means the end has come. It will happen so you can be a testimony to rulers and kings for my sake. Do you want to know when the temple destruction is coming? Do you want to know when this day is going to come when not one stone will be left upon another of this magnificent temple? Do you want to know when it's time for you to get out of Dodge? To get out of Jerusalem, to flee to the mountains? I'll tell you. Verse 14. When you see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, let the reader understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let him who was on the housetop not go down into the house nor enter to take anything out of his house, and let him who was in the field not go back to get his clothes. I'll tell you when to flee the city, Jesus said, don't be skittish. Don't flee the city every time you hear about an earthquake. Every time you hear of a famine, that's not the time to go hide in the mountains. But when you see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not , That's the time to leave. In Daniel 11, the prophet refers to a vile person who would come against Israel. And forces shall be mustered by him, and they shall defile the sanctuary fortress, and then shall they take away the daily sacrifices and place there The abomination of desolation. Chapter 12 of Daniel also speaks of the time that the daily sacrifice is taken away and the abomination of desolation is set up. Now these prophecies are particularly remarkable because at the time that Daniel wrote as a captive of the Babylonians, you'll remember the temple of Jerusalem, Solomon's temple, was in ruins. But the prophecy in Daniel 9 is quite specific. Daniel chapter 9, I'm going to read from verse 18. Listen closely or follow along. Daniel is praying. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations and the city which is called by your name. For we do not present our supplications before you because of our righteous deeds, but because of your great mercies. O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive. Oh Lord, listen and act. Do not delay for your own sake, my God. For your city and your people are called by your name. Now, while I was speaking, praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God in the holy mountain, of my God. Yes, while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I have seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, reached me about the time of the evening offering. And jump down to verse 25 and notice what Gabriel says to him. Gabriel says to Daniel, know therefore and understand. That from the going forth of the command to restore and build Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince, there shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. The street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublesome times. And after the sixty-two weeks, Messiah shall be cut off. But not for himself. And the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. The end of it shall be with a flood, until the end of the war, desolations are determined. Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week, but in the middle of the week he shall bring an end to sacrifice and offering, and on the wing of abominations. shall be one who makes desolate, even until the consummation which is determined is poured out on the desolate The angel Gabriel spoke very specifically to Daniel of seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. Sixty-nine weeks total. From the going forth of the command to restore and build Jerusalem until Messiah the prince. Now the word he used that's translated weeks is actually sevens, right? So he spoke of seven sevens and then sixty-two sevens. Now, those sevens could be weeks, right? When we think of sevens, we think of weeks, but they're not necessarily weeks. In fact, it appears that he was referring to weeks of years, periods of years. So he was referring to 69 periods of sevens. And as I said, those sevens appear to represent years. First of all, he spoke of Seven periods of seven. That's 49. So if we're thinking years, 49 years. Plus, he spoke of 62 periods of seven. That's four hundred and thirty-four years. Now, it's interesting historians point out that Artaxerxes issued a decree for the rebuilding of Jerusalem in 457 BC. By 408 BC, 49 years later, there's your first period of sevens, 49 years later, the streets and the wall around Jerusalem had been completed. That accounts for the first seven sevens, bringing us to 408 BC. Right? We're counting backwards. You start high and you're counting low. You're coming down. You're in uh uh uh the before Christ and you're approaching what we would call, you know, year zero or year one. The addition of 62 periods of sevens, 434 years from that previous date we mentioned, would bring us to about 27 A. D. Or just about the time that Jesus began his public ministry. So, by the way, this may account for the Magi who were presumably familiar with Daniel's prophecies Anticipating the imminent arrival of the Messiah and expecting somehow some sign in the heavens indicating the birth of the Messiah. We have seen a sign in the east. We've come to worship him. Now, Gabriel says to Daniel, from the going forth of the command to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, until Messiah the Prince. Shall be in total 69 periods of sevens. And after that, that puts this now after 27 AD or so, after that, he says, the Messiah shall be cut off. He was cut off from the land of the living, Isaiah 53, 8. But not for himself, Gabriel said. It was for the transgressions of my people that he was stricken, Isaiah said, Isaiah 53, 8. And then he says, the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. The first thing that happened is the city was besieged by the Roman armies. It was later destroyed utterly in 70 A. D. Jewish historian Josephus describes the siege of Jerusalem in great detail. And his knowledge was firsthand because he was a leader in the Jewish resistance until he was captured by the Romans. The Roman general Titus, he was the son of Emperor Vespasian. Not surprising then, Gabriel would call him the prince who was to come. Titus befriended Josephus. Josephus, a very uh educated man, and Titus convinced Josephus to try to convince the people of Jerusalem to surrender. Why should we destroy this beautiful city? Teach, teach, uh that is, uh exhort the people in the city to lay down their arms and surrender. But uh although Josephus was willing to do that, he was willing to do it because he foresaw the utter destruction of the people, the temple, the city, it's uh and all of it if the Jews uh continued to resist But the negotiations didn't go very well, historians tell us. Josephus was shouted down and actually wounded with an arrow shot by a fellow Jew And the sad state of affairs in the city, surrounded by the Roman legions, comes across in the excerpts of A historian's account. Listen, such miserable wretches as the Romans might pick up prowling for food outside of the walls. Titus had cause to be scourged, tortured, and then crucified. Sometimes as many as five hundred were seen at once by their friends and fellow countrymen riding on crosses in full sight From the walls of the city of Jerusalem. The city was filled with corpses. The living had not strength to bury the dead. Remember, all their food's been cut off. The most miserable wretches were the inhabitants, the population of Jerusalem. The soldiers still had provisions. Now these were armed men who came into the city of Jerusalem to make a one final stand. against the Roman armies. These were zealots, many of them, and many of them just Jews who were willing to fight and die for for their city. The soldiers, this historian said, still had provisions, for they plundered every house and hiding place where food might possibly be found. Unable to bear the stench of the decaying bodies of those who died of starvation or were killed when they tried to defend their meager morsels of food, the soldiers flung the carcasses over the wall into the ravine below. After a long and devastating siege, when starving citizens, we are told, even resorted to cannibalism, the Roman legions breached the walls and rushed in like a flood. Josephus says As the legions charged in, neither persuasion nor threat could check their impetuosity. Passion alone was in command. Titus had ordered that the temple not be destroyed so he could transform it into a temple dedicated to the Roman Emperor and to the Roman pantheon, the Roman gods and goddesses. But Josephus continues, as they neared the sanctuary, they pretended not even to hear Caesar's commands. He calls him Caesar, he would later become Caesar, and urged the men in front to throw in more firebrands. Everywhere was slaughter and flight. Most of the victims were peaceful citizens, weak and unarmed, butchered wherever they were caught, round the altar. The heaps of corpses grew higher and higher. No wonder, no wonder Jesus warned his apostles and those who would hear his teaching from them to flee Jerusalem when they saw the abomination of desolation standing where it ought not. Now, if that sounds a bit too obscure, do you think Titus is the abomination of desolation? Is that where he shouldn't be standing? He's coming with his armies, he's surrounding Jerusalem. Is he the abomination that makes desolate? If you think that's a bit too obscure, Jesus made it even clearer in this discourse according to the Gospel of Luke. Luke says Jesus told his apostles this, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know its desolation is near. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let those who are in the midst of her, in the midst of Jerusalem, depart, and let not those who are in the country enter her. Luke 21, 20 and 21. Now, what I want you to understand is this is just the opposite of what most people would do when their uh nation is under attack. You flee to the walled cities. You want to be where there are soldiers to defend you. You want to to be where the rest of the people are And hope that your soldiers will defeat the enemy soldiers. But Jesus warned his followers: when you see armies coming against Jerusalem, run. Don't even go home to get your clothes. Flee to the mountains. Now look at verse 17. But woe to those who were pregnant and those who were nursing babies in those days, and pray that your flight may not be in winter. For in those days there will be tribulation such as has not been since the beginning of the creation which God created until this time nor ever shall be. And unless the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect's sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days. Now, thus far, everything we've read seems to point to the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD, but as with some other prophecies There may be both a short-term and a long-term fulfillment in view. It may well be that at some point in this prophecy, Jesus moves From a consideration of the impending destruction of Jerusalem, and that was the uh question that the disciples raised, when is Jerusalem is this is this temple going to be destroyed? It may well be that at some point Jesus moves in this prophecy from a consideration of the impending destruction of Jerusalem. in the short term, to a consideration of the destruction destruction that is coming in the long term. From the end of Jerusalem, then he looks to the end of time. And we will, Lord willing, pursue this thought in our next message from Mark. But today, let's try to make some application of some things we've seen in Mark 13. First of all, teacher. See what manner of stones and what buildings the grandeur of the building intended for God's worship Is unimpressive if God's word is not faithfully proclaimed there. The grandeur of the building intended for God's worship, if you've been to some of the great cathedrals of Europe Or even of America. You know what I'm talking about. Gorgeous, beautiful paintings, beautiful stained glass, uh hanging chandeliers, all sorts of gold and guilt The grandeur of the building intended for God's worship is unimpressive if God's word is not faithfully proclaimed there. You see this great temple? Not one stone shall be left upon another, Jesus said. It shall all be thrown down. Pastor J. C. Ryle noted, the eyes of our Lord Jesus Christ could find no pleasure. and looking at the very temple which contained the holy of holies, the golden candlestick, the altar of burnt offering, much less, may we suppose, can he find pleasure in the most splendid place of worship if his word and his spirit are not honored in it. In other words, Christ takes more pleasure in the caves and dens and the simple rooms where early Christians worship and where many persecuted believers worship today. than in the most beautifully adorned cathedrals where the gospel is not preached. Secondly, we could get the impression from much popular preaching today. That God intends to give his children only what we call today blessings. And if severe affliction or tragic events take place in our lives. Those things can be ascribed to Satan or to a lack of faith on our part. Listen, if you have that view, listen again to what Jesus said, not to casual followers. But to his most trusted servants, his twelve apostles, he said to them, They will deliver you up to counsels, and you will be beaten in the synagogues. You will be hated by all for my sake, but he who endures to the end shall be saved. Now, that's not the sort of message that expanded into a book would top the New York Times bestseller list It's not exactly your best life now. Jesus said, Because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. John 15, 19. Jesus said the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God service. John 16, 2 He said, if anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Matthew 16, 24. Are you sure you want to follow this Jesus? Note, thirdly, Jesus words to his apostles that they were not to premeditate what they were going to say when arrested and brought before rulers and kings for his sake. Uh those words to his apostles have been used uh as an excuse for lack of preparation before the regular preaching of God's word. This, I believe, is a misapplication of this passage Ryle has a good word here. Only this passage, he says, only holds out the promise of special help in special times of need. It may be feared that this promise is not infrequently made an excuse for ministerial idleness and undigested sermons. Men seem to forget when they enter the pulpit that what costs nothing is worth nothing. And that the foolishness of preaching and foolish preaching are widely different things. Note, uh, fourthly, this passage reminds us of the lawfulness of taking measures to avoid peril. When you see the armies compassing Jerusalem, don't even go back into Jerusalem to get your clothes. Go directly out to the mountains. That's the sign that the temple is about to be destroyed. It's not wrong to foresee evil and attempt to avoid it Jesus didn't tell the apostles to just remain in Jerusalem and die as martyrs. That would be foolish. And he was speaking to the apostles, and those the apostles would teach. Many people would hear these prophecies. It's not wrong to foresee evil and attempt to avoid it. It's not wrong to use means to preserve the welfare of your family. One of our members told me recently of a dear Christian friend of hers, now in old age, who hadn't been prudent like the ant, which stores up food in times of plenty for the coming times of want, Proverbs 6 Thinking perhaps that Jesus' words, take no thought for tomorrow, what you shall eat or drink, meant make no plans for the future. And a better translation is don't be anxious about somebody. Right? Don't worry about tomorrow. But thinking perhaps that what Jesus was saying was make no plans for the future, this man didn't take any steps apparently to provide for his family when he could no longer labor. Well, this passage reminds us that a prudent man foresees evil and hides himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. Proverbs 22, 3. But I suppose the most evident truth demonstrated in this passage, and it's demonstrated numerous times through Scripture, is also the truth that is the most sobering. It is that although God is patient and long-suffering, merciful and loving, his patience is not inexhaustible. The time comes when, as God puts it, the cup of his wrath becomes full. The cup of his wrath becomes full. It's true for an individual. He who being often reproved hardens his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. Proverbs 29:1 He's often reproved. What does he do? Does he humble himself? Does he repent? No, he hardens his neck. He will suddenly be destroyed, Jesus, the proverbs say. And that without remedy. It's true for an individual, it's true for a country. The wicked shall be turned into hell and all the nations that forget God. Psalm 9 verse 17. Think about it. No people on earth have received such unmerited favor as the children of Abraham. No nation had been so blessed with God's revelations and abundant material and spiritual blessings. But corrupted by the iniquities and the idolatries of the pagans with whom they interacted. Israel descended into immorality, unbelief , idolatry numerous times. And numerous times they were judged by God. And they repented. And God relented and restored them. But when Jesus came unto his own and his own received him not, when the religious leaders of God's chosen people conspired to execute God's only begotten Son The Father's wrath could not be assuaged. Now America is not Israel, and Americans are not God's chosen people. But the biblical principle holds true not just for the people of Israel, but for Assyrians and Babylonians and Egyptians and Ammonites and Philistines and Edomites and Sodomites and yes, Americans. Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Now what is a Christian called to do when he lives in an immoral, corrupt, idolatrous society? Jesus said, let your light so shine before men that they might see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew 5. 16. You and I are called to be blameless and harmless children of God without halt in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation among whom you shine as lights in the world. The Apostle Paul said, Philippians 2. 15. Denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age. That's what you're called to do. Titus 2. 12. Paul said, remind them, believers, to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. That's what you're called to do. Titus 3, 1 to 2. Finally, it must have been extremely difficult for the apostles looking at this glorious temple to imagine it destroyed? Calvin says, Scarcely any person would ever venture to suppose that the temple could ever be destroyed. We're prone to be enamored with all the wonderful structures that mankind has built. The Great Pyramids of Egypt, India's Taj Mahal, the Roman Colosseum, the Greek Parsonon Huge bridges, skyscrapers, hydroelectric dams, tunnels through mountains, engineering marbles like the Panama Canal. Teachers, see what manner of stones and buildings are here But the truth is, not one of these glorious things is permanent. Not one is permanent. The day of the Lord will come as a thief, and the night in which the heavens will pass away with great noise. And the elements will melt with fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. 2 Peter 3. 10 We then should focus on what lasts. Peter continues, therefore, since all these things will be dissolved. Since all things, he said, will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? Paul said, If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is at the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth, for you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Colossians 3, 1 and 3. But if you've not yet made your peace with God, if you've not yet cried out for mercy , You're like a foolish man who built his house upon the sand. The rain descends, the floods will come, the winds will beat on the house. And great will be its fall. But there is a savior. There's an ark of safety. There's a redeemer. There's one who gave his life that you might live. And the question is, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvage? Let's pray. Lord, our hearts Go out to those who have not yet made their peace with you. They don't realize the great danger they are in. They don't realize that the hour is fast approaching when the cup of your wrath will be full. And Lord, we pray that you might loosen our tongues to spread this good news. To tell the world that there is hope. But it's not found in uh political leaders It's found in Jesus Christ and in Christ alone. In his glorious name we pray. Amen. Would you stand with me and let's prepare for the Lord's Supper by singing Alas and Did My Savior bleed 195.