First Corinthians chapter two beginning in verse six. Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom Although it is not a wisdom of this age, or of the rulers of this age, who are doomed to pass away. But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory. None of the rulers of this age understood this, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory But, as it is written, what no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love Him These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person which is in him? So also, no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit of the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given to us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one For who is who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God indeed. You may be seated. Let's open this time with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we know from what we've already seen in this book that you work not in ways that the world would expect oftentimes. You do not choose to communicate the gospel any other way except what Paul says, but by the foolishness of preaching. And so, Lord, as I come before you to preach your word to your people, Lord, as weak as I can be, I pray, Lord, that you would prove your strength through my weakness. That you would take your word, and that you would write it on the hearts of your people. And as this passage tells us, O Lord, that you would give us of your spirit, That we might have open eyes to see, open ears to hear, minds to understand, and hearts to receive. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, we come back into this book of 1 Corinthians, this time chapter 2 in the Middle to the end, looking as Paul deals with a church as we've seen with many problems. This is a church that has been divided over this, that, and the other, and Paul is in the midst of explaining to them and dealing with the aspect of their Christian life that they would take pride in, and that is the things that they know, the things that they understand. You remember back in chapter 1, verse 22, for Jews demand signs, and Greeks seek wisdom. These Corinthians living in a Greco-Roman world, being Gentiles, being the inheritors and the heirs of Greek philosophical intellectual tradition culturally uh would have really prized wisdom and understanding the mysteries of God And yet Paul continues on humbling them as he's done before. In fact, we can actually see if we Wanted to put some checkpoints on where some key ideas are that we've seen up to this point. I would probably point your attention to chapter 1, verse 30, highlighting Christ and his work And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness. and sanctification and redemption. And then verse 31, so that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. It wasn't because of their intellectual prowess, their intelligence. It wasn't because of their gifting or their noble birth or physical strength or anything like that that God worked in them. It was because of Christ. who is their wisdom, their sanctification, their redemption, and their righteousness. I would also point you to what we saw last week. This is another kind of high point in Paul's argument. In chapter 2, verse 2. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. And we explored what that looked like and what that entailed last week. We jump into the middle of his argument, which continues forward, and I would summarize our passage this morning in verses 6. Through 16 this way. We understand the wisdom of God and the gospel through the ministry of the Holy Spirit and by having the mind of Christ. If you're visiting with us this morning or you're not accustomed to how we do things here, you can see on page 5 the sermon idea right there under the end of our liturgy. But I'll repeat that because that's what we want to unpack this morning together. We understand the wisdom of God in the gospel through two things. Through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And by having the mind of Christ. Let's unpack that. We see in verses 6-13, understanding comes through the Holy Spirit. Understanding comes through the Holy Spirit. Look at me again at verses 6 and 7. We see that this is wisdom hidden from the world. Notice what he says in verse 6. He talks about imparting a wisdom that does not pass away. He says, yet among the mature we do impart wisdom. Although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age who are doomed to pass away. Again, to understand where he's getting at here, that word yet implies that something was said that sounds contrary in the previous verse. In verse 5 So that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. That might lead the reader to assume in Corinth that wisdom has nothing to do with anything, and yet that's Not the case. In verse 6, we do impart a wisdom, and he tells us a few things about this wisdom Now, what is it about this wisdom that he speaks about? Well, first notice what he says. It is not a wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of the age. Notice what he does and how he makes his argument there. He doesn't begin by telling you first what it is, he tells you first what it is not. Just so he gets that out of the way. Theologians call that arguing through negation. He tells you two things it is not. Now in both cases, whether we're talking about wisdom of this age or wisdom or of the rulers of this age, He's addressing where the Corinthians might make a mistake and assume that this wisdom comes from. It doesn't come from these two sources. It doesn't come from this age or the rulers. What does he mean by age? That would be really important for us to understand if we really want to know what he's talking about here. Most of us, when we think of age, we think of some kind of time frame. You know, people with older people when I was a kid would tell me, you know, in my day it's like saying in my age, right? In my day we used to walk to school uphill both ways, barefooted in the snow. You kids don't realize how easy you have it, right? You would think of like your day and your age um as referring to simply the time frame. And yet the way that Paul uses that here, the Greek word ionos is is a little more than just time. and actually refers to the whole system of how this world works All of its functions between the fall and between uh eternity, everything in the middle, the way that this world works, Everything that that natural man assumes wisdom to function like. Think of political power. Um you've heard the phrase might makes right. That often is how the world seems to function. Paul is essentially saying, look, the wisdom that we are proclaiming does not come from the way that this world works. The whole system. Political power, think of intellectual, uh, philosophical worldviews, none of that has anything to do With how wisdom works that we are proclaiming. It doesn't come from that. It doesn't originate in anything worldly. Why can't the gospel come from the world? Well, why is that true? Well, notice what he says about this. He says about these things, these are doomed to pass away. What's doomed to pass away specifically? Well notice, I think what he's talking about there is the rulers of this age are those who are passing away. The verb there is passive. It's a passive participle. It implies that this world system is now fallen. It is part of a fallen world, and it is passing away with all of its power dynamics. Everything about how the way that this world works, the way that this world suppresses the truth in unrighteousness I mean that is what the Apostle Paul says in Romans chapter one verse eighteen. After talking about how the gospel comes through faith and he is not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power to save He then turns around in the very next verse and says, But the wrath of God, the judgment of God, is revealed against all unrighteousness. Why? Because the world in its unrighteousness suppresses the truth. All of that is passing away. All of worldly power, the things that people put their pride in, is passing away. You remember what Jesus said when he was on trial with the with Pontius Pilate? They were talking about the nature of his kingdom. Are you a king? Rome did not tolerate rivals. And remember what Jesus said, my kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom was of this world. My followers would have been fighting so that I would not have been handed over to the Jews who then handed me over to you What's Jesus' point? The way the gospel works, the way the kingdom functions, the kingdom of heaven does not function according to the rules and the mechanisms of this world, this fallen world order. And Paul tells us why, because it is passing away. If the gospel originated from human understanding or from human political power structures, then it would not have any true spiritual lasting or eternal value. That's what he's getting at. And there's something more that we can discern from these words. If this age is already passing away Then it stands to reason that a new age has dawned and is breaking into this present age. Theologians call this the already and the not yet. Christ is already on the throne. He's already seated in power and authority, as Paul tells us at the end of Ephesians chapter 1 in verses 20. He's seated above all heavenly powers and principalities, and all things are being put under his feet. And yet, the author of Hebrews will tell us in Hebrews chapter 2 that despite that being true, we don't yet see that fully realized with our eyes, right? This world is still existing. We still deal with pain and tears and sorrows. But this world is passing away. And so if Paul does not offer anything that's passing away with this present age, because what he's offering is from a different age, what does he offer? Well look at verse 7. You see kind of a contrast here. Now he answers in the positive. Now that we know what he's not offering, we see what he is offering in verse 7. But we impart a secret And hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory. This is a complete contrast of everything you just said in verse 6. And when he says that the wisdom of the gospel is a hit is a secret and hidden wisdom of God, he is highlighting that contrary to wisdom coming from the world or from rulers or power structures And politics rooted here, it comes from God in Christ. God is the source. And by the way, that's one of the reasons I chose Proverbs chapter 9 to read in our Old Testament scripture reading. You can summarize verse 10. How is wisdom defined there? Right? The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord and the knowledge of the Holy One. By the way, that's not just intellectual knowledge. That is relational knowledge. Knowledge of the Holy One brings insight. You can see Paul's understanding of knowledge coming from the Lord as its source fully consistent with the Old Testament concept of wisdom. You remember Solomon, the one who was known for wisdom, asked the Lord for wisdom in 2 Kings chapter 2, because he said, I am young and inexperienced, O Lord. How am I supposed to to be king and rule and govern this great people of yours? Some of the wisest people are some of the most humble, because they realize what they don't know. And they turn to the Lord to find it. Paul tells us here that the wisdom of the gospel is something that God ordains before the ages. In other words, before creation. The way we talk about that today, we would typically say that the gospel is something that God ordained and planned to carry out in eternity past. And since the plan of the gospel and how God would redeem a fallen humanity for Himself has its origin in eternity past , It is impossible to say that it comes from this world or even that it's something that man invented And the fact that it was hidden from natural man shows the wisdom of God in his redemptive activity in the gospel is hidden from the world. He says also in in uh Ephesians chapter 3, that the inclusion of the Gentiles as part of what the gospel would accomplish as it works itself out as God calls Many from every tribe, nation, language, and people to come in and become one body in Christ. That was unknown. That was a mystery before Christ. He says, but now it has been revealed to you through the ministry of the apostles and the prophets. And so this is a wisdom that transcends the ages that is coming to us But that's not all. Look what it says in verses 8-10. We see that this is also a wisdom that no man has imagined. It's not just that it was hidden from the world, it's that no man could have possibly come up with this. He comes back to the ignorance of the rulers of this age in verse 8, saying, none of the rulers of this age understood this. For if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Who are those rulers specifically that he's talking about? Well, I think historically we can make the argument that those rulers are Pontius Pilate, King Herod, and the Jewish religious leaders of Paul's day and Jesus' day. Why do I say that? How did I come to that conclusion, you might ask? Well, in Psalm chapter 2, verses 1 through 3, you've probably heard it said, you know, why do the nations rage? Why do the peoples plot in vain, O Lord? And he goes on to say, what they're doing, how they rebel against the Lord and his Messiah. Well in Acts chapter 4, verses 27 to 28 The early Christians, after suffering a wave of persecution, are praying together, gathered together, and that psalm is on their lips. And as they pray that psalm, they conclude this. They say this to the Lord, for truly in this city, that's Jerusalem, there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, to do what? To do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. That's interesting. They List those three parties. Herod certainly wanted to see Jesus for some time. We know that from the gospel accounts. And finally, when he meets Jesus at his trial at the end of his life, Jesus says nothing to him. does not impress Herod, and Herod sends him off to Pilate to be crucified. Pilate also didn't understand What was going on? I mean he understood there was jealousy between the Jewish religious leaders and Jesus, but he didn't really know what God was doing. And you know that because Finally, Pilate gets to the point in John 18, 38, when Jesus is on trial before him. They're talking about truth, and finally Pilate just looks at him and says, What is truth? The rulers of this age, Pilate did not understand. And the Jewish religious leaders, they I think they did understand what Jesus was claiming. And I think they understood the implications of those claims more than his disciples did, surprisingly. But they really didn't understand the idea of a suffering Messiah. They thought the Messiah was going to come. He was going to be like David. He was going to throw off the Romans militarily and establish a physical kingdom in which they would be at the top. But you remember in John chapter 11, verses 49 to 52, the high priest Caiaphas told the other religious leaders, he says this in quote, You know nothing at all. Kind of ironic. Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole not that the whole nation should perish You know what John followed that up by saying? John says, writes that he did not say this on his own accord. But being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. Isn't that interesting? Pilate essentially, or not Pilate, Caiaphas essentially preaches the gospel to the other religious leaders, not knowing that he's preaching the gospel because he didn't understand. That's exactly what Paul is telling us here. Had they understood it, they would not have crucified. Notice how he describes that, the Lord of glory. What a title for Jesus. They couldn't understand, which is why Paul quotes from Isaiah 64, 4 in verses 9, and then teases out the implication of that in verse 10. No man imagined what God was doing, and you can put that in the present. No man has imagined what God is currently doing. There's a pattern here. Notice what he says in verse 9, but as it is written, what no eye has seen, what no ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him. What's going on there? Well, Paul quotes that to establish a pattern that God's redemptive work for his people is beyond the imagination even of his people. What's the context there? When we look at these Old Testament quotes, it is often helpful to identify the passage, understand what was going on, and then see how it's being used. The passage we already said is Isaiah 64, 4. What's going on there? Well, in in the context of that passage in the Old Testament, the prophet is saying, he begins that chapter by praying for God's mercy. He asks God, rend the heavens and come down and redeem us. He's speaking as a people who are being besieged, likely by the Babylonians in that case, and God is judging their sin, and yet they're crying out for mercy. And when he's thinking about God rending the heavens and coming down, he uses a lot of this language that would have elicited the memory of God coming down on Mount Sinai after having saved his people from Egypt. What they didn't realize is that God was indeed going to come down, but he wasn't going to come down the same way he came down in the Old Testament at Mount Sinai. He was going to come down in the person of his Son, the second person of the Trinity, Jesus Christ, the Word made flesh, and dwelt among us Being born in the likeness of human flesh, as Paul says in Philippians 2, 8 and 9. No man could have put that together. No man would have guessed that that was how God was going to rend the heavens and come down for the salvation of his people. And do you know what the salvation of his people would would usher forth into? Isaiah 65, particularly verse 17 and following. The new heavens and the new earth. They're going into exile, but they're going to be restored, and God is going to recreate his people and recreate all things and bless them. Wiping every tear from their eyes, as we see in Revelation chapter twenty-one What's really interesting here is how Paul uses that. He's just simply highlighting the point that, look, the way God worked in the past, no one could have possibly understood or guessed how it was going to happen, and that was true of Jesus. But it's also true of us as we look forward to the hope that God lays before us. As as certain as Jesus Christ calling the nations and saving them, the point is that we cannot possibly understand how good it will be when God finally completes all of his redemptive work in the new heavens and the new earth. Why? Because if we're just focusing on the wisdom that we have rooted in this life and how this life works, all we know is this life and this existence in a fallen world. All we know is sin. All we know is brokenness. All we know is pain. Can we even imagine a life without that in any meaningful fashion? I don't think so. We have no point of reference. And so what Paul is telling us here is, just as God uh worked in a manner in Christ Jesus at the cross in a way that no man would have understood or imagined or put together or made that up. So also can we not understand the hope that is laid before us in any comprehensive way. It is so good you can't even imagine it right now, is what he's getting at. That's why he concludes the idea in verse 10. These things God has revealed to us, this is the clincher , through the Spirit. That's where the wisdom of God comes from, ultimately, and how it's communicated. It's communicated through the Spirit. Notice what he says in verses 11 through 13, wisdom is revealed by the Spirit. That's what he's getting across. Look at verse 11 again. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Notice what he does there. He just draws a similarity. We are made in the image of God, so if we know things a certain way, we know about God a certain way. And then he comforts the Corinthian believers. Now we have received Not the spirit of this world, but the spirit who is from God. Why? For what result? Look at what he says to finish that sentence. That we might understand the things freely given to us by God. And then he essentially follows up how he begins in verse 13. Circling around to what he said in verse 6, they're saying we impart this wisdom from God, not in words taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit. So the question as we look at this, how does the Holy Spirit's role in enlightening our eyes to spiritual truth today edify us? How does it build hope? Well, I think if we're looking to apply this, the idea is this. The Holy Spirit enlightening our eyes brings confidence. in what we believe. And it even shapes the hope that we have as Christians today. Now think about that. His role in enlightening our eyes should bring two things. Humility and confidence. And I want to just submit to you the idea that those two things are not mutually exclusive but complementary. Humility And confidence. What do I mean by each? Well, when we talk about humility, it reminds us that we would not understand the gospel, that God's word, and that God's word would make no sense to us if it were not for the ministry of the Holy Spirit. There have been times I've shared the gospel with people over the years. For some, it's made a lot of sense to them, and they've come to Christ. I if I'm honest, I'd have to say for many more, it seems to me like as I'm talking, it's almost like I'm talking in a language they don't understand. Look at me like I have three heads. I don't get it. Why not? Because this is not dependent on human understanding. A person is only going to understand if the Holy Spirit opens their eyes to understand. And you and I were once blind and deaf to spiritual things. Now I I came to faith as at a very young age, but I don't really remember this. Uh there was an a lady in the church I grew up in who has now since passed away, but I remember visiting her probably fifteen years ago before she died, and I mean she saw me grow up. And she saw me get very serious about my faith and see the Lord get a hold of me at twenty years old in college and saw the transformation that that brought. And I remember when she She said to me one time, I remember when you were a teenager, like 14, 15, 16, oh man, you used to hate being in church. And that was true. I felt like my parents had to drag me to church every Sunday. And she's like, you you didn't it was so obvious you didn't want to be there. You would during the fellowship time in the fellowship hall You wouldn't really interact or socialize with anyone. You kind of went in a corner, grabbed a Bible, and just sat by yourself and read it. And she said, I I asked you one time, you know, what are you reading? And you said, I don't know. I I don't I'm reading it, but I I don't really get it. At some point, all of us are spiritually blind and deaf to spiritual truth. Until, that is, the Holy Spirit moves in our hearts. The passage that Isaiah quotes in verse 9 about how no eye has seen, what no ear has heard, what no heart has imagined. That speaks to the spiritual condition of every single one of us without the Holy Spirit. Now I didn't mention this When I was explaining the Isaiah passage in context, when it talks about how no eye is seen, no ear is heard, no no heart has understand uh understood or imagined what God has in store. for his people. What you need to understand is that that goes back to Isaiah chapter 6 when God calls the prophet and says, You're going to keep on preaching and speaking to them. They are not going to understand. They're not going to listen to you. They're not going to respond. Why? Because having eyes, they do not see. Having ears, they do not hear. Lest they turn and I heal them. What a judgment And yet in Christ, and through the power of the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters, it is God through his Holy Spirit who takes away the blinders. and allows us to see, takes what stops up our ears, and allows us to hear the spiritual truth in the gospel. Let none of us in this room attribute to our own intelligence or skill or anything else than the Holy Spirit the fact that we have come to faith in Christ. Because part of God's judgment is a lack of understanding his word. Mark that clear. I've already mentioned Romans chapter 1, verse 18, that God has revealed from heaven his wrath against all unrighteousness because They have suppressed the truth in their unrighteousness. Do you know where that cycle of sin and depravity ends in Romans chapter 1 verse 28? Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. Look at the world around us. You try to reason with somebody. You see how debased their mind really is. And you know what? So go I apart from the grace of God. If it wasn't for the Holy Spirit, none of us in this room would understand. Why is this pertinent to us today at Liberty Church? Liberty Church, part of the PCA. Liberty Church, this is a confessional church that is reformed in its theology. How is this pertinent to us? You know, sadly, when many of us discover the riches of reformed theology in the depths of God's Word, it is so easy for us to fall into pride. It is so easy for us to go through what people kind of mockingly call the cage stage Calvinism. And you know the sad thing is a lot of times we deserve that moniker. I know I did at one point. It's easy for us to go around correcting, fighting with everybody about everything we're learning and acting as if we have some special knowledge that we've come upon because somehow we're special and we're more intelligent than anyone else. Rather, the truth of this passage is that it's the Holy Spirit who opens the hearts, opens the minds to understand and receive God's word and the gospel. Shouldn't that lead us to humility? Shouldn't that lead us to humility rather than pride and arrogance? And if we're prideful this morning, if any of you are prideful this morning, consider this. Your call to repent and to trust in the finished work of Christ. But humility is not exclusive of confidence, is it? The way that this builds confidence is by calling us, again, not to trust in our own understanding, but trusting in the Spirit to open our hearts and minds as He transforms us. As you learn, as you grow, as you read God's word, as you pray over it, as you meditate over it, as God opens your eyes to see new things That should give you confidence that the Holy Spirit is indeed working in your heart and in your life. And that what you know from God's word is not just based on your own subjective understanding or your own opinion. It is based upon the objective standard of God's word resting on the objective work of the Spirit in your life to understand. It is so frustrating, isn't it? When you try to talk to someone, sometimes other Christians, and they will just simply smugly and glibly look at you and smirk and tell you, well that's just your opinion. Well, that's just your interpretation. No, not really. I would venture to say most of the stuff I believe from God's Word, I didn't come up with. And I'm not the only one who thinks that. There have been people who've been thinking that long before I was even born. No, that's the work of the Spirit. It should build confidence in us. But it's not only the mind, is it, that the Spirit affects? The Holy Spirit's role in enlightening our eyes should shape our hope as Christians. And I'm going to pull that last part of that Old Testament quote from verse 9, the final clause, what God has prepared for those who love Him. I want to pull that out. Now certainly that and highlight that for just a moment. Now This does, of course, include the gospel message of how people get saved. I mean, look at every other religion in the world. I mean, every single one of them has some works-based salvation that is concocted. Christianity, biblical Christianity is the only one that is different. No one could would make that up. But the application here that I want to highlight here is the principle of what God has yet prepared that we have not seen. Many of you know, if you've been around Liberty Church for some time, at least this year, we've had several people this year pass away in our church. By my count, seven. Seven people passed away. We we had one funeral. Many of you know or have knew Elaine Cohen. Many of you have known her for many years. Because there were many of you at her funeral on Friday this week. I didn't know her as well as you, but I got to know her uh by visiting her the last two years every so often. And every time I do a funeral or go to a funeral for a believer, More often than not, when I'm sitting there in the funeral service, I'm wondering the person that we're remembering today. What are they experiencing in this very moment in glory while I sit here? And that's sound morbid, but there are thoughts that cross my mind like, I wish I wasn't here. I wish I was in glory. Uh because you start thinking like the gl just the majesty, the glory, the awesomeness of what they are experiencing. Can you imagine being in a relationship with all these people around you and you don't have sin in your own heart plaguing you and you know they don't have sin and their hearts plaguing them any longer? Can you imagine how amazing that fellowship must be, how amazing the worship must be with the Lord Jesus on the throne right in front of you Well, I don't know if you'd be right in front of me, I'd probably be in the back, but But you get the points like it it's just no eye has seen, no ear has heard. Even Paul, when he talks about his own revelations and visions, um in Second Corinthians chapter two, uh chapter twelve, excuse me. He's talking about I was taken up into the third paradise, and I heard things that it is not lawful to speak about. Why? How do you put into words what you see in glory? The work of the Spirit, brothers and sisters, we know some things about glory because we're told a few things in the Word. But really it's the Holy Spirit working in the Word in the name of Christ to glorify Christ that is meant to whet the appetite of our hope to spend eternity with Christ. I want to just encourage you this morning. None of you has any idea how good it's going to be when you finally get there. And I want you to rejoice in that this morning. And that leads us to our second point, which is a shorter point here, because it's only verses 14 to 16, but Such is understanding through the Holy Spirit, it's understanding with the mind of Christ, and this certainly affects us now. Again, he does what he did in verses 6 and 7. He talks about the negative part first and then the positive part. So the negative part, he talks about the natural person in relation to spiritual things in verse 14. Take a look at that. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for their folly to him or foolishness to him. And he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. Why is it that n a natural person when he's talking about a natural person, a person who is described By this world, a fleshly person, there's another way to say that. Why is it that a natural person cannot understand spiritual things? Well, one, they have no way of thinking through and discerning spiritual things because they're worldly and the Holy Spirit needs to enlighten them, and they don't have the Holy Spirit, and so they're They are limited to the wisdom of this world. Now it's interesting, even though Paul is writing to those who profess Christ here, He says this, if you just take a look a few verses later, chapter 3, verse 1, but I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. Now, a world a natural or worldly person and a person of the flesh, I mean those are different words, but it's really the same concept. And he's writing to the Corinthians, he's talking to them about natural people because they're acting like natural people. They're not acting like spiritual people. And so he's telling them, look, if you're going to act natural, that's an indicator that you may not have the spirit to discern spiritual things, is what he's telling them. Now that's a tough pill to swallow and to listen to if you're on the receiving end of that, but look, how does this relate to what's going on? Because they're acting fleshly. Because they don't understand spiritual things, they're dividing over stupid things they shouldn't be dividing over. Right? But he contrasts that in verses 15 to 16, the spiritual person in spiritual things. Notice what he says in those verses. The spiritual person judges all things, but it is himself judged by no one. For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. First thing I we have to ask in order to tease out what he means here is what does he mean by believers judging all things? The word he uses here for judge can be rendered or translated, investigate, examine, inquire into something, scrutinize, sift, question, interrogate. It assumes an entire process and a lot of intentional thought that is given to something. You know what he's saying essentially? Christians, you are to be thinking, critical, and judging people. Notice I didn't say cynical, I said critical. There's a difference. Being critical takes analytical thought. Being cynical just requires being a jerk. But what is he calling on to judge? All things. Don't miss that. Now he doesn't say judge all peoples. Just judge all things. That's also really important. And the reason that he's saying this, think about again the world that the Corinthians are living in, the Greco-Roman world, there's all kinds of philosophical ideologies. We've met the Epicureans and the Stoics in the Book of Acts. There's all kinds of philosophical ideas. There's all kinds of false teaching. Do you realize that there is only one book in the whole New Testament that doesn't deal with false teaching It was a problem. It continues to be a problem. They had all kinds of pagan religions and related ideas that threatened To call the hearts and the minds of the Corinthians away from the simple gospel of Jesus Christ And by the way, sometimes those influences can be very subtle and very deceptive. This is why Paul will say in 2 Corinthians 11, 14 and 15, and no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. So it is no surprise if his servants also disguising themselves as servants of righteousness, their end will correspond to their deeds. And in context there, he was talking about false teachers. So Paul is explaining the need for Christians to be thinking, for them to be, if you don't like the word judging, let me give you a different word. It starts with a D, discerning. Discerning. Be discerning is what he's telling them. And we have to remember that discernment is a form of judgment. Don't miss that. Okay, so how does the mind of Christ then affect the way that Christians are to work through division and seek unity in the body of Christ today? How does it apply to us living today? Well, it's simple. Having the mind of Christ affects us by calling us to be discerning as God's people in an unbelieving world. I want you to think about this call to be discernment discerning for just a moment. That opposes flatly And very directly, the values and the worldview and the message of the world around us We are told constantly by the world not to judge. In the world today Judgment or being judgmental is the gravest sin, according to the secular elites and the wisdom of this world. And why is that? Because there is an implicit assumption in this world that every single human being is autonomous and they can determine for themselves and declare what is real, what is true, and what is morally right and wrong. It's idolatry. And it's blasphemy. That's what it is. And yet that that is the position that the world fundamentally assumes without argument. So to tell anyone that they're wrong or that they're doing something wrong is tantamount to violating their autonomy. You're judging them. That's the way the world thinks. And yet, our passage tells us that it should be normal for Christians to judge. Verse 15. The spiritual person judges all things. But what about Jesus, you might ask? Pastor Aaron, have you forgotten what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7, verse 1? He's very clear, do not judge, that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce, you will be judged. With the measure you use it, it will be measured to you Every time the secular world throws that in a Christian's face, it tends to silence the Christian. Um and they do it because whatever Christians talk about oftentimes brings conviction in their hearts and consciences and they don't want to deal with that. The question is, doesn't Jesus' words here contradict what Paul says? Paul's saying Christians be judging people. Jesus says, do not judge. What do you do about this? Well, really quickly, when Jesus says not to judge, he's talking about pronouncing the final judgment on someone as if you are God. One is to help a brother with the moral speck in his eye only after dealing with the log in one's own eye. Paul's not talking about that. Well Paul is talking about here when he's talking about judge all things. We're called to judge ideas, arguments, perspectives, opinions, worldviews. We're not judging people. We're judging ideas. And that's where spiritual warfare happens. We're called to be people Like Paul says in 2 Corinthians 10 verses 3 through 5, he writes, For though we walk in the flesh, we're not waging war according to the flesh. The weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but of divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy, note well, arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God. and take every thought captive to obey Christ. You know what the difference between what Jesus is saying and what Paul is saying is? When Jesus says don't judge That kind of judgment implies that the discussion is over, that person is condemned, and there's no hope for redemption. Right. Paul's not talking about that here. He's talking about dealing with ideas. And brothers and sisters, do not let the world strip you of what God has called you to. When they attempt to shame you as being judgmental, when you are being discerning, you are called to be discerning. And just as there were any number of worldview and philosophical ideas that sought to seduce the Corinthians away from Christ and the gospel, how much more do you think that that's true today? How much more do you think that's true today? There are all kinds of things that will seek to lead your hearts away from the simplicity of the gospel. The application here is very simple. Christian, be discerning. Measure all things by the standard of God's holy, inspired And an errant word. Because that is the only infallible rule that we have for faith and life. And it brings us right back to the main idea, doesn't it? We understand the wisdom of God and the gospel through the ministry of the Holy Spirit, who takes his word, writes it on our hearts, and by having the mind of Christ. so that we might discern truth from error living in a spiritually defiled world. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today. We are thankful, O Lord, for your word. We know That this does not come from us. It is not true just because I say it's true. It's true objectively. And we are so dependent upon your Holy Spirit to open our eyes. But Lord, we pray now the promise of the new covenant that you will take your word and that you will put it in our minds and you will write it on our hearts. Lord, we pray this morning. I pray for each person here that they would be renewed or transformed by the renewal of their mind, which is the power of the Holy Spirit in their lives. Lord, we pray that you would put your seal of approval on your word in our hearts and lives this week. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.