Thank you, choir. Beloved, if you have your Bibles with you Turn to Ephesians two, and we'll be reading from verses eleven to twenty-two this morning. And children are dismissed for children's church. Let's hear God's word from Ephesians two, verse eleven. Paul writes Therefore, remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands, That at that time you were without Christ , being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise Having no hope and without God in the world. But now, in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off Have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who made both one. and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is the law of the commandments contained in the ordinances, so as to create in himself One new man from the two, thus making peace. And he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross thereby putting to death the enmity. And he came and he preached peace to you who were far off, and to those who are near. And through him, we both have the access by one Spirit to the Father. Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the chief cornerstone. in whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. Let's pray. O Father God, how we thank you that you are indeed our Heavenly Father, and that your Spirit dwells within each of us. And so we pray, Lord, that your spirit now would move in a powerful way in our hearts and amongst us, that you would teach us what you would have to say to us today. We thank you for the blessing of your word and for the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. Amen. I don't know many Latin phrases, just a few, I think. Etu brutus. You too, Brutus, that's an easy one. Caesar's famous last words recorded in Shakespeare's play about him. And I know E. Plorbus Unum Out of the many, one. And that phrase was a phrase chosen by Charles Thompson, who commissioned, who was commissioned to design our nation seal by Congress on June 13. 1782. Now if you still carry currency in your pocket and you don't just use a debit card You will find that on our coins and bills this phrase, e. poribus unum, out of the many, one. And I'm sure the founders thought it a fitting motto for our nation as thirteen separate and diverse colonies joined together to form a new nation. Out of the many, one. And yet I doubt that our founding fathers could ever imagine the depth and breadth of what that motto would eventually mean. That as a century later, people of every nation, tribe, and tongue would stream to America's shores, seeking a new life, as Lady Liberty beckoned to them. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuge of your teeming shore, send these. The homeless tempest toss to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door And on Ellis Island, from the time it opened on January 1, 1892, to the time it closed on November 12, 1954, over 12 million immigrants had been processed. The peak year at Ellis Island for immigration was the year 1907. That year, over 1,04 ,000 immigrants were processed. People who were poor, people who were oppressed, and willing to leave their own homeland to make a new home in a land where the many become one. And on this Memorial Day weekend, when we honor those who died over the centuries for our nation and for the liberties that we enjoy, whose ultimate sacrifice made possible for us to be a united nation, we see in this passage that we've read today that the concept one out of the many is not unique to our nation at all. But we find that Paul, writing to Gentile believers in Ephesus, wanted to highlight this very unique essential quality of God's people. E. ploribus unum, out of the many, one. And Paul helps his Gentile readers who understand this essential quality by first reminding them of what they had been given. Paul wants to instill in them an attitude of gratitude, to remind them of how far they've come and what they've received. In verses 8 and 10, he reminds them of the central core truth of the gospel, which they've embraced. He repeats to them what they've already heard before, what they've come to know. In verse 8, that they have been saved by grace alone. Through faith alone, that God's mercy to them was totally undeserved, and that they had nothing to boast or to brag about at all, except in what God had done for them In giving them the gift of salvation which they had received with empty hands and an open heart. And this was not only true for them But it is true of anyone who professes and possesses Christ, whether they be Jew or Gentile. But But for the Gentile, the grace of God has another dimension to it. They have received a double blessing. And Paul wants to impress upon them how far they have come by reminding them of what they once were without. Kind of like my mother would do with us kids growing up. She grew up in the depression. And she would tell us how she wore old shoes to school that didn't fit if she had shoes. And she would often say how she would go to bed hungry at night because there was no dinner. And why did she do that? To impress upon us, her kids, how much we had been blessed. Well, Paul is doing the same thing here. He is reminding the Gentiles of what they didn't have to help them appreciate even more what they now possess. And in verse 12 he says, You Gentiles were without Christ. You were totally, completely cut off from all the blessings that the Jewish people had as a nation set apart and under his mighty hand. And as American Express tells us, membership has its privileges. They were not members, so the God's covenant community. Since they were apart from God's covenant community, they had no privileges. And Paul in Romans 9, verses 4 and 5, lists some of those privileges the Jews had as his people. Theirs was the adoption as sons. Theirs was seeing the glory of God. Theirs was the covenants and the giving of the law and the worship and the promises. And the Gentiles had none of these blessings. Not one. As Isaiah 9. 2 says, they were a people walking in darkness. They were totally blind. and completely unaware of the blessings they were missing, which the Jews had as God's covenant people. They were even ignorant of the promises that pertained to them. In the covenant that God had made to Abraham, when he said to Abraham in Genesis 12, 3, Abraham, through your seed, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. But none of them knew of it. And so Paul says they were a people who were once without hope and without God in the world, without hope. And without God in the world. Beloved, do not those words ring true today? Are we not surrounded by people who are walking in darkness? without hope and without God in the world. Well, we rub shoulders with them every day, do we not? At work, in the classroom, or waiting in line for our lattes or for our groceries. People who seem to function quite well until disaster strikes And when a death affects them, and then they have no answers for life's most perplexing questions People who get their tips for successful living from Yahoo are from the latest self-help book on Amazon. But the foundation they are standing on is nothing but sand. And when the storms of tragedy strike, they are washed away. I was talking recently to a Christian counselor, and she remarked to me how painfully hard it is and sad it is to try and counsel unbelievers. Because they have no framework, they have no source of strength apart from their own and to deal with their issues. And she said that, and she has said what many of you may have said at one time or another, I don't know how people get through these things without the Lord. I recently saw a German movie which made that point all too clear. In the movie, an elderly man loses his wife. And after the funeral, his first night alone, he lays in bed without her for the first time in decades. And it's so amazing what he does. He lays out her robe that she always wore. He lays it out next to him as if she were in it. But it's empty. And as the dark night envelops the room, he cries out, Trudy, where are you? Where? Well, Paul reminds the Gentiles, you were without hope, and you were without God. And but for the grace of God, we would be in that same awful place. Had God not shined the light of his gospel upon our souls, we would be walking in darkness too. And tomorrow, if we were without God and without hope, we would fire up our grills and flip our burgers and drink our iced tea and say with sadness, let us eat. and drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die. With no hope of anything more than this world and this day. That would have been us. And it would have been the Ephesians, except for these two wonderful, glorious words, these two words that Paul writes to them, but now. But now, these two glorious words are the hinge pin which separates us from darkness and doom and brings us light and life. But now, Paul says in verse 13, but now in Christ Jesus, which by which he means in your union with Christ. By identifying with him, by putting your total trust in him as your Savior, you and Christ, who were once far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ. This simple verse is but shorthand for what Paul describes in his other epistles. From what we've read this morning in Colossians 1 20 through 22, the Father has reconciled all things to himself through Christ, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of cr of the cross. And you who were once alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works Yet now he has reconciled in his body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. And in Romans five ten, for if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son How much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And what is Paul saying here? He's saying, what you Gentiles have experienced is absolutely remarkable. For you were once enemies of God, hostile to him. But now, now, but now you can draw near to him. How? Because Christ Our sinless Savior, acting as our substitute, took upon himself the judgment for our sin, which separated us from a holy God. He paid the full penalty for what you deserved, and because of his death, all of your sins, all of your sins and the condemnation for them have been washed away at Calvary's cross. so that we could sing my sin not in part, but the whole is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my soul. It is well with my soul. It is well with my soul. Because we have peace with God. And that's what he says in verse 14, for Christ is our peace. Wow. Beloved, this is what we all have as believers in Christ. Peace with God. No more fear of condemnation. No wrath, but welcoming arms, no darkness, but delight, no judgment, but now eternal glory. And if that were not enough, if that were not enough, it gets even better. Not only do we find peace on the vertical plane with our Creator But we also find peace on a horizontal plane. Notice what he says in verse 14, for he himself is our peace. Who has made the two, Jew and Gentile, one? Sound familiar? E. Pluribus Unum, out of the many, one. Now, if you were a Gentile, if you were a Gentile Ephesian reading this for the first time , You would be completely bowled over because what Paul writes here is utterly fantastic. It's amazing. We can't even put it into words. It's beyond the realm of natural human experience Jew and Gentile? One? How can that be? Because the Jews and the Gentiles, they hated each other. For centuries, their animosity ran as deep as the Mediterranean Sea. And Paul hints at this in verse 11 when he alludes to some derogatory name-calling. Jews called the Gentiles the U -word, the uncircumcision , and they viewed them as moral degenerates. They wouldn't eat with them. They wouldn't go into their homes for fear of being defiled by them. Their hatred for Gentiles was legend. An ancient historian remarked, the Jews regarded the rest of mankind with all the hatred of enemies. They felt morally superior because they were God's chosen people, his covenant people who had been blessed to have his law and his word. But If the Jews felt superior to the Gentiles and patronized them, well, I'm sure the Gentiles gave as good as they got. They thought that they were more cosmopolitan. Oh, we have art and we have culture and we have philosophy. And what do you Jews have? Strange religious rights, you circumcision people? So who is really superior here? Come on, let's be real. We pagans occupy your property. That pitiful small stamp of a nation you call Israel, well guess who runs it? Who's got their thumb on it? But the Romans, the pagans. And Paul pictures this division, this animosity and hostility so vividly in verse 14. As he says, the middle wall, a separation, which Christ has broken down. The middle wall, a separation, which Christ has broken down. Now, what does he have in mind here? What is this middle wall of separation? Well, if we could go back into time and see the temple in Jerusalem, as Gentiles we wouldn't see much of it. For we would be excluded, blocked from the inner court by a massive wall, on which were signs that said, No foreigners may enter within the barrier and enclosure around the temple. Anyone who is caught doing so will only have himself to blame for his ensuing death. That's pretty separate, isn't it? Well, that wall symbolized the separation between Jew and Gentile and their hatred for one another. Yet Paul writes that dividing wall of separation has been knocked down. And how that separation ended. How were these two enemies reconciled and made one? Paul writes in verse 15. that Christ broke down the walls of hostility between Jew and Gentile by abolishing the law of commandments contained in the ordinances. Well, that's a lot there, it's a mouthful, but what is Paul talking about? What does he mean that Christ abolished the law of commandments contained in the ordinances? When we hear that, we might think that Christ, when we hear that Christ abolished the law of commandments, we might be thinking that he's referring to the moral law, the Ten Commandments. But is Paul saying that? No. The moral law, the Ten Commandments, apply to both Jew and Gentile, as Paul makes clear in Romans 2, 12 through 15. that the moral law of God is written on their hearts, and that their conscience bears witness and their thoughts alternatively accusing or defending them. So the law, the moral law, stands firm and continues throughout all time. So what is Paul referring to here? When he says the law has been abolished, he's talking about the ceremonial law. All the Old Testament regulations regarding sacrifices. dietary restrictions and rituals about cleans cleanliness. All those ceremonial laws were given by God to the nation of Israel in order to demonstrate to them his justice. His holiness and his grace, and to set them apart as God's people, apart from the pagan nations. So naturally then, the Gentiles would be excluded out of from all of those ceremonial laws. They would have nothing to do with them, nothing, not a zilch, nothing. So the ceremonial regulations were a dividing line that separated Jew from Gentile. These laws have been abolished by Christ Well, how did he abolish them? He abolished them by fulfilling them. That all of those sacrifices that the Jews had done over the centuries were but a picture of what Christ would do. As the writer of Hebrews says, out of those, those Old Testament sacrifices were but a shadow of the things to come. His death brought death to our alienation, and his brokenness broke down the barrier between us and our just God, and his death just destroyed the division between Jew and Gentile. For all those regulations and ceremonial laws which separated Gentile from Jew have been fully, completely fulfilled in Christ's one-time, final sacrifice. And being fulfilled, they were now obsolete, and were therefore no longer a barrier between two groups who hated each other Christ had destroyed the enity between them through his death, making the two one. Wow. Can we fully grasp how astounding, how amazing is the power of the gospel to bring reconciliation and unity where there was once division and hatred? against races, in homes, in marriages, in families, that those who vehemently hated one another were now united as one in a brand new identity. And in their unity, they still remained, maintained their diversity. Well, what do I mean by that? The Gentiles did not have to become like Jews. They didn't have to be circumcised. And the Jews were still Jews in their national identity. And they didn't have to become like Gentiles But they both had this new common identity. They were Christians. And that identity transcended all ethnic and racial and political and social divisions. They were a new man, as Paul writes in verse 15. And in fact, the early Christian church, the believers, described themselves as a third race. That they were neither Jew nor Greek, but a new people, Christians. And their commitment to Christ and their unity with each other was so great. That it superseded all the differences that once divided them. E. ploribus unum. Out of the many, one. Years ago, my mother was downsizing, and one day she handed me this old worn American flag. And she said to me, this flag was my father's. My grandfather was a German, and he immigrated to the United States before the First World War. And being German during the First World War, his neighbors were naturally suspicious of him. Would he be a loyal American? Can we trust him? Should we do business with him? So to show his allegiance to his new country, he flew an American flag outside his home all during World War I. And so this American flag was a symbol and a security, and it was a new identity. It communicated to my grandfather's neighbors. I may speak with a German accent. I may have been born in Germany, but America is my new homeland, and American is who I am. And this is true for us as believers, that we find our security under the flag of a greater kingdom. We pledge our allegiance under the banner of Jesus Christ our Lord, not a flag flying outside our homes. But a banner that covers our very lives. The banner of Jesus Christ, in whose kingdom we find a greater citizenship, and in whose kingdom we find a new identity, one which transcends all cultural and racial differences, where there is neither Jew nor Greek, nor slave nor free, but all are one in Christ. E. Pluribus Unum, out of the many one. Because as Paul writes, the cross destroys the enmity. Not only between us and God, but the cross destroys the enity between races and ethnic groups as we find our unity and the one who has given us liberty from sin's dominion. So the more we focus on Christ, the more we meditate on what He has done for us. That we were saved by grace alone and not of ourselves, only out of his mercy, the less we will focus on the things that can divide us. But I imagine it must have been difficult for believing Jews and Gentiles to unite. Suddenly, after all those years, after centuries of name-calling and derision and conflict. They were just simply to forget all that? And hold hands and sing kumbaya around the campfire? It must have been difficult for there to be a sense of unity between groups that had formerly known hatred and strife. Just consider the problems the early church had. No sooner had it started when conflict arose between different groups of believing Jews over the issue of meals on wheels. Luke records this in Acts 6, how the Hellenistic Jews felt discriminated against by the Hebraic Jews over the giving of meals to their widows They felt that their widows were being short-changed by the Hebraic Jews. So if that could happen in Jerusalem between believing Jews We can imagine, we can just imagine the discord and disunity that were ready to knock on the door of the Ephesians between Jews and Gentiles. So how does Paul address this issue? He does it by reminding them of the unity they have in Christ. And he does it in three ways. First, he describes them in verse 19 as fellow citizens That they were no longer strangers standing outside the gated community looking in. He says to those Gentiles, the gate's open now, come on in. You are now citizens of God's kingdom, with all the rights and the privileges of being a citizen in Christ's kingdom. You have a new birth certificate which has stamped on it your identity, Christian. And you are fellow citizens, equal in the eyes of God. Well, we can imagine what the Ephesian Gentiles might have said. Paul, that's really interesting and lovely picture there, but I know how nations work. We might all be equal, but some of us are more equal than others. And while we may inhabit the same kingdom, we really aren't united. Because one group in God's kingdom could say, hey, we want to live on this side of the tracks, and you can live on the other side of the tracks. And we'll shop at our own stores and eat at our own restaurants. And you can shop at your own stores and eat at your own restaurants, and never shall the twain meet. No, Paul. Even as a Christian, I'm afraid that I will be a second-class citizen because I'm a Gentile. And that certainly is true when we see that today in a different context in our own country, in our own nation, where the many are one. And yet, though we are one, we allow cultural and ethnic and racial and social differences to divide us. I found this out the hard way when we moved to the South where sometimes I felt like a stranger in my own country. When I was called to be an assistant pastor in Davasta, Georgia, I told one of my classmates who was from the South, he was from Atlanta, Georgia, And I said to him, Yeah, we got a call to a church in Valdasta, Georgia. And he replied, Valdasta? That's in the deep south. And he said it in a rather ominous tone. And I I brushed it off. I figured north or south, what does it matter? We're all Americans After all, all those cultural differences had been broken down through the common bond of media. We as Americans had this common connection. I Love Lucy was in syndication. There was People magazine and QVC and Oprah. So we had this common heritage. So what did it matter if I was a Yankee from the North? We could still connect. Well, while we loved the South and the people there, there were times when I felt like a foreigner, like a stranger in my own country, even on my own property. Like the day I was talking to my next door neighbor's daughter. We were standing at the fence looking out over my backyard, and in the backyard was a five-foot wooden post with chains hanging off of it It looked like some kind of instrument of medieval torture. And we had just moved in and so naturally I was wanting to know what this thing was that my for that the former owners had in their backyard. So I said to my neighbor, so what's with the post with the chains? And she replied, matter-of-factly, that's where they drain their foxes. And I said , drained their foxes? And she said, Yeah She returned in a snarky kind of teenager-y way, with a subtext that sounded something like, yeah, you idiot. Didn't you know that? Oh yeah, doesn't everyone have a post with chains in their backyard? So I replied back and I said, well, back in Philadelphia, we don't drain our dead animals in the backyard. I don't think she ever spoke to me again. It was a classic Wizard of Oz moment. I don't think we're in Pennsylvania anymore. Well, perhaps to alleviate their fears, Paul tells the Gentiles that they are more than just citizens in God's kingdom. That they are part of a household of God where there is no segregation or separation, but all Jew and Gentile alike are under the same roof. Eating at the same dining room table with the same Heavenly Father who loves each one the same way, perfectly, completely, unconditionally, and impartially. to whom we cry out with the same spirit of adoption as sons and daughters of a father. So we are one big happy family where we sing like Sister Sledge, we are family, I've got all my sisters with me. Or brothers for that matter. But you might be thinking, well, Paul, that's a lovely image to highlight the unity of the church by the image of the family. The problem is you don't know mine. It is anything but unified. Take Thanksgiving dinner, for instance, which is anything but a Norman Rockwell painting. Across from me is my cousin Joe, who every year needles me about my political views. And to my left is Aunt Clara, who is barely civil. to my Aunt Rosie who stole her high school sweetheart forty years ago and has never gotten over it. And then there's old Uncle Fred. who's at the end of the table. Old Uncle Fred is an obsessive compulsive who needs to chew every morsel of food 30 times. So by the time we're all done eating, old Uncle Fred is still working on his mashed potatoes. Thirty chews a bite. And I just want to say, Uncle Fred, can't you chew a little bit faster so that we can move on to the pumpkin pie and end this horrid meal? Family. To church as a family? Well, in my family, we don't want to break bread together. We want to break noses. Well, families feud, and there is division and strife even in the best of them. So Paul ups the ante with a final metaphor, which leaves no doubt as to the permanence and comprehensiveness of our unity, its cohesiveness, the temple. In verses 20 through 22, he says that we are like living stones of a temple with Christ. as the cornerstone, the foundation block upon whom every other stone rests and finds its alignment. And we stand on the foundation. of his word given to us through the prophets of the Old Testament and through the apostles of the New Testament. And I love how Paul puts it here. He says that we are fitted together Have you ever seen the massive stones of what is left of Herod's temple at the Wailing Wall? They're so fitted together, so intrically connected and carved together. That you cannot even get a piece of paper between them. It's almost a seamless connection. So who are we? We are God's people. That we are living stones in his heavenly temple, which he is building, and no two stones are alike. We come in different colors and sizes and from all over the world. So some are more prominent than others, but all are equally important, for without each one the temple God is building would be incomplete. And do you see what else that is amazing here? That just as his spirit filled the holy of holies in the old temple. So does his spirit now dwell in each of his children. The same spirit who changed our stony hearts and made them to be anew to Christ and his gospel is the same Spirit who unites us as one glorious church as he dwells in each of us. Well, what does Paul describe here in these few verses? He gives us his grand vision of the bride of Christ. His people, his church, which is bigger, greater than anything that we can ever dream or imagine. We see the spotless bride of Christ that she is speckled. His church is multi-hued, but radiant as his spirit dwells within us and we reflect the glory of our groom. So it is a call to unity, which Paul exhorts us in Philippians 2. 2, to make my joy complete, he says. by being what? Of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord of the same, being in full accord of one mind. And we have the same mission, Christ's co-mission, to go and make disciples of all nations. We can only wonder at the impact that the early church must have had. What amazing witness it must have been. As Gentile and Jewish believers ate together and worship together, linking arms together with the same spirit and the same mission. Singing, united we stand, divided we fall, and if our back should ever be against the wall, we'll be together, you and I People around them must have said, How can this be? And our Lord Jesus Christ, who unites us as one, would reply, You know that they are my disciples by the love they have for one another Whether we are Jew or Greek, English or French, black, white, or Asian, the bond of Christ, our Savior, unites us as fellow citizens in a family that is more enduring than stone. So this Memorial Day, we will honor those who died to secure our liberty and whose sacrifice secured our nation. But let us also every day honor a greater one whose death secured for us a greater liberty. whose battleground was the cross, and who reigns over a greater kingdom, a universal kingdom whose boundaries are boundless, and who unites the many as one. E. Torbhus Unam, other than any, one. Let's pray Oh Father God, when we read these verses, how we are just in awe of what you have done for us. That you have made peace with us through Christ, that we have been totally reconciled to Him and to you through His blood and through His death on the cross. And Lord, not only have you given us peace with you, but you have blessed us with peace with one another. That all the nations have been blessed and continue to be blessed. through our sweet Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So help us, Lord, to be of one mind, one heart, one spirit. Doing the mission that you have called us to do, to make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and teaching them to do all that our Lord commands. Oh Father, we thank you for your amazing grace. Help us to be faithful witnesses to you that as the outside world looks at our covenant community, they will say that they know. That we are yours by the love that we have for one another. We ask this in the precious name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.