If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Ephesians chapter four. We're going to be looking at verses one through sixteen. I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word We're going to read verses 1 through 16. My focus will be on verses 7 through 16 in the sermon, but I wanted to give you the context. Ephesians 4, 1 to 16. This is God's word. I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of your calling to which you have been called With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you are called to the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gifts. Therefore, it says When he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, What does it mean, but that he had also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above the heavens that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of the ministry for building up of the body of Christ. until we all attain to the unity of that faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ So that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into Him who is the head into Christ, from whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped When each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God, you may be seated. Let's pray Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we thank you again for this time that we have to be invited by you, by invitation, into your presence, O Lord, but then to sit at your feet and to hear from your word. Lord, we pray that your word would have its effect. We just read in the first part of this passage about the Spirit that has been given to us and how we all partake of that one spirit. Lord, we pray that You would make his work in our hearts and our lives manifest. Lord, that your word would be taken and written on these tablets of our hearts, that we might be changed. from the inside out, not just individually, but corporately as a church. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we come this morning to the last and final message of this five-part sermon series on our membership vows. We've been going through these now for the last several weeks, and again I want to draw your attention in the case that you're visiting with us and don't know. On page 6 of our bulletin, we do have all five of those membership vows printed for you to see. And so this morning we look at our sixth, our fifth vow, excuse me, which says, Do you submit yourselves to the government and discipline of the church and promise to study its purity and its peace? This is the last vow that each member of the church that comes into membership here at Liberty affirms. Now again you'll notice, and I I've made mention of this, I think, several times in this series, you'll notice that the first three vows really highlight the Trinitarian work of God in salvation, kind of encapsulating the substance of the gospel that forms the kernel of what we believe, the centrality of why we are here. The work of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. And then these last two vows, verses vows four and five, focus on the role of the church or how this affects the life of the church. Last week Jared preached on the fourth one, do you promise to support the church and its worship and work to the best of your ability? And obviously that deals with the life of the church, worship, community, fellowship. Now we look finally at the issue of the government, the authority, the discipline of the church, its purity, and its peace. Now, interestingly enough, this nuance of the fifth one really does highlight, in a lot of ways, the issue of authority, which in our day and age is not a popular topic among anyone. But biblically speaking, authority is necessary and is part of a healthy church when exercised appropriately and biblically Now our main point this morning in Ephesians chapter 4, and again, focusing on verses 7 through 16, is this, and again, you also see this printed in the bulletin on page 5. Unity is the gift of God that comes at the price of diversity. Interesting. Interesting statement there, isn't it? Unity is the gift of God that comes at the price of diversity. Let's jump right in. This is a three-point message beginning in verses 7 through 10. Our first point is the gift of grace. In the gospel. That is where we must start. When we talk about unity, when we talk about diversity, which we'll define in just a moment, we have to begin with the gospel. Take a look at verse 7. Verse 7, we see the grace that is given according to the measure of Christ's gift. It says very clearly, grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. And then Paul puts a Period grace. there. Now, interestingly enough, he switches from verses 1 through 6. Here in verse 7, 1 through 6 highlights the unity theme, the aspect of unity in the body of Christ. But he switches from unity to diversity in this section. Now again, for the sake I'll do this very briefly, but for the sake of context, let's just Highlight where Paul has been in the argument in Ephesians to where we get to where we're at right now. Chapter 1 Paul highlights the blessings, the benefits that each believer has in the heavenly places. And he highlights things like, believe it or not, predestination, uh adoption, sanctification. He even points forward to our glorification and the seal of the Holy Spirit that each and every one of us has received, looking at Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 and 14. So he He gives the big picture of redemption as the biggest blessing that we could receive. But in chapter 2, Paul narrows it down to, okay, what's one of the implications? theologically of the gospel, of how we are saved. Well, one of the implications is that we have been brought from death to life Highlighting our true spiritual nature of being dead in sin, but made alive together in Jesus Christ. And then how does that play out in the corporate community of the saints? The end of chapter 2. Jew and Gentile, which were estranged from one another, have been brought near. So, in a sense, and joined into one body in Christ. And so in one sense, when we talk about diversity, in chapter 2, it is very clear that this diversity has an ethnic component. Jew. and Gentile. Now all the Gentiles are lumped together there, but they're one body in Christ. Chapter 3, Paul continues to flesh that out a little bit by arguing that look this unity of Jew and Gentile in one body in Christ was a mystery in the Old Testament period. But now in Christ Through the ministry of the apostles and prophets, this has been made manifest, and we're seeing the reality of that in the corporate life of the church today in the New Testament period. And that brings us to chapter 4, where he then highlights in verses 1 through 6, as I just said, the unity of the body of Christ. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father over all, in all, and through all. And that's a lot of prepositions, isn't it? But that's where we're at. Now he switches to the diversity theme. And he begins, each one of us showing and highlighting the individuality of each believer. Now what he says here in verse 7 That grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. That word for measure is really important because it shows the intentionality of how Jesus Christ gives grace. to all believers. Now this is where we need to we need to make a nuanced distinction here because it's true that all believers in Christ have received the same grace in the sense that we receive the same gift of salvation, the same gift of eternal life. In that sense, there's no distinction. But when we talk about individual believers receiving different spiritual gifts, there is a distinction that Paul is making here. Since no one is exactly the same, the measure for God's grace in apportioning out the gifts is also not the same thing for each person. I think about Romans chapter 12 when Paul is talking about spiritual gifts in that context He talks about like, you know, if you have the gift of service, you know, or hospitality, serve or do hospitality according to the measure that has been given to you. You know, if you've got the gift of faith according to the measure of faith that is given to you. And so when we talk about the individual spiritual gifts and how they're apportioned To each one of us, me and you, we have to understand that each person has different gifts, and those different gifts are oftentimes given with a different measure according to the way that God has apportioned that out. And so when we talk about diversity in this passage, and when we go back to the main idea that I had that was printed there on page five of your bulletin. Univ uh unity being the gift of God that comes at the price of diversity. Please understand, I am nuancing diversity, not in ethnic terms, which is how we're commonly thinking about it in our national discourse today. I'm thinking about diversity in the sense of the diversity of spiritual gifts given to individual believers. You are all gifted in very different ways. And that diversity is meant to build up and lead to unity. That's what Paul is getting at here. In verse 7. He goes on in verses 8 through 10 to talk about how that grace, those those, the measure of gifting is grounded in the gospel itself. Take a look at verses 8 to 10 with me. Therefore, it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above the heavens that he might fill all things. Now I don't know how your Bible is laid out in the way it's printed, but the way mine is in front of me in verse 8, it's very clear there is a quote here that Paul is giving. He's quoting from Psalm 68. Now I always find it helpful to understand why Paul is quoting from the Old Testament when he does, and what is he doing with it? Well, in this case Psalm 68, particularly verse 18, it's part of a victory psalm. And if you go back and you were to read that psalm, you would find that it refers back to when David's men Took the city of Jerusalem from the Jebezites. You might have read that story at some point in your Bible reading. It comes from 1 Chronicles 11. Verses 4 through 9. And after David and his men took the city of Jerusalem from the Jevezites, then they brought the Ark of the Covenant Which, if you remember, marks God's presence among his people. They brought that to Mount Zion, where the temple would eventually be built. What's the connection here? How does that connect to the gospel? Well, it's the idea of ascension. God's presence is ascending to Mount Zion where it's going to rest. For God's people to come and worship before Him. There had to be a victory. There had to be a battle fought. Then there had to be a victory won. And then with that ascension of God's presence in the form of the ark going to Mount Zion, there was great celebration. as we read earlier in 2 Samuel chapter 6. Well here's the thing. Here's the connection. Jesus Christ is the one who ultimately was victorious over sin. He fought the battle against sin at the cross. He won the victory in his resurrection. Because he descended and then subsequently ascended. And that's what Paul is getting at here in verses 9 through 10. And we have to ask ourselves, what does he mean by descended? And then what does he mean by ascended here? Well, descended. Some believe that's a reference to Jesus coming down from heaven in the incarnation, which we celebrate at Christmas time. When the Son of God became flesh and dwelt among us, or tabernacled among us, if you will, leaving the glory of the Father. Some people believe that. Okay. Others have said that this is a reference to his actual death on the cross, since the phrase descended to the lower parts of the earth is also used in Psalm 63 verse 9, which refers to death. I tend to think that that death component was probably more likely what Paul has in mind here. He descended. He died. And then the meaning of ascended, of course, is his reference to the ascension of Jesus Christ back to heaven where he entered into the heavenly tabernacle You might remember that from the book of Acts, chapter 1, verses 9 through 11. Jesus ascended when the disciples were watching him, ascended to heaven, and then he was taken away and covered up by the clouds. The angels were like, Why are you looking into heaven? He's going to come in the same exact way you just saw him taken up. And we see from Hebrews chapter 1, what did he do when he ascended? He sat down. At the right hand of God the Father, the presence of God in Christ was seated and took his rest. Victory had been won. And that victory means of Jesus means that he gave gifts to men. Now again, I find it interesting in John chapter 16, verse 7, right before he went to the cross, before he descended, before his ascension, Jesus told his disciples, in that upper room, Not to be downcast. He told them that when he goes to the Father, he would send the Holy Spirit to them. And again, that is the greatest gift that he could give. We saw that, you can see that back in Ephesians. chapter 1. Now it is the Holy Spirit who is the one who gives these spiritual gifts then to believers. So Christ Christ's ascension is a picture of what happened in military terms in the ancient world. When a king conquered a city, when he conquered an enemy, he would often set the captives free, and then he would turn around and he would give gifts. to his people in celebration of what had just happened. I mean, that's what David did when he brought the ark to Jerusalem. He gave gifts to his men. The victory had been won. So the question we have to ask ourselves here is what is the basis of these gifts? Well, our view of diversity, which is what he's starting to highlight here, needs to be grounded in the unifying grace of the gospel. Now there is an implicit warning in this passage as we think about gifts, and it is that jealousy is the enemy of grace. I don't know about you, but it is easy to look at the measure of grace that God has given to those around us and to compare ourselves to them. Have you ever been in those shoes before? We often think this way because we're often more influenced by the way the world thinks than the way the scriptures cause us to think But when the passage tells us that we're given grace according to the measure of Christ's gift, this assures us that what we received from Jesus Christ by way of grace is uniquely suited and fitted to who He wants us to be. Now that should be good news for you this morning. Why is that good news? Because God does not require you to be someone that you are not. Yeah, praise God. Thank you. Someone said it. One of the most toxic things that we can introduce into our Christian lives and into the congregation embody of Christ, which we call the local church, is the sin of comparison. When we compare ourselves to other people, we become jealous and even bitter because at least from our sinful human limited vantage point It seems like God has given to others gifts and grace that He seems to withhold from us. The sin of comparison does not praise God for the diversity of gifts in the body of Christ, but it turns out to corrode the unity of the body Which then ironically leads to division, which is not the same thing as diversity. So why do we fall into this trap? Well, I think it's because of how we tend to and we're trained culturally sometimes to think about unity. I think we misunderstand what unity is all about. I know sometimes I can easily fall into this trap, and I have myself at times in the past. We hear the word unity and we think that this means that we must all be the same. We tend to confuse equality with unity. But think about it. If we're all the same, this is not unity, but it's uniformity. Again, those are not the same things. And this is what drives much of what we hear from the world when the world talks about equality. The world tells us that we must all have the same things in every respect. And when we have this faulty understanding of unity, then we do not do well with diversity of gifts because then we see the diversity of gifts that God has given to other people as a threat when it really is not. And so there's a gospel-centered challenge here to jealousy that Paul is laying out before us. And it goes back to the message of the gospel, which emphasises on grace. Now, especially for those of us who are raised in the church or grow up in the church, we tend to get used to this Christianese, this language that we speak in the church and and grace becomes one of those terms that we just throw around willy-nilly, right? Something you take for granted. And simply put, we all know grace is You know, something that you receive that you don't deserve or you earn, but think about the assumption behind comparison. The assumption behind comparison is that we all deserve the same things from God when Scripture never articulates that idea in the sense of receiving something good from Him. In fact, the only thing Scripture makes clear if we can say we all deserve the same thing is that we all deserve the same wrath because we're all sinners. Right? When it comes to grace, Scripture does not articulate the idea that we all deserve the same things from God in a good sense Because if we deserve the same thing, an equal chance, equal resources, etc. equal gifting from God, then grace is no longer grace. And we've undermined the whole gospel if that's the case. And so when Paul talks in the first couple verses of our passage about grace that is given according to the measure of Christ's gifts, you and I Together, have no grounds for comparing ourselves to other believers around us if we're going to actually embrace and receive and celebrate the grace that God has given us. And that leads to the second point here in verses 11 through 14 , the gift of diverse gifts. How about that? It's kind of a repetitive sounding phrase, but it is important. In verse eleven you find a diversity of offices in the church. Now I don't know about you, but when you take a step back and you talk about spiritual gifts. I'm oftentimes thinking of the gifts themselves, like the gift of service or the gift of teaching, or the gifts of administration, or healing, or so on and so forth. Paul does something different here when he talks about diversity of gifts. He doesn't focus on the gifts themselves, but he focuses on a few examples of those who have certain gifts, in this case, the offices of the church. Look at verse 11. He lays this out. What does this look like when Christ gives gifts to his church? And he gave, verse 11, the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists. And the shepherds and teachers. Let's stop there before we go on. Diversity of offices in the church. Notice he mentions apostles and prophets first. Just a quick note about the apostles. If you know what the word apostle means, it's related to the Coin a Greek word that means one who is sent out. It's the idea that the apostles are focusing their time and their ministry largely on those who are outside of the church to preach the gospel and bring them in to the church. So they focus on those outside prophets. Do the opposite. Prophets speak God's word to those who are already inside of the church for mutual building up and edification. Now the question becomes, who are these apostles and prophets that Paul is talking about here? These are largely limited to the first century, I believe, and I'll lay out my case as clearly as I can. If you know any, if you were in Sunday school this morning, it came up in, as we're looking at the book of Acts , what is necessary for someone to be an apostle? Well, I'll just summarize it in one point. We highlighted two in Sunday school, but it's the idea that somebody must have been an eyewitness of the resurrected Jesus. How about that? We must have had an eyewitness encounter and revelation of Jesus Christ in his resurrected glory. That's not true of anyone else today. You know, the rest of the New Testament bears clear that Christ is in heaven, and he's in heaven physically until the time he returns in his second coming. We're not having the same revelation of Christ. Peter talks about that in 1 Peter chapter 1. He's like, though you do not now see him, you rejoice with joy inexpressible. obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. There's an idea we look forward to seeing Christ. We don't see him in his resurrected glory with our physical eyes today. The apostles did. The other thing that leads me to believe that the apostles here are talking about people who and prophets are talking about people who were limited in office to the first century is if you go back to Ephesians chapter 2 verse 20 Paul talks about Christ being the chief cornerstone, and he's built on the found the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. How many times do you lay a foundation? Anyone who's made a building knows you lay a foundation once. You don't lay the foundation, continue to build it, and try to lay another one on the roof. You lay it once. But these prophets here, I want to make clear, I believe, are talking about not Old Testament prophets as part of that foundation. We're talking about New Testament prophets. You see examples of New Testament prophets in the pages of Scripture. But these prophets come alongside of the apostles. In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 5, notice it mentions apostles first, prophets second. In Ephesians 3, 5 Paul's talking about how the the mystery of the inclusion of the Gentiles, the diversity, being brought into unity, into one body, was a mystery in Old Testament times. when there were prophets, but now through the ministry of the apostles and prophets in the first century, that mystery was made clear. Now, I do think it is important for us to understand that apostles and prophets, being gifts by God to the church, were limited to the first century. But that doesn't mean that we're kind of left without their ministry in a sense, because notice the next two categories, the evangelists and then the pastors and teachers. Think about it, if the apostles were sent out to go gather out those who were lost and outside of the church and bring them in, what's the work of the evangelists? It's the same thing. In that sense, there are people who are gifted to go out and spread the gospel in much the same way as the apostles' word, to bring people in They have that same outwardly focused ministry on saving the lost. Their goal or their work is not focused first and foremost on those inside the body, but those outside to bring them in. Conversely, notice the last group he mentions here, pastors and teachers. In verse 11, or as the ESV calls it, shepherds and teachers. I want you to understand something here, and I'm not going to go into the complexities and details of the Greek language. You don't need that. Just know that the way that that is worded in the original language puts those two roles together into one office, pastor slash teacher. And much like the prophets whose ministry focused to those inside the body, sharing and preaching and teaching God's word for the Edification and building up of the body of Christ internally, that's what the ministry of the shepherds and teachers is designed to do. And so it's interesting, just because we don't have prof um apostles and prophets today, we still have a semblance of their ministry in evangelists and in shepherds and teachers today. The church is not lacking any gifts, brothers and sisters. ministers today than it has had from the beginning. How about that? And what's the purpose of of their ministry, these these evangelists, these pastors, teachers. Look at verses 12 through 14. You see the purpose of this diversity of gifting and office in the church in those verses. Why? What's the point? Verse 12, to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of faith. and the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves I 'm carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes What's the purpose? Well, in summary, it's this that believers would carry out the work of the ministry. And then what's the intended goal of that? So that we might attain to a spiritual maturity as a body of believers. Why? Because what's the danger in verse 14? There's going to be dangers of false teaching, and we don't want to be immature in our thinking, in our spiritual development, like children who are impressionable and who will believe anything. You want discernment and maturity. And so that leads us to again look to apply this today. The purpose of diversity of gifts is the maturity and the growth of the local church. And I just want to say a few things about each of these evangelists Just as they proclaim the gospel as God's word to the nations and offer salvation to many. Some of you may not know this, but I I I take joy in this. Did you know that the PCA actually used has and recognizes that office of evangelist? Many of you probably didn't know that. You should read your book of church order. No, I'm just kidding. I'm really just kidding. If you want to read the Book of Church Order, you go ahead. But uh It's not not exactly a page turner, let me just say. However, the PCA does recognize the minister the ministry of evangelists. We just put it under the category of teaching elder What does it look like in the PCA in our circles when we have evangelists? Well, oftentimes we will identify specific men. who have a gift like church planting and and it's just obvious that they can gather people in and they've they've got that gift of influence with people and and tend to be able to share the gospel Many of those people that will feel called to ministry, we will send them into church planting situations. And when we ordain them, their initial call and title is often evangelist. We recognize that. Now, I think it's often neglected and ignored, but let me submit this to you. And this man, I don't know if this will come as a shock to you, but I believe that God is calling some of you sitting here this morning to be evangelists and that he has gifted you in this way. Now, God may call some of you here this morning to go to seminary one day, especially if you're younger, and maybe to go in the mission field somewhere else in the world. We've got some people in our church who are who are parents of adult children who have grown up and heard that call and we have sent them out or been a part of sending them out. Some of you perhaps may not feel called to that kind of a ministry or may not feel like you have those kind of gifts, but you can certainly participate in developing new leaders and sending them out. And I want to make it very clear. While evangelists is a continuing office, the point I'm making is not to just reduce this and say that unless you are an evangelist, you can't do evangelism. That's not the point. That's not what the New Testament says. I want to encourage you that evangelism is the work of the collective body of Christ. And some of you do have this gift, and you do have a desire for the lost. And I want to encourage you this morning. Fan that desire. Fan those gifts into flame. For pastors and teachers, you're to shepherd the flock of God among you as under-shepherds, who will one day give an account to God for the way that you serve as an elder. I think it is very important to state from James chapter 3, verse 1, let not many of you become teachers. Why? Because those who teach incur a stricter judgment. Boy, that's hard to say when you're standing behind the pulpit and you have that responsibility and you know that that's true of you. I believe that this applies to both ordained seminary-trained pastors like me, but it also applies to ruling elders who are nominated and voted in to serve on the session. And because Paul links pastors and teachers together in this verse, it is biblical to expect, ordained teaching elders and ruling elders alike to be engaged in the teaching and word-based ministry of the church. That should be expected in the body of Christ. Paul writes in 1 Timothy 5. 17, let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor. By the way, this is kind of a verse that we use to distinguish between teaching and ruling elders. He said, goes on to say, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. Hmm. By the way, that's one of the reasons our ruling elders do do a faithful and good job, I would say. Teaching Sunday school and leading Bible studies in their homes. They're living up to the calling that God has given them. And can I just say for those of you who are not in those offices, take time on a regular basis to encourage them and thank them for the work that they are putting in to diligently and faithfully serve you? And for members, it is your responsibility to submit to these leaders that God has gifted you with. When leaders come in, it's important that the rest of us don't look at them as an employee of the church, which can often happen in some contexts. Please understand that they themselves are the gift that God has graciously provided us with. And just as much as God gives gifts to us, In the people of our leaders, he does so for the specific purpose that they might equip the rest of us for the work of ministry and service. Let me just say this very very clearly. While we're all here, let's not fall into the trap of believing just because Someone like me might spend their full time uh laboring for the church or your ruling elders or your deacons just because they're ordained to the task doesn't mean that they are the only ones who should do the work of the ministry That's not the idea. When I was in Bible college, and then I heard it again in seminary, one of the statistics, and I know it's a general statistic, by the way. But they always call it the the eighty twenty rule. They always talk about how like, you know, for for a church with that has, you know, a hundred percent of its people and a hundred percent of its work laid out before them, for All the work that is there, you have about 20% of the people doing 80% of the work. And vice versa. Our passage here is meant to counteract that and to challenge and confront that kind of thinking, that kind of approach to body life and ministry. I mean, think about it. We saw this in Acts chapter 6 at Sunday school a few weeks ago. The apostles equipped and ordained the deacons, as one example, to do the ministry of service to serve the widows. And make sure they got their food and daily rations so that they can spend their time as apostles devoted to prayer and the ministry of the Word in Acts chapter 6 verse 4. They said it is not fitting for us to leave off the ministry of the word to serve tables, and that doesn't mean that serving tables is something unimportant. No, it was very important. But a diversity of gifts leads to a diversity of delegating those kinds of tasks. What this means is that your leaders are there to identify, work with, and train different people to develop their spiritual gifts so that they can be unleashed into the work of the church, which results in the church being built up. Let me just say, you know, we we have three new ruling elders as as they get engaged with their shepherding groups. And that's going to take some time for them to connect with everybody, but don't be surprised if at some point they may have a conversation with you or encourage you about where you might plug in and serve. And that leads us really to our last point this morning in verses 15 through 16, the gift of unity through diversity. We see in verses 15 and 16 unity through love. Take a look at that So we have this diversity of giftings, diversity of functions, verses 15 and 16. Rather Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, for whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped When each part is working properly, makes up the body, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. Just by way of a quick observation there, notice that verse 15 begins talking about doing things in love, and verse 16 ends. By talking about building up in love. By beginning and ending in love, that tells you something about the character and the focus of what Paul is highlighting and as to how this is to be done in love. It's the same word that's used in John 15, 12-13, when Jesus said, This is my commandment, that you love one another as I've loved you. Greater love has no one than this. That someone lay down his life for his friends. And again, rooting this in the gospel. Um, I don't mean to burst anyone's bubble, but I don't think Jesus was excited when he was going to the cross, you know, with this overly sentimentalized feeling like, oh my God. Gosh, I love them so much. I'm so excited to go get crucified. Oh, you s you've seen the picture in the Garden of Gethsemane Praying and asking the Lord to let the cup pass from him? It was a deeper love than just mere base emotional sentimentality. It was a love that was grounded in the promises of God, in his own righteous and holy character, and in a desire to secure a people for himself. that made him do what he did not want to do in in the moment, or asking God to make pass from him. That's the kind of love that Paul's after here. When he talks about the gift of unity through diversity, there are times you won't feel it. Towards somebody else. And yet we're called to grow up together. And you see that unity and sensitive circumstances laid out in the language he uses in 15 to 16. We grow up together into Christ in every way. And that, by the way, that phrase growing up is the idea that Christ is fitting us together as joints and ligaments in the body. I like to think I'm not too old as to not remember what it was like to grow up physically and go through those growing pains where, you know, your knees or your elbows or your bones might hurt. Because as the bones grow, they're stretching the joints and the ligaments, and those gotta, you know, be fit to the body over time, and sometimes it hurts. And what that tells us though is that though it is hard and sometimes painful, God is accomplishing unity through the diversity of members growing up together in the church. That's the application part. And the result is that Christians should be growing up to love one another in Christ. Many of you in this room who are married or have friendships that are serious or know that relationships of all kinds over the years can have significant and serious ups and downs But you know what really makes or breaks the quality of a relationship? The ability to work through conflict, right? I mean, especially those of you who are married know when you don't see eye to eye with your spouse on something and I mean you feel like you're at loggerheads over something and then all of a sudden a resolution comes and you've worked through that together At the end of that process, you end up strengthened in your marriage. Right? Why? Because you worked through it together. There was a love that was there that transcended just the feelings in the moment. Your relationship grows. Or just like our, as I said, our physical bodies require pain sometimes to mature and to grow, so does the church. Boy, as I get older, sometimes when I go to the gym, you talk about growing and maintaining your physical prowess. Sometimes you go to the gym. I used to take me one day of pain and then I'd get over it. Now sometimes it's two to three days to recover. But pain for growth. We're called to persevere. We're called to pray with each other. We're called to love each other in the bounds of fellowship. And we're called not to give up. That is what this This fifth vow, really the fourth and the fifth vow, is all about. Don't give up on one another. Because we grow together when we deal with the hard things. Now when we talk about growing up, I'm going to end on this. There is very one very practical principle, one very practical outworking of maturing. That I think of when I think of the body of Christ, and it is the maturing of covenant children as they are raised in the church. How about that? And one of the things that maturing covenant children will eventually do when they come to faith in Christ and make Christ their own Lord and Savior is they're being admitted to the table of the Lord's Supper. Now I'm bringing this up right now because I think it fits with the theme of maturity, growing up, because that's what we want to see our children do. And we model that as adults, right? So I in the session have been told that we have had several families in our church that have been unclear as to what the practice or procedure for being admitted to the table of the Lord's Supper really is here at Liberty Now I I feel like I'm fairly new enough to know there may have been a diversity of practice in the years previous, and I just wanted to make sure that we were clear as to what that looks like. So Under the principle of growing to maturity, let's just talk very briefly about what this looks like here at the end of our passage First is discerning whether your children are ready to come and partake of the table of the Lord's Supper. Now this is one of the things there when we baptize your child and they come become a non-communing member of the local church. Okay. We are partnering with you as a session and as a church. We're partnering with you as parents Which means we are largely dependent on your insight and your understanding of your own children in this respect. We understand and we know that you know your children a lot better than we do. Fair. Fair enough. It's our job to come alongside of you. It's our job to support you. But the first step would be you believing that your covenant child is ready. Let me give a few suggestions here as to how you might do that. I would suggest having conversations with them periodically to see where they are spiritually. I think, aside from the issue of communion, you should want to know that anyway, as parents. You should explore whether they demonstrate in their words or their actions a heart of repentance. and a sufficient understanding of what sin is? Do they understand their need for grace? Do they understand who Jesus is and what he has done for them in his perfect life and death and resurrection? And more than do they understand it? Do they believe it? How about this? Are there any objections to the Christian faith that they might have that you might need to walk them through? Let me say this. Remember that when our kids ask questions that sometimes seem challenging to the Christian faith, it is not an affront to your authority as a parent. It's not something to become defensive over. Let me just encourage you parents. I know that could be a temptation perhaps. But it's rather an opportunity to walk them through the things that weigh most significantly to them on their hearts. And young people, let me just make this clear, because I've heard this before as I've interacted with college students, I'd say in the last 10, high school and college students in the last 10 years. One of the biggest complaints I hear from young people when they seem to deconstruct and leave the Christian faith and walk away from Christ is They feel like the church is not a place where they have freedom to ask hard questions. Young people, can I just say I don't want liberty to be that kind of church I want liberty to be a church where you guys are free to ask questions that are hard for us. And that we should walk with you as you look to answer those. But parents, first step, discerning where your children are. Second Let's say you feel that they are ready. My child is ready to be admitted to the Lord's table. What's next? Well, second, covenant children would then participate in a communicants class. Now this is where I have to give credit where it is due. Dave Tracht put a lot of good work, hard work in, and wrote a really quality class for us. So I know he's not here because there was a family thing that they're seeing to this weekend out of town, but when he comes back, thank him for that work. He worked hard and did a good job. He put a communicance class together. And and as a session, we've talked through this and we've thought through this and This is something that we want to typically offer every November and December during the Sunday school hours. So just kind of If you're a parent, you know, keep that in your mind. November, December, Sunday school hour, communicants class coming up. And as Jared Dean has passed his ordination exams this week and will be coming on as assistant pastor focusing on family ministry next month, we also thought it would be good. For Jared to teach this class to our covenant children in that family pastor capacity. Thirdly, once they go through the class, for parents to feel their child is ready, they've taken the class, The next step would be your elder interview with two different elders. Again, let me just recommend some things here. I would recommend that if you're in that boat as a family, I would recommend at least one of those elders being your shepherding elder would always be a good thing to do. And parents, you don't have to, but I would also say I would encourage you to feel welcome to join in that meeting with your covenant child and the elder also. Some of you may decide that that's not necessary. Some of you may feel it is. You're just putting it out there. You're more than welcome. Part of that meeting is to determine an appropriate understanding of the gospel and faith in Jesus Christ and your child's part. And in that meeting, we would also just kind of review really quickly each of these five membership vows because we want to make sure that your child understands. what those membership vows are and what that means for them. Okay? And the fourth step would be when your child is admitted to the by the session. The child will then be presented before the congregation on a Sunday morning, probably in a group of people, like when we Receive new members. And the purpose there is to profess their faith by publicly acknowledging the five membership vows that we've been preaching through these past few weeks. Now let me just say, when that happens, that's a moment or a Sunday for tremendous celebration. Why? Because when we baptize our covenant children, we're essentially putting the sign and seal of Christ and his promises on that child. And parents are essentially saying, I'm covenanting with God to raise that child in the nurture and the admonition uh of Christ and the gospel in the hopes that they're going to grow up and receive those promises and claim them by faith themselves. And by do by standing up and taking their membership vows as a public profession of faith, What that child is communicating is the promises of God that my parents put on me when I was baptized as a baby have now been realized and fulfilled. And I have received Christ myself. What a celebration. Isn't that when we talk about growing up and maturing in the body of Christ in this passage, isn't that a significant part of what that means? And so I want to put that forward. And the fifth, and this is the last thing, going forward from today, as far as this information is concerned. concerned. I just want to let you know that we as a session are in the process of developing a pamphlet which will outline and explain what I just said and the steps for being covenant children, being admitted to the table of the Lord's Supper. When we have those completed, our goal is to put them out there in that Welcome Center. And when they're out there, we will make that public announcement from the pulpit before service one Sunday and let you know that that information is there. But in the meantime, if you have any further questions about this, my encouragement to you is reach out to your shepherding elder, as we would love to hear your questions and walk with you through this if you have them. Our heart and all this is that we will all grow together as families, or if you're like me as a single person as a body of Christ, that we would grow together into the maturity of Christ that Paul is calling us to do in this passage. And that brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? As we close. Unity is the gift of God that comes at the price of a diversity of gifting and calling in the body. Amen. Let's pray. Father, it is true. You have made each and every one of us different. We're the same in the sense that we're all human, obviously. We all have the same sinful nature. We're saved the same way, but Lord, you you are an intricate An artistic God in many ways. Designing different people for different tasks and callings, giving them very different temperaments. Lord, we just pray as we come before you with thanksgiving for that reality. Lord, we pray that as we end this series on our membership vows, Lord, I pray that you would take this series and that you would bless it and put your seal of approval on it for this congregation. Lord that we would continue to grow together. In the bonds of unity and love, even through our diversity. Lord, we ask your blessing as we go the rest of our day today Continue to work in our hearts and lives for your glory, making us more Christ-like because of it. We ask this in his name, in Jesus' name. Amen.