For the reading of God's holy word. I'll give one disclaimer. It's printed in the New King James Version in the bulletin. If you don't have a Bible, I will be using the English Standard Version. version myself this morning. Philippians chapter four, verses two through nine. This is the holy, inspired, and inerrant word of the Lord for his people. I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntachi to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel, together with Clement and the rest of the fellow workers whose names are in The book of life. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we are humbled by your grace. That you would dare to save sinners and call them to be yours? And Lord, as we sit at your feet this morning to hear from your word, we pray that you would open our hearts to receive it gladly. To receive it joyfully. And Lord, we pray that when it's all said and done, you would put your seal of approval and write it upon our hearts that we may live it out. We ask this in Jesus' precious, holy, and righteous name. Amen. Well, we find ourselves this morning actually at the end or near the end of one of Paul's letters, the letter to the Philippians And if you go back to Acts chapter 16, you will remember, Lord willing, how Paul began his relationship with this church. It was actually a relationship that was forged through a lot of difficulty. And you would imagine Paul being coming out of Philippi at the end of Acts chapter 16, having a very difficult experience of being arrested, of being beaten, uh, and and mistreated, and then tried to kind of Shove him under the rug and send him away quietly, you would imagine that that Paul would have a very uh bitter taste in his mouth regarding his church and regarding this city. But interestingly enough, the Apostle Paul, as he writes this letter, you can't read this letter without experiencing or seeing for yourself the joy that just exudes out of the Apostle Paul This is a church that he loves dearly. And this is a church that is doing a lot of things right. But as all of us know, there's no perfect church. And Paul at the end of this epistle gives several exhortations that I want to focus on this morning with you. In fact, the main point of this sermon is pretty simple. It's this A life worthy of the gospel is characterized by unity with other believers, by rejoicing, and by godly living. And it's it's those three three things that will kind of unfold uh in our message this morning. Let me just repeat that again. Because that is the main idea we're talking about this morning. A life worthy of the gospel. Is characterized by unity with believers, by rejoicing, and godly living. And so I want to begin unpacking that for our first point this morning. Which is in verses two through three, and that first point is an exhortation to unity. An exhortation to unity. Let's take a look at verses two and three once again as I draw your attention there. Paul writes, I entreat, I entreat Euodia, and I entreat Syntache to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also, true companion. Help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel, together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. In fact, you see Paul's main exhortation come right out in verse 2. He's looking for unity with the same mind. In fact, notice how he repeats what he says twice. I entreat, and he gives the name of one woman, and he says, I entreat again, and gives the name of another woman. It's interesting that he does not command or throw his authority around like he could. If you remember in Philip Philemon. Uh verses eight and nine, it's a one-chapter book. Paul is writing to Philemon about his runaway slave that that ended up in Paul's care, and Paul is writing on behalf of that slave, uh appealing to Philemon to show Onesimus grace. And as he's pressing his appeal, he tells Philemon, look, as as the apostle Who's responsible for your salvation? Because I preach the gospel to you. I have the authority to command you to receive him and show him grace. But he turns around and says, but I don't command you, I appeal to you as Paul, an old elderly man. In other words, he's gentle in his appeal. He uses the same exact wording here in verse 2 as he says, I entreat, you could translate that, I appeal. I plead my case with these two women. And it's interesting that repetition shows that what he has in mind is pulling them aside separately and talking to them separately. To try to understand where each one is coming from. But we see that this is trouble with two women, and with two women comes double the trouble. He gives their names. That was actually not meant to be a joke, but you can laugh. He gives the two names of these women, Euodia and Syntichi, and you know we really don't actually know a whole lot about who these women were. This is the only time in the New Testament that they are mentioned. Not only do we not know about about who they are on a personal level, we don't know what the the struggle is that they're having that they can't seem to get along with. each other about. We just don't know what the disagreement is about. And honestly, I'll be, you know, I'm I'm very grateful that we don't know. And the reason I'm grateful for that is I think Paul is very wise in the way he writes this letter and crafts, you know, this appeal in dealing with this situation. I think it's wise to not disclose the details between them because if he did, it would leave a a stinging record. in an inspired epistle that may be pointed back to in an accusatory fashion after things had been resolved. Can you imagine like maybe two years down the road after the issue had been resolved and and and and things had kind of been forgotten If something flared up again, one person might look at the other and say, Well, don't you remember what Paul said in this letter? That is the stinging record of how you offended me. I think he's very wise to not include the details here. But what's the aim? Why does he tell these these people to work with these women, to entreat with them? What's the aim aiming at to agree in the Lord. Now that's interesting because he uses the same phrase to agree in Philippians chapter 2 Verse 2 earlier in the book. He tells the whole church, the f in in Philippi, complete my joy by being of the same mind. She uses the same word construction in the original Greek. Having the same love, being in full accord or agreement, and of one mind. Now if you go back to chapter 2, verse 4, Paul makes another interesting statement there, just two verses later. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but to the interests of others. So in the context of chapter 2, verses 2 and then verse 4, it's very clear that these women are clearly, they're not counting each other as more significant than themselves. It's very clear from the context that they are being selfish. They're looking out for their own interests rather than those of the other woman. And the only way to get them to agree, and don't miss those words, to appeal to them, to agree in the Lord. Don't miss those words in the Lord. Now the question is, how do we get there? How does Paul envision that this agreement is going to come in the Lord? Well look at verse 30. again because you see unity through the help of mature believers. Paul asks the help of someone he's calling a true companion. Look again at verse three Yes I ask you also true companion help these women now again We don't know who this true companion really is that Paul is talking about. But what we do know is that the Apostle Paul is trusting this person to stand in the gap and work for unity among these two women that that need to be reconciled and seem to be alienated from one another for one reason or another. Now we don't know if this true if this true companion is translated that way in the ESV. Some translations use the name Sisigus, which is actually the Greek, but it that could also mean my yoke fellow. In other words, my partner in ministry. You're my partner in ministry. Help these women work towards unity. And that's what the aim is. Help them. They're sisters in Christ. Notice the two descriptions that Paul gives One, these are women, these are sisters who have labored side by side with Paul in the gospel And it's interesting because that Greek word that's used there for labored has something to do with where we get our English word athletics from. These women have striven for the gospel. They have fought side by side. In other words, they have gone into the marketplaces of Philippi and they have competed with the idolatry and the culture around them to bring the gospel to bear in people's lives. These are faithful women. These women aren't problems in the church. These are valued members of the community. And we see their faithfulness first and foremost that Paul highlights. But notice what he says at the end of verse 3, whose names are mentioned in the book of life. Now I believe Paul is referring to these women. I also believe he's referring to Clement and the rest of the fellow workers. All of them. are people whose li our names are written in the book of life. And I think that's important because whatever disagreement is going on among these women, it's very clear that the Apostle Paul does in no way casts doubt on their salvation. Which is so easy to do when people, you know, get heated and and don't get along in the church context and can't see eye to eye for whatever petty reason, it's very easy to descend to that level and start questioning this person's salvation. Paul does not go there. And so as we stop at verses 2 and 3 to apply this to our own lives and apply this to our own hearts, how do we begin to do that? Well, I believe the principle that we can draw out of the passage is this. The work towards unity needs to begin and be understood as resting on the foundation of the gospel itself. Why do I say that? Well, I say that because we see the gospel need of a mediator in this passage Now it's to me it's interesting of all the details that are murky and that are not clear and that we just don't know, there's one reality that we often miss. And it's it really comes in those verses. It's a detail in the background that I think sets the stage for everything Paul is driving at. And it's the fact that there is a need for a mediator, and that's what Paul is asking for in verse three. And while we don't know a lot about these women, while we don't know who this mediator is, what we do know is it points directly to the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. This person is meant to be a mediator between two people at odds with one another. And look, the same is true of Christ. The Apostle Paul also writes to Timothy in 1 Timothy chapter 2. Verse 5, excuse me. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, the man, Jesus Christ. Why do we need a mediator? Because between us and God there is a fundamental divide and a chasm. This separates us from God. We're sinners, and God is holy. And as a holy God, that division exists because Paul tells us, and the New Testament tells us, that sinful man hates God. Do you remember what Paul writes in Romans chapter 1, verse 18? For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in their unrighteousness? We're not neutral. We're not born into this world with a blank slate. We are born with a sinful nature. Sinful man hates God. And what does God hate? God hates sin. Because he hates sin, he has to judge it. We need a mediator. And that's really the heart of the gospel And yet God chose his only son, Jesus Christ, as you know, to be the mediator that we needed. And I love this because if you go back to chapter 2 in Philippians verses 6 through 11, you see what most commentators uh think or agree is a an early hymn of the church which highlights Christ's divine nature and his human nature and his obedience to the Father in leaving glory and coming down for sinful humanity and being obedient to death on a cross. So that he might take a people to himself. And like a good mediator, Christ represents God because he is 100% truly God among men. He represents man because as he was born of a virgin, he is one hundred percent truly human. He stands in the gap the way that Paul is asking this man in verse three to stand in the gap between Two sinners who need to be reconciled to one another. Why can Paul make that appeal? Because of the reality of the gospel. Think about that, brothers and sisters. If you have been alienated from God because of your sin, to use Paul's language from Romans chapter 5, verses 1 through 10, we had enmity with God. We were enemies with him, and yet, while we were yet enemies, Christ died for us. If he bridged the gap between us and God Shouldn't that affect the way that we deal with conflicts among sinners who exist and dwell in the same plane? That's what Paul is driving at here. And so this call to unity in this passage is dependent on the reality of Christ as our mediator in the first place. And I love what the power of the gospel does. The power of the cross cleanses us from our sins. It brings us into fellowship with God through faith. And what does Christ continue to do as our continuing mediator, as our high priest? Hebrews chapter 7 verse 25 tells us that he lives and dwells in heaven forever, and he is interceding continually with us. And so Christ is interceding for us, as he did before he went to the cross in John 17, praying for unity. You see real teeth to this appeal to unity in Paul's exhortation. But that leads us to the second exhortation in verses four through seven, and it's not an unconnected exhortation. Exhortation, but it's the exhortation to rejoice. It's the exhortation to rejoice. Look at me at verses four through seven again. Actually, I'm going to stop at verse 6. But verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication. with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to God. Let's stop there really quick. What you see there is a list of exhortations. First is very clear in verse 4. Rejoice in the Lord. And interestingly enough, he repeats it twice. Now imagine the context in which Paul is writing this in. Paul is writing this at near the end of his life. He's in prison. His circumstances are dire. He's likely facing death. For the gospel And yet he's telling the Philippians, rejoice always. Again, I say, rejoice. And I love that because while Paul and while the Philippians their circumstances might change, they might be difficult, they might suffer for the gospel's sake, while those circumstances change, God and Christ do not change. Do you remember Hebrews chapter 13, verse 8? Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. Why can you rejoice? Why is he calling them to rejoice? Because they rejoice in the Lord. And that rejoicing actually leads to verse 5, our second exhortation in this section, let your reasonableness Be made known to everyone. There is a connection between rejoicing and reasonableness. Believe it or not. When he's talking about rejoicing, he's not talking about bursting out in this ecstatic joy that you just can't control yourself and you lose all control and you know you fall on the ground and just shout. That's not what he's talking about. The rejoicing that he's talking about is the rejoicing that comes when you know that God is in the midst of all your circumstances. He's walking with you through those things. to shape you to be more like Christ as the cause of rejoicing, and you therefore can be reasonable in those difficult circumstances. Let your reasonableness be made known to everyone. Verse 6, the third one. Do not be anxious about anything. Again, when your circumstances change and you are tempted to be anxious because you're uncertain about things and how they're gonna turn out or what things are gonna look like. No. Don't be anxious about anything. What a reflection of what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 through 34, which I won't read, but I will summarize in verse 34. Therefore, do not be anxious about tomorrow. For tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. So he said says don't be anxious about anything and now I want to jump to verse 7 verse 7 he completes and rounds this out He says, I'm sorry, verse 6, do not be anxious about everything, but everything in prayer and supplication and with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Once again, there's a connection between anxiety and prayer here. Let your request be made known to God. This is the second time he says to make known something. First they're called in verse 5 to make known their reasonables to everyone. And so the security they have is meant to be demonstrated on full display for both believers and unbelievers alike around them to see. But now there's something to be made known to God, and it is your requests. Your requests. How do you do this? How do you make your requests known to God? He's very clear. By prayer? By supplication? And while those sound like the same thing, prayer is a little more general, but he gets you know into the nitty-gritty supplications are about specific things that are on your mind that might tempt you to be anxious. And then lastly, you are to make these things known to God with thanksgiving. What a confidence that God will answer. I think about James chapter 1, verses 5 through 9, when he's like, if anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask of God who gives generously and then And he goes on to say, but but don't doubt in your minds, because someone who doubts in their minds cannot really expect some God to answer a request when you're doubting that God can or will answer that request. And now we come to verse 7. Finally, the promise when we make our requests known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Wow. There's one commentator who writes this about this phrase, and he I think it's really kind of insightful because it gives a word picture here. He says the the phrase will guard and he gives the Greek phrase which I you don't need to know but he says is better expressed in the military language of will keep Keep guard over. The Philippians, he writes, living in a garrison town, would be familiar with the sight of the Roman sentry maintaining his watch Likewise comments the apostle, God's peace will garrison and protect your hearts and your minds. That's comforting to me. Because it shows that when I'm anxious and when I pray about things, I can leave them with God and God's peace, God's comfort will garrison and guard my mind and what I'm thinking about in my heart. Right? And so again, we we kind of pause to apply this. And we see that our ability to rejoice as Christians is directly related to the life of prayer they were called to have. And it's interesting that prayer is the answer to a lack of joy and the overabundance of anxiety in our lives. I can't tell you how many times as a pastor someone has come into my office and I've have said shared something they're going through with me and it's clear that they're they're anxiety-ridden. And I've one of the first questions I've asked many people is, well, have you prayed about this? Like what has that looked like? And a lot of times I find that more people tend to mull things over in their mind than they do to actually pray it before the Lord and lay it before Him. Now there's no secret about the fact that there are many people around us who deal with high levels of anxiety for a wide variety of reasons. Such anxiety can stem from feeling that things around you are out of control. Not just out of control in general, out of your control more specifically And this can tend to produce a certain measure of uncertainty about those things that you can't control. And then the uncertainty turns around that you feel about, turns around, you know, and leads to feelings of insecurity. In life. And then that insecurity tends to turn and transform into being unreasonable, which is what Paul was warning about. when he kind of indirectly when he says, let your reasonableness be made known to all. Now look, I I realize that there are a wide, you know, complex reasons for a wide variety of complex reasons Reasons for anxiety that I don't have time to unpack all of this morning. But this passage in its exhortation does highlight A connection between the sovereignty of God and the things we can't control. That's why Paul says to lay these things before the Lord. Make your requests known to God. Because those things that you can't control, they lead to uncertainty, they lead to insecurity, they lead to unreasonableness, it is those things that God has control over. Because he suffered And that's where that call to make your requests known to God comes in. Because when we do this, we become we come face to face With the fact that we are approaching the God who is in control of those things that we are not, that seem to be nagging us and just irking our very hearts. And notice the first step to dealing with anxiety in verse 6 is just simply that. Make those requests known to God. But I want to encourage you, as you do that. Thank him for listening to you. That's why he says, do so not just with prayer and supplication, but with thanksgiving. Thank him for the answer that you He's going to provide. And that leads to our last and final exhortation this morning in verses 8 through 9 the exhortation to godly living. Let's take a look at verse 8 because we see there godly living through godly thinking. He says, finally, brothers, whatever's true, whatever's honorable, whatever's just, whatever's pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable. If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. Now, interestingly enough, that that verb think about these things. Which is the primary command here is not the normal verb that you would expect Paul to use in Greek when he says, think about these things. Actually, it's a verb that could be translated, give due consideration. Deliberate over these things and mull them over in your mind over and over and over again. And what are the things we're called to think about? Notice the six characteristics he begins with. Whatever is true, honorable, just pure, lovely, and commendable This is an example of Paul kind of writing to his audience and knowing them well, because in the Greco-Roman world of that time, you know, if you read literature from that time, you'll know that the Greek philosophers and Romans Um they would always kind of give these virtue lists of things that that would be a good citizen or a good philosopher, you know, or so on and so forth. And Paul is doing that. He's writing in a way that his people would understand. He gives them a list of things to think about. And then he gives two conditions. If there is any excellence in anything worthy of praise, That's how you judge what is true and honorable and just and pure and lovely and commendable. There is an objective standard to things that are excellent. There is an objective standard to things that are worthy of praise. And Paul is saying, if you see something that is worthy of praise and is objectively excellent, put your mind on those things. And then verse 9, it's not just thinking about it. What do we see in verse 9? Godly living through practice. He says, What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. And the God of peace will be with you. That's the command. Practice these things. Again, what is he referring to? Well, he's referring to what they've learned and received and heard and seen in his teaching and his example, not just his words, but his actions. Paul lived a consistent life. What he taught and is what he lived. There was no hypocrisy with Paul. And I love the promise because it reiterates and takes us right back to verse 7 and it brings it full circle. What does he say at the end? What's the promise? And the God of peace. Will be with you. The God of peace will be with you. And so, brothers and sisters, it's important to see that it's important that we see these things. And we see the connection between how we think and how we live. What you think about Is going to shape your life. And the question I want you to ask yourself this morning, and it is a very personal question, in light of this exhortation What are you giving your active attention to thinking about Because what you think about in your mind, what you ponder over, largely determines your attitudes as well as your actions. No, I just think about the world that we live in. Some of the things that I can just observe in our world that affect our thinking is maybe our entertainment. Choices? What kind of TV shows or movies are we watching? What kind of websites are we going to online that might affect our thinking? Or maybe social media. You know, when I was a teacher in a Christian school in Illinois and in a Christian high school, I taught high school Bible for five years, and it never ceased to amaze me how worked up my students would get because of something that they saw on social media or something that was said to them. on social media. Or something that they posted and they didn't get enough likes and it it didn't seem as popular as they wanted it to be. And just how that mauled over in their minds over and over and over again that affected their day and then affected their performance and affected their attitudes. What we put our minds on, brothers and sisters, affects The way we live. But all of these exhortations at the end of the passage bring us right back to the original idea, doesn't it? A life worthy of the gospel is characterized by unity with believers. Because we have Christ as our mediator. It leads to rejoicing because Christ has reconciled us to God and is in charge of our lives, and it leads to rejoice Us to godly living. You know, it may sound very legalistic to just say, do these things, but we have to remember Remember, all of it is undergirded by chapters 1 and 2 and 3 that come before it, where Paul just nails the gospel into the souls of His people. And may God do that with us this morning. May He drive the gospel ever deeper into our hearts that we might have unity with other believers. Live lives of rejoicing and godly living. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you. And we are not perfect in any of these things. But Lord, I pray that as we hear your word preached week in, week out, Out, going through books of the Bible, getting the big picture and seeing the small details, oh Lord, that you would draw us as believers closer together In unity. Lord, that you would produce in us through the power of your spirit and your word a crop, the fruit of rejoicing. And Lord, that it would lead to godly living that really does showcase the power of the gospel to a lost and dying world around us. We ask this in Jesus' precious and is holy in his righteous name. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, I invite you to respond.