Our scripture reading is from the Gospel of Mark. We're in chapter fifteen. If you'll turn there, please. And although there's uh not a wonders of worship program on uh Communion Sundays. We do have a cry room to my left and nursery downstairs if you need to utilize either of those. Mark chapter 15. And I think we're going to begin reading verse 25. Now it was the third hour, and they crucified him. And the inscription of his accusation was written above, the King of the Jews. With him they also crucified two robbers, one on his right and the other on his left. And so the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself! Come down from the cross. Likewise, the chief priests also mocking among themselves with the scribes said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe. Even those who were crucified with him reviled him. Now, when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eloh! Eloh! Which is translated, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood by when they heard that said, Look, he's calling for Elijah. Then someone ran and filled a sponge full of sour wine, put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink, saying, Let him alone Let us see if Elijah will come to take him down. And Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And so when the centurion, who stood opposite him Saw that he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. Let's pray. Father, please focus our minds and hearts now upon your truth. Lord, use it to edify your people. To build them up, to strengthen them, and use it, Father, to draw souls to yourself. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Over the centuries since man's tragic rebellion against our Creator. His angels have witnessed innumerable crimes committed by our fallen race. Adultery, murder, kidnapping, theft, abuse, neglect, deceit, every imaginable sexual sin Every unimaginable sexual sin, hatred, anger, envy, slander, idolatry, drunkenness, sorcery, the list goes on and on and on. But the angels of God had never witnessed a day like this. Never had mankind stooped so low. The exalted Lord, the second person of the Trinity, He who is before all things, and the one in whom all things consist. The one the Bible declares to be the Word, who was in the beginning with God, and who was God The one who compelled by his love for fallen mankind became flesh and dwelt among us. The only man who ever lived who truly loved God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength every single day of his life The only man who ever truly loved his neighbor as himself. The only man who never violated his father's perfect law. In thought, word, or deed. Christ, the holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, son of God Was betrayed, arrested, tried, falsely convicted, beaten, slapped, mocked, scourged, and then crucified. The world had not seen, nor will the world ever see again a day such as this. For the past several weeks, we've been following Mark's account of Christ's trial and crucifixion. This morning we resume our consideration of the events of that most momentous of days. After the Shem trial, which began with a sentence of death already determined, after the religious leaders brought Jesus to Pontius Pilate early in the morning. demanding he his execution as some sort of a threat to Rome, after the crowd in Pilate's courtyard, prompted by the priest Cried out for Barabbas, a rebel and convicted murderer, to be released instead of Jesus, after Jesus was beaten and mocked, scourged, and spat upon. After the soldiers compelled an African man to bear Christ's cross, after the soldiers stripped him and divided his clothing among them. After they nailed his hands and feet to a cross, a cross that bore the words, This is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. After those who passed by wagged their heads at him and mocked him, throwing at him his own words, You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. After the chief priests and scribes cried out, He saved others, but he cannot save himself. After the other men being executed reviled him as well, and after Jesus had been in agony on the cross for about three hours. From 9 in the morning, what we would call 9 in the morning until noon, something astounding took place. Look at verse 33. Now when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. Now this was not a solar eclipse. A solar eclipse does not last for three hours, nor was it apparently a sudden storm. As none of the gospel writers make any mention of rain or wind, this was an unexplained veil of darkness that fell upon the land in the middle of the day. You'll remember that one of the plagues God brought upon ancient Egypt before his people were delivered from bondage was a plague of darkness. In Exodus 10, we read, Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness which may even be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt, three days. They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days, but all the children of Israel. had light in their dwellings. Exodus 10, 21, 23. Now Israel rejecting the one who came to deliver them from bondage to sin. The one who declared himself to be the light of the world, Israel finds the darkness has settled upon them. Look at verse 34. And at the ninth hour, after those three hours of darkness Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Halloween, Halloween, Lama Sabakhtani, which is translated, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? As we read the other gospel accounts, we know this is not all that Jesus said in those six hours that he suffered upon the cross. Well, you know, we also said, evidently in reference to those soldiers who were ordered to crucify him, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He spoke to his mother Mary, urging her to view his disciple John as a son, and spoke to John, urging him to view Mary as his mother. He told the repentant criminal beside him that he would be with him in paradise that very day. He cried out, I thirst! He cried out, It is finished. And he prayed, Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit. We don't know if that was all that Jesus said in those six hours upon the cross, but it was all that the Holy Spirit has chosen to reveal to us. Mark, however, recorded only one cry from Jesus, but it was the cry that reveals the most about what our Savior was experiencing. It was uttered by Jesus, as I said, after the three hours of darkness, and not long before he breathes his last. By recording for us this cry, the Holy Spirit, in a sense, lifts the veil for us to be able to get a glimpse of the agony of Christ's soul. As he experiences the withdrawal of his father's presence and the assurance of his father's favor. The presence and favor which the pre-existent Son had known from eternity past. It was as if Jesus was crying out, Lord, I can endure the betrayal and the scourging and the beating and the thorns and the spikes I can endure the slapping and the mocking. I can endure the abandonment by my disciples and even the jeering of the elder scribes, soldiers, criminals, and onlookers. But Father I cannot endure your abandonment of me. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? We could say that Jesus is quoting Psalm 22 here, but in this case I think it's more accurate to say that Psalm 22 simply foretold or foreshadowed what Jesus would cry out from the cross. To put it another way, Psalm 22 was quoting the Lord Jesus on the cross a thousand years before he walked the earth. But not even that heartfelt bone-chilling cry elicited the sympathy of some who were standing by. Verse 35. Some of those who stood by when they heard that said, look, he's calling for Elijah. Listen! He's calling for Elijah. They didn't say, oh, he's he's crying out to God. He's quoting from King David. The the Psalm, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The Psalm we know is Psalm 22. They didn't say that. As they misheard Christ's cry, Eloh, and thought he was crying out for the prophet Elijah, the words very similar. And at this most sacred moment. Mankind stooped to its lowest level and made sport of Christ's anguish cry Then someone ran and filled a sponge full of sour wine, verse 36, put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink, saying, Let him alone, let's see if Elijah will come to take him down. In general, the execution of those who were presumed to be evildoers, and in particular the execution of this prophet from Galilee had become a matter of uh entertainment for some of the bored citizens of Israel Long before crime dramas and reality TV, watching condemned prisoners writhe in agony, summoning their last bit of strength to defy their executioners or cry out to God for mercy Or cursed the fate that put them on the cross. At times that was the only show in town. Some of the cross watchers jumped to the conclusion that Jesus was appealing to Elijah, the great ninth century. a BC a prophet who was translated to heaven in a whirlwind He's calling for Elijah. Now this is getting interesting. And some wanted to apparently prolong the fun Evidently in the hope of reviving Jesus a bit, so their perverse diversion might be extended a little longer for their combined amusement. Someone ran to get a sponge soaked in some sour wine and pressed it to Jesus' lips. Maybe that'll revive him a little bit. Let's see. Let's see if Elijah will come. Let him alone. Let's see if Elijah will come to take him down, they said. But Jesus, evidently sensing that he had fulfilled that great purpose for which he came, And that the sacrifice was sufficient, he cried out with a loud voice, and he dismissed his spirit That time had come to depart this earth. He cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last, verse 37. John tells us that he cried out, It is finished! And Luke tells us that he added in prayer to his father, Into your hands I commit my spirit. And then something else happened, something arguably more remarkable than the descending of that veil of darkness upon the land. Look at verse 38. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. Now the veil of the temple was a long, heavy curtain, historian Josephus says in Herod's temple This temple it was approximately sixty feet high. The veil separated the holy place from that place which was known as the Holy of Holies. The Holy of Holies, you remember, contained the Ark of the Covenant. in which was kept the tablets of the law, the Ten Commandments, Aaron 's rod, and a pot containing manna from the wilderness wandering The top of the ark was known as the mercy seat. And let me remind you that the Holy of Holies was only entered once a year, and that was on the Day of Atonement, and it was only entered by the high priest. who entered with blood, which he offered on behalf of himself and on behalf of the people of Israel. As Christ dismissed his spirit, this veil was torn in two from the top to the bottom. Now we'll consider the significance of that in a moment. But we must note that the mysterious darkening of the sky and the tearing of that veil in the temple were not the only signs that occurred that day. Matthew tells us that as Jesus died, the earth quaked and the rocks were split And the graves were opened, and many of the bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the graves after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and were seen by many. Those gathered at the place of a skull would not have known about the tearing of the temple veil. But they had heard Jesus Christ, and they had witnessed the eerie darkness and had experienced the movement of the earth as Jesus died. And this was enough for the centurion. The centurion is a Roman soldier responsible for a hundred men. And this one was evidently overseeing the soldiers. We think there were four who executed Jesus. And What happened here is that the veil that was upon this centurion's heart was removed. And he exclaimed, Luke tells us, certainly, this was a righteous man. And then he declared, according to Mark and Matthew, truly this man was the Son of God. Now Matthew, interestingly, reveals that it wasn't just the centurion who responded this way. He says, listen, so when the centurion and those who were with him, who were guarding Jesus Presumably the men who drove those spikes into Christ's hands and feet and divided his clothing among them. When those who were with him and those who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and the things that had happened, They feared greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. Now let's take a few minutes to think about these things. And first let's think about that veil fallen, the veil of darkness that fell over the land. What a call that midday midnight must have made to the careless sons of men, declared the great Baptist preacher C. H. Spurgeon. They knew not that the Son of God was among them, or that he was working out human redemption. The grandest hour of all history seemed likely to pass by unheeded When suddenly night hastened from her chambers, and plough stayed in mid-furrow, and the axe paused uplifted. It was the middle of the day when men are busiest But they made a general pause. Not only on Calvary, but on every hill and in every valley. The gloom settled down. There was a halt in the caravan of life None could move unless he groped his way like the blind. I doubt not that a shuddering awe came over the masses of the people, and the thoughtful foresaw terrible things. Surely the question on the mind of each Israelite engulfed in this strange darkness would have been, what is the cause of this ominous sign? Few, if any, Hebrews would not know the oft-repeated account of the miraculous plagues that God brought upon Egypt to deliver their forefathers from bondage They were reminded of those plagues every year at the Passover, and this was the Passover. Unexplained darkness would be perceived as a sign of God's judgment. And he would no doubt strike fear into each heart. Between the unexplained darkness and the earthquake, the people of Israel would surely conclude that God's wrath was being revealed. And of course it was being revealed. Jesus said to the women who mourned and lamented him as he approached Calvary, do not weep for me. But weep for yourselves and for your children, for indeed the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, wombs that never bore, and breasts which never nursed. Jesus came unto his own, and his own received him not. The religious leaders of the nation, the representatives of Judaism. Not only rejected their Messiah, but conspired to have him killed. And those in Pilate's courtyard, influenced by their supposed spiritual leaders, cried out. For the release of a murderous insurrectionist and for the crucifixion of Jesus. Resisting the reasonable arguments of the Gentile. Pontius Pilate. Why, what evil hath he done? he said. And finally those people cried out these terrifying words, His blood be on us and on our children. Matthew 27, 25. Clearly the nation of Israel had cause to fear the wrath of God. The veil of darkness that settled over the land at noon was a picture of God's judgment upon the nation. And it's worth noting that the darkness that descended upon Egypt before the Exodus was the very last Warning the very last great sign before the final act of judgment that would deliver God's people from bondage, the death of the firstborn of Egypt. And now, not for three days, but for three hours, Israel endured a plague of darkness. Before the final act of judgment that would ultimately deliver God's people from bondage to sin. But the redemption required not the death of the firstborn of Egypt. But the death of God's only begotten Son. The darkness was a picture of God's judgment upon Israel. But it can also be seen as a picture of God's judgment upon his own dear son. For it may also be said, as we saw in our Old Testament reading. That in some sense it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief. And he made his soul an offering for sin. The darkened sky was not just a picture of God's wrath upon his sinful nation. It was a picture of God's wrath upon the sin-bearer. The one who cried out at the end of those three hours of noontime night, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That cry, we might say, lifts for us the veil over this mysterious transaction. And so we see in this passage, secondly, a lifting of a veil. The cry of our Savior makes it clear that he was not dying primarily as an example, nor as a symbol of love. Nor was he dying because his father was somehow unable to intervene. He was dying as a substitute. He was dying to satisfy divine justice and ultimately to reconcile us to God. Amen? Jesus, by uttering this cry upon in the hearing of those who were near him at the cross, lifts the veil, permitting us to catch a glimpse of the heavy price that was being paid. The price that was being paid by the Father as he withdrew his love and comfort from his son, and the price being paid by the son who felt that love and comfort withdrawn. This is why, of course, Jesus trembled in the Garden of Gethsemane the night before, and why he prayed so fervently, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. This is why he told his disciples, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry here and watch with me. This is why the scripture says he was sore amazed and very heavy. If our sins do not deserve God's wrath, and if Jesus was not providing himself as a substitute on behalf of his sheep, Then the account of the crucifixion, and in particular Jesus cry to his father, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Those things make no sense at all It was at this time, wrote R. C. Sprohl, speaking of the three hours of darkness, that culminated in Christ's cry. It was at this time that God turned away the light of his countenance, refusing for the first time to gaze on his son as he carried the full measure of the pollution of our wickedness. And obscenity God is too holy to behold. At the climax of that period of darkness, Jesus cried out in agony, not the agony of Agony of the scourging or the agony of the thorns and the nails, but the agony of forsakenness As he put it, as Dr. Sprohl put it in another place, in a day and age when many preach that God loves all people unconditionally, who in the world needs an atonement? You and I do, he said. The justice of God had to be satisfied. By God's grace, when Jesus cried out, it is finished, John 19:30, the atonement was complete. And divine justice was satisfied. And that brings us to the veil that was torn. After Jesus cried out, breathing his last, then the veil of the temple was torn from the top to the bottom. Now, what was God conveying by the tearing from top to bottom of the veil? That separated the holy place from the Holy of Holies. Well, just as the access to the Holy of Holies was only through the veil. The access to the Father is only through the Son. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me, Jesus said. If you believe not that I am He , you shall die in your sins, he said, John 8. 24 So as the son 's body was rent, was torn upon the cross, even so the veil of the temple was rent, was torn from heaven to earth. Now, because of what Christ, our great high priest, has done, the one who came from heaven to earth, we may enter the Holy of Holies ourselves There's no longer a need for a human high priest, no longer a need for an animal sacrifice. Christ, our great high priest. not with the blood of goats or calves, but with his own blood, entered the most holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. Hebrews 9, 12 And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down at the right hand of God, from that time waiting till his enemies are made his footstool. For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. Hebrews 10, 11-14. Why was the veil torn? Because we need no more priests. We need no more intermediaries. We don't need Saint Francis or St. Agnes. We don't need St. Anne or St. Teresa nor St. Peter nor Saint Paul. We don't need St. Joseph. We don't need Mary. No priest, no pastor, no one needs to serve as your intermediary with God. Amen? Your great high priest has rent the veil. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace. that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Hebrews four Finally, we see here a veil removed. 2 Corinthians 3 speaks of the veil upon the hearts of the children of Israel, a veil that is taken away when one turns to the Lord. And as with all unbelievers, there was a veil on the heart of the centurion and those soldiers under his command. They didn't come to their gruesome task that day as believers in Christ. They were almost certainly either atheists, agnostics, or pagan worshippers of the mythological gods and goddesses of the ancient Romans. There was a veil upon their hearts. But remember, Jesus had prayed, Father, forgive them, or they know not what they do. They're just following orders. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And as what may well have been the final prayer of Christ answered by the Father before the resurrection, it appears that God did just that. They were on hand to witness all of this. Jesus' words upon the cross, his intercession for them, his care for his mother, his promise to the repentant thief. The acceptance of the taunts of the scribes and other onlookers without responding in kind. The mysterious darkness, the earthquake, Christ's dismissing of his spirit, they witnessed it all. And as they did, the veil was removed from their hearts. Now, how much they really understood that day about God's salvation, it's impossible to say. But they would surely hear the reports of the resurrection a few days later. And we can hope that they would seek out the followers of Christ and that they indeed became disciples themselves. This means, you see, we have cause to expect that we will see in heaven the very men who drove the nails into Christ's hands and feet, forgiven, redeemed, and glorified. What an illustration of Ephesians 1. God predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. What could be more to the praise of the glory of his grace than to redeem the very men who crucified our Lord? But if you're going to see them in heaven, then of course you have to be there yourself. Have you received a clear, unveiled view of the substitutionary atonement of Christ? Have you entered the Holy of Holies by means of that torn veil made possible only by the sacrifice of Christ? Have you come to him and cried out to him, God, be merciful to me, forgive me, save me. If you have, then you can have confidence you will be with him in paradise, just like the thief on the cross was told by Christ. But if you have not , Then let today be the day of salvation. Let today be the day when the veil is removed from your heart, when the veil is removed from your eyes. When you put your faith in Jesus Christ, if God is calling you, if God is speaking to your heart, don't put it off. Don't say, yeah, one day I'm going to have to investigate this. Cry out to Him today. God forgive me. God save me. God adopt me into your family. Make me one of yours. Lord, I don't want to leave this earth without you. God, remove this veil from my heart. Let's pray Father, that is our prayer. Those of us who are yours, those of us who've had our eyes opened, those of us who've been given sight. Lord, it was not Because of anything we did, it was by your mercy. And so Lord, we are crying out to you for those who might be here today. We don't know every heart. We can't know every heart. We can't know what's in the mind of every child, every young person. But Lord It's all of your grace. It's all of mercy. So please, Father, we're crying out to you. Open eyes. Open ears Bring souls to Christ. We ask it in his powerful name. Amen.