So there's we allow you certain liberties here. Oh I I guess clapping sometimes makes it sound like a performance and We want to avoid that, but Amen. Gives the glory to God, so but you can clap for God, so I guess it's in your mind and what you're okay. Amen. I guess you know he gave us the hands and they make a sound when we so I think that's permissible. I don't know. Romans chapter one. And as we turn there we'll dismiss The we ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Romans chapter one, once again, uh this morning, let's read the first seventeen verses. Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated to the gospel of God, which he promised before through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures Concerning his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holess. By the resurrection from the dead. Through him, we have received grace and apostleship or obedience to the faith among all nations for his name. Among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ. To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. That your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit and the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers, making requests. If by some means, now at last, I may find a way in the will of God to come to you. For I long to see you. that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, so that you may be established. That is, that I may be encouraged together with you by the mutual faith, both of you and me. Now, I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that I often planned to come to you, but was hindered until now, that I might have some fruit among you also, just as among the other Gentiles I am a debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to unwise. So, as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome also For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. For in it, in the gospel, in it, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. Amen. May God bless this portion of his inspired word. Speak to us from it, Father. Help us now. Focus our minds and hearts. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Paul began his letter to the Romans in the traditional fashion that letters were written at his time and in that place. He answered the questions from whom and to whom was the letter being sent? He said it was from Paul, a bondservant, a dulos, a slave, that is the possession of Jesus Christ, Paul, who was called to be an apostle, one who was separated to the gospel of God. as the good news that belongs to God, the good news which God proclaimed through his holy prophets in the Holy Scriptures. The good news concerning God's Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, who was, Paul says, born of the seed of David according to the flesh. The line of King David, and who was declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. It was through Christ, he said, that he had received, that he, Paul, had received grace and apostleship. for the purpose of bringing to, you might say, obedience to the faith among all nations for his name, for Christ's glory. And he notes that those to whom he wrote had also been called, not to the apostleship, but called by Christ nonetheless. Today, an author might write a preface or a foreword to his book, some biographical information. or have someone else write it. Paul includes information about himself and his calling in the very first few sentences of his letter. Book. To whom was it addressed? To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. The letter is from Paul, and it is to all who are in Rome who are beloved of God or beloved of That is, Paul's letter was written to those who were separated from this world unto new life in Christ. They were called out of this world and separated. And so they are described as the called out ones, the ek out clesia, called out ones, separated ones, the body that was called out. the separated ones, the called-out ones, the church. Clearly, they would not be saints had they not been called to be saints. We're not born saints. We're called, and Paul's talking there about God's effectual call, the call that accomplishes something in our hearts. You see it described in 1 Corinthians 1, for you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise, according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the weak things of the world. to put to shame the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. Clearly, he's not talking there about the general call. The wise of this world are generally called, the rich, the mighty are generally called. But he's talking about that effectual call of God. That brings us out of darkness into his marvelous light, turns us from goats to sheep, that that gives us eyes, takes away the heart of stone. So Paul says, I'm writing to those who were called to be saints. Now, what does Paul wish for these who are called of Jesus Christ? Those who are in Rome, who are beloved of God, called to be saints. Well what he wishes for them is grace and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 7. And then before he moves to the important themes of his letter, he first wants to express thanks for the Christians in Rome. Verse 8. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Now, I think we should mention here Here, something you might have noticed as as you look at those first few verses, I thank my God through Jesus Christ. You'll note that Paul is so full of love and honor for Christ. That he refers to him as Jesus Christ, or Jesus Christ our Lord, or the Son of God, or the Lord Jesus Christ, six times in the first what we call eight verses of his letter. Does it in verse one? Verse 3, verse 4, verse 6, verse 7, and verse 8. I thank God through Jesus Christ that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Everywhere the gospel had gone Throughout the world, the faith of the Christians in Rome was a subject of conversation, perhaps in part because they maintained their faith. as it were in the belly of the beast. Rome at the time was the capital city of the world's great superpower, of course. It was a city given over to idolatry and pagan philosophy, a city built on brutality. A city built on slavery and military might. And yet, even there, by the power of the Holy Spirit, there was a body of believers. Who were beloved of God, who were called to be saints. And so everywhere the gospel went, what was going on in Rome was being spoken about. The church in Rome was being spoken about. Have you heard there are even believers in Rome? Some say their followers of Christ didn't see their own household. With such power, the gospel of Christ is spreading. That would encourage Christians all over the world. D. Martin Lloyd-Jones put it this way. She was an imperial city. the center of the Roman Empire and of the Roman government, and it was rather a wonderful thing that there were Christians in the metropolis itself. The people in the distant parts of the empire heard that there were Christians under the very shadow of the Imperial Palace, and they rejoiced in it, and had every reason for doing so. First, Paul says, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. He's thankful for their testimony. He's thankful for their witness. He's thankful for their influence. He's thankful that their faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Verse 9, not only is he thankful for them, for God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. Not only is he thankful for them, but without ceasing, he makes mention of them always in his prayers God is my witness. The God whom I serve with my spirit. I like that. The God whom I serve with my spirit. You know, Paul was all in, right? He was serving with the Spirit. He wasn't just going through the motions. He wasn't a half-hearted Christian. He wasn't half-hearted in his service. With God as his witness, the God whom he served in his spirit, he didn't cease making mention of the believers in Rome when he prayed. And one of the things he prayed for was that God might open a door to permit him to come to them. Verse 10. Making request if by some means, now at last, I may find a way in the will of God to come to you. Paul had evidently wanted to come to them for a long time, presumably for years. And he was trying to arrange it, trying to arrange to get there. But things hindered it, things interfered. He had been hindered by one thing or another. But he continued to pray that God's providence would open a door for him to visit them. Verse 11 For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, so that you may be established. Why was he so intent upon visiting Rome? He wanted to impart some spiritual gift to the believers there. These were believers to whom Paul wrote, they were already resting in Christ for salvation. But his desire was that they would be established, you see. The new birth, resulting in repentance and saving faith, well, that's only the beginning of our Christian walk. It's not the destination. The new Christian is described as a babe in Christ. Now, if a baby remains a baby too long, something's wrong, right? You go to the doctor, you go to the pediatrician, you say it's not growing. My baby's not growing. It's the same size, the same weight. Baby remains a baby too long, there's something desperately wrong. After a few months the baby should begin to crawl. And he toddles around, right? Then uh eventually he starts to talk and he asks for his own smartphone. It's the baby's the baby's growing, that's what happens. Babies are supposed to grow. Paul's desire for the believers in Rome was for their personal growth. He wanted the joy of being used by God to bless them. He wanted to use his spiritual gifts to help them to be established. Paul's words in verse 11, let's look at it again, for I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, so that you may be established. Those words could be understood as suggesting that he wanted to be visit the Roman believers that he might uh give them spiritual gifts that they could then use for themselves, that I might impart to you some spiritual gift, right? Uh Mary, I'm gonna give you the gift of administration and and uh I'm gonna give uh James me the gift of uh teaching and I'm gonna you know but no no no that's uh not what he's saying here I don't believe uh The Bible is clear that those spiritual gifts come directly from the Spirit of God, and our spiritual gift or gifts are imparted when we're saved. The Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as he wills. 1 Corinthians 12, verse 11. The manifestation of the Spirit is Given to each one for the profit of all. First Corinthians twelve, seven. I don't think Paul is saying that he wants to visit these Christians because they haven't yet received any spiritual gifts. They're giftless, and he wants to be able to come there and somehow he's gonna be able to hand out spiritual gifts. Uh uh no no no, I don't think that's what he's saying. He wants to use his spiritual gifts, the ones God has given him, to bless and establish, to help to establish them. He wants to have some fruit among them, as he had among other Gentiles, he says in the In verse 13. He wanted to help to build them up, to edify them, to help to protect them against dangers that were lurking out there. And there were many. Remember, he warned the Ephesians. After my departure, grievous wool shall enter in, not sparing the flock. And even among your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after themselves, you see. So you had a lot of things to warn Christians about. And he had some experience in this as an apostle. So he wanted to warn them, no doubt, about false teaching. Perhaps wanted to warn them against the Judaizers who would get to Rome if they hadn't already. Trying to do the same thing in Rome that they did in Galatia, right? Try to tell these Christians, yeah, believing in Jesus, that's great, but you also have to be circumcised, you have to keep all these Jewish laws and rules, you have to be Jewish. He's a Jewish Messiah. If you're not Jewish, he's not your Messiah. You see, that's what they were teaching. So he had to prevent The Romans from falling off that side of the horse, and then he wanted to prevent them from falling off the other side of the horse with the antinomians, those who said, Hey, we're free from the law, so we can callously break the law. The law has no control over us anymore. The law has nothing to say to us. We're free to sin, and the more we sin, the more grace abounds. Right? Wow, look at that. I'm an adulterer and God still forgives me. I committed murder and he forgives me for that. You see? So he wanted to prevent them from falling off that side of the horse. No doubt he wanted to warn the Romans to beware of the Gnostic heresy. The idea that only a small number have the keys to God's secrets. Only a few initiated believers are in the know. He wanted to warn them about false teachers, and no doubt he wanted to warn them against other dangers to any young church, satanic attacks of doubt and discouragement, division, schism. But I think Paul wanted to clarify what he said in what we call verse 11. Remember verse 11, he says, I long to see it. that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, so you may be established. And then immediately he says, that is, that I may be encouraged together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me. He didn't want to imply that he would be coming to Rome only to give and not to also receive a blessing, you see? And that's how verse eleven could come across. Hey, I wish I were there so I could teach you people, you ignorant people, something. That's not what he's saying. I also want to be be there, not only that I may be uh uh used of God to help to establish your faith, but that you might encourage me as well. Verse so he added verse twelve. That is that I may be encouraged together with you by the mutual faith, both of you And me, even apostles, could be misunderstood, right? So, oh, I gotta clarify that. Now, uh verse 13. I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that I often planned to come to you, but was him Hindered until now, that I might have some fruit among you also, just as among the other Gentiles. He makes it clear that he wanted to come see them before, but he was hindered. He wanted to have some fruit among the Romans, even as He had fruit in many other places, right? You could rattle them off. By this is my Father glorified, Jesus said, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. John 15. Verse 8, Jesus' words. Now, what are some of the things that might have hindered Paul from going to Rome? Well, open doors elsewhere, right? I I I'd love to get to Rome, but there's so many people that are coming to hear the gospel. The doors are wide open. People are being saved. Even Jews are coming to faith. And and some Pharisees are coming to faith. And some leaders are coming to faith. And I gotta stay here. I gotta stay here longer. Uh physical weakness could have impaired him. Uh persecution, of course. Can't get to Rome if he's locked up somewhere Uh you know uh what how he describes uh the things he endured for Christ. You know, a night and a day I've been in a deep and in perils of robbers and perils of my own country. countrymen, etc. So physical weakness, affliction, his own thorn in the flesh, conflict in other churches that demanded his attention As in Corinth, I'm A Paul, I am of Apollos, I'm of Cephas, oh, I'm of Christ. He didn't want the Roman Christians to be unaware of his earnest desire to see them. And his frequent plans to do so, but he was providentially hindered. He wanted fruit among the Gentiles in Rome as he had borne fruit among other Gentiles. Verse 14, I'm a debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to unwise. What does he mean when he says he's a debtor to both Greeks and barbarians? Wise and un In what sense is he a debtor to these people, most of whom he had never met? And what does he mean by Greeks and barbarians? Well, R. C. Throll is helpful here. The Greeks were the highly cultured, civilized, intellectual elite of the ancient culture as distinguished from the rest of the Gentiles who were pagan barbarians. Paul is in debt both to the high-minded Greek and to the barbarian. But he's not talking about a pecuniary obligation or debt. He does not owe them money. Paul is writing about a moral debt. He is burdened by an obligation that accompanied his office as an apostle. He had been set apart as the apostle to the Gentiles. And he spends his life discharging that obligation. And ultimately the debt Paul owes is owed to God and to Christ. But he transfers that indebtedness, that obligation, to the people. He says, I got this burden, this burden to proclaim this good news, but not just to the wise, not just to Greeks, to the intellectuals. But even to barbarians. And so he says in verse 15: So as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome also. also. He's longing to be there. He's anxious to be with them. He's excited about the opportunity to come to them and proclaim the gospel, even though he's likely to face great opposition there. Verse 16, for I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. For in it The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written. And he quotes Tabakat: the just shall live by faith. Paul knew that wherever the gospel was preached, there would be some who would scoff. There would be some who would mock. There would be some who would resist. But he wasn't dissuaded by that. He was not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, because he knew it was empowered by God to bring salvation to those who believe. Jew first, and also for the Greek. For in it, in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed. Righteousness of God is revealed. The righteousness that God imputes to us. How is that righteousness imputed? From faith to faith. Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. It was imputed to him, his faith was accounted as righteousness. Faith was imputed to him as righteousness. So our justification comes from faith, it's applied by faith, and it tends in us toward faith. Paul May mean here, our Christian walk begins by faith and it continues by faith Faith. It's from faith. It's to faith. We're saved by faith and we walk by faith. And as it is written, the just will live by faith. And Lord willing we'll speak more of that next week. But let's pause here and consider just some of the things in in this passage that I think need some underscoring. First of all, uh most of you, I have no doubt, have formed the helpful habit, the biblical God-honoring habit, of asking God for particular things only in Jesus' name. name. When when we pray, we generally append at the end of that prayer, we ask this Father in Jesus' name. I'm not coming to God in my name, you know, that I Can't even pronounce correctly. I'm not coming to God in my own name. I don't have any merits in heaven. I don't have any credits there. I come to God through the name of Jesus Christ. He hears me only because I'm approaching him through Jesus Christ. Christ. So obviously when you pray, you generally, I think, uh certainly have it in your heart if you don't say it that you're coming to God through Christ in Jesus' name. But perhaps it struck you that the Apostle Paul even thanks God through Jesus Christ. Christ. It's in verse 8. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. We sh we don't ask God for things except through Jesus Christ. Apparently Paul wouldn't even thank him except through Jesus Christ. He was so uh fully aware that his whole relationship with go with God was based upon the merits of the Son. I thank you through Jesus Christ. I can't even thank you correctly, Lord. I can't even thank you. fully except through Christ. I wouldn't be able to thank you if you hadn't done a work of grace in my heart through Christ. He seems to have been cognizant of the fact that he couldn't even properly thank God except through the merit and agency of Christ. Secondly, I I think Paul's prayer uh his prayer life as it is is revealed to us here serves as an example to us, right? God is my witness that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. Now remember, he had never met some of these believers. He had not yet, as a believer, as an apostle, been to Rome, evidently. But it's clear from his parting words in chapter 16. That nonetheless he had many dear friends there, brethren he had presumably met elsewhere, or perhaps knew only by correspondence. He mentions Priscilla and Aquila and Phoebe and my beloved Epanetus, Mary, Andronicus, Junior. Greet Amplius, my beloved in the Lord, greet Trifana and Triphosa who have labored in the Lord, etcetera, etc. Ringing a bell. End of the whole letter And yet he hadn't been there yet. Without ceasing, Paul made mention of the Roman Christians always in his prayers. And It seems to me that if he prayed faithfully for a church he had not yet visited, a church he had not founded, we must assume that he also prayed fervently and faithfully for the churches of Galatia and the churches. Church of Corinth and the Church of Philippi and Ephesus and for the church in Colossae and and uh Thessalonica, right? Well that's a prayer life that puts my prayer life to shame. And perhaps Look at verse three. I'm sorry, the third point I meant to say. I gotta pay attention. Third point in my application. Paul's desire for believers is that they would be established. They had faith in Christ, they were redeemed. And when they died, they would be in glory. But Paul recognized that their regeneration and their justification were just the beginning of their pilgrimage. His desire for them was that they would be established. And in a similar vein, he prayed for the Ephesian believers, right? We looked at it a few weeks ago weeks ago that they would know what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward those who believe. Toward us who believe. And for the Philippians, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. Didn't we just sing, More love, O Christ to thee? We're not satisfied Satisfied with where we are as Christians, hopefully. I want more love for Christ. I want to be more committed to Him. More love of Christ to thee. I'd venture to say that most of the teaching in the New Testament epistles was in Intended not to bring unbelievers to Christ, but rather to bring believers to maturity. Most of these letters they were written for believers, to bring them to maturity. Paul said, I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift that you may be established. It's good that you're a believer in Christ. It's good that you're trusting in Christ. It's good that if you die tonight, you'll be with God in heaven. But now you want to be established. You want to get your roots down deep because when the storms come, those roots had better be deep. Are you Christian? Are you being established in your faith? Are you reading? Are you praying? Are you serving? Are you growing? And fourth, the faith of the Christians in Rome was spoken of throughout the whole world. I think we need to underscore that. God was glorified by their faith in the very midst of a pagan culture at the very heart of the Roman Empire. Now it's unlikely that your faith or mine will ever Command worldwide attention, right? But nonetheless, God would be honored and glorified if your faith were such that it was recognized by your parents. Or by your spouse, or by your children, by your friends, right? Boy, mom, mom. a woman of faith. Mom can trust God no matter what happens. I mean dad lost his job and mom well they didn't have a big fight. It wasn't a big fuss. They just they got on their knees, they prayed. God you We're your children. You provide for us. We're trusting you. Your seeds. Not going to beg bread. You got something in mind. We don't know what it is. Help us. God is glorified by that. Your faith doesn't have to be spoken of throughout the whole world. God is glorified when your faith is recognized by your kids. By your parents, by your relatives, by your friends. May your trust in God be so complete that your faith is noticeable by others and God is glorifying. And then there's a common uh understanding in some Christian circles That truly spiritual Christians do nothing except by some sort of special revelation from God. It's a fe Feeling, it's a nudge, it's a still small voice. When they have a choice between two or three options, they don't presume to choose one. Oh no, I would never choose. They expect God to choose one for them, and then they devote their energy to attempt This passage reminds us that the Apostle Paul did not make his decisions that way. He had not been to Rome yet as an apostle. He knew there was a group of vibrant Christians there, and he determined that it would be a good idea for him to visit them. He decided he wanted to visit them and help to establish them. He wanted to have some fruit among them as he had among others. He wasn't responding to some special revelation. He made his decisions as you and I should make ours. What seems to be wise, what seems to be prudent, what seems to be honoring to God. Barnabas, let's go back and visit those churches that we established. It's been a while, we haven't been there in a while. Why don't we go back and visit them and see how they're doing? Yeah, that makes sense. You see? That's how they made their decisions. That's how we're supposed to make our decisions. That's why we have the book of Proverbs. To make wise choices, to make wise decisions. This whole idea that we have to wait before God and just stay on our knees until He tells us what to do. He never said he was going to do that. He didn't do that to Paul. It was only on very special occasions. When God wanted to speak to Paul, Paul knew it. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Come over to Macedonia and help us. When God wants to talk to you, He'll talk to you. But don't expect it. It's a rarer thing. Even in the time of the apostles, when God was performing all these miracles, it was a rare thing. Paul says, Yeah, I want to come to Rome. And then Paul was diligently praying that he might somehow be able to visit Rome. He said he was making a request, if by some means now at last. I might find a way in the will of God to come to you. But if you read the last several chapters of the Acts of the Apostles, you'll see that by some means God granted Paul's request. Paul found a way in the will of God to come to Rome. He went as a prisoner. He went accused of being a plague upon mankind, a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes One who tried to profane the temple of Jerusalem, a man who was creating dissension among all the Jews throughout the whole world. This is what was said about him. In Acts 24, the charges that led to him going to Rome. Paul's heartfelt desire to visit the Christians in Rome, and this is what I want to underscore here. was the word I want to underline. His heartfelt desire to visit the Christians in Rome was ultimately granted, but surely not in the way he imagined it, right? He didn't come sailing in. There wasn't a big reception at the you know at the Roman docks and oh here's Paul and come to our house and we had a big meal and and then he got to speak. And preached till midnight. It wasn't like that. His heart desire uh to visit the Christians in Rome was granted, but not in the way he expected. And yet, in the providence of God, when he did get to Rome, he was permitted to proclaim the gospel both to Jews and Gentiles. Listen to the last two verses of the book of Acts. Then Paul dwelt two whole years in his own rented house and received all who came to him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things which concerned Concern the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, no one forbidding him. That's an amazing thing for a prisoner, right? But a prisoner who was given a a d great degree of liberty. And so he came to Rome as a prisoner, not what he wanted, but God used him there nonetheless, even in those circumstances. Christian, what I'm trying to say is uh What I'm trying to remind you about is God's thoughts are not your thoughts, and his ways aren't your ways. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. Knowing God as Paul did, I have no doubt that he recognized God's hand in his arrest, and he trusted that it was one of those things in his life that God was. gonna work together for good. Well here we go. Lord, I'm a prisoner, I'm gonna be put on a ship, I'm gonna be taken to Rome, but use me there. Right? Pastor Nick preached on it a few weeks ago. Use me. Use me on the way. Use me when I'm there. May we have such faith when we're afflicted or mistreated or when we receive what seems like devastating news. God help me to trust your providence in this situation. Help me to glorify you even in these circumstances. This is not the way I wanted this to happen, but I believe that you work all things according to the counsel of your will. Ephesians one eleven. So I can trust you. I I can trust you, though they say, yes, it's malignant. can trust you because you're in control. And then Paul says he served God with his spirit. Verse 9. Are you serving God with your spirit, Christian? In other words, are you all in? Are you giving it your best? When you have an opportunity to serve the Lord, if you're teaching three kids in a Sunday school class, are you giving it your best? Are you all in? Are you giving it giving your utmost for his highest? As this month this month marks the 500th anniversary of the posting of Luther's 95 Theses, and the Protestant Reformation, the historians say, basically ensued From it. I've been uh reading Roland Bayton's classic biography of Luther, Here I Stand. And whatever else may be said of Martin Luther, he was a man who was all in A man who served God with his spirit, right? He wasn't just going through the motions. At one point he was asked what he would do if he were summoned to appear before Charles V, the Holy Roman Emperor, to answer charges of heresy. You ask me what I shall do if I am called by the Emperor. I will go, even if I'm too sick to stand up. on my feet. If Caesar calls me, God calls me. If violence is used, as well it may be, I commend my cause to God. He lives and reigns Who saved the three youths from the fiery furnace of the king of Babylon? And if he will not save me, my head is worth nothing compared with Christ. This is no time to think of safety. I must take care that the gospel is not brought into contempt by our fear to confess and seal our teaching with our blood. Serve God with a spirit. He was all in. Christian, are you all in? Are you serving God with your spirit? And then finally, the Apostle Paul called himself a debtor both to Greeks and Let me leave you with this thought. Do you feel any debt? Do you feel any burden to bring God's good news to your doctrine? Your neighbor, your child's teacher , your waiter, your co-workers, your fellow students, your friends Are you content to keep to yourself the most wonderful news that anyone has ever heard? What is that wonderful news? And although we violated God's holy laws, We deserve his wrath. His love for us was so great that he provided a way for us to be forgiven. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Jesus left the Glories above, came to the sinful world, kept all the laws of God that you and I have broken, loved God with all his heart, all his soul, all his mind, all his strength, all his life. And that Went to the cross and endured the wrath of his father for sin. God made him to be sin for us. He who knew no sin. God God did this that we might be forgiven. Jesus on the third day rose from the dead. God declared him to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. And Jesus told his astonished apostles, disciples, go into all the world and proclaim this good news. The men don't have to die and pay for their own sins. I made the payment for them If you'll but repent and believe in me, all your sins will be forgiven. You'll receive the gift of eternal life. Come to me, all ye who labor. And are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. That's the good news. That's the gospel. And if you haven't come to him, friend, don't put it off. Don't say, Yeah, one day I'm going to get that settled. No man knows what a day may bring forth. This is the day of salvation. This is the time. Come to him today. How do you do it? God forgive me. God save me. I know I know I'm a sinner. I see it. I see my pride. I see my selfishness. I see my ungratefulness. I see my covetousness. I see my lust. God, it's all there. Forgive me and save me Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You come to God that way and pray a prayer like that and mean it in your heart. On the authority of God's holy word, I declare to you, all your sins will be forgiven, and you'll be with God in heaven one day. Amen? Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a glorious gospel we have to proclaim. And may we have this a similar burden on our hearts as the Apostle Paul had. May we feel ourselves a debtor to all those who don't know the gospel because You brought the gospel to us. You opened our eyes. You gave us faith to believe it. And now we know it. And there are people dying without it. So Lord, please. We pray Pray that we might have ten thousand tongues to proclaim your good news. Help us then Lord, even this day, this week, this month, to be your messengers, we pray in Christ's name. Amen.