If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 6? And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. with uh Mark and Jackie Fuhrer. Mark chapter six, as you turn there, um this might be a good opportunity to mention Uh an update on uh on Mirsi and uh Josie. Remember the Indian couple uh Mirsi and Josie who worshipped with us for uh uh uh the better part of the year I guess and moved to uh Rhode Island where Mercy found the better job that would actually get him home uh in the evening And uh uh Joff and Lynn went to see them just a couple weeks ago. And uh Joff and Lynn, where are you here over here? And uh found them very well. Uh they're in a wonderful church family in Rhode Island. And uh uh actually it was neat the way it worked out. Joff and Lynn got there just when there was a a water problem in their apartment. I guess uh pipes had burst in nearby and their carpet was getting flooded and and Uh Joff was able to help him out with uh uh wet dry back and all that stuff that you have to do and the fans and so uh but it w it was a great uh they said they had a wonderful visible with them and they're doing very very well and and of course send their love to the to our church family. The Gospel of Mark, continuing our study through the Gospel, we're in chapter six. And let's pick it up, pick up the story at verse 41 and read through the end of the chapter. And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven, blessed, and broke the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them. And the two fish he divided among them all. So they all ate and were filled. And they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fish. Now those who had eaten the loaves were about five thousand men. Immediately, he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he sent the multitude away. And when he had sent them away, he departed to the mountain to pray. Now, when evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he was alone on the land. Then he saw them straining at rowing, for the wind was against them. Now, about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. And would have passed them by. And when they saw him walking about the sea, they supposed it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were troubled. But immediately he talked with them and said to them, Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid. Then he went up into the boat to them, and the wind ceased And they were greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure and marveled, for they had not understood about the loaves because their heart was hardened. When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret and anchored there. And when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him. ran through that whole surrounding region and began to carry about on beds those who were sick to wherever they heard he was. Wherever he entered into villages, cities, or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and begged him that they might just touch the hem of his garment. And as many as touched him were made well. Let's pray. Oh Father, what a privilege it is for us to be able to read your holy word in our own language. To be able to gather together in freedom without fear of persecution, to hear the Word of God expounded, to sing your praise, to confess our sins to you, to bring our offerings to you. Lord, accept our worship this day. And we pray, Father, that now as we come to your Holy Word, your Holy Spirit will open our eyes. Lord, I pray, especially if there be anyone here outside of Christ Still dead in sins, without hope, that this might be the day of salvation for that one. Well, those of us who know you, Lord, strengthen us. Preach your gospel to us afresh, Lord, for we need it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, the apostles had just returned from their first missionary journey. It was actually when they could rightly be called apostles because this was when Christ had sent them forth. He sent them forth, you'll remember, two by two. And he gave them power, power over unclean spirits, power to cast out demons, in other words, power to heal the sick. And then of course the command to preach the gospel. The message of repentance. So their message was repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, the Messiah has come. And many people no doubt believed. They came back, the disciples came back excited. They told Jesus everything that they had seen. and and had done and and what they had said, the teaching they had brought to the people. And the scripture says that there was so much commotion, I I would assume that many of these people who who came to faith through their witness would now follow them back. Let's go and see this Messiah of whom they spoke. And uh and those disciples, the they're leaving, let's follow them. And there were so many people coming and going, Mark says. That the disciples didn't even have time to eat. So what did Jesus do? He said to them, Come apart and rest for a while. Let's go to a deserted place. So you can can rest. They had just been on this journey, we don't know for how long, and had accomplished much, but now it was time for them to rest. So they got in the boat and they sailed along the shore of the Sea of Galilee and uh and they got uh to a deserted place Problem was the people that wanted to be with Jesus, they saw them get in the boat, and they just went along the shore and went to where the boat was. And when the boat landed there was a mass of people there. And the scripture says when Jesus came out he saw the multitude. Now we don't know exactly how many, we know there were approximately five thousand men, because remember he b eventually they had him sit in groups of fifty And a hundred, it's pretty easy to count them. They must have had the men separate from the ladies. Ladies were over under the trees with the little kids, uh, you know, in the cry room area, and uh and the men were uh all together apparently In groups, but it got late. The day uh passed away. It was the afternoon, and it was getting late, and these people hadn't brought any food. The scripture makes it clear they had nothing to eat And so the disciples come to Jesus and say, Lord, uh it's the late, it's it's the hour is late, you better send them away. Now we don't know what time it was. You know, they didn't use wrist watches. So it was afternoon, I'm guessing maybe two, three three in the afternoon, it's getting late. You better send them away now so they can get some food and then make it home before it's dark. So Jesus says to the disciples, well you give them something to eat. And I said, what are you talking about? 200 denarii wouldn't be enough. 200 uh if a denarius is a day's wages of a laborer, 200, that's a lot of money. Maybe six months, uh over six months, wages, seven months maybe. Wages? Where are we gonna get that kind of money? And and even if we did, where are we gonna find that much bread? You know, you I don't suppose there's a bakery nearby that has all that bread. We're just sitting here, we had 5,000 loaves ready for you. So Jesus says, Well, what do you have? Go and see. And they come back and they say, Well, we have f five. We were able to scrounge up five loaves of bread. In fact they got them all from the same young boy, right? Um John tells us uh there is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two little fish. He mentioned little fish. Well what are these amongst so many? You know, I feel odd even to mention it. Uh I'm sure Andrew was thinking. But uh that's what we so of course Jesus sits the multitude down, he tells his disciples, have them sit down in groups of fifty and a hundred. So that you could easily move between them and pass out. And of course, then we have this wondrous miracle of the feeding of the five thousand with five loaves of bread and two fish. A miracle recorded for us in every one of the gospels. And everybody's amazed, of course, but what we don't read about in Mark is revealed to us in John. When the men realized what Jesus had done, they just witnessed it, they saw it, they experienced it, they started to say to one another, let's make him king. Let us make him king. They wanted to come to him and force him to become their king. And I'm sure they're thinking with something like this: look, most kings, you know what they do? They tax us to death, they take our young people to be their servants. and to be their soldiers. He'll be a king who can actually feed us. You know, maybe we won't ever have to labor again. And the Bible says, as soon as Jesus perceived that, he did two things. He sent the disciples away by boat. He said, Go across the sea to Bethsaida. And then he sent the multitude away. And then well the third thing, I guess you want to call it that, would be he departed to a mountain to pray. Now, you can uh you can imagine the uh uh the fervor Right? Amongst the crowd to witness such a miracle as this. And uh and I wonder if if even the disciples themselves were catching a little bit of the spirit. Maybe that's why he sent them away John writes, those men, when they had seen the sign that Jesus did, said, This is truly the prophet who is to come into the world. Remember Moses said there will be a prophet like unto me who will come? So they determined to make Jesus their king. And it says, Therefore, when Jesus perceived that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, He departed again to the mountain by himself alone, John 6. But before he did so, he sent his disciples away. Maybe they were caught up in the fervor, the excitement. They wanted Jesus to take this role as well, perhaps. And having the people urge Christ to assume the throne as an earthly monarch might have been very appealing to the disciples, and maybe some of them were encouraging the idea. Uh in any event, Jesus sent them away. Earliest early twentieth century Anglican preacher uh trench wrote in his book on the miracles of Christ The disciples could not avoid being aware of the shape which the popular enthusiasm roused to the highest pitch by the recent miracle was taking. This was precisely that which they had long hoped would arrive, so that they must have been most reluctant to leave their master at the moment of his approaching exaltation. Now we know, don't we, that Satan previously tempted Jesus with just this sort of thing, to short circuit his ministry, to go directly to the kingship, so to speak, to bypass the cross. Here was a similar temptation arising in the minds of those who had just witnessed this miracle of the loaves and the fish. And maybe that's why Jesus abruptly sent his disciples away. Look at verse 47. Now when evening came, or when, let me read it exactly, now when evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea. And he was alone on the land. Then he saw them straining at rowing, for the wind was against them Now, about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them walking on the sea, and would have passed them by. The Lord Jesus must have prayed a long time, evidently the bulk of that night, because it was the fourth watch of the night. uh Mark declares. That is what we would call between say 3 a. m. and 6 a. m. Uh just before the dawn. It was that section of the night that came just before the dawn. And he looked and saw the disciples still in the midst of the Sea of Galilee, straining at the oars, because the wind was against them. Now, think about it. A trip across that lake might have taken an hour, maybe two, under favorable circumstances, but they've been laboring at the oars evidently almost all night. John mentions that they were only about three or four miles into the lake. And he says a great wind was blowing. Now it's it's commendable, it seems to me, that the disciples didn't just give up and allow the wind and waves to drive them back to the shore where they had left Jesus hours before. But Jesus had said to them, head for Bethsaida. And so that's where they hit it. Now something rather unusual occurred. Sometime in those pre-dawn hours, Jesus came to them walking upon the sea. Look at verse 49. And when they saw him walking on the sea, they supposed it was a ghost and cried out. They supposed it was a phantasma, a phantom , an apparition , a spirit, you might say. Now remember, this was first century Palestine, what many would call a backward, unscientific age and place. I'm sure if the typical modern 20th, 20, where are we, 21st century American witnessed something like this, he would conclude immediately that that being walking upon the water Was it was a zombie. Right? Ghosts are kind of passed. It would be a zombie today. Or maybe a wizard. Or an alien. Or Bigfoot. Or a vampire. But these simple uneducated men cried out in fear, thinking they were seeing some sort of spiritual being. Whoa, what would you think? You look out, you see this being walking on the water. They all saw him and were troubled. But immediately, verse 50, he talked with them and said to them, Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid. Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid. Matthew reveals something here that Mark and John didn't record for us, something that many of us learned in Sunday school or at our parents' knees. That as soon as Jesus said, It is I, don't be afraid, the Apostle Peter said, Well, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water. So Jesus had come. And he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried out, Lord, save me! And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him and said to him, Oh, you of little faith, why did you doubt? We still uh tend to sink when we focus on the wind and the waves, don't we? Instead of on the Lord Jesus Himself. That little Sunday school lesson. Is a valid one. Look at verse 51. Then he went up into the boat to them, and the wind ceased, and they were greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure and marveled. I mean that's pretty strong life. They were greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure and they marveled. This was uh uh something they had never of course experienced before. They were greatly amazed. You would be amazed too. I would be amazed too. Greatly amazed. Marvel. But there's a rebuke here. Look at verse 52. For they had not understood about the loaves because their heart was hardened. For they had not understood about the loaves because their heart was hardened. Well, what is it they didn't understand about the loaves? Why does Mark put that here when he's talking about the fact that they were greatly amazed? Well, it seems to me it's as if Mark is saying, how many miracles did Jesus have to perform Before the disciples understood that there was nothing he could not do, before they realized that he was in fact Emmanuel, God with us. Before they believed that in the beginning was the word and the word was with God, and the word was God, and the word became flesh and tabernacled among us And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Not long before that fact really took root in their hearts. How many times would they have to witness him overruling the laws of nature before they recognized him as the eternal lawgiver, the Alpha and Omega? Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say then, show us the Father? John 14. Truly, truly I say to you, he who has seen me has seen the Father. For they had not yet understood about the loaves. I think what Mark is saying is that the miracle of the loaves and the fish was every bit as much a suspension of what we call natural law. Every bit as much as the miracle they just witnessed that night. However, they had not yet connected the dots. But This event, at least for the time, seemed conclusive because Matthew tells us that when Jesus entered the boat and the wind ceased, Then those who were in the boat came and worshipped him, saying, Truly you are the Son of God. Okay, Lord, now we believe it. You know, I they should have believed that when they saw him speak to the wind and the waves and that earlier incident in the midst of a storm, that amazed them as well. But at least at this point they're saying, yeah Lord, we we believe. And Mark then ends this section with an account of what immediately followed. Look at verse 53. When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesareth and anchored there. And when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him, ran throughout that whole surrounding region, and began to carry about on beds or pallets Those who were sick to wherever they heard he was. Where is he now? He's over there. He's in that village. So they went over there. And they found him. And they would take their their sick and they would place them in marketplaces where there was lots of room. And they would just beg him that he might just come by so that they could just reach out and touch the hem of his garment. And as many as touched him were made well. As I read this little segment, it reminded me of so many other little segments we've already read in Mark that uh seems to describe something very similar. Here's one. At evening they brought to him all who were sick and those who were demon-possessed, and the whole city was gathered together at the door. And then he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and he cast out many demons. Chapter 1. From chapter 3. He healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed about him to touch him. Chapter 3, verse 10. Then the multitude came together again, so they couldn't so much as eat bread. Chapter 3 verse 20. Well, here in Mark 6, we see people carrying the sick on beds or pallets, laying them in the marketplaces, just begging Jesus to touch them. Or that they might reach out and touch him. Now, let's highlight a few things from this narrative. First of all, Jesus sent the disciples across the lake, and then he sent the multitude away, and he departed to the mountain to pray. Let's not miss this. He departed to the mountain to pray. I have no doubt he was exhausted from that day of teaching and preaching. Matthew points out. He was also healing the sick that day. But what he desired more than rest was communion with his father. Anglican Bishop J. C. Ryle, a contemporary of Spurgeon, wrote, There are few things, it may be feared, in which Christians come so far short of Christ's example as they do in the matter of prayer. Our master's strong crying and tears, his continuing all night in prayer, his frequent withdrawal to private private places to hold close communion with the Father Are things that are more talked of and admired than imitated. We live in an age of hurry. Now remember, this is a Victorian age, an age of hurry, bustle, and so-called activity. Men are tempted continually to cut short their private devotions and abridge their prayers. When this is the case, we need not wonder that the Church of Christ does little in proportion to its machinery. The church must learn to copy its head and its head more closely. Its members must be more in their closets. We have little, because little is asked. James 4. 4. 2. Jesus departed to the mountain to pray. He'd been, remember, the day started out by him telling the disciples, You're tired, let's go, let's rest. They got no rest. Now it's evening. And Jesus, instead of collapsing and sleeping, he goes to the mountain to commune with his father. So I ask you, are you a man or woman of prayer? Is that what others would say of you if they knew your private life? Are you a man or woman of prayer? Secondly, note that the fact that his disciples were on the sea. John says four or five miles, they'd ventured only four or five miles. The fact that his disciples were on the sea and he was on land without a boat was no obstacle to him. Those disciples would be worn out by this point. They needed him. So he went to them. If he couldn't come by boat, he would come by foot. The designer of what we call the law of gravity simply suspended that law for a time as it applied to himself so that he might cross the lake to his disciples. So let us remember and be encouraged that whatever obstacles there may be that would seem to prevent the Lord from coming to your aid They're not obstacles to him. They're non-obstacles. And no doubt Joseph question here I am alone in this uh Egyptian's household, far away from family, far away from uh anyone I know. Can God help me here? Distance and language barriers and your status in life or lack thereof are no obstacles to God. Uh last week uh Prame and Kelly invited us over to their cozy little home around here somewhere. And uh and they told uh Prame told us about uh a man he met while doing a prison visitation in India. This man was the son of a Christian pastor, but he had rejected Christ. His life was a life of violence and crime. But apparently he was trying to straighten out somewhat, and he he was getting married. And on this uh the the very wedding his very wedding day, he was he he entered into an argument with his bride's brother, the man who would become his who was destined to be his brother-in-law, as he thought. On the very day he got down in an argument with uh the bride's brother And his violent uh temper erupted, he struck the the brother, the brother fell back, hit his head against a table, I believe, is what Frank said, and died. The day that was to be the day of his wedding, he was uh Uh he committed this crime and w he was eventually uh placed in jail for a long prison sentence. There was no wedding, the family uh pressed charges, his Violence and his hatred were such that even in the prison he was proverbial. The guards all knew about him, the warden knew about him. He was sent from prison to prison. He was so hard to handle. But those prison walls were not insurmountable to the Spirit of God. As he told Prayme, one day he found on the floor of his cell the smallest fragments of a piece of of Scripture. And he picked it up and he read it, and there was one complete Bible verse on there. Prem wasn't sure what that verse was, but it was sufficient to bring him to faith in Christ. This man repented of his sins right there. Asked God's forgiveness. He became a changed man. He became a new creation. That one Bible verse was used by God to regenerate him by the power of the Holy Spirit. The entrance of thy word bringeth light. And so this man comes to faith in Christ, and the other prisoners begin to see, wait a minute. He's not fighting all the time, he's not angry all the time, he's not beating us up all the time. And in fact, the uh the administration began to see it. And ultimately, uh uh they wanted to they wanted to find out what happened to you, and he told them about his faith in Christ, and he asked them if they if he might have a Bible. And so they arranged. Remember, this is India. This is a Hindu nation by and large. They found a Bible for him, they brought it to him. This man began to read, absorb , feed, feast upon God's word. Became uh uh the expert in the in the in the word of God. And and the other prisoners would begin to come to him and he would teach them. And then if prisoners were sick, they would bring the the leadership would bring the sick prisoners to him so he could pray for them, lay his hands upon them. And then even those that they believed were possessed of demons, and and Prem says there's quite a lot of of demon activity in India today. All those gods and goddesses, who do you think is behind all that? So they they would bring people who were demon possessed to him and he would pray for them and the demons would be cast out. And And th the the whole prison knew about this guy. And when he talked to Pram in the prison, Pram had gone there with some tracks he wanted to distribute them and they said, Oh, you gotta go meet this guy And so they brought him over to it was another one of those Christians. And uh and it and so Prem uh left those uh gospel tracts with him and he was able to to use them of course. But the the man said that, you know, my prayer is that I will y ultimately be released from here so I can visit other prisons in India. He wanted to reach every prison in India with with the good news of the gospel. And uh it's interesting that the man's name, his given name, remember he was the son of a pastor, was Paul. And uh yeah, Fram says Paul, he if Frame returned to his apartment or home one time and there was this man. He had been released, uh I guess because of his changed behavior. Uh released early and and he was beginning that process of going to the other prisons in India. The fact that he was behind a prison wall, the fact that he was a man of anger and hatred and violence Uh they were not ultimate obstacles to God. God somehow got a portion of Scripture into that cell, and that was enough to bring this man to Savior. I was uh uh reminded that uh neither raging wave waves nor rage itself. are insurmountable obstacles to Christ. I remember when uh my younger brother Kenny was a student at Cornell, uh the the scenario was The Lord brought Donna and myself to faith in Christ in nineteen seventy-one. My younger brother Kenny at the time was in his first year at at Cornell. And we began to witness to Kenny but the fact that he was up at Cornell uh uh w was viewed by us as an obstacle. Uh w was he gonna what what's he gonna be hearing up there, what's he gonna be learning? Uh What kind of a gospel witness is you going to hear at Cornell? Uh what 's you gonna hear from his professors? So we, of course, and and my other brother Doug, who had led us to the Lord, were praying for Kent. And as it turned out, uh, the fact that he was at Cornell was no obstacle to the Lord. He and some buddies moved into a home off campus and in the an apartment and just above them, on the floor above them, was a bunch of uh Christian girls. who uh who had moved in and they would invite the guys up and and uh cook for them and and witness to them and they began to invite them to go to this uh off campus uh to this church uh it was called Bethel Grove Bible Church. And there they were hearing God's word clearly expounded. I've been there myself. The pastor at the time, Merald Stern, was his name from South Africa, as I recall. uh wa was faithful to the to God's word. Ken was hearing it there when he would come back to Orlando where we were living at the time, he would hear it there at the Orlando Bible Church. And uh and then he went out selling books one summer, uh, Southwestern I think it's called. You know, they sell books in out west and there were a lot of Christians there on his team and staying in churches and so These things are no obstacles to God. There was no boat, but the disciples needed Jesus, so he came to them walking on the water. Now, note something else. He came to them, but not right away. Maybe you picked up on that. Now again, the times are approximate, but if he sent the multitudes away while it was still light, which was would be my guess, right? Because there were women and children. The Bible says he sent the disciples away before that. So it was still life. Even if it were seven, eight, let's say nine o'clock at night, still light, maybe, uh they get in the boat and they're gonna cross the other side. Should take about an hour, set the sail. Uh-oh, the wind's against us, we're gonna have to use the oars 9 o'clock, 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock, 12 o'clock, we're still rowing. The winds are against us. The waves are against us. 1 o'clock, 2 They'd only gone four or five miles. Now these men were already exhausted when the day began. That's why Jesus said, come apart and let's rest. They ended up spending the whole day ministering to thousands of people. And now they're in the boat and they can't even use the sails. And I'm sorry I don't know what was said in the boat, but I I bet they were saying, I wish Jesus was with us here. Remember last time he was with us? All he did was speak to the wind and the sea, and they were still You know, if only he were with us, and and the temptation might have been, let's go back, let's go find him. But no, no, uh somebody said, I guess, look, he told us to go, he said to cross, we're gonna cross. He has a reason for it. Two o'clock, three o'clock, somewhere in that last watch of the night, sometime between three and six, finally Jesus comes. But even then He doesn't come in the way they expected. He's walking on the sea, and and it looks like he's going to walk right past them. I'm sure that's not how they wanted to uh that's not how they would have planned that night if it had been in their hands. Let's quickly get get across and get some rest. But faith, you see, is a is a muscle that is only strengthened with use. And the last time something like this happened, Jesus was asleep in the boat. This time he's not even in the boat. And they had learned to trust him before when he was with them. Remember, he said to them, You have little faith, what were you really afraid of? You think the whole boat's going to go down? Don't you realize I've come for a purpose? But in this case, you know, midnight, oh Jesus, would you come? Come help us do something. Stop this wind, stop the waves. But nothing. 1 a. m. 2 a.m. 3 a.m. maybe 4 a.m. 5 a.m. we don 't know. Martha said, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. If you had been My brother would not have died. But I know that even now, whatever you ask of God, God will give it to you. That's faith. That's what faith is. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. That's faith. Some of you were in the midst of the book. Right now. You've been struggling at the oars for months. Years, it seems. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. You're in that boat for a reason. You trust him, you trust him, and you roll. Even when Jesus tried to Doesn't that remind you of the two on the road to Emmaus? They didn't recognize the risen Christ on the day of the resurrection. They didn't recognize him at first. Their eyes were restrained, the scripture says. But as they drew near the village, remember what Jesus said? He he went as if it looked as if he was going to go on. He proceeded as if he were going further. But they uh besought him to stay with them. It says, as they drew near the village where they were going, he indicated that he would have gone further Luke 24. You might say the Lord was trying or testing his apostles to see if they could perceive him even in a form they didn't expect. I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in. Lord, what are you talking about? When did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger? And take it with Inasmuch as you did it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you did it unto me. Jesus was testing his disciples, perhaps to see if they would recognize him even in a form they weren't expecting. In as much as he did it under one of the least of these, my brother. brethren. You may have been ministering to Jesus this past week and not recognize it. Serving in the nursery. Teaching a little children, reaching out to those in need. Inasmuch as you did it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you did it unto me. Of fourth, Jesus reveals his deity here. But I want you to notice something. He doesn't just do it by deed, he does it by work. The deed is pretty evident. He suspends the laws of nature, just as he had done earlier when he spoke to the wind and the waves, and they obeyed him, just as he had done a few hours before, when he took five loaves of bread and said thousands with it. So the the the deed is an evident testimony to his deity. These laws of nature, I can suspend them at will. But revealing his deity by word is not quite as clear, not in the English. You're familiar with the beloved I am passages from the Gospel of John I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. I am the door. I am the good shepherd. I am the Alpha and the Omega And then uh uh John eight, before Abraham was I am and the Jews recognized him to be using the very words that Jehovah used in at the burning bush, and that's when they took up stones to cast at him because You're familiar with those I am uh passages from uh John. We got one right here in Mark R. C. Sprohl explains, when a person says I am in Greek, he can do it in two ways. He can say a me, that's a common way, or he can say ego ami. This is an intensive form of I am. However, it's also an expression that translates the ineffable name of God that God gave to Moses from the burning bush. I am that I am. Or I am who I am. Thus shalt thou say to the children of Israel, I am has sent me unto you. Exodus 3 And that name is usually rendered as Yahweh in the Hebrew. But when Yahweh is translated into Greek, it is Ego Emi. I am. And that's what Jesus said. When the disciples were fearful, it looked like he was passing them by. He said, Be of good cheer. Don't be afraid. I am. And then he comes into the boat and they fall down and they worship him. Truly you are the Son of God. He declared his deity, not only Not only by his actions, but by his word. And one more thing. The previous day, Jesus perceived the disciples were tired. And he suggested they come apart and rest. But as we've seen, there was no rest for the weary that day. Thousands of people clamored about them. Then after that long day he sends them across the lake. But there was no rest for them there. They're straining at the oars. Most of the night. And Jesus, no doubt tired from the preaching and teaching of thousands and the healings, Matthew says, uh, then Goes apart to pray to his father. So instead of resting, he spends the night in prayer. And then he sees his disciples still on the midst of the sea, not across it yet. Remember, did we mention it's only uh four to six miles wide, about thirteen miles long? Even if they went the the longest way, uh thirteen miles, they'd have been across in a couple hours at least. But they're still straining at the oars. And so what does Jesus do? He walks the three or four miles to get to them. And then they're in the boat, and finally, it's getting close to dawn now. Finally, they're on the shore. Ah, so what happens? They they piled out of the boat, they just collapsed on the shore and they slept till noon. Is that what the scripture says? No, it says immediately the people recognized him, they brought him the sick for healing. and as many as touched him were made well. Now, is this not an encouragement to us? Our Lord has time. Our Lord takes time for the sick and the needy. We have a high priest Who can be touched with a feeling of our infirmities? A high priest who, at the tomb of his dear friend Lazarus, Weeps, a high priest who loved the rich young ruler, even as that man refused to follow him. A high priest who graciously interacted with a woman of Samaria, although both her race and her lifestyle would have made her a pariah to the religious leaders, the scribes and Pharisees. This passage reminds me that wait a minute, Jesus could have said to those people, Look, you don't understand. We just we fed five thousands with five loaves of bread, two fish. We just had a whole day of teaching and preaching. I spent the night praying. Now we finally crossed the sea. And now you want us to continue to minister. Can't you give us a break? But the people were in need, and so Jesus and his disciples ministered to them. Friend, he has time for you. He has time for you. He has compassion upon you. Cast all your cares upon him, for he cares for you. For Peter 5. you He said, Come to me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will Will give you rest. It may be you're here today and you haven't yet come to him. I know you come to church, that's good. You should go to church where you hear God's word, where you can worship him, but more importantly, have you come to him? Now, what does that mean? Well, it means to recognize yourself to be a sinner, first of all. That's what the disciples preach. They preach repentance. What is that? That's to recognize sin as vile. That's corrupt. It's to have a change of mind about it. It's to turn away from it in disgust. That doesn't mean you're never going to sin again, of course you will, but you don't want to. It's a change of mind, a change of heart about your sin. And it's seeing Jesus in all his beauty and all his holiness, realizing that he is the perfect one who kept the law, he's the Lamb of God, He's the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep, He's the one who's going to bear our punishment in his own body upon the cross. To come to Jesus means to realize that God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin. It's to realize that God laid our sins upon Christ. Our sins were put upon his account. So his righteousness could be put upon our account. To come to Jesus means to cry out to him, God be merciful to me, a sinner Lord, I come to you as a little child, not proud and puffed up. Empty-handed, I come. God have mercy upon me and save me. That thief on the cross hadn't done any good thing. He just looked at Jesus and said, Lord. Remember me when you come in your kingdom. He realized he deserved to die. This man, he's done nothing worthy of death. Lord, remember me. Have mercy upon me. That's salvation. That's why we're here. That's why the Christian church is here. To proclaim this good news. It's not go to church, join it, join a church, keep the Ten Commandments, keep the golden rule, be as good as you can, pay your taxes. Be a fine upstanding citizen. It's none of that. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. According to his mercy, he saved us. You come to him. Have you come to him that way? You can do that today. Lord forgive me. Lord save me. Give me this new life the Bible talks about. I want what happened to that fellow Paul in that prison in India. Do that in my heart. Make me a new creation. You can come to him now. Let's pray. Oh Father, I do pray that if there's someone here still dead in sins outside of Christ, This would be the day of salvation for that one. Let there be rejoicing in the presence of the angels today over one sinner who repents. And Lord, those of us who know you, remind us afresh. That we're only here because of your grace. And we know you because of your mercy. You opened our eyes, you gave us saving faith. You breathed upon the dry bones that they might live. Thank you, Lord. For what you've done in our lives. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.