This is your word, we acknowledge it, and how we thank you for it. The entrance of thy word brings light. Use it in our hearts this day. Accomplish things that will last forever. We pray in Christ. Christ's name. Amen. If you've ever used a pair of binoculars, and I suppose most of you have, you know they have to be properly adjusted for you to see. through them clearly. When each lens is just the right distance from each eye, and when both lenses are in focus, then distant objects become clear. And you can even have some degree of depth perception. Well, in the passage we consider this morning, Jesus put several different important matters into some perspective for his disciples, including wealth, sacrifice, rewards. and service. Now we looked at the incident of the rich young ruler last week. We read it today simply to get the context here. The rich ruler was called by Jesus to sell what he owned, give the proceeds to the poor, laying up treasure in heaven, take up his cross and follow Jesus. But as you know, the young man was sad and he went away grieved because he had great possessions. Jesus, loving this man, having watched him walk away, turned to his disciples and said, How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. His disciples were astonished. Was Jesus really saying that those who appeared to be the most blessed by God Those with an abundance of material things, or material blessings, as we often call them, will have difficulty entering the kingdom of God Perhaps they thought they heard him wrong, but Jesus continued, children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God. Now, not all of the ancient manuscripts of Mark include the words for those who trust in riches. If those words not included in the parallel accounts in Matthew and Luke are in fact authentic, then the disciples may have been momentarily relieved. Oh, it's not all who have riches who will have difficulty entering heaven. It's only those who trust in riches. But then Jesus digs the hole even deeper. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Now, if you've ever seen a camel , Man, you've ever seen a needle? And in particular, that tiny opening on the needle's blunt end through which the thread is in That is the eye of the needle, then it will immediately become clear to you, as it was clear to the disciples, that what Jesus was describing was both ludicrous and impossible. Even if you pick your mother's largest needle and you pick your dad's smallest camel You will have great difficulty getting that camel through that needle's eye. Even if you could somehow get the head through, you still got the whole body, the the the gangly body, the big feet. Good luck with that. The image Jesus used is so absurd, it's so humorous that some have tried to explain it away. They say, well he didn't say camel, he must have said cable, which uh is very close in the Greek as it is in the English, right? Cable is close to camel in the English and in in the Greek cable is very close to camel. Uh So uh they you have to believe if you follow that line of thinking, Matthew, Mark, and Luke all meant to write cable, but instead they wrote camel. Well, you can't thread the eye of a needle with a cable any easier than you can with a camel. It's uh It's a more sober image, however, and more befitting, some would think, the solemn Lord Jesus Hundreds of years after Christ, it was suggested by someone that Jesus was talking about a little door leading through the city wall, permitting latecomers to enter the city after the main gates had been closed. If a man wanted to get his camel through a little gate like that, a little door, it was presumed, it would require a cumbersome process of removing all the camel's burdens. and urging that camel with some difficulty to crawl through that small door on its knees. But I don't think Jesus was referring to a gate or a doorway into Jerusalem. First of all, Jesus doesn't say it's easier for a camel to go through some sort of needle gate than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. He says it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. Secondly, the apostles were greatly astonished. This boggled their minds. They couldn't get their heads around it. Who then can be saved? They said. And the clincher is, Jesus said, with men it is impossible. This is impossible. It's impossible. What he was speaking about, a rich man entering the kingdom of God, Jesus said, it's impossible, just as impossible as a camel going through the eye of a needle. Now it's not impossible for an unburdened camel to somehow crawl through a tiny little door. I remember when we were growing up in Baltimore. uh northeast Baltimore we had a little little uh pet door in our house and and our camel would sometimes crawl through there. And uh You know, i if he had drunk a lot, uh you know, sometimes he'd get stuck between those two humps and we'd have to let him dry out there for a while At least that's the way I remember it. You know, it's over fifty years ago now. Uh I also remember my dad smoking camels, but that That's just too far-fetched, so I must have just imagined that. Jesus said, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. These astounding words from Jesus tend to put wealth into perspective, don't they? So wait a minute, the disciples are thinking. So the ones who are truly blessed are not the ones with a lot of things. and abundance of possessions, the ones who are truly blessed are the ones who have forsaken those things for Jesus Christ. The man Jesus just addressed quite probably viewed himself and was probably viewed by others as blessed of God. He was young He was prominent, he was admired, he was certainly outwardly righteous, he was concerned about spiritual things, he ran to Jesus, he knelt down before him, he inquired about inheriting eternal life. And on top of all that, others would likely conclude, even as he may have concluded himself, that God had honored his zeal by blessing him materially, for he had great possessions. But Jesus turned that thinking on its head. Jesus seemed to be clearly implying that it is more difficult for the wealthy to enter the kingdom of God than for the poor. Now, how are we to understand this? If we believe what the Scripture says about the depravity of man, Romans chapters 1 to 3, and what is described as our spiritual blindness, 1 Corinthians 2, And what is elsewhere described as our being dead in our trespasses and sins, Ephesians chapter 2. If we believe what the scripture says about the necessity of the new birth, John chapter 3, then it's impossible for any of us, whether rich or poor, to enter the kingdom of God without the supernatural work of God's Spirit. Amen? Without God regenerating us, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God, and that new birth comes from God, it doesn't come from us Apart from God regenerating us, that's a supernatural work of God's grace, he's the author and the finisher of our faith. You've not chosen me, I've chosen you, he said. Unless that takes place, we can't possibly see our sins as vile and turn from them, repent and lay hold upon Christ. We can't do it. It is the Spirit who gives life, Jesus said. The flesh profits nothing. Therefore, I said to you, no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. He couldn't make it any clearer. John chapter 6. But I think what Jesus is saying is that wealthy men, listen now, wealthy men face particular obstacles to heaven that others do not face Now, why would that be? The wealthy man tends to be self-sufficient. He tends to be self-confident. He tends to be self-reliant. In Jesus' parable in Luke chapter 12, the rich man said, I will tear down my barns, I'll pull down my barns, I'll build greater, and there I will store all my crops and my goods, and I'll say to my soul, You have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. The rich man may be particularly inclined to view eternal life as something to be earned or bought. As so many other things in this life. One of America's wealthiest men pledged to give most of his fortune to charity several years ago, very publicly. He reportedly said at the time, quote, there is more than one way to get to heaven, but this is a great way. Another wealthy man who declares himself to be a Christian and who, like I guess every third person you meet nowadays, wants to be our president, was was asked a few weeks ago, have you ever asked God for forgiveness? He responded, I'm not sure I have. I don't think so. I don't bring God into that picture. It's impossible to determine what part his wealth plays in that apparent self-sufficiency, but clearly Jesus said wealth is a great obstacle. To eternal life. It is not an insurmountable obstacle. The things that are impossible with men are possible with God. God has ways of humbling the Nebuchadnezzars of this world. But it is not normally his practice to draw the great of this world to himself. The Apostle Paul said, you see your calling, brethren. That not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world, to put to shame the things that are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not. To bring to nothing the things that are. Why? That no flesh should glory in his presence. Right? I'm not going to heaven because of my wealth, because of my wisdom, because of my knowledge, because of my power, because of my authority, whatever. God doesn't call many of those. That no flesh should glory in his presence. Look at verse 28. Then Peter began to say to him, see, we have left all and followed you. Apparently this talk got Peter thinking, wait a minute. You told that young man that if he parted with his possessions, selling them for the benefit of the poor, took up his cross and followed you, he would have treasure in heaven. Well, what about us? We've left all and followed you. Does that heavenly blessing of which you spoke apply to us? It's a valid question. James, uh, John, Andrew, and I, we all left our fishing jobs. Matthew, he walked away from his lucrative position as a tax collector, and we can assume Peter was aware of other vocations, of other disciples who left all to follow Jesus. Perhaps he was thinking, you know, I haven't seen my wife in weeks back in Capernaum. The same is true for others of us. Presumably some of them, if not all of them, had houses, wives, children. What about us? Do the rewards in heaven apply to us? Look at verse 29. So Jesus answered and said, Assuredly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sister or father, sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my sake and the gospels. Who shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time? Houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions And in the age to come, eternal life. Yes, Peter, not only do those intangible rewards in heaven apply to you, not only are they waiting for you. But there are tangible rewards here and now for those who follow me, Jesus said. For those who leave these things and follow me. You may have temporarily forsaken your house, your family, your brethren, your parents, your land for my sake, but eternal life is awaiting you. And not only that, Peter. Even here and now you will receive a hundredfold. Peter, you left your house in Capernaum, but there are a hundred homeowners. Who would gladly share their home with you whenever you wish. Yes, James and John, you said goodbye to your father Zebedee when you came and followed me. But you have older men, father figures in every town and village that we visit. And it's true for each of you It's true for every follower of mine. You can be certain, Jesus said, every evangelist, every servant of mine, everyone who has left for my sake in the gospel's houses or brothers or sisters, parents, children, will receive a hundredfold in this life. Now, if I may uh interject interject a word of personal testimony here, and there's not a whole lot you can do about it at this point. Donna and I have certainly experienced this in our ministry. For many of our four decades in Christ's service. We've lived far from parents, siblings, and children. But in those churches that we've served, we've been blessed to have numerous father figures, mother figures. uh even one uh great great great great great great grandfather figure scores of brothers and sisters in Christ And dozens of children who look to us as an uncle or as an aunt, as a parent or grandparent. And although in our first 25 years of ministry we served newborn or infant uh churches, Which couldn't provide much in the way of salary or benefits. The generosity and hospitality of God's people has been such that we've been granted stays in uh vacation homes that we could enjoy for a time as if they were ours , but without all the headaches of home ownership. So we've received in this life houses and lands and brothers and sisters and mothers and children just as Jesus said. And note, this is not just for full-time servants of Christ who are called to sacrifice things for Him. Every believer is called to service, and there is sacrifice involved in all service. There's sacrifice involved in being willing to serve as an elder or a deacon, in being willing to leave your family and go out and serve Christ. There's sacrifice involved in that. There's time away from family, there's time for preparation, there's sacrifice involved in uh in in the family that remains home while uh the Elder or deacon leaves the house to do the Lord's work. There's sacrifice involved in preparing lessons to teach a Sunday school class or a Bible study. There's sacrifice involved in being any ministry leader. Note, Jesus doesn't paint a false picture. It's not all rosy for his people here. He reminds us that there will be persecutions. Verse 30, with persecution, you'll have all these things, but with persecutions and in the age to come, eternal life. All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. 2 Timothy 3. 12. But along with the persecution, you will experience innumerable blessings here and incalculable blessings to come. Verse 31. Many who are first will be last and the last first. Many who are first will be last and the last The last first. Those who live for their reward here, those who are first here, with no thought to eternity, well they may well receive it here They are first now, but they will be last in that final day. Now, one clarification, you could get the impression if this were the only passage of Scripture dealing with possessions that one cannot be wealthy and godly at the same time. But the scripture records several who were both wealthy and godly, notably Abraham, Job. Solomon, Joseph of Arimacea. There is of course no inherent dishonor in having wealth, but a believer's wealth brings with it grave responsibility. 1 Timothy 6, Paul writes to Timothy, Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Let them do good, that they may be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. 1 Timothy 6. You see, the rich man and the poor man are both, I think, particularly inclined to covetousness. The poor man may covet what the rich man has. The rich man may grasp tightly what is his, refusing to part with it, even to help those in need. And he may think of himself as self-sufficient. So Proverbs says, Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with food allotted for me, lest I be full and deny thee and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal. And profane the name of the Lord. If you're not uh super wealthy or super poor, thank God for that. Proverbs 30 verse After his words about wealth and about the rewards and the persecution awaiting his children, Jesus then gave his disciples another warning about his own impending death, his own persecution. That was just days away. Look at verse 32. Now they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going before them, and they were amazed, and as they followed him, they were afraid. Then he took the twelve aside and began to tell them the things that would happen to him. And look how clear he makes it. Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the chief the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles, and they will mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him. And the third day he will rise again Now, let's go back to verse 32. They were on the road going up to Jerusalem. Jesus was going before them. They were amazed. You may be wondering why were they amazed? I think it may have been. Because Jesus had explained to them, we see it in chapter 9, verse 31. We'll look back there in a minute. He had already told them that he was going to go to Jerusalem, he was going to be killed there. that big things are happening there and yet here he goes he's walking on as as if he has no no worry in the world and and they're amazed. No faltering, no hesitation. He set his face like flint. Isaiah 50, verse 70, verse 7, proceeding toward Jerusalem. This is the third instance recorded by Mark in which Jesus spoke of his approaching death Now, if you're like me, it's very difficult for you to understand on this side of uh Golgotha how the disciples hearing from Jesus what seems to us to be Christian, Crystal clear references to what awaited him in Jerusalem, how they didn't seem to understand, they didn't seem to expect the crucifixion or the resurrection. And I think this is the primary reason. The disciples had no doubt about one thing, just as other Jews who awaited the Messiah had no doubt. They had no doubt that when the Messiah came, he would sit upon David's throne, he would be the king of kings, he would rule the nations with a rod of iron, he would dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. We just read it this morning. Psalm 2. If a godly Jew was sure of anything, he was sure of this Now one day the long-awaited Messiah would come and set right all that was wrong in this world. He would deliver his people. He would reign forever. This is why James and John and their mother asked if they could sit beside him when he reigned. Verse thirty five and following. We the mother is mother their mother uh interceded as well, as we said. They knew that he was going to reign, and I think they expected that to happen very soon. So every now and then when Jesus spoke about trials and tribulations awaiting him in Jerusalem, Jerusalem from where they assumed he was going to reign They must have been thoroughly confused. Look at chapter 9, verse 31. For he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after he is killed, he will rise the third day. Now that's pretty clear, but they did not understand this saying and were afraid to ask him. As you know, much of Christ's teaching was in parable. A certain king had a son, a man had three servants, a son asked his father for his inheritance, etc. In other words, his teaching required thought and insight and interpretation. Perhaps his disciples thought all this talk about the Son of Man being betrayed and killed and rising the third day. That's just another parable. John, ask him what all that means. I'm not going to ask him. I asked him about the last one. He already thinks I'm I'm pretty sick. You asked him. Well, he's not interpreting it for us. Most of the time he interprets it for us. He must think it's so obvious. I'm not going to ask him. It must be like the sower in the seed. That was real obvious. We didn't get it And so this time Jesus made it even more clear. He talks about the Son of Man. Oh, okay, we get that. That's Jesus. Will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes. Oh, I don't know what that means, but it sounds bad. They'll condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles. Well, surely that's not literal. Why would the scribes condemn their Messiah, our Messiah, and deliver him to the Gentiles? That doesn't make any sense. Delivering him to the Gentiles maybe means bringing him before the Romans to reveal him as the true king. Maybe that's what that is. Well, what about the Gentiles mocking him? Well, remember Psalm 2, we know the kings of the earth will rise up and the rulers take counsel together against them, but eventually they will kiss the sun lest they perish from the way. Maybe that's what the master meant when he talked about rising the third day. They're all going to recognize him. Maybe for the first few days they're going to resist him, but then they won't. Maybe that's what he was talking about. Look at verse 35. Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask. Well, what do you want me to do? Grant us that we may sit one on your right hand, the other on your left, in your glory. Jesus said, you don't know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink? Are you able to endure the sufferings that are ahead for me? To be baptized with a baptism I am baptized with? They said to him, We're able. Jesus said to them, You will indeed drink the cup that I drink. With the baptism I am baptized with, you will be baptized, but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give. It is for those for whom it is prepared. Now one would hope that James and John weren't just jockeying for the most honorable seats in the kingdom. As the Pharisees did at the feast, remember. You know, they want the best seats at the feast. Jesus rebuked them for that Uh or as a child in a large family, well, you know, before you take a long trip, you call Dibbs, uh uh Dibbs on the window seat, or as we used to say, you know, dibs on the front of the camel uh before a long trip. Let's hope it wasn't anything like that. Let's hope their motivation and that of their mother who interceded in this matter herself, Matthew 20, let's hope that their motivation was that they might always be with Jesus. Always be in his presence during his reign. We want to be right by you. We don't want to be far away. We want to be right next to you during your reign. In the time of your kingdom. Let's hope that's what they were thinking. In any event, Jesus made it clear that this was not the sort of thing they could call dibs on, the sort of thing to be granted to those who asked for it first. And he said, before the glory would come the humiliating dishonor, the persecution, and the death. Can you s can you uh endure persecution? Yes, we can. You will indeed endure suffering for my sake. James would be the very first apostle put to death. John would live a long life marked by tribulation. And Eventual exile. Yes, you will both endure suffering, as I will endure suffering, but I can't grant your request. Positions of honor and glory are granted by my Father to those for whom those positions of honor and glory are prepared. Verse 39. So Jesus helps James and John get these things into perspective. But the other apostles who were disciples at this point that didn't think too kindly of James and John asking for special treatment. Look at verse 41. And when the ten heard it, they began to be greatly displeased with James and John. And so Jesus called them to himself and said to them, You know. That those who are considered rulers over the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. Yet it shall not be so among you. Whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever of you desires to be first shall be slave of all. Jesus intervenes. You know, we saw this kerfluffle starting up, and he intervenes and he says, let me explain something to you. About greatness, about service. He brought things, once again, he brought things into perspective. Those who will be great in his kingdom will not be the ones who were big shots here. Those who are going to be great in my kingdom, Jesus said, they're not the ones who are big shots here. What the world calls greatness. And what I call greatness, Jesus said, are worlds apart. You want to be great in my eyes, then humble yourself. Serve others. Servant leaders. That's what Christ is talking about. Servant leaders. You want to be a leader? You serve Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. James 4, 10. So in this passage Jesus taught about money and he brought that into perspective. You think of riches as an obvious blessing, I tell you, riches are an encumbrance. It's very hard for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. How hard is it? It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. That's how hard it is. It's impossible. But the things that are impossible will With men are possible with God. What about those who have forsaken wealth and comfort? What about those who have even forsaken home and family for Christ's sake? What about those who have sacrificed? Well Jesus put that into perspective. They will receive not only blessings in glory, but blessings right here, right now. Brothers, sisters, mothers, children, lands, houses. And then he focuses the next lens with persecutions. With persecutions. The disciples believed Jesus would reign in glory. They were right. But he brought that truth into perspective as well. It would not come apart from the required suffering. And then, as we saw, he brought into perspective honors in his kingdom and greatness in his sight. He brought into perspective rewards and service And then he concludes this discourse, we'll end here, with this memorable declaration, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for men. Now think about that. Jesus had all the world's wealth at his disposal. You know, a superman take a p lump of coal, squeeze it, and make a diamond. Go uh buy a hot tub for the uh a cone of silence or whatever it was. Jesus had all the world's wealth at his disposal He who multiplied the bread and the fish to satisfy the needs of others could just as easily have multiplied all the gold and the silver to satisfy his own needs. To satisfy his own desires. He could have had well-paid servants to prepare for him the finest foods. He could have owned the most palatial home. He could have worn the finest clothing. He could have had others do his bidding. But he did not come to be served. He came to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. Now a ransom is a payment to redeem the life of another. You get a call from a kidnapper, he says, I want this money. It's a ransom, it's a payment to redeem the life of a loved one. Jesus Christ came to give his life that his loved ones might live, that his sheep might live. The good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. Now, closing words to the unbeliever here. Christ came to give his life a ransom. He endured his father's wrath that sinners might be redeemed. God's justice demands that sin be punished. All sin. We wouldn't think much of a judge that Allowed a convicted felon to walk free without justice. God is aware of every sin you have ever committed, every sin you're going to commit on this earth. And each one of us has violated his holy law. Each one of those sins was a violation of his holy law. A violation of his holy will. And although God loves you, His holiness demands that sin be punished. He can't simply ignore it. He won't permit it And it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. But God did the unthinkable. He accepted the sacrifice of his own dear son as a sufficient payment for his sheep. How can you be assured that you're one of his sheep for whom he died? Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice, and they follow me. That's how you can be assured. You hear his voice and you follow him. If you hear his voice and follow him, your sins are forgiven. You know that you're one of his sheep For whom we die. Lord, forgive me and save me. Give me the gift of forgiveness that you freely offer to those who repent and believe. And then you continue to obey his word. You embrace him as your true Lord and Savior. That's how you know you're one of the sheep. A closing word to believers. Do you have Christ's perspective upon wealth? Do you have Christ's perspective upon sacrifice? Christ's perspective upon rewards and service? Jesus said the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. Let us go and do likewise. Let's pray. Lord, you called us not to a life of comfort and ease, not to a life of wealth and relaxation. You've called us to a life of service. You've called us to lay down our lives for others. Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit will apply this word to every single heart and life here. And if there are some who are seeking wealth in this world, I pray that you might redirect their thoughts, that they might get these things into perspective Lord, that they might leave here desiring not to be served, but to serve. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.