Turn please to Exodus chapter twenty. And this morning let's just read the first seven verses. Exodus chapter twenty, beginning at verse one. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image. Any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. But showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Let's pray. Father, once again we approach your holy, infallible , God-breathed book, and we pray, Lord, that you will Take your word and anoint it with your Holy Spirit. Apply it to our understanding. Bring it to bear upon our conscience. Convict us of sin and Lord cause us to desire to live in such a way that we bring you honor and not dishonor. And we do ask if there be any here this day still without any certainty of what will happen when they leave this earth. Any who have no assurance of everlasting life. That this might be the day of salvation for them , that you would draw souls to yourself this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you were with us last Sunday, you know that we considered the third commandment and specifically what it forbids. We saw that the basis of the commandment is the holiness of God, first of all, and then the holiness of God's name. We asked, how do we break this commandment? And we noted we can break it openly or blatantly, first of all, by cursing, by using God's name in anger as an oath. We can break it by calling upon God to damn someone or something. We can break it by dishonoring God's name or person. By speaking of him disrespectfully or flippantly, we can break it by dishonoring God's word, which he has magnified above his name, the scripture says. Films, plays, jokes that mock God's word. We can break this commandment by professing faith in Christ. While our lifestyle denies him, when our walk doesn't match our talk, in other words. We saw that we can break this commandment not only openly or blatantly, we can break it secretly. We can do that by swearing falsely in his name. If I promise to speak the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth, so help me God, but I subsequently do not, then I am secretly taking God's name in vain. We can break this commandment carelessly by uttering phrases like, oh God, or oh Jesus, or O Lord, or texting O N G When we're neither praying to the Lord nor speaking about him. By using his name unthinkingly in worship, singing of him without really thinking of him By praying without attention, without true faith, without fervency, without truly believing that He is present, that He hears, that He will answer by lightly, thoughtlessly, idly spicing our conversation with phrases like, praise God, praise the Lord, or bless you, Jesus. If I'm not really in my heart and mind praising the Lord, but I'm just using those phrases as interjections in my conversation. We consider the evil of breaking this commandment, not only am I dishonoring God when I do so, but it's habit-forming. It's habit-forming. And it's contagious. We considered God's warning to the violators of this commandment. The Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. God gives us a very specific warning. When we violate this commandment, the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. We ask the question, how are we to keep from breaking it? Well, recall that speech is a marvelous gift of God. It's a wonderful thing that God has done to give us this ability of speech. First of all, recognize it as a gift of God, not to be abused And then try to avoid losing your temper, because it's when we lose our temper that we're most tempted to take God's name in vain. At least that's certainly the case with me. I don't know if it is with you. So avoiding losing our temper , although as we said, that's easier said than done, isn't it? But seek to avoid losing your temper because that's when you're most tempted to break the commandment. Insofar as it's possible, avoid the company of those who swear frequently. Avoid the company of those who swear frequent frequently. As we said, it's contagious. And maintain communion with the Lord. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, the scripture says Speaking to yourselves psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing, making melody in your heart to the Lord. Be filled with the Spirit. As we walk with the Lord, walk closely with the Lord, we're going to be less tempted to Dishonor him in our speech. Well, this morning I'd like us to devote some time to considering what this commandment requires as opposed to what it forbids. Remember, each commandment that's given to us negatively, such as you shall not covet , might have been given to us positively. You shall be content with what you have. And those commandments given to us positively, honor your father and your mother, might have been given to us negatively, you shall not dishonor your father and mother. Our shorter catechism asks, what is required in the third commandment? And it responds, the third commandment requires the holy and reverent use of God's names, titles, attributes, ordinances, word, and works. The holy and reverent use of his names, titles, attributes, ordinances, word, and works. The holy and reverent use of his names, titles, and attributes. Matthew 6. 9. When Jesus taught his disciples to pray, remember they came to him and said, Lord, teach us to pray, he taught them to say, Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Hallowed, sanctified, holy. Hagiatso it is in the Greek, set apart. Holy be your name. As you may know, the ancient Jews were so careful not to break this commandment that they thought it best to stop using God's name altogether. When they came in the scripture to God's covenant name, Yahweh, I am, or Jehovah, they would substitute the word Adonai or Lord. It said that Sir Isaac Newton never mentioned God's name without visible pause. If his head was covered, he removed his hat when he spoke the holy name of God. In Psalm 99 we read, The Lord reigns, let the peoples tremble. He dwells between the cherubim, let the earth be moved. The Lord is great in Zion, and he is high above all the peoples. Let them praise your great and awesome name. The holy and reverent use of God's names, titles, attributes surely means we are to approach Him in prayer with reverence and solemnity. If you had a request to make of a great man or great woman of the earth, for example, a British monarch or a president or prime minister. You'd approach him or her with some deference. Your Honor or Your Majesty. Mr. President. You wouldn't say to the President, hey, uh Prez, what's up? Long time no see. Or to the Queen of England, Liz, how's it going? How are those corgies doing? Listen, I got a favor to ask. Consider Hezekiah's prayer, 2 Kings 19. O Lord God of Israel, who dwells between the cherubim. You are God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear. Notice the reverence in his approach to a holy God. Consider Daniel's prayer from chapter 9 of his prophecy. And I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession and said, O Lord, great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant and mercy with those who love him and with those who keep his commandments. We have sinned and committed iniquity. We've done wickedly and rebelled, even by departing from your precepts and your judgments. Do you recognize when you pray that you are approaching the King of Kings and Lord of Lords? Do you approach him with reverence? When others pray in your presence, as often happens on Sunday morning, when your mom or dad prays in your presence, or a pastor or an elder, or another believer. Are you uh focused and interceding in your heart? You're not a spectator to someone else praying, you are supposed to be praying at that time, at a prayer meeting. Are you praying when someone is interceding, or are you thinking about what you're going to pray when it's your turn to pray? The third commandment requires the holy and reverent use of God's name, titles, attributes, and ordinances. Baptism and the Lord's Supper. The holy and reverent use of God's ordinances. He approached the Lord's table with reverence Having confessed your sins? Are you truly meditating upon Christ and his suffering as you take of the bread and drink of the cup? Are you meditating upon his gracious substitution on your behalf? Remembering what your sins justly deserve? The eternal wrath of a holy God? Or do you rush through the holy ordinance anxious to be on your way to get to what is truly important to you, your own plans for the day? Along the very same lines, we believe as a church that the Lord's table should not be approached without some explanation and exhortation. From the one who's officiating the supper. Explanation as to why we are to partake of it. What is the significance of it? Exhortation regarding who is invited to the Lord's table. What should be our attitude as we partake of it? What is the danger of partaking unworthily, as is clearly spelled out for us in 1 Corinthians 11? You may have heard me mention, I might have mentioned it from the pulpit, I'm not sure, as an example of how the Lord's Supper is not to be conducted. the experience of a pastor, a dear friend of mine, a pastor who was visiting a large church in Seattle. As he and his family were leaving, Following the service, there were ushers on either side of the exit doors. One was holding a tray of bread, another was holding a tray of cups. All those exiting the church were invited to take the bread and wine as they walked out. According to my friend, there had been no instruction or exhortation. Nor, even, as he recalled, any announcement that the Lord's Supper was to be observed. The whole practice seemed designed solely for the convenience of those present. You just grab the cup and eat the bread and drink the wine as you're walking out the door. The only thing more convenient might have been to have a drive-thru communion center at the exit of the church parking lot. Maybe if you're going to go through to that extent, provide a baptismal sprinkler system in the narthex or lobby of the church. The third commandment requires a holy and reverent use of God's ordinances. But let a man examine himself, the scripture says, and so let him eat of that bread or drink of that cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. The third commandment requires the holy and reverent use of God's word. The holy and reverent use of God's word. This would involve reading it with recognition that it is, in fact, the very Word of God. It is Theonustos. It is God breathed. Boys and girls. This means that when the Bible is read in your presence, whether by your parent or a teacher or a pastor, you are to be still. You were to listen carefully, just as you would have done if you lived in Israel in the time that Jesus was on the earth and you got to go to the Sea of Galilee and sit there in the crowd as he taught. You'd be listening carefully to the very words of Jesus. Well, this is the word of God that we're reading here. It's just as if you were listening to the Lord Jesus speaking. And of course we are to treat the Bible as God's inspired word. If we are to treat the Bible as God's inspired word, it means we must, in fact, read it. What a different nation we would have and how much richer our own lives would be if all the Bibles on bookshelves and uh coffee tables. And uh dresser drawers in America were actually read and meditated upon. Now some of you say, well, you know, I tried to read it. I started at the beginning, I tried to read it, I get bogged down, I can't understand it. Well, maybe then you need an updated translation. Maybe that's one of the problems, and maybe you need a good study Bible that helps to uh reveal some of the things that seem hard to understand. I don't know if you've noticed that Pastor Nick is setting up in the cloakroom. That's a little room to the right as you uh leave through the main doors of the church Resources to help moms and dads with family worship. And then, of course, on the other side on the left is a library and all kinds of good resources there. You may find materials there that can bless your family. And help your children to understand God's word. The third commandment requires the holy and reverent use of God's works. Well, since God's word is clear that the Lord does according to his will in the armies of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand nor say unto him, What doest thou? Daniel 4. 35. Since the Lord's in control , And he works all things according to the counsel of his own will, Ephesians 1. 11, then think about it. For me to grumble and complain against God's providence. For me to murmur about sickness or accidents or my job or the weather or the government or my house or my circumstances, in effect, it's to murmur against God's providence. Which is, in effect, in a sense, to murmur against God. We keep this commandment by being zealous for God 's name. And for God's honor. As Michael Horton put it, our motivation for excellence in education, at work, in relationships, in the home must be the sanctity of God's reputation. We are out there in the world as chosen representatives of his government. Whatever we do reflects on our head of state. I remember when I used to work secular jobs, uh going through a seminary and before I got to college or while I was in college. And I'd always have that little debate in my mind after I became a Christian. Do I tell all those people I work with right up front that I'm a believer? So they can then watch how I live and and hopefully and watch how I work and hopefully that'll bring honor to the Lord Or do I just let them try to figure it out over time and look for opportunities to witness to them? It's an interesting uh predicament. But certainly those people that work with you ought to know They should learn it over time if you don't tell them right up front that you're a believer and that you're you're attempting to do your best at your job because you're you're attempting to bring glory to your master. You're not working for the boss and you're not working for the paycheck and you're certainly not working for the weekend. You're working for the Lord. Puritan pastor Stephen Charnock said it's a sad thing to be Christians out of supper, heathens in our shops, and devils in our closets. We keep this commandment by being consistent and honest, if we bear God's name. A woman gave this testimony. She said, I signed a note for a friend. We would say she co-signed for someone, which Proverbs warns us against, for a very small sum of money. So she co-signed for a friend for a very small sum of money. But as I had very little and am a widow with my own living to make, it was a large amount to me This so-called friend skipped without paying. Just about this time she said I was saved, and in the joy of knowing Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior, I wanted everything in my life to be right for him. It happened that the money that she had co-signed for was owed to a Jewish lawyer, she said. I went to see him and I told him my circumstances, promising that the money would be paid each week as I earned it I also told him that I had just accepted Christ as my Savior, and for him, for Christ, I desired that my life should shine. When the last installment of that money was paid, the attorney handed back part of the sum, saying to me, I have had much dealing with people who said they were followers of Christ until now. I have never been much impressed. To reverence God's name means if I take that name upon myself If I claim to know him and serve him, I'd better do all I can to live in such a way that I don't bring dishonor to him, reproach to his name. The Heidelberg Catechism asks the question, What is required in the third commandment? And the answer is, we are not to blaspheme or to abuse the name of God by cursing, perjury, or unnecessary oaths nor to share in such horrible sins by being silent bystanders. Nor to share in such horrible sins by being silent bystanders. This commandment requires us to be zealous for the honor of God and for his holy name. To be zealous for the honor of God and his holy name. There was zeal for his father's house that led the Lord Jesus to cast the money changers out of the temple. Should we not be zealous to defend his name when it is dishonored? The story is told about the late baseball catcher, manager, executive, ultimately Hall of Fame member, Branch Rickey. He was perhaps best known for signing Jackie Robinson for the Brooklyn Dodgers, first African American signed in Major League Baseball. At a meeting negotiating a contract for pro football to use Ebbett's Field. The football representatives were salting their conversation by using the Lord's name in vain. So here's Branch Ricky. He's in a meeting with some football executives. They want to use Ebbett's Field. where the Dodgers were playing to uh to play some pro football. Suddenly Branch Ricky threw down his pencil and growled, the deal 's off. Well why? They asked. He said, because you've been talking about a friend of mine. Well they were bewildered, of course. And he explained. They apologized and the negotiations continued. I wonder, have you ever spoken up to defend the honor of your Lord's name? Josiah Wedgwood founded the Wedgwood Pottery Company in 1759 The story is told of a nobleman who went to visit the factory and was being shown around by a young lad of 15. Mr. Wedgwood himself was following a few steps behind. The nobleman, so-called, was swearing, irreverence, and apparently influencing the 15-year-old guide. Mr. Wedgewood suddenly picked up, I wonder if I have one here. Suddenly picked up a vase, a beautiful vase, he would call it a vase, and he uh he threw it to the ground, it shattered. And of course the nobleman was shocked and said, Whoa, whoa, whoa. What'd you do that for? And uh Here's what uh Wedgewood said. There are there are things more precious than this piece of pottery. Sir, I can make another vase as beautiful as this, but you cannot give back that boy his former simple reverence which you have destroyed with your irreverent talk. 18th century English songwriter and poet William Cooper Described by Samuel Taylor Coleridge as the best poet of their era, was the composer of such hymns as, Jesus, where 'er thy people meet, God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. And there is a fountain filled with blood drawn from the Savior's veins. He took up his pen against the violators of the third commandment. He wrote this. It chills my blood to hear the blessed supreme rudely appeal to on each trifling theme. Maintain your rank, vulgarity despise To swear is neither brave, polite, nor wise. You would not swear upon the bed of death. Reflect. Your maker now could stop your breath. A man named Alex Dunlap wrote a little tract I picked up years ago, Ten Reasons Why I Swear. It pleases mother so much. It is a fine mark of manliness. It proves I have self-control. It indicates how clearly my mind operates. It makes my conversation so pleasing to everybody. It leaves no doubt in anyone's mind as to my good breeding. It impresses people that I have more than an ordinary education. It's an unmistakable sign of culture and refinement. It makes me a very desirable personality among women and children in respectable society. And it's my way of honoring God who said, You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain If you would zealously keep this commandment and honor God's names, titles, attributes, ordinances, word and works. then you must recognize and expose those professing Christians who take God's name in vain by claiming to know him, but dishonor him through their teaching or their lifestyle. Listen to what the Bible says. Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. Ephesians 5. 11. Have no fellowship for the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. At the end of his letter to the believers in Rome, Paul urged them to Note and avoid those who don't serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but who serve instead their own belly, and by smooth and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple. Listen to that again. Note and avoid those who don't serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but who serve instead their own belly, and by smooth and flattering speech Deceive the hearts of the simple. Romans 16, verses 17 and 18. Sounds to me like Paul was somehow able to pick up some of the broadcasts of America's prosperity preachers. Coming through the pole on his uh the tent, maybe. By smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the simple. Kenneth Copeland said, quote, the basic principle of the Christian life is , pause there, see if how you might answer that. The basic principle of the Christian life is Faith in Jesus Christ saves us. I don't know exactly how I might answer. Here's here's what he The basic principle of the Christian life is To know that God put our sin, our sickness, our disease, our sorrow, our grief, and our poverty on Jesus at Calvary. God took all our grief and sickness and all our poverty and other things, put it on Jesus at Calvary. Such an understanding of the atonement led another prosperity teacher to affirm this. Get this one. Quote, Jesus had a nice house, a big house. He was handling big money. Any more designer clothes? What are you talking about? That sort of ridiculous teaching, it seems to me, is taking God's name in vain. It's taking God's name in vain. And we're commanded in Scripture to note and expose and avoid those who pervert and dishonor God's word. Now the idea of speaking out and actually naming names and exposing false teaching runs counter to many of the cliches of our culture. Don't make waves to each his own. Live and let live. Anything goes. But this commandment requires us by implication not only to avoid dishonoring God's name. But to intentionally honor it by the holy and reverent use of his names, titles, attributes, ordinances, word, and works, and by noting, exposing, and avoiding false teachers who dishonor it. The World Council of Churches, an organization representing over 340 denominations from over 100 countries. Held its General Assembly in Australia several years ago. It was described this way in Reader's Digest magazine. Before the opening worship service began at the General Assembly of the World Council of Churches in Canberra, Australia Delegates passed through the smoke of burning leaves. This was a pagan cleansing rite. The congregation then listened to recorded insect noises and watched a male dancer impersonate a kangaroo. The next day, as two painted loin-clothed Aborigines coborted, South Korean theologian Chung Kyung-kyung Invoked spirits of the dead. And she exhorted the audience of more than 4,000 to read the Bible, quote, from the perspective of birds, water, air, trees, and to think like a mountain. I've been trying to think like a mountain all week, I can't. After I read it. According to the Religious News Service, she also went on to render a dramatic evocation of a female Holy Spirit And she said, quote, I no longer believe in an omnipotent macho warrior god who rescues all the good guys and punishes all the bad guys. And she concluded her message by likening the spirit to the image of Kwan, a goddess of compassion and wisdom worshipped in East Asian women's popular religiosity. By the way, she was given a standing ovation. Member churches of the World Council of Churches include the United Methodist Church. The Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, the Episcopal Church in the USA, the Church of England, the National Baptist Association, National Baptist Convention of America, the African Methodist Episcopal Church the Christian Church, Disciples of Christ, in the U. S. the Church of the Brethren, the American Baptist Churches in the USA, the Presbyterian Church, USA, the Reformed Churches in America, the Orthodox Church in America, the Religious Society of Friends, And the United Church of Christ. Listen, the Apostle Paul wrote to the Christians in Corinth. He said this. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? What communion has light with darkness? And what accord has Christ with Belial? Or what part has a believer with an unbeliever? And what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. And he concludes his exhortation with these words, therefore, come out from among them and be ye separate, and touch not the unclean thing. And I will receive you. I will be a father to you, and you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty. 2 Corinthians 6. Listen, if every true believer would obey that clear command, then most apostate churches, that is, churches that have fallen away, turned away from the Bible and faith in the Bible as the Word of God, these apostate churches would simply implode. Collapsing upon themselves, no longer supported by the giving in the service of genuine Christians who were trying and failing to prop them up. And you go, but wait a minute, but my children were baptized in that church. Come out from among them and be ye separate. But but my parents, they paid for the stained glass windows in that church. Come out from among them and be ye separate But my grandparents, they're buried in the church cemetery. Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. God is holy and his name is holy and the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain Just as the dishonor of God is a natural outgrowth of the old man, even so the honor of God is a natural outgrowth of the new man. When a man is brought by the Spirit of the Lord to true, genuine, saving faith in Jesus Christ. As his Lord, as his Savior. He will begin to have pure and reverent thoughts of God. And he'll begin to endeavor to change his old habits. It won't necessarily happen overnight. But he'll no longer be able to take God's name in vain without his conscience being smitten by the Holy Spirit. He'll begin to change his old habits. He'll begin to be sanctified. He'll begin to be made new from the inside out. Because it's Christ now living inside of him. And Christ will not allow his father to be dishonored. In the Welsh Revival early in the 20th century, it's reported that coal miners had to get new pit ponies. Coal miners who got converted in the Welsh Revival had to get new pit ponies because the speech of the new converts changed so dramatically that the ponies would not respond to their non-blasphemous commands. What is the ultimate cure for irreverence? Well, it's look long and hard at the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look long and hard at the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. See the Savior there, with grief and shame way down, now scornfully surrounded with thorns his only crown. Bow your knees to him. Repent of your sins and lay hold upon Jesus alone. As your only hope , the cure of irreverence is to fall down on your knees and say, God. I'm a sinner and I know it. But I believe that Jesus lived that perfect life, died upon the cross, rose again from the dead. I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. That's the cure for irreverence. Christ comes and lives inside of you. You become a new creation. Old things are passed away, all things become new. You come to Christ, embrace Him as your Lord and as your Savior, and you will never again be comfortable taking God's name in vain. Let's pray. Father, we could all say I am a man, I am a woman of unclean lips. I dwell among a people of unclean lips. Lord, uh, you know that each and every one of us no doubt has violated this commandment. uh numerous times. We uh callously, flippantly refer to you. We have used your name as a curse. We have uh blasphemed you. And Father, uh, we know that what we deserve for any one of those infractions is to be separated from a holy God. We certainly don't deserve to be in your presence. But Lord, you loved us so much you sent your own son to the sinful earth. He heard our blasphemy. He worked with sinners He knows what our thoughts and and speech is like, and so we know that We have a high priest who can be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. He's not one who doesn't know the temptations that we face. And yet, he perfectly kept that law, paid that debt, rose again from the dead after he died upon the cross. ascended into heaven, lives today, he's going to come back one day for us. Father , we pray now that if there's anyone here still outside of Christ , But you 'll draw that true that soul to true saving faith. Those of us who know you, Lord, forgive us for taking your name in vain. Those of us outside of Christ, Father, give them no rest. Until they find their rest in you. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.