Turn please to John chapter 6. It's hard to break this up, so I'm gonna have us read the first 40 verses. John chapter 6 and verse 1. After these things, Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. Then a great multitude followed him, because they saw his signs which he performed on those who were diseased. And Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat with his disciples Now, the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was near. Then Jesus lifted up his eyes, and seeing a great multitude coming toward him, he said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread that these may eat? But this he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may have a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two small fish, but what are they among so many? Then Jesus said, make the people sit down. Now, there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down in number about 5,000. And Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to his disciples, and the disciples to those sitting down, and likewise of the fish, as much as they wanted. So when they were filled, he said to his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, so that nothing is lost. Therefore they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves which were left over by those who had eaten. Then those men, when they had seen the signs that Jesus did, said, this is truly the prophet who is to come into the world. Therefore, when Jesus perceived that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, he departed again to the mountain by himself alone. Now, when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, got into the boat, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was already dark, and Jesus had not come to them. Then the sea arose because a great wind was blowing. So when they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and drawing near the boat, and they were afraid. But he said to them, It is I. Do not be afraid. Then they willingly received him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land where they were going. On the following day, when the people who were standing on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there except that one which his disciples had entered, And that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but his disciples had gone away alone. However, other boats came from Tiberius near the place where they ate bread. after the Lord had given thanks. When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they also got into boats and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus. And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he sent. Therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then that we may see it and believe you? What work will you do? Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Then they said to him, Lord, give us this bread always. And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of the Father who sent me, that of all he has given me I should lose nothing. But should raise it up at the last day. And this is the will of Him who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. May God's blessing rest upon his words. Let's pray. Lord, please help us. Speak to us, focus our minds and our hearts. Help me proclaim your word faithfully, and we do pray that you will use it to accomplish your purposes within us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Several weeks ago we considered, you might remember that question that a scribe addressed to Jesus, Lord, what is the greatest commandment? We noted that it was not surprising that Jesus was asked that. In fact, it it might be more surprising if he had never been asked such a question. Well this morning we'll consider another question Jesus was asked, perhaps the most important question of all, the most important question he could be asked. And we'll consider the striking way he answered it. First of all, let me set the stage, which we just saw in our scripture reading. A great multitude had come out to a remote spot near the Sea of Galilee to see and hear Jesus having seen the signs that he had performed, that is the healing of the disease. And they wondered if he might be the promised Messiah. Jesus, you you remember, had compassion on the multitude. Matthew tells us that he healed many of them. Mark says he also taught them many things. But the day waned and they were in a deserted place, and rather than send them home hungry, Jesus had them sit in groups of fifties and hundreds And he miraculously fed them with those five small barley loaves that a little boy had with him and a couple of fish So this multitude, this great multitude, about 5,000 men, is the way the Bible describes it, and no doubt there were many women and children as well. All ate and were filled, and there were twelve baskets of fish and bread left over. Jesus then withdrew to pray on the mountain, and his disciples attempted to cross the lake. They were rowing toward Capernaum. That was the night that that great storm arose on the sea, preventing the disciples from reaching the other shore. And in their fear and despair they looked out upon the water and saw a figure walking toward them. They were terrified, of course, but Jesus said, Don't be afraid of his eye. Uh they received him into the boat, and then immediately the boat was at the at the shore where they were headed. But the next day the people who who knew that the disciples had taken the only boat Notice that Jesus isn't there either. And so they go over to Capernaum, and there's Jesus. And of course their question is, how did you get here? Or when did you get here? uh knowing that he he there was no boat available for him to take. And it's interesting to me, this is just an aside, but but John says, oh by the way, there were other boats, little boats coming from Tiberias, but that's not what I'm talking about. He he wants to be very uh careful that he's being truthful. And uh he says, I'm I mean no boats coming from where Jesus was to where he ended up. So the people come to Jesus. Jesus perceived something here. He perceived that they were seeking him, not as they had originally. What was the original reason they uh sought him? Well the The scripture tells us they sought him because of the miracles that he had performed, because of the signs that he had performed. They sought him, in other words, perhaps thinking he may be the true Messiah. But now Jesus says, you're seeking me, not because you saw the miracles, but you seek me because of the food that you ate. Some of them appear to be thinking, hey, this is great. Let's make Jesus our King. Verse 15. And he can feed us every day. He must be that prophet that Moses said would eventually come. Well, remember what Moses did when Moses was with us while we were in the wilderness for 40 years. Moses fed us with bread from heaven. And Jesus, that wasn't Moses that fed you with bread from heaven. And in fact, it's the Father who's giving you the true bread from heaven. Moses was was simply the man that God chose to to lead his people at that point. Jesus answered, look at verse 26. Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes. but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. Uh you know, their behavior is not really atypical, is it? Uh how quickly do we move from uh concern for our spiritual needs to concern for our physical needs? Uh from concern for our souls to concern for our stomachs. It might be happening to some here already. I don't know. The Spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. The Spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. How many seek Christ today for what he can do for us right here, right now? Improve our finances, our self-image, our marriage, our children, our business, our prospects And of course there's no shortage of men and women who call themselves preachers of the gospel, who market Jesus as if he were a heavenly bellhop, our celestial steward, who stands with bated breath at the Father's side, waiting for you to ring for him. When anything comes to mind that would make your stay here more comfortable, can I get you a pillow, sir? A warm towel, a glass of champagne, a better job, a nicer home, anything at all, anything at all I can do for you What did Jesus say about food and clothing and temporal things? Don't worry about it. Don't be anxious about it. Is not the life more than food? Is not the body more than raiment? Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things. Shall be added unto you. You know, consider the birds of the air. They don't plant crops. God feeds them. Are you not of much more value than they are? Your father knows that you need food and clothing and shelter, but far more important is that you be reconciled to him, that your life glorify him. He that drinks of this water shall thirst again, he said to the woman at the well. Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to everlasting life. And then it's it's like a light bulb goes off in the minds of some of the people and and they appear to realize, wait a minute, you know, we may be missing a wonderful opportunity here. Here's this prophet, whoever he is, this Jesus person who's doing miracles in our midst And we can ask him anything we want, and instead of thinking about our eternal souls, uh we've been thinking about him giving us more bread and maybe some fish and maybe something extra today We've been thinking about another free meal. So they come to their senses and they ask him a very serious question, verse 28. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? What shall we do that we may work the works of God? What does God want from us? Master, prophet, rabbi? What does God want from us? How can we please him? What can we do that will assure us of God's favor? What can we do that will assure us of everlasting life? It's a weighty question. No question is more important. This question is more important than how can we turn our economy around Or how can we balance our federal budget? Or how can I save my house from foreclosure? Or where can I find a good job? It's a universal question. Rabbi, what shall I do? Maharishi, what shall I do? Teacher, what shall I do? Father, Reverend, what shall I do? It's a natural question. It was natural for the Jews, their leaders, those to whom they looked for direction in such matters, told them that there was something that they could do to merit God's favor. They had the work of the works of God. The Pharisees had their own understanding of what the works of God were. This entailed a great many rules and regulations and ceremonies and traditions that were constantly being added to. But perhaps these Jews perceived that Jesus' person and teachings were quite different than those of the Pharisees. And so I wonder what Jesus thinks we should do that we might work the works of God. We know what the Pharisees say, and we can't do that. That burden's just so heavy. We can't possibly do it. They knew what the Pharisees would say, scrupulous observance of the moral and ceremonial and civil laws God has given, as defined and interpreted by the scribes and the Pharisees. The question was a natural one for Jews to ask. It's a natural one for us to ask. What shall we do that we might work the works of God? What does God want from us? The Lord Jesus came back to earth for a press conference. That would be one of the questions. What does God want of us? We ask it. It's a natural question for us to ask because we understand about hard work. And and we understand that hard work is a a good thing. By and large, it's generally rewarded. The sleep of a laboring man is sweet. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In all labor there is profit, the Bible says. If a man will not work, neither should he eat. So it's a natural question for us. As we said to the kids, this emphasis upon work begins in the home. We l you learn to do chores, you learn to get rewarded for good behavior. You perhaps earn an allowance. I remember uh when I was about eight or nine, I might have told you this before, but I I I wanted a an archery set. I saw it in a little store My recollection is it was right on uh uh Belair Road across from the Paramount Theater, a little sporting goods store, hobby store. And I went in there, I had this neat little it was neat, it was green as I recall it, fiberglass uh uh bow, archery you know, a bow and uh with arrows. And uh and it was only it wasn't much, you know, it was a thirty-five pound test in there, a pull or whatever it is. And uh So it was and and my parents said, well, you if you really want that, you better do some chores and do some work and shovel snow or uh you know, babysit or uh you know, w rake lawns or whatever it is to earn a little money. And I remember the thrill of of having raised enough money to go in there and Uh plunked down my uh, you know, whatever it was, fifty cents to buy the no it was it would have been more than that, but two uh I'm not that old. So uh So we learn that lesson. We learn it at home. We learn it in school. Study hard, listen closely, take good notes, prepare well. It's reinforced in the workplace. If you're diligent, you're hardworking, you're faithful, you're consistent You're rewarded with job security, with promotions. So it's natural for us to ask the question, well then what shall we do? If there's nothing more valuable than this, then whatever it is we have to do must be really big It's natural for us to ask this question because there's something pleasing in the thought that we can somehow merit God's favor. And the other side of the coin is that there's something displeasing to us in the thought that we can't do anything to ingratiate ourselves to God. It's natural for us to ask this question because we've heard false teaching on this matter for so long that we're inclined to believe it. The concept that good people go to heaven, or that the Bible teaches that good people go to heaven. has permeated our culture. I've mentioned before, it's in children's cartoons. You know, the good the uh the good mouse dies, next thing you know he's got a halo. And the bad cat dies and he's got a pitchfork. And uh and uh it was in the music of my youth, perhaps of your youth as well. Oh where oh where can my baby be? The Lord took her away from me. She's gone to heaven, so I've got to be good So I can see my baby when I leave. Leave this world. And God bless you, please, Mrs. Robinson. Heaven holds a place for those who pray. And uh I'm confident uh the examples could be found in cultural references that are not over fifty years old. That's why we that's one reason we have Pastor Nick here, so you can speak to him later. So we're inclined to believe this lie because work is rewarded in our society. There's something pleasing to us in the idea that we can somehow merit God's favor. And we've heard false teaching on this subject from our culture. There's another factor: Satan is doing all in his power to cause us to believe this lie. Not only does the God of this age influence the culture, but he places his own agents in pulpits Some of you know uh former Liberty member uh uh Ken Spicer. Ken told me once that some of the guys that he went to college with Left their major, which was engineering and was hard, and decided to chart a course for the ministry, which they felt would be easier. And uh and so so think about it. Uh if these guys decided to enter the ministry, not because they were converted, not because they believed they were called by God to preach the gospel , But because they felt they thought engineering was too hard and they thought it would be a good career move , what kind of preachers do you think they would be? Ezekiel says, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit. They say, Thus says the Lord, but the Lord has not sent them My hand will be against the prophets, because they have seduced my people, saying, peace when there is no peace. Think about it. If you become a pastor, not because you've been born again, Not because you've been called and set apart and gifted by God and because you had no choice, you had to do it. But if you became a pastor simply because you thought it might be a good career choice , How would you answer this most important question? What shall we do that we may work the works of God? What does God want from us? What does he ask of us? Well, you're going to tell them to be good, be kind, be hardworking, be compassionate, be sacrificial, be generous, be honest, be faithful, don't steal, don't lie, don't hate. And if there's a heaven, you'll probably get there. Listen, that's the message I heard as I was growing up in the Lutheran churches that we attended, mostly Lutheran. It's no wonder so many of us believe eternal life is dependent upon what we do to earn it. There are powerful influences inclining our minds in that very direction. So it's a weighty question. It's a universal question. It's a natural question. And Jesus gives us the answer to it. A totally unexpected answer. This is the work of God. That's a singular. This is the work of God And then he sums it up. What I'm about to say is the most important thing you need to know about pleasing God and doing his works. This is the work of God that you believe in him whom he sent. Believe in him whom he sent. That's the great work God wants you to do. They ask, what do we do? And he gives them an answer that isn't a work at all. He answers with something that isn't a work at all. There's no work involved in believing. It's not a striving, it's a resting. It's not a doing, it's a receiving. It's not a laboring, it's a looking. Believe in him whom he has sent. Truly, this was an unexpected answer. It was definitely not what their spiritual leaders told them. It was a unique answer. You address this question to a Muslim leader and he will answer, well this is the work of God. You pray five times each day facing Mecca, that you give alms to the poor, that you fast during the month of Ramadan, that you Sometime in your life you make a pilgrimage to Mecca. And there'll be other things, I'm sure, that depending on who you ask, they would add to that list. Address the question of any priest. This is the work of God, they would tell you, that you participate in the sacraments, that baptism, the Mass, confession, the last rites, that you avoid mortal sins, that you live a righteous life, that you cooperate with the Spirit of God inside of you. address the question to many pastors, what shall we do that we we might work the works of God? They would say, well this is the work of God, that you support a woman's right to choose, that you lobby against the death penalty, that you uh lobby in favor of same-sex marriage. Jesus says, this is the work of God, that you believe in me. Believe in him whom he has sent. Here Jesus points the people of Israel to the great biblical concept that we call justification by faith. Justification by faith. This is the great work of God. What does he want me to do? Believe. It's not a work at all. You may remember author and seminary professor Michael Horton was asked by a friend to spend a day at a non-denominational Christian high school. Defending the Reformation position on grace, salvation by grace through faith. Here's what Horton said in six class periods with a total of 160 Christian high school students Only one person raised her hand when I asked the question, how many here have ever heard the word, the term, justification? How many here have ever heard the term justification? 160 students, one of them raised her hand. Only one of 160 Christian young people had even, at least indicated, that he or she had even heard of, much less understood. The very central tenet of the Protestant Reformation, and indeed of the Gospel itself Now, think about it. If 159 out of 160 Christian high school kids indicated that they had never even heard the term justification, then it's entirely possible that someone here hasn't heard the term, or at least doesn't understand it. To be justified is to be declared righteous. To be declared to be just. It's a legal term. If you were found guilty of a crime or you were accused of a crime and you were brought before me and I was a judge, and I declared you to be righteous, I declared you to be just That means the charge is no longer being held against you. Paul said if Abraham was justified by works, he had something to boast about But what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. That's a glorious verse. Abraham believed God, and that faith was accounted to him for righteousness. It doesn't say Abraham became righteous when he believed. But God accepted that faith as if it were righteousness. Abraham believed God, it was accounted to him for righteousness, to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly. His faith is accounted for righteousness, Romans 4. His faith is accounted for righteousness. To be justified is to be to be declared righteous. But Listen, there's a great hindrance, isn't there, to any one of us being declared righteous? What's that? Well, we're not, right? We are not righteous. We're far from righteous. In fact, we're depraved. We're declared in Scripture to be dead in our trespasses and sins. Job 15, 14. What is man that he could be pure, or one born of woman that he could be righteous? Psalm 51. 5. Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me. Even from birth the wicked go astray. From the womb they are wayward and speak lies. Psalm 58. 3 If you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, O Lord, who could stand? Psalm 130, verse 3. Who can say, I have kept my heart pure, I'm clean without sin? Proverbs 20, verse 9. There is not a righteous man on earth who does what is right and never sins. Boy, that can't be much more clear. Ecclesiastes 7. 20. There is not a righteous man on earth who does what is right and never sins. Here's one in Ecclesiastes 9. 3. The hearts of men, moreover, are full of evil, and there is madness in their hearts while they live. Isaiah 64, 6, all of us have become like one who is unclean, all our righteousness are as filthy rags. Romans 3 What shall we conclude then? Are we any better? We Jews any better? Not at all. We have already made the charge that Jews and Gentiles alike are all under sin. As it is written, there is no one righteous, not even one. There's no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned away. They together become worthless. There's no one who does good, not even one. So we got this huge problem. How in the world could a holy God ever declare sinners to be righteous? You're not righteous. You have a a better chance of going swimming without getting wet than meeting somebody on earth who's not a sinner. How can God, who is holy and just and who cannot lie, declare a sinner to be righteous? Well, our Roman Catholic friends would say he cannot. That would be some sort of legal fiction. A holy just God cannot declare a man or woman to be justified if he or she is in fact A sinner. The only way for him to declare a man righteous is for that man, in fact, to become righteous. That righteousness is infused by the sacraments. They say faith is the initial movement of our justification. But as R. C. Sprohl points out, in the Catholic view, the righteousness by which we're justified comes from Christ, but it must become ours as we cooperate with it. It is in us, not apart from us. Well, in our understanding of Scripture, in the Reformed view, you might say, ours is an alien righteousness, a righteousness that is apart from us. If the question is, how can God declare a sinner to be righteous? The answer is the sinner's faith is accepted by God, is accounted by God as if it were righteousness. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, see, we're still ungodly when he justifies us, his faith, the ungodly's faith, is accounted for righteousness. Just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute. Sin. Romans 4, 5 to 8. God accepts the sinner's faith as if it were righteousness, the righteousness of Jesus. Christ's pure, spotless, holy life without sin is applied to my account. It's imputed to me. Even as my sins, as vile as they are, are applied to his account. They were imputed to him. So that when he died upon the cross he felt what I should have felt. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He was feeling forsaken by his father. He was feeling the result of sin. He was feeling like sin incarnate. Because that's what he was. God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin. So God accepts the sinner's faith as if it were righteousness. Uh uh Jesus didn't really become a sinner at the cross, although he was treated as a sinner. I'm not really righteous, but God treats me as if I am. Now, as hard as it must have been for these Israelites to hear Jesus say that simple faith in him was the great work that Christ was calling them to perform. And of course, faith in Christ is not a work at all, is it? Jesus then proceeded to ask them to believe something that they must have found even harder. To believe. Not only is salvation not through any work they could do, but rather through simple faith in the one whom the Father has sent In other words, not only has their pride been stripped away, as they realize they cannot work their way into God's favor, but they are rather justified by faith alone, but then Jesus goes on to strip away any remaining vestige of pride by telling them that even that faith that they are called to exercise does not in fact originate with them. Their coming to him by faith is itself the gift of God, granted by grace alone. Verse 37 of John 6. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out. And if that's not clear enough, look at verse 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. Jesus tells these children of Israel that the great work God asks of them is, first of all, no work at all, not a work at all, but simply a matter of faith. And secondly, he tells them that this faith that they are to exercise in him is itself wrought in them by the Father, and that they couldn't even come to Him if not for the fact that the Father had given them to Jesus. It is by grace through faith that they would be saved. I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, God says. Don't I have the right to do what I will with my own? Matthew 20, 15. All who were appointed for eternal life believed. Acts 13, 48. Yet before the twins, Jacob and Esau, were born, or had done anything good or bad, in order that God's purpose in election might stand, not by works, but by him who calls, she, Rebecca, was told, the older will serve the younger. Romans 9. So too, at this present time there remains, there is a remnant chosen by grace. And if by grace, then it is no longer by works. If it were, grace would no longer be grace. Romans 11 Ephesians 1. For he chose us in him before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will. Not because of any good thing he saw in you, not because he foresaw any good thing you were gonna do. It was according to his good pleasure and will, with uh in accordance with his pleasure and will. First Thessalonians 1 Thessalonians 1. For we know brothers loved by God that He has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not simply with words, but also with power, with the Holy Spirit, and with deep conviction. This is what revealed to Paul that God had chosen them. They heard the word. A lot of people hear the word and walk away, but they heard it and received it. It came with power, it brought deep conviction. What is that evidence of? It's evidence of the fact that God has chosen them unto himself. Now, I know that doctrine of God's sovereign election is confusing to people. It's hard to understand. It's hard to explain. But may I suggest that the fact that something is hard to understand and hard to explain is not a sufficient reason to reject it if it is taught in the Word of God. The Bible says Jesus is God. The Bible says the Father is God. The Bible says the Holy Spirit is God. Yet there's but one God who exists in these three persons. I don't understand that, but I believe it. The Bible says that Jesus is fully God and fully man, two distinct natures, but in one person. He got tired, he got hungry. He could die upon the cross. I don't understand it, but I believe it. I guess I mentioned that to the kids. Uh that's a camp for children entering fourth through sixth grades. It's called TriPrez Camp. I guess originally it drew children from three different PCA Presbyteries. I think there were kids there from Maryland, Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania. In fact, uh Jane Grabner's granddaughter, Olivia, was there at camp. Some of you remember. uh Jane's uh granddaughter Olivia and Kelly Bomer. Is Kelly here? Kelly Bomer was uh she's normally over here. Uh oh there she is in the back. Kelly Bomer uh was there as a as a counselor. Uh On one of the evening recreation games, uh this is what I'm getting at, one of the evening recreation games, I I found myself uh rolling, rolling on the ground about and it rolled about 30 feet, maybe 30, 40 feet, I don't know. It was all a big blur But uh but man when I got up I had a terrible time walking, you know, and uh I think I had to crawl off the field. Uh because uh I they say it gets worse the older you get, you know, the stuff rattling around in there. And uh used to it used to be the marbles would hold everything together, but over time I've lost so many. Uh so I had a difficult time standing up. Well, listen, astronomers tell us that we're on a planet, get this, that's spinning like a top, right? Orbiting our sun. And at the same time hurdling through space. All that stuff's going on. It's amazing to me that we can walk around here. Right? How in the world do we do that? I I don't understand it, but I believe it. I experience it. And when the scripture says that my justification is solely by God's grace, that it's not because of anything I did. Not because of anything I now do, not because of anything God foresaw that I would do in the future. When the scripture says that God's choice was in accordance with his pleasure and his will When it says that he is the author and the finisher of my faith, I may not understand it, but I believe it. Amen? You don't need to understand the intricate workings of God's providence. As the heaven is higher than the earth, so are God's thoughts higher than man's thoughts. His ways higher than our ways. Now you say, okay, now let me get this straight, preacher. You're telling me that my eternal destiny, whether or not I ever enter heaven, is dependent not upon anything I do, but upon whether or not I simply believe in the Lord Jesus and what he did. Is that what you're telling me? Yes. That's right. And you're telling me that I can't come to Jesus unless I'm given to him by my fat by his father. Is that right? That's right. That's what Jesus said right there. Well, I can't believe in such a God, and I can't believe in such a plan of salvation. Well, then, you will perish. You are not the first person who has walked away from Jesus because his words were too hard to accept. Look at verse 64 of this same chapter. But there are some of you who do not believe, for Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe and who would betray him. And he said, Therefore I said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. And then you come to one of the saddest verses in all the scripture. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. It's like I can't accept this. I don't know what was going on in their hearts, of course. We don't know But perhaps it was this is just this is just too devastating to my person, my personhood, my pride, my you mean I don't have anything to do with it? You mean God didn't gonna bring me to heaven because I was circumcised and all those Passovers and all that stuff I've done and none of it matters to him All that was just to point me to this sinless son of God? Is that what you're telling me? Yeah, that's what we're telling you. And I can't even believe unless unless God draws me. That's right. So it's not me at all, is it? No, it's not. It's not. So who gets the glory for it? He does. He did it all. It's his plan of salvation. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us By grace you say through faith, it's not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast But look at verse 37 again. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me, I will by no means cast out. That's one of the best verses, isn't it? If you will simply come to Jesus, simply believe, simply rest, simply trust in him, renounce all confidence in the flesh, let go of all that you've been trusting in. All the things that you value about yourself. If you come empty-handed as a little child, Jesus said, if you want to come, you've got to come as a little child. Not proud, not puffed up, not with any degrees, not with any uh big uh accomplishments, you come empty-handed. I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner by birth and practice. I'm unclean. I'm unholy. I'm unrighteous. You come to God that way. But you say, if I simply come to Jesus and transfer my trust to him , You're going to accept my faith as if it were righteousness. You're going to justify me. Lord, make it so. Make me a new creation. Give me this eternal life. I don't deserve it. I know it. But you freely offer it. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest, Jesus said. You don't have to do it. He did it. You can't do it. He did it. I come with no works to merit salvation. Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling just as I am without one plea. But that thy blood was shed for me. Just as I am in waiting not to rid my soul of one dark blot, to thee whose blood can cleanse each spot, O Lamb of God, I come, I come. And if you do come Who gets the glory for it? , God gets the glory for it. The very one who draws you. The very one who planned it all. The very one who created you. The very one who sustained you. The very one who placed you in this place where you could hear the gospel, who put you in a country where you have the freedom to hear it, who brought the gospel message to you in your own language, that's the one who gets the glory. He 's the author and the finisher of your faith. Let's pray. Father, what a glorious plan. What a glorious gospel. We stand amazed as we consider This awesome plan of God. Lord, that you would have compassion upon us, that you would have mercy upon sinful creatures who rebelled against you, that your love for us would be so great that you would provide a way for us to be redeemed. Not silver or gold, not the blood of lambs or goats, but the precious sacrifice of your own dear son. Father, we praise you for this. Now, Lord, please, if there's someone here still dead in sins, without Christ, without hope, draw that soul to Jesus this day. May this be the day of salvation for that one. They pray in Christ saying. Amen