This morning, let's just read the first seven verses of Exodus chapter twenty. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Let's pray. Father, we ask now for your help, for your presence, for your Holy Spirit to enlighten us. As we approach your word this morning, forgive us our sins, Father. We do lift up this congregation. We we uh Remember our brother Harry Ring in rehab and uh we think too of Margaret's mother in the hospital. We do pray for them, Lord, uh that they might be able to be strengthened and be able to be returned to their homes soon. Uh speak to us now from your holy word. Now we ask in Christ's name. Amen. A little girl was attending Sunday school for the very first time. She listened eagerly as her teacher told of the birth of the Savior. She thrilled to the story of the angels and the shepherds, Joseph and Mary and the birth of Christ. And then the teacher added, and they called his name Jesus. The little girl exclaimed, why do they have to name such a sweet baby a swear word? Evidently, this was the very first time she had heard the name of Jesus used other than as a curse. The first commandment, You shall have no other gods before me, deals primarily with our mind, with our heart. The second commandment, you shall not make unto you any graven image, deals primarily with our actions. The third commandment deals primarily with our speech. The basis for the commandment is this. The holiness of God, first of all. The holiness of God. The Lord said to Moses as he approached the bush that burned but was not consumed, Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground. Exodus 3. Moses and the children of Israel sang in Exodus 15, Who is like you, O Lord? Who is like you, glorious in holiness? You are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel. Psalm 22, verse 3 First of all, then the basis for the commandment is the holiness of God. And secondly, you could say the basis of the commandment is the holiness of God's name. Holy and reverent is his name. Psalm 111, verse 9. Isaiah speaks of the high and lofty one who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. Now, as you know, the names we use today for one another, the names parents give to children, are often uh not very significant. We may name our children after friends or family members or even famous people. We may just make up names that sound good to our ears I think I was named after the sound that a squirrel makes as he walks through the woods in the in the fall. Clearly. Clearly for many people today What the name means is not the deciding factor in their choice of a name, but the various names God chose for himself help to reveal his character. Elohim, God , speaks of his omnipotence, his power. Yahweh, from the verb to be, speaks of his eternal nature. I am that I am. Yahweh Rophah, the Lord who heals. Jehovah Jirah, or Yahweh Jirah, means the Lord will provide. And of course the name of our Savior, Yahshua in the Hebrew. Jesus in the Greek, Jesus in the English means Jehovah saves. The fact that God is glorious in holiness Well that fact uh ought to be enough for us to cause uh enough to cause us to use his name with reverence. But when we consider that his various names actually reflect his character We should be that much more careful not to misuse those names. How then do we break this commandment? You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, meaning to no purpose. In an empty way, in an idle way, insincerely, lacking in truth. Of course, we can do this quite openly by cursing. That is, using God's name in anger. We can do it secondly by calling upon God to damn someone or something. The late Dr. D. James Kennedy wrote of a minister who was driving with a tire that was almost flat. He pulled into a country gas station and asked the attendant if he could fix it. As the man filled the tire and checked the water and a few other things, he kept repeating G D this tire and G D this part of the car and G D that part of the car. Finally the minister could stand it no longer. He spoke up, sir, I do not want God to damn my car And I'll thank you to stop saying that. The attendant gave a predictable response. Oh, I I didn't mean anything by it. I uh it's just a it's just a habit. I didn't mean to offend you And I didn't even realize I was doing it. But of course, when God's name is taken in vain, it is not primarily an offense against us. The story is told about Woodrow Wilson's father, who was a Presbyterian minister. Once when a man took God's name in vain, he turned to see Reverend Wilson standing nearby, and he said, evidently embarrassed, Oh, excuse me, Reverend Wilson, I didn't realize you were there. And he responded, Sir, your apology is not owed to me. We violate this commandment thirdly by dishonoring God's name or person by speaking of him disrespectfully or flippantly, as for example, calling him the man upstairs or the big guy. We can't imagine the Lord Jesus ever referring to his Holy Father in such Flippant turns. Fourthly, when we dishonor God's word, which he has manifested above his name. Psalm 138. Films, plays, comedies that mock the Word of God and the Lord Himself clearly violate this commandment. Fifthly, we blatantly break this commandment when our lives don't agree with our professions of faith. That is, when we don't walk what we talk. Titus 1. 16 speaks of those who profess to know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and disqualified for every good work. They profess to know God, but in their works they deny him. They're abominable, disobedient to God's clearly revealed word, disqualified for every good work. Paul writes, you who make your boast in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. Think about that. The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles, the unbelievers, because of you, Paul says to those who call themselves Christians but aren't walking in a way that honors God. If I call myself a Christian, that is, if I take God's name upon me, but I live in such a scandalous way that I dishonor God, I'm taking his name in vain. Pastors whose personal lives betray that they love this world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, are taking God's name in vain. According to surveys. Of Americans, large numbers of us are taking God's name in vain by our lifestyles, for example, by calling ourselves Christians but engaging in blatant sexual sin. So I ask, is the name of God blasphemed among unbelievers because of you? You good give God uh give people cause Whether at work or at school, you give people cause uh to say, if that's uh Christian, you know, I don't want to have anything to do with it. The organized church can be guilty of taking God's name in vain. When in the last century Germany's evangelical church, by and large, sold out to the Nazi Party. Remaining silent for the most part in the face of horrendous crimes perpetrated by those in power, it was in effect taking God's name in vain. This commandment forbids the use of God's name to advance causes that God's word clearly forbids. We have pastors today, we have whole denominations today proclaiming that a woman has the right to choose to have her unborn child killed And that God is pleased with all loving relationships, regardless of whether they violate the laws of nature and of God's revealed word. Thus says the Lord of hosts: Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you. They make you worthless, they speak a vision of their own heart. Not from the mouth of the Lord. They continually say to those who despise me, the Lord has said you shall have peace. And to everyone who walks according to the dictates of his own heart, they say, No evil shall come upon you. Jeremiah 23, 16 and 17. Michael Horton wrote, one of the best recent examples of using God for one's own ends is apartheid in South Africa. Afrikaner theology argued that the European settlers were the chosen people of God, conquering their promised land by driving out the Canaanites. The leading Christian opponents of apartheid in more recent years insisted that apartheid was not Christian theology, but a twisting of Scripture in order to suit in order to suit purely secular, political, and ideological aims. How much damage has come to the cause of Christ through the years by Christians perverting God's name and God's word? to justify their own selfish desires. So we can break this commandment openly. And then of course we can break this commandment secretly. We can take God's name in vain secretly. How do we do that? Well, when we sin against God in private , when we do things in private with nobody watching that dishonor God. We can do it when we swear falsely in his name. You promise to uh to speak the whole uh the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth, so help you, God. I do. And that you swear falsely in his name. You speak falsely in his name. You're violating this commandment. We can break this commandment carelessly. And I suppose for most of us, that's the way we do it, most of us here. We break this commandment carelessly. With idle discourse. We can do it even by spicing up our conversation with phrases like, oh God, or my God, or Jesus, when we're neither praying to the Lord nor speaking strictly about the Lord. Janny Ortland, the wife of Pastor Raymond Ortland Jr. wrote, I've taught second grade for 13 years, twelve of them in public schools. One fall during teacher training we had a speaker who, though very insightful and extremely funny, repeatedly used God's name to punctuate his points. I found myself growing more and more uncomfortable as the training session went on. Later, over lunch, my co-workers were discussing how much they enjoyed his presentation, and they asked me what I thought of it. They were shocked when I told them it was difficult for me to listen because of all the times he used God's name flippantly. Is it hard for you when we say, Oh God? My closest teammate asked when I shared with them my convictions, or it's that was the period there, my closest teammate asked, when I shared with them my convictions, I was humbled. at their response. Apologies and honest efforts at change is what resulted. How kind of them, she wrote. Do you find yourself using God's name carelessly? I think we can violate this commandment even by using God's name unthinkingly in worship. Let me explain. It's possible to go through the motions of worship, to use God's name unthinkingly This people draw near me with their mouth, but their heart is far from me. We just sang the doxology: Praise God, from whom all blessings flow. But if my mind was on other things, I wasn't really praising God at the time. Wonder if I was violating this commandment. Is it possible that even this morning you've taken God's name in vain by not worshiping Him in your heart, but only with your mouth? Thirdly, when we pray to God without truly believing that He hears us and that He will answer according to His will. Basically taking His name in vain. He that believes not God makes him a liar. 1 John 5:10. Have you taken God's name in vain by your half-hearted prayers? Fourthly, it's of course uh a good thing to praise God, obviously, w when we're genuinely praising him. But I wonder if sometimes Christians lightly, thoughtlessly, mindlessly, through the week Salt our conversations with phrases like praise the Lord or Praise God to the point that it becomes a meaningless interjection. Michael Horton, seminary professor and author of a book on the Ten Commandments, suggests that a theology that is man-centered rather than God-centered can be a violation of this commandment and can encourage others to violate it. With much of popular preaching and evangelism conforming to the mentality of the bumper sticker that sports God is my co-pilot. There ought to be little wonder why God's name is not hallowed in our society, for it is not hallowed in our churches. Our prophets and priests have falsely handled the word, attributing more to human beings than to God. In Scripture, God is the potter and we are the clay. Salvation does not depend on man's decision or effort, but on God's mercy. Therefore, God has mercy on whom he wants to have mercy, and he hardens whom he wants to harden. Romans 9. But in popular religion, God is there for me. I am the potter. He's the clay. After all, he can't do anything that I don't if I don't let him have his way. Only if I decide to let him do this or that can he fulfill his will. After all, Jesus is a gentleman who will not violate our free will, so I was told growing up. It's possible that even some of the tricks that we employ to avoid breaking this commandment may be, in God's eyes, simply minor, continuing violations. In other words, we substitute J 's For Jesus. Jesus. Christ for Christ. Gosh or golly for God. Egad, we'll say, instead of oh God. Even jeeper's cats for Jesus Christ. I find myself in a pattern of saying, oh my goodness, oh my goodness. Well, oh my goodness. This is another way of saying, oh my God. It's it's it's a it's a way, uh it's a substitute for it, I suppose you could say. If we truly regarded God's name as holy, one would think we would endeavor to avoid such language altogether. His name is holy. Consider the evil of breaking this commandment. First of all, it's habit habit-forming. The Psalm 10 speaks of the wicked man: quote, his mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression. Under his tongue is trouble and iniquity. His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression. We're creatures of habit, and we're inclined to do what we've done before. One of the insidious things about swearing is it feeds on itself. We may say, well, I don't mean anything by it. It's only a habit. I have a habit. All the guys of my crew, that's the way they talk. It's a habit. But isn't that precisely what this commandment forbids? Using God's name without meaning anything by it? Using it in vain for emptiness to no purpose? I do it all the time. It's no big deal. I don't mean anything by it. Judge, yeah, it's true. I shot the man in anger, but I do that all the time. I don't mean anything by that. It's contagious. Remember, when you take God's name in vain, you are encouraging all those who hear you to do the same. Then we have God's warning to the violators of this commandment. The Lord will not hold him guiltless, who takes his name in vain. The Lord will not hold him guiltless, who takes his name in vain. You may remember the uh entry that's often quoted in General Washington's orderly book. a vice hitherto unknown in the American army is growing into fashion. We can have little hope of the blessing of heaven on our arms if we insult it By our impiety and profanity, he wrote. That's August 3rd, 1776. How can we keep from breaking this commandment? Pastor Leslie Flynn in his book on the commandments suggest, first of all, recall that speech is a marvelous gift of God Speech itself is a marvelous gift of God. He's given us a voice box permitting the articulation of involved linguistic sounds. How wrong it is to abuse this gift. And then beware of losing your temper. Inordinate anger often degenerates into swearing, doesn't it? It's of course much easier said than done to say, don't lose your temper. But the scripture exhorts us to be angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Thirdly, as much as is possible, avoid the company of those who swear habitually. Remember that it is contagious. It's a contagious disease. Of course, you may be instrumental in reaching them with the good news, so obviously to avoid it altogether you must needs go out of the world, and the scripture wouldn't exhort us to do that. Fourthly, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. We're asking, how can we avoid breaking this commandment? Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. It's difficult to descend into taking the Lord's name in vain when we're in close communion with the Lord. It's not impossible, you might say. As we learned from Peter swearing just a few hours after being with Jesus in the upper room and in the Garden of Gethsemane. I wonder, do you see the heinousness of this sin? Do you see the evil of violating this commandment? Do you see the wickedness involved in the creature blaspheming the Creator? Do you see that even if it were the only sin you ever committed , That you would still deserve his wrath? You would still deserve his wrath. The Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. I want you to imagine something now. Imagine that God determined right now, right here, to execute his judgment immediately on one of us. Suppose an angel appeared in our midst this morning and pointed to one of us and declared, You have taken God's holy name in vain. You have been found wanting. You've been declared guilty. You will now suffer the consequence. You'll be cast into outer darkness where there is weeping. And gnashing of teeth. Imagine that this angel proceeded to take one of us directly from the service to the terrified cries and tears of family members and friends. I want you to search your heart. I want you to search your conscience. Can you declare that the person to whom that angel points The person deserving the judgment of God could not possibly be you. Do you maintain that you have never violated this commandment? But wait, there's a stirring in the courts of heaven. Who is this glorious being standing before the throne saying, Father? I will take the place of that blasphemer. Punish me and let him go free. Let me be put to death for him. With my stripes, let him be healed. Do you see it? Your damning others will surely damn you Your cursing others will bring the curse of God upon you. Your only hope is to flee to the Son of God for refuge. Flee to him who is a strong tower. Cry out to him, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. You come to God that way. You cry out to him. In sincerity, you cry out to the one who kept the law that you broke, paid the debt that you owe. You can be assured, your sins will be forgiven. Jesus said so. He who believes in me, trusts in me, rests in me, has everlasting life. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Amen. Friend, I don't know what commandments you have broken in your heart, in your speech, in your actions. But I know there's forgiveness with God. God has provided a way. God has provided an antidote to that poison that's flowing through your system. Your sinful nature. Cry out to him, God, forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Make me a new creation. For Jesus' sake. To take his name in vain brings death. To take him as Savior brings life. Let's pray. Father, I pray specifically, if there be someone here this day still dead in sins, someone who has created other idols in his heart Who has placed other gods before him, who has taken your name in vain, who has violated your day of rest, who has dishonored father and mother. Who has been angry or murdered in his heart, who's committed adultery in his mind, or in fact, someone here who has stolen Someone here who has uh who has not been truthful, someone here who has coveted. Father, I pray that you'll drive that sinner to his knees or to her knees. That he or she will cry out today, God forgive me. I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life, died upon the cross, rose again from the dead. Lord, I want him as my Savior. Forgive me and save me for his sake. Lord, may that be true in some heart or life this day. And Father, all of us here, those of us who are forgiven, those of us who are cleansed and uh in the process of being sanctified we acknowledge that even we violate this commandment. God forgive us. Help us to keep your name as holy We pray in Christ's name. Amen.