Exodus chapter twenty , speaking of verse one. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything. That is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them, nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant. nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor's. Now all the people witness the thunderings, the lightning flashes, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. And when the people saw it, they trembled and stood afar off. And then they said to Moses, You speak with us, and we will hear. But let not God speak with us, lest we die. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray together Father, we ask now for your help, for your Holy Spirit to speak to us through your word. To impart your blessing upon it, to breathe upon it, that it might live within us. Lord, I pray for every believer here, Father. Speak to us, exhort us, direct us, give us wisdom from your word , good counsel. And I pray for any unbelievers here, Father, work in their hearts That same mercy that you bestowed upon us to give us light and salvation, we pray that for them. Lord, have mercy upon souls and draw souls to yourself even this day through your word. We ask it not only for what's being preached here, but every place where the Word of God is being faithfully proclaimed. Father, draw souls to yourself. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. In uh January nineteen ninety two, President George Herbert Walker Bush Addressed the Christian Broadcasters Convention, and to their applause, he referred to America as the most religious nation on earth. I suspect he would get an argument from the citizens of uh India or Indonesia, Iran, or Tibet. George Gallup and James Castelli, in the book The People's Religion, wrote Americans are even more religious today than they've been in the past. In church attendance, it is said we are second only to the Republic of Ireland. In public opinion surveys, it's typical for over 90% of Americans to say they believe in God. But authors Patterson and Kim noted in their book, The Day America Told the Truth The God that modern Americans say they believe in is a distant and pale reflection of the God of our forefathers. They wrote, This is not the jealous God of the Old Testament. Rather, Americans seem to use the word God to refer to a general principle or code in life Or sometimes he or she is the creator who set off the Big Bang but doesn't interfere in human affairs. For most Americans, God is not to be feared. Or, for that matter, loved. Six and seven Americans say they think it's okay to not believe in God After God had delivered his people from the bondage and paganism of Egypt, he brought them to Mount Sinai and he gave them his law, beginning with this. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. I'm Yahweh, who brought you out of slavery. I am the I am who redeemed you. As we noted last week, these commandments were given to a redeemed people, not in order to redeem a people. These commandments were given to a redeemed people. They'd been brought out of bondage, out of slavery. God had covenanted with them. They were given to tell the people of Israel how they ought to live, what their sovereign wanted them to know. We've considered thus far what the first commandment forbids. Well, it certainly forbids denying the existence of God altogether. I am the Lord your God. You shall have no other gods before me. It certainly forbids denying the existence of God altogether. In the past several years, as you may know, some of those who deny God's existence have become more vocal, more confrontational. More books have been written by atheists recently than, at least in my recollection. If you listen to some of the prominent atheists and others who would simply call themselves non-theists, it's possible to imagine that recent scientific discoveries explain the existence of our universe, our solar system. Our planet, the existence of life itself, on our planet, through purely natural causes Well, that is of course far from the truth. I'm sure I've noted before in a sermon or two the insight of Dr. Stephen Meyer. He holds a PhD in the history and philosophy of science from Cambridge University. He wrote, Since the 1960s, physicists have discovered that the existence of life in the universe depends upon a highly improbable balance of physical factors. The constants of physics, the initial conditions of the universe, and many other of its contingent features appear delicately balanced to allow for the possibility of life Even very slight alterations in the values of many independent factors, such as the expansion rate of the universe the speed of light, the precise strength of gravitational or electromagnetic attraction , would render life impossible. Physicists now refer to these factors as anthropic coincidences, and to the fortunate convergence of all of these coincidences as the fine-tuning of the universe Many note that this fine-tuning strongly suggests design by a pre-existent intelligence. As physicist Paul Davies put it, the impression of design is overwhelming. To see why, consider the following illustration, continuing to quote from Stephen Meyer. Imagine you are a cosmic explorer who has just stumbled into the control room of the whole universe. There you discover an elaborate universe-creating machine with rows and rows of dials, each with many possible settings. As you investigate, you learn that each dial represents some particular parameter that has to be calibrated with a precise value in order to create a universe in which life can survive. One dial represents the possible settings for the strong nuclear force, one for the gravitational constant, one for Planck's constant, one for the speed of light, one for the ratio of the neutron mass to the proton mass One for the strength of electromagnetic attraction, and so on. As you, the cosmic explorer, examine the dials, you find that they can be easily spun to different settings that they could have been set otherwise Moreover, you determine by careful calculation that even slight alterations in any of the dial settings would cause changes to the architecture of the universe such that life would cease to exist. Yet for some reason each dial sits with just the exact value necessary to keep the universe running. Like a giant safe with multiple combination locks, each of which has been opened What do you infer about the origin of these finely tuned dial settings? Well, not surprisingly, physicists have been asking the same question. As astronomer George Greenstein muses, the thought insistently arises that some supernatural agency, or rather, agency with a capital A, he writes, must be involved. Is it possible that suddenly, without intending to, we have stumbled upon scientific proof of the existence of a supreme being? Was it God who stepped in and so providentially crafted the cosmos for our benefit? For many scientists, the design hypothesis seems the most obvious and intuitively plausible answer. As the late Cambridge astronomer Sir Frederick Hoyle commented, a common sense interpretation of the facts suggests that a super intellect has monkeyed with physics as well as chemistry and biology and that there are no blind forces worth speaking about in nature. Many physicists now concur. They would argue that in effect the dials of the cosmic control room appear finely tuned because someone carefully set them that way. As even atheist Stephen Hawking acknowledged acknowledged the odds against a universe like ours emerging out of something like the Big Bang are enormous. I think there are clearly religious implications. Elsewhere he wrote, it would be very difficult to explain why the universe would have begun. in just this way, except as the act of a God who intended to create beings like us. But of course, that is what Stephen Stephen Hawking does, in fact, endeavor to do. That is to uh explain why the universe would have begun in just this way, uh, without postulating a creator, which is where the evidence is pointing. Well, the Bible puts it this way, the invisible things of him are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Even his eternal power and Godhead. So that they, those who suppress the truth, are without excuse. Romans 1. The only way to call yourself an atheist is to suppress the truth, the evidence for design in every living cell, in every flower, in every tree, in every insect. In every person. So this commandment, first of all, forbids atheism, quite obviously. It forbids one of us from declaring, in spite of the clear evidence of Scripture and reason. Not just that something came from nothing or no one, that would be hard enough to believe, but that everything came from nothing and no one. We noted last week's that, secondly, this commandment forbids agnosticism for the very same reason, because the evidence of God is so clear. And thirdly, this commandment forbids believing in many gods. I am the Lord your God. You shall have no other gods before me, literally before my face. God's not saying you may have other gods as long as you don't put them first, as long as you have him first. He's not saying that at all. You shall have no other gods before my face. This commandment forbids devising a God of your own imagination. This is quite common in our society. For example, many people would say or believe, well, my God would never allow people to go to hell. James Davidson Hunter interviewed evangelical students for his book, Evangelicals, The Coming Generation. He asked them about the fate of Hindu leader Mahatma Gandhi, who did not, of course, to our knowledge, embrace Christ as Savior, he was a Hindu leader. Some were absolutely certain that he was saved, but most were unsure of either One Bible major said, I would say that the Lord would know his heart and somehow judge him fairly. I hope the Lord would judge his heart, and if he was a good man and he knew to live an honest life, and he was generous and loving, maybe the Lord would take him. So eternal life then may be received by those who are relatively, of course, good, honest, generous, and loving. But the Bible says, he that has the Son has life, but he that has not the Son has not life. But the wrath of God abides on him. The Bible says there's none who does good, no, not one. There's none righteous, Romans 3. The first commandment forbids devising a God of our own imagination. The First Commandment forbids permitting anyone or anything to supplant God's place in our lives. Possessions, pleasures, a job, a career, a goal. A child, a man or woman. This commandment forbids the love of self from supplanting God. This may be the most prevalent sin of our culture, The late theologian John Gersner calls it the ultimate violation of the First Commandment. As we noted last week, when asked what beliefs they would die for, almost half of the Americans surveyed said none. Nothing they're willing to lay down their lives for, nothing they believe so deeply. For many Americans, it seems man's chief end is to love oneself and to enjoy him for as long as possible. We're told that Gautama, the one who was ultimately called the Buddha, said, You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection. Well, that sentiment has certainly been embraced in modern America. Author Gary Willis, uh Gary Wills, W-I-L-L-S, author Gary Wills wrote The imperative to feel good about oneself has become a national and personal priority. It's become a patriotic, even religious duty. Because it's the message people want to hear, religious leaders have picked up on it. As Robert Schuler put it, to love oneself is to be truly religious. To love oneself is to be truly religious. Some in the secular world early saw the hypocrisy in all this. Newsweek magazine devoted a cover story to what they called the American plague. The curse of self-esteem. They wrote, along with other social institutions, the church has discovered that low self-esteem is less off-putting to congregants than sin. It doesn't turn off the congregation as much as referring to them as sinners if you just say they they're lacking in self-esteem. Newsweek wrote Oh yeah, I just wrote that. Sorry. The Yale Professor George Lindbeck said playing fast and loose with the Bible needed a liberal audience in the days of Norman Vincent Peale. But now, as the case of Robert Schuler indicates Professed conservatives eat it up. Playing fast and loose with the Bible needed a liberal audience in the days of Norman Vincent Peel, but now, as the case of Robert Schuler indicates, professed conservatives eat it up Now, what's the theological justification for the emphasis on self-esteem? It's the argument that the reason Jesus died for us is because we're so worthy. As Lutheran writer Don Matzat put it, this is somewhat akin to telling a serial murderer that he should derive a sense of self-worth from the enormous bail that the court placed on him. To see the cross is not to see the measure of how worthy I am, but of how unworthy, shameful, and guilty I am, apart from the imputed righteousness of Christ alone. Amen? So the first commandment forbids loving ourselves more than God, exalting our minds above his truth, exalting ourselves above his person. Now, let's try to answer the question: what does the first commandment require of us? Remember, negative commands involve positive responsibilities. You shall not kill Means, or you shall not murder, means you should do all in your power to preserve life. You shall have no other gods before me means God shall be our God and we shall be his people. First, remember that God has entered into a covenantal relationship with us, with his people. I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you with their generations for an everlasting covenant To be God to you and your descendants after you. Genesis 17, 7. Therefore know that only those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. Galatians 3:7 Our covenant with God is not unlike a marriage covenant. Turn, O backsliding children, says the Lord, for I am married to you. Jeremiah 3. 14. For your maker is your husband, Isaiah 54, 5. As a husband, God provides for us. He protects us. He loves us. Ultimately sacrifices himself for us. As his bride, we have obligations to him. You shall have no other gods before my face. That is, you shall not commit spiritual adultery. I am the one who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Out of the house of bondage. I am your redeemer. So, what does this commandment require of us? How do we keep it? Well, this commandment requires us to honor and fear God To honor and fear God, to reverence him, you might say, to stand in awe of him A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts. Malachi 1 6 The fear of the Lord, the Bible says, is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord tends to life. Psalm 34. Therefore, since we are receiving the kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. For our God is a consuming fire. Hebrews 12. The whole scene at Sinai, which we could have read again for us in chapter 19, the whole scene at Sinai Seems designed to instill a holy fear in the hearts of God's people, does it not? The smoking of the mountain, the lightnings, the thunderings, the trumpets The warning not to approach the mountain, not to touch it, to wash your clothes, to abstain from your normal relations as husbands and wives, as God gives this these commandments. The whole scene seemed to inspire holy fear. And the whole idea of fearing God can be rather confusing to us as Christians. John Piper wrote an article available on his website, desiringgod. org, entitled, Does Fear Belong in the Christian Life? Here's a helpful excerpt. Fear is an imperfect bond to God, but it is a bond which should be replaced only by an infinitely closer bond, the bond of love. Nothing else should cast out fear. Should fear then play a role up to a certain point and never again in the Christian life? The point after which fear will have no proper place in the Christian's life is the point at which his love is perfected. Let me read that again. The point after which fear will have no proper place in the Christian's life is the point at which his love is perfected, the love of the Christian for God. But none of us is yet perfected in love. None of us is without moments in which his delight in God fades, and the things which are seen become deceptively attractive. In these moments, we ought not to be completely free from fear because we are not completely controlled by love for God. That is, we are not living completely by faith. But the fear that we are to feel as Christians is itself a work of grace. It is a fear which casts us back into love for God and trusts in His mercy, and thus it destroys itself. Fear is the proper servant of love for imperfect saints. 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. The following quote in Jonathan Edwards' treatise concerning the religious affections Uh Piper uh says states just what I'm trying to say. Listen to this. Now he's quoting Jonathan Edwards. So has God con so has God contrived and constituted things in his dispensations toward his own people. That when their love decays and the exercises of it fail or become weak, fear should arise For then they need it to restrain them from sin and excite them to care for the good of their souls, and so to save them up to watchfulness and diligence in religion. But God has so ordered that when love rises and is in vigorous exercise, then fear should vanish and be driven away For then they need it not, having a higher and more excellent principle in exercise to restate restrain them from sin and stir them up to their duty In other words, to paraphrase both Edwards and Piper, if my love for God will not restrain me from sin, which it ought to do, my fear of God should do so. In other words, one would hope that a son would not steal money from his father's wallet out of love for his father. But if uh his love for his father is an insufficient restraint to prevent him from stealing from his father's wallet, then one would hope that his fear of his father would kick in. So this commandment requires us to honor God and to fear God. And then this commandment requires us to love God and delight in God. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. Deuteronomy 6. He's the one who redeemed us. He's the one who bought us out of slavery, out of bondage to sin. He he he brought us up out of that horrible pit, out of that miry clay. He set our feet upon a rock, he established our going. Delight thyself in the Lord. He will give you the desires of your heart. As the bride is to love her husband and find her delight in him and not in any other man. So we are to love and delight in God and have no other gods before him. You love the Lord Do you have delight in him? Do you enjoy reading his word, hearing it proclaimed, meditating upon him, praying to him, fellowshipping with him, fellowshipping with other believers? Do you delight in him? Do you commune with him? Do you show your love to him by serving him? Thirdly, this commandment requires us to obey God, to recognize him as our sovereign. I am the Lord your God. It requires us to keep only unto him as long as we both shall live. As wives are called to submit to their husbands' authority, so we are called to submit to our Lord's authority as our defender, our provider, our deliverer. Are you submissive to him? What else does this command require of us? How are we to keep it? Well, I think we should strive to know the Lord better. The Apostle Paul knew the Lord Jesus, there's no doubt about that. He said, I know whom I have believed, and I'm persuaded that he's able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Yet in another sense he strived to know God, right? He prayed that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. Philippians 3 So we have to understand this as a yearning to know Christ better, a yearning to know the Lord better , to grow deeper in your walk with him. Or in this case, in Paul's walk with him. He wrote in 1 Corinthians 13, Now I know in part, but then I shall know just as I also am known. Besides, the wife should strive to know her husband, what pleases him, what angers him, his attitudes, his tastes. So we are urged to know our God. How could a Christian who's already come to know God in the sense of salvation come to know him in a deeper sense? Well, uh, through the very same means that God used to bring him to himself in the first place, through the through this the means of grace, through the word of God, through the Spirit of God. I talked to a man once who said the reason we have geniuses is because of reincarnation. He said that is uh I think what he meant was You know, you learn something in this life and the next life you learn a little more and by the time you've been born, I don't know, fifty times or so, you're smarter than the average uh bear. And uh but that's yogi bear, isn't it? That's Haven't thought of Yogi Bear in a long time. The reason we have geniuses, he said, is reincarnation. And uh and the and loved ones who have died are guiding us by their thoughts. I told him the only trustworthy source of knowledge for such things must come from the source of all knowledge, the Lord Himself, who has revealed himself in his word. And the further we depart from the Word of God as a source of our knowledge of Him, the less accurate do our concepts of God become. If we neglect God's word, we can begin to think of Him as the force God, an impersonal life force who can be harnessed for good or for evil. Or the wet noodle god, who is personal and genuinely concerned, but his hands are simply tied. He's unable to do much to affect what takes place here. He's bound by the sovereign will of man. Spurgeon wrote, If you believe that everything turns upon the free will of man, you will naturally have man as the principal figure in your landscape. Speaking of an impotent God, he said, I do not serve that God at all. I have nothing to do with him. And I do not bow down before the Baal they have set up. He is not my God, nor shall he ever be I fear him not, nor tremble at his presence. He may be a relation of Ashkeroth or Baal, but Jehovah never was or can be his name. This impotent God whose hands are tied, who cannot intervene in the affairs of men or the hearts of men. You neglect God's word, you can begin to think of him as the sugar plum god, a God of love without justice and without wrath Englishman Harry Blameyers writes, A curse of contemporary Christendom has been the replacement of traditional theology by a new system which we may call 20th century sentimental theology. Sentimental theology has invented a God. It insists that he is a God of love. It implies that it is therefore his eternal concern that a thumping good time should be had by all. Because this God loves all men equally, therefore we must live in agreement with all men, smiling indulgently upon every vanity and betrayal. Because this God is a God of love, we must never differentiate between good and evil, for judgment partakes of or suggests uncharity and presumption. Because this God is a God of mercy, we must pretend that sins have not been committed and that the evils under our own noses do not exist. If we would keep the first commandment, we would keep ourselves in the word and subject ourselves to sound teaching A casual knowledge of Scripture will result in a casual knowledge of God. The psalmist wrote, as the deer pass for the brooks of water. So pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. Psalm 42. So Christian, I would ask you, how strong is your thirst for God? Your hunger for him. Do you strive to know him through his word? Do you take advantage of sermons, Bible studies, Sunday school classes, commentaries, devotional books, recorded scripture? Or do you place other gods before him, gods of business, gods of comfort, gods of pleasure? So one critical means to help us to know God is, of course, his word, another is his spirit. The things of God knows no man except by the Spirit of God. Even the Word of God itself cannot fully enlighten us without the assistance of the Spirit of God, and that's of course why we should have times of private prayer and meditation. Pleading with God to open our eyes and give us understanding, to enlighten us. My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness My mouth shall praise you with joyful lips when I remember you on my bed and meditate on you in the night watches. Psalm 63. The Westminster Larger Catechism asks, What are the duties required in the First Commandment? The duties required in the First Commandment are the knowing and acknowledging of God to be the only true God and our God. and to worship and glorify him accordingly by thinking, meditating, remembering, highly esteeming, honoring, adoring. Choosing, loving, desiring, fearing of him, believing in him, trusting, hoping, delighting, rejoicing in him, being zealous for him calling upon him, giving all praise and thanks, and yielding all obedience and submission to him with the whole man, being careful in all things to please him, and sorrowful when in anything he is offended And walking humbly with him. Matthew Henry sums up the commandment well. Pride makes a God of self, covetousness makes a God of money Sensuality makes a God of the belly. Whatever is esteemed or loved or feared or served, delighted in or depended on more than God, that, whatever it is, we in effect. Make a God of. Jesus summed up the commandment best: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. Now, I suppose there are some commandments that even an unbeliever may at times keep fairly well. He may honor his parents. He may avoid taking God's name in vain. He may be very scrupulous about not bearing false witness against the neighbor. But I don't think it's possible for a natural man who has not yet been born again, who has not been redeemed, forgiven, and justified, to truly keep the first commandment. Certainly not if truly keeping the first commandment involves loving God. Remember how the young Martin Luther, striving to please God in the monastery, perceived no love for God in his heart. My situation was that although an impeccable monk, I stood before God as a sinner, troubled in conscience, and I had no confidence that my merit would assuage him. Therefore, I did not love a just and angry God, but I rather hated him and murmured against him. It's only after you see yourself as a sinner and see your sins as vile and wicked, deserving of God's wrath. And then see God's great love for you provided through the Lord Jesus Christ revealed at the cross. It's only after you're enabled by the miraculous regenerating power of God's Holy Spirit. To repent of your sins, to turn from them and disgust, to lay hold upon Jesus Christ by faith, believing that He kept the law that you broke, that He paid the debt that you owed. Only after you cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner, forgive me and save me, that Jehovah becomes for you the Lord your God Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. But when you've been graciously forgiven, saved, redeemed, adopted into God's family, When you've experienced the wonderful grace of Jesus. Then you'll love God and you'll strive to have no other gods before his face. Luther said, if you have a true faith that Christ is your Savior, then at once you have a gracious God, for faith leads you in and opens up God's heart and will, that you should see pure grace and overflowing love. If God is not first in your life, if you don't honor and fear and love him and obey him above all others, then it may be that you've never truly been saved. If the Lord's speaking to your heart today, you can come to him today. How do you do that? You simply cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. God forgive me. I've broken your laws. I know it. I've sinned against you in my thoughts, in my heart, in my actions. I haven't always loved you with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. I know it. I'm selfish, I'm proud. I get angry, I get hateful, I get vengeful, I murmur, I complain. God, I see my sin. It's there, it's obvious, it's blatant. But you say in your word, if we'll confess our sins, you're faithful and just to forgive us, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God forgive me, save me. I believe that Jesus died upon that cross. I believe he kept the law that I broke and then he paid the debt that I owed. I believe he rose again from the dead on the third day. I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart and give me this eternal life that the Bible talks about. Friend, if you come to God that way, you pray that prayer, you mean that in your heart, I tell you, on the authority of God's word, all your sins will be forgiven. You'll be given this precious gift of everlasting life. You'll be with God in glory one day. And right here, right now, He'll come and live inside of you and help you to overcome sin and change your ideas and change your values and change your goals. Change your attitude. He'll work inside of you. It's Christ in you who is the hope of glory. Friend, have you come to Him? Won't you do that this day? Let this be the day of salvation for you. Let's pray. Oh Lord, uh You know our hearts, you know our minds and our thoughts, and you know that there is none here who truly loves you with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. All of us fall short, we've all missed the mark. But Lord, you've graciously redeemed many of us. You had compassion upon us. You didn't leave us in our sin. You opened our eyes. You gave us saving faith. Lord, we're going to be with you one day in glory. But Lord, we do pray for those who may be here still outside of Christ. Please, Father, work in their hearts. Show them your great love for them, your desire for them that they might repent. Lord, draw them by your Spirit, the true saving faith. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.