Turn please to the book of Exodus and we'll uh read chapter 20 verses 1 through 19. Exodus chapter 20 Beginning at verse one. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. Or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not murder You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor 's. Now all the people witness the thunderings, the lightning flashes, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. And when the people saw it, they trembled and stood afar off. And then they said to Moses, You speak with us, and we will hear. But let not God speak with us, lest we die. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray Almighty God, as we approach these commandments, we pray for your Holy Spirit to give us insight. To bring conviction, to exhort us. And Lord, if there are some here outside of Christ to save us, to draw us to true saving faith, please, Lord, bless your word this day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As we introduced this series last week, We noted that the term the law of God is often used in a general sense to refer to the five books of Moses Jesus used the term this way when he said, All things must be fulfilled which were written in the law and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. When you consider the law of God in this broad sense, it includes those civil laws that God gave Israel. Laws about theft. kidnapping and unintentionally harming someone, laws about restitution, laws about negligence, and a hundred other things. And in its broad sense, the law of God also includes all those laws about the tabernacle and temple worship and purification rites and sacrifices and feast days and clothing and food restrictions. All those ceremonial laws that were intended to set God's people apart and to point them toward the Redeemer who was to come. Now, it was this aspect of the law to which Paul referred in Colossians when he said Christ has wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us. Which was contrary to us. He's taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Therefore, let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon, etc. Clearly those ceremonial laws were pointing forward to the Messiah. But now that the Messiah has come, Paul says, you're no longer bound by those restrictions, those that that heavy weight of the law, which was very difficult for us all to carry. But out of that broad category of the law of God, which includes civil laws and ceremonial laws, the Ten Commandments stand unique. Unique as evidenced by the special preparations required by God for their revealing. Don't come near the mountain. Wash your clothing. Make sure that nobody approaches the mountain. The smoke, the lightning, the thundering, the unique circumstances of their communication. God speaking to Moses and then writing his very words upon stone tablets. And then the place that those tablets held in the esteem of the Jews. Among all the laws God gave, the Ten Commandments are unique in that the Lord Jesus held men and women accountable for keeping them. And he said to the woman brought to him who had committed adultery, Go and sin no more. John 8. He held a Samaritan woman with whom he spoke at Jacob's well in Sikar. Responsible for violating that same seventh commandment, John 4. He expected the rich ruler to keep the commandments. Do you know what the commandments are? He asked him, Matthew 19. And far from rescinding the commandments, Jesus said they were deeper and broader in their application than many understood them to be. They apply to our thoughts as well as to our behavior. Matthew 5. The apostles recognize the commandments as abiding moral laws. Paul recounts many of them in Romans 13. In Ephesians 6 he writes, Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise. And John writes, By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. 1 John 5. What was the purpose, or what is the purpose of the moral law, we asked? Well, the law reveals our sin. as a mirror reveals a mark on one's face or a loose tie. Through the law is the knowledge of sin. Romans 3 The law prepares us for salvation. It drives us to Christ just as chest pains drive us to the emergency room. John came preaching the law, exhorting men to repent in order to prepare the way of the Lord. John came proclaiming the law. He was preparing the way of the Lord. He was doing that heart preparatory work. The law reveals to Christians also how we are to live. Not only does it drive us to the Savior, but having come to the Savior, now it reveals to us how we are to live. I'm called to love God, I'm called to serve him, I know that. But what does that really mean? Well, among other things, it means I am to have no other gods before him. I'm not to place any other things or people before him. I am to form no idols in my heart or with my hands. I am to keep his name holy and reverent. I'm to remember his day of rest, etc. What does the law not do? Well, it does not empower us to keep it. Just as a mirror that reveals dirt is not the means by which that dirt is removed The law does not provide a way of salvation for us. By the works of the law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight. Galatians 2, 16. What the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, Romans 8:3. What the law could not do God did by sending his son. Now, let's begin our consideration of the very first commandment. Exodus chapter twenty verses one through three. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. The first thing that should strike us as we consider this commandment is that, like the Word of God itself, it begins with God. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. As the Word of God itself, the commandments begin with God. I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. Archaeologists have discovered other ancient codes or sets of rules, for example the Code of Hammurabi or the laws of the Hittites, but the Ten Commandments stand apart in that they begin with God. I am the Lord your God. Here the Lord establishes his authority for requiring obedience I am the Lord your God. He uses his covenant name. I am Yahweh. I am Jehovah. I am the self-existence creator. But not just their creator. He speaks as their redeemer. I'm the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. He speaks as their redeemer. It's clear from these words that these commandments were given to a redeemed people, not in order to redeem people. Right? The commandments were given to a redeemed people, not in order to redeem a people. Dutch theologian J. Dauma, in his book on the Ten Commandments, writes The commandments follow the gospel of undeserved deliverance. These are not the commandments of a despot who lays down his law in the sense of obey and be quiet. For these are commands of Yahweh the liberator, who wants his people to stay free. First occurs the exodus to freedom, and then the giving of the law. Here freedom and limits coalesce. For its growth, a fish is limited to water, its proper element. Similarly, people are free, like a fish in water and a bird in the air, only when they listen to God's law. In his epistle, James characterizes the law as a law of liberty, James 1:25. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. Dr. D. James Kennedy in his book on the Ten Commandments noted that some years ago A group of seminary students got together, and I guess with uh it was an assignment of their professor to uh rearrange the Ten Commandments in order of priority What's the most important commandment? What's the least important commandment? So they were told to begin with number one, the most important commandment, number ten, the least important commandment. And each student made his own list and then they compiled the list and made a big master list based upon the student's answers The uh Ten Commandments, by order of priority, according to the seminary students, began with: You shall not murder, then you shall not steal, then you shall not bear false witness. And uh uh when it got all the way down to number 10, it was, you shall have no other gods before me. But God placed this commandment first of all. Princeton theologian Charles Hodge put it this way: the duty to which we are directed by this commandment is the highest duty of man. Now, two clarifications. First of all, by saying you shall have no other gods before me, the Lord was, of course, not affirming the existence in reality of other deities. But rather that mankind has fashioned gods from our imaginations, that was no secret. As the knowledge of the true God was rejected by Adam's descendants, and we became futile in our thoughts, our foolish hearts were darkened, the scripture says. Then, professing ourselves to be wise, we became fools and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. Romans 1 Remember, the Israelites had left Egypt only a few months before. They were fully aware of the heathen proclivity to create and worship false gods. It's hard for us to understand, thousands of years later, what a radical departure from the prevailing worldview it was for the people of God to declare that there was only one God. But he then had gods of the rivers, gods of the rain, gods of the sun and the moon, gods of fertility, a god of thunder. Joy Davidman, perhaps best known as the wife of C. S. Lewis, at least for a a brief time during her illness, wrote commenting on the verse. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. She wrote, What a surprise! What an incredible thing to say. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Everyone knew that the universe was a wild and chaotic thing, she wrote, a jungle of warring powers, wind against water. Sun against moon, male against female, life against death, there was a god of the spring planting, another god of the harvest, a spirit who put fish into fishermen's nets, and a being who specialized in the care of women in childbirth And at best there was an uneasy truce among all of these. At worst there was a battle. The old gods fought among themselves, they loved, they hated without reason. They demanded unspeakable bribes and meaningless flatteries. While they were being worshipped, While they were worshipped, a moral law was impossible. For what pleased one deity would offend another. If your wife ran away from you, it was not because you beat her. But because you'd forgotten the monthly sacrifice to Ishtar by saying you shall have no other gods before me The Lord was recognizing our predisposition since the fall to creating false gods and worshiping them He was not, of course, indicating that other gods actually exist, as the rest of Scripture makes clear. He was addressing the fact that, as Calvin put it, the mind of man is an idle factory. So that's clarification one. Clarification two is concerns the words before me. We could imagine that the Lord is saying, you may have other gods as long as you don't put them before me. Just put me first. I have to be Zeus in your pantheon of gods. You see. But again that would be inconsistent with all else the scripture says about God being the only true God and all other supposed deities. merely the production of human minds. You shall have no other gods before me. The Hebrew phrase translated before me is Al -Panah, which means literally before my face. You shall have no other gods before my face. So our Westminster Shorter Catechism puts it: these words before me in the first commandment teach us that God, who sees all things, Takes notice of and is much displeased with the sin of having any other God. That's what the scripture is saying. If you have another God, it's before his face. He takes notice of it, it's before him. He sees it. He knows it. You shall have no other gods before me, he says. Now, let's begin to think about exactly what this commandment forbids. Remembering that the Lord Jesus made it clear that uh uh that the uh implications of each commandment are much broader than they might appear upon first hearing the commandment. First of all, think about it. Clearly if we are to have no other gods than Jehovah Then this commandment forbids denying the existence of God altogether. Right? This commandment forbids denying the existence of God altogether, Those who do so, or those who claim to do so, are actually warring against the testimony of their own minds. Consider the Trinity Hymnal. You have one near you. Now think about it. It shows evidence of design. This one. This one has a blue cover. Has the words Trinity Hymnal on it in in gold and uh the symbols for Alpha and Omega. The uh the the the hymnal has uh pages, right? They seem to be evenly uh cut. And then if you look at the pages, there are uh uh s uh little uh squiggly things that form uh words in in the English language. And there are these uh notations here, which I understand refer to musical notes, and uh and and all of this is in some sort of a form, and that actually the these These uh segments of of uh squiggly things that we call uh hymns are are numbered And then in the back, there are indexes which tell you know compile these hymns by composer, sometimes by meter , by scene, etc. So the whole thing seems to show uh some sort of a plan, some sort of uh design. Now uh is it possible Is it possible that this assemblage of uh words, English words, came together by purely natural causes? Well, of course it's possible. Uh uh leaves fell in a forest And uh they were bleached white by the sun. Uh little worms or something crawled across the lake the the leaves and left little little markings, and they happened to be in the form of words. And other little worms or so creatures uh gnawed away at the edges of the leaves and and it they formed themselves into a rather nicely bound book. Uh and it and it happened because these things happen over time, lots of time, uh uh it happened that it formed itself into just the right uh size to hold in your hand and and uh and I don't know how the blue cover got there but But some natural some is it possible? Is it possible? Yeah, okay, it's possible. Is it at all likely? Of course not. Could I get an adult to believe that? Could I get a child of six to believe that uh uh that this just came to pass by leaves falling in a forest and and the sun shining on the leaves and suddenly we have Holy, holy, holy on page eighty seven. Uh very uh unlikely. And yet uh uh Yeah, if it's not unlikely to believe that something as simple as the Trinity hymnal could have formed by uh uh random acts of nature. then how difficult is it to believe that everything else has been formed? I I call it simple because geneticists now tell us that in a single DNA molecule of a human There is enough information to fill one million pages, not of the Trinity Hymnal, but of an encyclopedia, say Encyclopedia Britannica. One million pages. Now the Encyclopedia Britannica, I'm told the 23-volume set contains about 25,000 pages. If I had a set of Encyclopedia Britannicas up here, uh uh twenty-three volumes of them, it would make up about twenty-five thousand pages. So imagine forty sets of Encyclopædia Britannicas, or imagine Uh well over a thousand Trinity Himmels stacked one on top of another. That's how much information geneticists tell us, that's how much intelligent information is inside one molecule. uh of uh of human uh DNA , a single DNA molecule. Now, is it possible that all that detailed information uh equivalent to forty sets of Encyclopedia Britannica? uh some 920 volumes. Is it possible that uh all that uh information uh was formed simply by random natural causes and somehow found its way into a DNA molecule By those same random natural causes? Of course it's possible. Is it reasonable to believe? Well, you tell me. This commandment forbids denying God's existence altogether, and it forbids by implication agnosticism. That is, from the Greek agnostos, agnosis is knowledge. You put the alpha in front of it, it negates it, so agnostas or lack lack of knowledge, absence of knowledge, or ignorance, the agnostic argues that there's insufficient evidence to either prove or disprove God's existence. The agnostic might say, I can't know for sure what I haven't personally experienced. I haven't seen or spoken to God, so I must remain ambivalent on the question. Now I've never walked on the marble of the Taj Mahal or gazed upon the Himalayas or sailed in the South Pacific, but I'm quite certain those things exist. How could I be certain of those things? I haven't seen them. I'm certain because the evidence is overwhelming. This commandment forbids agnosticism. You see, we have no more excuse for doubting God's existence than we have for denying his existence altogether. The heavens declare the glory of God. Thirdly, this commandment forbids believing in many gods. The ancient Egyptians, it is said, had over 2,000. Modern Hindus, it is said, had millions of gods and goddesses But Jehovah says, I am the Lord, and there is no other. There is no God besides me. Isaiah forty five, five. Fourthly, this commandment forbids devising a God of your own imagination. This commandment forbids us to devise a God of our own imagination. Well, my God is a God of love. He's not a God of judgment. He would never permit a man to be punished in hell. Surely God would not want me to deny my God-given desires for physical gratification. God wouldn't want that. Surely the Lord knows that our family can use the money better than the government. He will not care if I don't declare all my income. My God wouldn't care. This commandment forbids devising a God of your own imagination, rather than the true God who has revealed himself in his word. Fifthly, this commandment forbids anyone or anything supplanting the place of God in our lives. As uh Johnny Ortland, the wife of a pastor, put it. The first commandment assumes that we will worship something, either the true God or our own replacement, because we were made to worship. The first commandment assumes that we will worship something, either the true God or our own replacement, because we were made to worship. Now the other God in our life could be uh could be our house, right? The other God in our life could demand uh semi-annual offerings of weed killer and fertilizer. He may be uh worshipped in the sweaty weekly rituals for much of the year. Uh some people's gods have steel heads and four rubber fiberglass belted feet. Some gods float, some gods fly, some people's gods are inside of them. Paul speaks of those whose God is their belly. Whose God is their belly. This commandment forbids supplanting God with pleasure. Second Timothy three four, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God We can permit illicit pleasures to take priority in our lives, drugs, alcohol, pornography, sexual impurity, etc. or we can permit what we might call innocent pleasures to take priority in our lives. A sometimes helpful, sometimes harmless product of technological progress could become the one-eyed idol of the family room or the bedroom Some who are restless in a 90-minute worship service, some who would never think of devoting an hour to prayer or an afternoon visiting a hospital or a nursing home. We'll spend hours upon hours emotionally moved by tragedies that never really happen in the lives of characters who never really existed. Portrayed by actors and actresses, they will probably never meet, and almost certainly will never really know. Innocent pleasures can morph into monsters that choke out what is best. Even tennis or golf or football or baseball, fishing, can become what we live for. And what we live for is our master, it's our Lord, it's our God. The First Commandment forbids us to allow things to supplant God in our affection, and the First Commandment forbids us to allow other people to supplant God in our affections. We break the commandment when we permit our love for any person to supplant God's place in our lives. Remember what God said to Abraham? Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. He was testing Abraham. How much did he love God? How much did he trust God? Jesus said, He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. I think I mentioned in a sermon uh a few months ago The words that were found on the tombstone of a little girl, her parents put all their wealth in one vessel, and the shipwreck was total. Have you allowed your child or your children to take first place in your affections? Has he or she or they supplanted God? Let me test you How would you respond? How would you react if God took away that child or those children? How would you respond if God took away that child or those children? Do you recognize that they are on loan from God? On loan from God. And he can ask for them back at his pleasure I learned recently from a lecture by John Piper of a man who had 12 children. Listen to his story. 11 of them died before reaching adulthood. Had 12 children, 11 of them died, either in infancy, childbirth, before reaching adulthood. He had one, though, a daughter, who lived into her mid-twenties When she was taken. Many people I suspect would become bitter toward God Terribly, justifiably in their minds, bitter towards God. Why did you over and over and over again you took my children? I pray, and you didn't listen And you took this one at three months, and this one at six months, and this one at ten years, and this one at twelve years, and finally I have one daughter, and you took her away at the age of twenty-three. Many people, I suspect, would become bitter toward God. You know what this man did? Not only did he trust God through it all, but he faithfully pastored his church through it all. And he had such deep spiritual biblical insight that the works of John Owen continued to edify the church several hundred years after his death. It's interesting, as I was preparing the sermon several weeks ago on my study leave, I was preparing this part of it, and uh I was writing this and I was thinking, oh, I wish I had a quote of John Owen to slip in here. And I was using some scratch paper and I flipped over one of the pieces and there it was. It was uh uh taken out of the uh quotations from the Puritan authors. And there was this quote from John Owen, we are never nearer Christ than when we find ourselves lost in a holy amazement at his unspeakable love. We are never nearer Christ than when we find ourselves lost in a holy amazement at his unspeakable love. There's a man who lost all of his children. And was lost in unspeakable love for Jesus Christ. This first commandment forbids permitting anyone To supplant God as the most loved, most valued, most honored being in our lives. This commandment forbids the love of self from supplanting God. In the last days men shall be lovers of their own selves. 2 Timothy 3. 2. Patterson and Tim, the authors of that book I mentioned last week, The Day America Told the Truth, said, when we asked what beliefs people would die for The answer for 48% of people who responded was none. What beliefs would you die for? None. Does your health, your appearance, your reputation take precedence in your life? Are you living for self? Is your first question when faced with a moral dilemma, what are other people going to think of me if I do or say this? Uh you know, uh w w what will my friends think if I don't drink at the party? What will Jim say if I tell him I'm a born-again Christian? What will Melinda say if I tell her I can't lie to my mother about her being with me on Friday What will my boss do if I tell him the truth about my mistake? How will dad react if I refuse to lie about my age to get a discount on those tickets as he asked me to do? Someone or something is first in your life of most importance Could be your wife or your husband, your girlfriend or boyfriend. Someone or something is of most importance in your life He or she or they or it is what you love most of all. What you live for, what matters most to you I would remind you as I close this message, if you've truly been gripped by the message of the cross, And if you are in the grip of that message today, if you've been led by God's Spirit to see yourself as a sinner and to see your sin in all its ghastliness. And you've seen Christ in all his beauty. If you've been justified, if you've been saved, if you've been born from above , If you've been declared righteous through the merits of Jesus Christ, who kept the law that you couldn't keep, who paid the debt that you deserve to pay. If you've truly been redeemed, if you've been brought from slavery to sin with the precious blood of Christ, and if you're living in the light of that glorious redemption day by day, Moment by moment, then day by day, moment by moment, you will have no other gods before God Before the Lord your God who brought you up out of your land of Egypt, out of your house of bondage. Let's pray. Father, uh, you know our hearts are prone to wander. Lord, you know that it's easy for us to slip into idolatry, to love things, to love money, to love people more than you, to put other things, other people first. To so idolize our children that should you take one of them away, we would become bitter and angry. Oh God, forgive us. Forgive us for loving people more than you. Forgive us for loving ourselves more than you. Lord, may we worship you as we ought and put you first in our lives.