Great to have the fire back with us. Where have you people been all summer? Just realized. Uh Mark chapter seven, if you have your Bible with you turn there please. Gospel of Mark chapter seven. Let's begin at verse twenty-four and read through verse thirty. From there he arose and went to the region of Tyre in Sidon. And he entered a house and wanted no one to know it, but he could not be hidden. For a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him, and she came and fell at his feet The woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by birth, and she kept asking him to cast the demon out of her daughter. But Jesus said to her, Let the children be filled first, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. And she answered and said to him, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs. And then he said to her, For this saying, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter. And when she had come to her house, she found the demon gone out, and her daughter lying on the bed. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let me also read before we pray from Matthew chapter 15. Where the same incident is recorded for us by Matthew. Matthew chapter 15, verse 21. Then Jesus went out from there and departed to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a woman of Canaan came from that region and cried out to him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David. My daughter is severely demon-possessed. But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and urged him, saying, Send her away, for she cries out after us. But he answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. But he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. And she said, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their master's table. Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith. Let it be to you as you desire. And her daughter was healed from that very hour. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us now from your word. How we thank you for it, that you've preserved it for us. How we thank you for the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus. That's why we're here today, celebrating his life, his death, his glorious resurrection. Please, Father, speak to hearts now. Accomplish eternal things. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. How precious is your loving kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of your wings. Psalm 36, verse 7. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might. But let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him who glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me. that I am the Lord, exercising loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in these I delight, says the Lord. Jeremiah 9, 23 to 23 24. The loving kindness of God is referred to about thirty times in Scripture, and the kindness of God is referred to numerous other times, and of course the love of God It's referred to over and over again. But there are incidents in our lives and even in what is recorded for us in God's Word, when the Lord does not seem to be so kind. One such incident is described for us in Mark 7, and as we saw in the parallel passage in Matthew 15. From Mark 7, verse 24, we read, From there he arose and went to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house and wanted no one to know it, but he could not be hidden. From there, Mark says, he may be referring to Ginnesseret. That seems to have been the last geographical reference he made in chapter 6 verse 53. That was a town on the Sea of Galilee, like perhaps most of the other towns that are mentioned. in the uh ministry of Christ in Galilee. Tyre was about twenty miles northwest, and Sidon was another twenty miles or so beyond Tyre. So from the Sea of Galilee, northwest. Uh Tyre about twenty miles and then Sidon another twenty miles or so beyond that. They were not Jewish cities, and it appears that Jesus went there with his disciples, Matthew says, for R and R This is the only time we see Jesus during his ministry departing from the ancient borders of Israel. But interestingly, it doesn't seem to be for the purpose of bringing the gospel to these pagan cities But simply for the purpose of getting away from the constant demands of the masses of Israel. If you think back upon what we've been looking at in the last several weeks in our studies through Mark, You'll see, you know, they w they they got in the boat, they went to a deserted place, the people were there. Then uh he's he goes off to pray, he sends his disciples across the sea and they arrive on the other shore exhausted and there are more people there. Bringing their sick for him to heal. So Jesus and his disciples went to Tyre and Sidon. These are not Jewish cities, they're on the Mediterranean coast. And apparently they went there simply to rest. The uh the people of Kyronzidon needed to hear the gospel, of course. And the time would come when they would hear it, but that's not why Jesus went there at this point. He entered a house. Tyrant Zidane, as I said, on the Mediterranean coast, so to put it in terms that we Baltimorons can understand, he went down the ocean. Or went up the ocean. And he was hoping, no doubt, from a human standpoint, for some rest. But the scripture says he could not be hidden. Verse Verse 25. For a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him, and she came and fell at his feet The woman was a Greek, a Syrophoen by birth, and she kept asking him to cast a demon out of her daughter. Matthew calls her a woman of Canaan. It's clear she was not Jewish. When Mark calls her a Greek, writes R. C. Sprohl, he simply means that she was from an area that had been conquered by Alexander the Great and afterward Hellenized, so that she spoke the Greek language. He doesn't mean that she was a native of Greece Indeed, her nationality was Syrophoenician, which simply means, which simply tells us that the area of her birth previously had been part of the Syrian and Phoenician cultures. She was manifestly not a Jew. Mark tells us that the woman came and fell at Jesus' feet, but Matthew reveals that before she did that, she cried out to him apparently several times. She cried out to him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David. My daughter is severely demon-possessed. But the scripture says he answered her not a word. She comes to him in desperate straits. She's crying out to him several times. Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David! My daughter, it's my daughter, Lord. She's severely demon-possessed. But he answered her not a word. Here's the first suggestion of what seems to be a lack of kindness on the part of Jesus. Certainly, it would be hard for anyone at first glance to describe him here as exercising loving kindness. Jeremiah 9 in his dealing with this desperate woman whose only concern was for her poor afflicted daughter. Not only did he refrain from giving her words of comfort or sympathy, I'm so sorry to hear about your daughter, but This is the time for myself and my disciples to rest. Not only did he refrain from giving her words of comfort or sympathy, the scripture says he answered her not a word. He didn't acknowledge her. He seemed, certainly, to ignore her. At this point, his disciples urged him. His disciples urged him, Matthew 15, 23, send her away, for she cries out after us. She keeps crying out after us. Send her away. We're here for some rest. We finally get to the seashore Away from Israel, away from the constant demands of people who want us to cast out demons or or heal the sick or or Give them uh the good news. And finally we're here and what do we have? A woman who won't leave us alone She's bothering us. Apparently, the disciples were in need of rest and recuperation too, and this woman was spoiling their time at the shore. Send her away. For she cries out after us. But he answered his disciples, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. The time would come, as I mentioned, and it would come very soon when Christ's power to heal And his glorious gospel would be manifested not only in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, but unto the uttermost parts of the earth, Acts 1. 8. But that time was not yet. And Jesus says to his disciples, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of Israel. He came unto his own. And his own received him not, John 1. 11. But his refusal to even respond to this pleading woman Did not deter her. She kept asking. She kept pleading. And then she came and fell at his feet. She literally came to him and fell at his feet. And the scripture says she kept asking him to cast the demon out of her daughter. He didn't respond to her cries. He seemed to be ignoring her, but his apparent indifference did not silence her. It did not dissuade her. She kept asking, please, please, Lord, Lord Son of David, have mercy on me. Please cast the demon out of my daughter. Please, Lord, she's severely oppressed. Have mercy on her, Lord. First, he seemed unkind by his silence, and then when he broke his silence, he seemed unkind by his response. Look at verse 27. But Jesus said to her, let the children be filled first, for it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. Now I want you to think about this for a moment. How would you have responded to this? Ladies? How would you have responded to this rabbi, this holy man, this prophet, this one declared to be the son of David? This one who was called the Son of God. How would you respond if he spoke to you that way? Well, you can imagine how his words to this poor woman sound in the ears of the unbeliever. Sprawl writes, several years ago a feminist scholar wrote an essay giving a scathing critique of Jesus' response to this woman the Syrophoenician woman, saying that his insensitivity, his harshness, were so severe on this occasion That he so demeaned this woman in typical chauvinistic fashion that he transgressed all boundaries of courtesy and he crossed the line even into slander. This text she charged as exhibit A that Jesus was not sinless, because he wronged this innocent woman by calling her a dog. Think for a moment how this Syrophoenician woman might have responded if she had a similar frame of mind to that scholar cited by Sprohl. Jesus says to her, It's not fitting to take the children's bread and cast it to the little dogs. How might she have responded to that? How dare you! How dare you! You who are called a holy man, you who imagine yourself to be the promised son of David, is this how you respond to a poor, desperate mother? Have you no heart? Have you no feelings? Have you no sympathy? Have you no empathy? Dogs? Is that how you would territorize my people? Is that all we are to you? Dogs at your feet? David had compassion on poor lame Mathibisheth, the grandson of Saul. Have you no compassion on a grieving mother? Have you no compassion for a poor afflicted child, possessed through no fault of her own, by Satan's demon? That's how this woman might have responded to Jesus' words. Jesus' words, which let me remind you, we are reading without his intonation, without his facial expression, without his body language to this dear woman Their words would certainly appear to us to be easily misinterpreted as unkind, needlessly harsh, utterly insensitive Even inflammatory. Let the children be filled first. In other words, there are thousands of my own people who still desire the sort of blessing you are asking of me. They're not filled yet. Should not my charity begin at home? After all, are not the Jews my people? Was I not sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel? It's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. Would a mother do that at the table, set the table with the food, and the kids sit down to eat and then take that food and toss it to the little dogs? To the little pets about the table? But how did she respond? Verse 28. She answered and said to him, Yes, Lord, yes, Lord. Yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's cross. I don't demand precedence over your people. I'm not even asking for equality. I know your own people must come first I understand if that's the mission upon which your Father has sent you. I'm not asking you to take bread from your children. I'm only asking for the crumbs that might fall from the table. Even the little dogs under the table are permitted to eat from the children's crumbs, are they not? Now, what do we see in this response? What do you see in this response I see humility, first of all, right? Humility. She was a suppliant. She was coming to him asking for a blessing. She wasn't demanding. She didn't act as if she somehow deserved what she sought. She was crying out to the Lord for undeserved mercy. She wasn't telling the Lord what to do. She hadn't determined what was the right thing, and she hadn't come to tell the Lord what to do. The Pharisees would have done that. So we see first of all great humility, or we would should say better, I guess, deep humility. And then we see in her response not only humility, but faith. Great faith. Faith. Think about it. She had evidently somehow, in God's providence and by his grace, come to believe that Jesus, this prophet of Nazareth, was the promised Messiah. Matthew says, she cried out, have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David. Matthew 15, 22. And Matthew says, she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. She fell at his feet and in effect worshipped him, saying, Lord, O Lord, help me. She was not a Jew, but the passage suggests that she had come to believe that the God of Israel was the true God. She had come to believe in Jehovah like Rahab and Ruth and later Cornelius and many others in Scripture. And here's the key. Since she believed Jesus to be the Messiah, since, as it seems, she trusted him with her eternal soul. rested in him as the sinless son of God, she knew that he would not be, could not be unkind. Do you see it? She knew him, and because she knew him, she knew that he could not be, would not be unkind. He would not be heartless. He would not be harsh and insensitive. She knew him in her heart, and because she knew him, she trusted him. Now that did not necessarily mean that she knew he would choose to heal her daughter, but her response to Jesus clearly indicates to me, anyway, that she knew his delayed response to her. was not, as it might seem to an unbeliever, a harsh rebuke, but a loving trial of faith. Her faith was being tried here, tested here, proven here. The dross is being consumed here, the gold is being refined here. Her faith is being tested here just as surely as the faith of Gyrus was tested. Remember? Tyrus, who came to Jesus, my little daughter, she's even now at the very point of death, his little twelve year old. How was Tyrus's faith tested? Well, in the in the midst of the commotion on the way to his home You remember the woman with the issue of blood comes through and touches Jesus' garment. There's this big paws and and this hubbub. And and and then messengers come from Jairus' house saying don't even bother the master anymore. You're daughter's death. Her faith here was being tested by the words of Jesus just as Jairus 's faith was tested there. Immediately, Jesus turned to him. Don't be afraid, only believe. Her faith was being tried and tested no less than that of Mary and Martha. Who sent to Jesus when their dear brother and Jesus' dear friend, Jairus, or Lazarus, I'm sorry, Lazarus was sick and was dying They said to Jesus, Lord, come and heal Lazarus. And what happened? Jesus didn't come A day goes by, another day goes by, Jesus doesn't come. Lazarus dies. Jesus doesn't come. Four days go by before Jesus shows up. This woman's faith was being tested just like the faith of the centurion. Remember him? He came to Jesus and said, Lord, you just say the word and my servant will be healed. In other words, you don't need to come to my house. You can just heal my servant from a distance. And Jesus said of that man, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel. Jesus said, of this mother. O woman, great is your faith. Matthew 15, 28. O woman, great is your faith And then, verse 29, and then he said to her, For this saying, go your way, the demon has gone out of your daughter. And when she had come to her house, she found the demon gone out and her daughter lying on the bed. For this saying, go your way, the demon has gone out of your daughter. Now he he wasn't rewarding her wit, right? She turned the phrase. It wasn't that. Jesus said that it's not fitting to take the children's bread and cast it to the little dogs, and she immediately says, Yes, Lord, but even the little dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table. It wasn't because she picked up on his metaphor of the Gentiles being, at this point, uh like little dogs under the table. And she turned that metaphor to her advantage. It wasn't because of that that Jesus granted her request, but it was, as I said, Because her response indicated, I believe, deep humility and great faith. And those are traits that are precious in the eyes of God. Deep humility and great faith. They're precious in the eyes of God. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. James 4:10. Without faith it is impossible to please him. Hebrews 11 6. Now, the interaction of Jesus with this desperate mother Is a striking example of what we might call the apparent unkindness of God. The refusal of the Lord Jesus to respond to this woman's heartfelt cries. And then his abruptness, when he finally did respond, think about it, these things are relatively benign. Compared to the apparent unkindness of God that we witness every day. After all, Jesus ultimately did grant this woman's request. How many women, even this morning, are crying out to God for mercy such as this for their afflicted children, whatever that affliction may be. And how many of those cries seem to be answered only by silence from heaven? The mother of journalist Stephen Sotloff, no doubt, prayed earnestly that God would graciously spare her son And she had no doubt thousands of others praying as well, many of them believers in Jesus Christ, no doubt. But he was murdered last week by one who claims to be a soldier of the new Islamic State. I spoke to a believing woman this week who said that she and her husband prayed for years that God would grant them a child. I prayed for years that God would grant them a child. Finally, I think it was about eight years ago. She became withchild. But that little one died in his infancy. Loving parents send their child to a Christian summer camp where they trust he'll be free at least for a time from the dangers of drugs and gangs and violence that he might encounter. in his own home, his own neighborhood, a camp where he might grow in his knowledge of Christ and form good Christian friendships and you know what happens a sudden powerful storm brings a tree crashing down upon him as he and others are seeking shelter and he is killed We must face the facts. Surely thousands of times a day Every day. Men and women and children who are loved and prayed for, both believers and unbelievers alike, are stricken with horrible diseases, or maimed in accidents, or killed or harmed by the violence of men. Or by fire or storm, ocean or earthquake. We don't like to think about it. We pray it won't happen to those we love Yet if we are honest, we must acknowledge that such things happen daily to those who are presumably someone's loved ones. And those who are undoubtedly, undoubtedly loved by God. Now, in response to what we see around us We can view God as absolutely sovereign and in total control, but not personally loving us with kindness. Or we can view God as personally loving, but unable to intervene in Earth's affairs. For whatever reason, perhaps his own choice In other words, we can understand God to be all powerful, or we can understand God to be all-loving. But it is very difficult when we look at this world to view God as both. All powerful and all-loving. And yet that is just the sort of faith that God asked from this Syrophoenician woman It was the faith he asked of Joseph, sold as a slave through no fault of his own, falsely accused by his master's wife. Tossed into a dungeon? Forgotten by the chief butler of Pharaoh after Joseph had shown him kindness and interpreted his dream? Joseph was called by God to believe that God was both sovereign and loving, even though the evidence of his senses would condemn. Him otherwise. Job lost his possessions and his children in one day. But he was called to believe that God was both sovereign and loving. Think about David. David had not wronged Saul the king. David had sought to be a loyal servant of Saul the king. Yet he found himself fleeing for his life, holed up in a cave. He was called to believe that God was both sovereign and loving. Daniel, Jeremiah, John the Baptist, Mary and Martha of Bethany. The martyr Stephen, the Apostle Paul. They were each called to believe that God was both sovereign and loving They were called to believe that what seemed to be unkindness was something else. Something, maybe they weren't sure what it was, but it was something else. Perhaps simply a trial of faith, an opportunity to glorify God. Jesus said to his disciples, What I'm doing, you do not understand now, but you will know after this. John 7 13, 7, that was in reference to his washing their feet. That has reference to a lot of things in our life. In a world marred and scarred by sin and countless in its countless manifestations. And in all its deadly ramifications, the Lord calls his people to believe, sometimes despite all that they can see. He calls his people to believe that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called. That's you, by the way, Christian. You are the called. To them who are the called. You were called out of darkness into his marvelous light. Not many of the wise men of this world, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but you were called out of darkness into his marvelous light. According to his purpose. According to his purpose. He calls us to believe that not even a sparrow falls without your father. That's a hard thing to believe. Not even a sparrow falls without your father, Jesus said. And you are of more value than many sparrows. What does that mean? It means that every single event in your life is coming through the hands of a loving God. And if He permits it, He permits it for a good reason. All things work together for good to them that love Him. To them who are the called. That's us. If you're a believer in Christ. In Hebrews 11 we read of men and women of faith Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Rahab, Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jeptah, David, Samuel, and the prophets. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong, etc. But then it goes on to say, still others had trial of mockings and scourgings Yes, and of chains and imprisonments. They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were slain with a sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. Of whom the world was not worthy. In other words, some of these glorified God by victorious faith in life, and some glorified God by victorious faith. In the face of death. But all glorified God by victorious faith. They were each called to believe that God was both sovereign and loving. And of course, this is the application for us, isn't it? Each of us, in one way or another, will face a trial of faith, like the woman in today's passage. It may appear to us at that time that the Lord is being unkind. But what seems to us, unkindness or a lack of response, may simply be a trial of our faith. An opportunity for us to glorify God by implicitly trusting Him. This woman trusted Jesus because she knew him in her heart. She knew him to be the kind, loving, merciful Savior. And so whatever he said to her, she just let her wash right over her back. The Bible says it's the people who know their God who will be strong and carry out great exploits. What seems to you to be a lack of kindness may simply be an opportunity for you to bring glory to God through victorious faith. An opportunity for you to hear him say one day, O woman, O man, great is your faith. Let it be to you as you desire. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we want to be such men and women of faith. How we pray for your Holy Spirit to fill us and use us and strengthen us in that time of trial, that we might doubt not doubt you, that we might not think you unkind. But that we might trust you. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Give us that kind of faith. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.