He says I was raised in the Overleaf Fullerton neighborhood of northeast Baltimore in the fifties in a family with four boys and one girl. Huh. Yeah, I was raised in Northeast Baltimore with a My father, who had emigrated from India to America just before World War II, was an electrical engineer at the Martin Marietta plant in Baltimore. Yeah, my father was an engineer at Martin Uh maybe they knew each other. My dad transferred to the Martin plant in Orlando in 1961, and I spent my high school years in Central Florida. You know, yeah, my dad did that too. And and then he goes on, and I'm just reading this for the first time now. Uh our family was devastated by the mysterious disappearance of my younger brother Russell. Truly the kindest, most selfless , most virtuous brother anyone ever had. How my heart grieves every day when I recall how we mistreated him And how we resented, uh for example, his always receiving the largest portions of dessert I realize now that my saintly mother was only encouraging us to live as Russell did. Well this is interesting. If only I could see him now, I would plead his forgiveness for all the abuse I rained upon him, including the rock to the back of his head the day that he dazed and confused wandered away To be seen no more. Wait, I I am your lost brother, Raffle. They call me Russ here, but that's just short for Russell. So uh anyway, later uh Doug says I came to Faith in Christ, attend his faith seminary f in Philadelphia and pastored both in Lakeland, Florida and Western New York. Welcome, my brother Doug. So good to know he made it good. He made something of his life in spite of all of that abuse It's really the other way around, of course. As you well know, because now you are sort of the objects of the same cr craziness And I'm the one who did drugs. I don't know. So um here we are, resurrection day. And uh this text that we're going to read is just one of many accounts. There were five different appearances on the day of the resurrection. There's no appearance here, but there is the angel testimony that he's not here. He's alive. And then there are five more appearances over the next 40 days. In various settings , with small groups, large groups, up to 500 at one time, says Paul, in 1 Corinthians 15. This is the one thing about the New Testament, it really focuses quite extensively on the reality of this historical event, as if to say without this you have nothing. And if he's just dead, I mean Paul says in First Corinthians fifteen, doesn't he say, you know, we're all men most miserable? I mean, if he's not alive, just go to Hawaii and live on the beach. Sounds like a an idea. And just just hang out, just do anything, whatever. But we know the evidence here is overwhelming There are over 282 verses in the New Testament on this subject. The apostles, when it comes to trying to establish the reality of what they're saying, continually go back to the resurrection. And I think we could say this is the keystone of all the arch, if you will, of the theology of the New Testament. Without this, it all falls apart. It's all just words. It doesn't mean anything. It doesn't amount to anything. It's just sentiment. But if he really rose, this changes everything. I think it's interesting that in the New Testament there is an application of the resurrection. to all of the issues of life, as if to say this is a key that'll unlock your door, that door of maybe the room of depression. The door to the room of your fear of death. The door to the room of your sense of emptiness in life. I don't know if you notice that they've shown some pictures of California where the deserts, you know, after all this drought is now over because they had a year full of rain and all these flowers are coming up. and blooming like crazy. It's interesting that in the Old Testament in Isaiah, we have this word The desert and the parched land will be glad. The wilderness will rejoice and blossom. It will rejoice greatly and shout for joy. We need to apply the water that comes from the fountain of the resurrected Christ to the deserts in our life, in the garden, if you will, surrounding our little house. Also, there's a verse in Matthew 4 that is actually taken again from Isaiah. The people living in darkness have seen a great light on those living in the land of the shadow of death. A light has dawned. Don't we live in the land of the shadow of death? Just listening to the list of those to pray for. And you know. Many, many more, and you know that this is a place that is not our home. It's interesting. You know, take it home. And we need to have some light shined on the troubles in this place to give us any kind of peace. Thank God, when Jesus appeared to all the people on the day of the resurrection and thereafter, almost invariably he said, peace be unto you. And he probably said it with a little bit of twinkle in his eye, I would think. Peace be unto you. Guess what? Death is overcome. Peace be unto you. Peace be unto you. Nothing's gonna stop you now. And you're for uh you're in me, you're you're with me, you're rising with me. Oh man, peace. This is where we're gonna get it though. It's gonna come from the resurrection. So here's our text. Three women, all disciples, and uh they were close to Jesus. When the Sabbath was over, oh okay, small guy. When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body. Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb. And they asked each other, Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb. Now that's going to become my theme. I mean, uh, if you will, I'm just going to think about the stone as this burden. This heavy problem that maybe you're facing, or we all face in general, many of them, and I'm going to hit a few of them. But you know, the I don't know if they these women really thought this through. Apparently not really. I mean they're gonna anoint the body. What what about the guards and all of that? Didn't they see that there was the stone was in there and the guards and nun I don't know. I'm not sure uh what they were thinking. They were probably just I I don't know, just hoping. Well anyway, they're on their way, and when they get there When they look up, they saw the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. These stones are a ton , ton and a half. They can be. I don't know how they moved them. Well anyway, they must have had some kind of device or whatever, but as they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side. And they were alarmed. Now we know from Matthew that the stone was removed really early in the morning and then by an angel, by God's power. And we don't know that much about the resurrection. ex uh happening itself. I mean we we just know that Christ rose and this stone rolled away is sort of just a show that the tomb is really empty. Well anyway, don't be alarmed, says the angel. You're looking for Jesus of Nazareth who is crucified. He is risen, he is not here. See the place where they laid him? But go, tell his disciples Peter, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you, trembling and bewildered The women went out and fled from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone because they were afraid. When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary , out of whom he had driven seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him who were mourning and weeping. So Mary was a part of this group. They ran off. They told the disciples, and then Mary made her way back. And then we know that's when she saw Jesus himself, thinking that he was the gardener. Remember that? So anyway, if you follow the accounts, you can kind of get it all chronologically almost. Absolutely correct. Uh but it's not that easy. But nevertheless, this has the marks, doesn't it, of eyewitness accounts. Just uh just because of that, to some extent. You have to think of it, that this is the way it is when people are making making uh reporting on things, you know, their report from their perspective. Well let's have a word of prayer and we'll take a look at some of the ways in which this stone can be rolled away Lord, we thank you for these accounts and we pray, Lord, that as we listen now, as we take into uh our minds some of the truths that you've presented here, that they might be used by you to d liberate us and to give us Peace as we go through this world. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Who will move the stone? Who will move the heavy weights that burden human hearts? The biggest and the most evident for everyone is the impending death. that is coming for ourselves and our loved ones. These women saw the cross. They were there. They saw the crucifixion, the agonies of Christ, they saw the spear. They saw him entombed. They knew the sadness. This is s several days later. Uh a couple of days later anyway, and now they've they've during this time it's been grief, it's been sadness, it's been like The it's just sort of a heavy, empty hole inside of them that they just are w living with this thing called grief. And many of you are doing that even now. If you ki you know coming here today, I'm sure you passed a cemetery. There's one right up here. I mean it's only less than half a mile away. And then this way over the bridge is another one. I mean just on the right. Matter of fact, you probably passed several cemeteries. I I know there's hospitals all over the place too, and there's nursing homes and there's funeral homes. I mean we're never we're all we're constantly reminded. This is a fallen world. That we're mortals and that this thing is coming. What we need is some sort of way to deal with it. A hundred and fifty thousand people die every day. In this world. We call death the grim reaper, or the king of terrors, or that black hole that seems to suck the life out of us long before we actually go there. And so what are we going to do with this thing? Oh, I had to uh look up a few quotes. Uh this is uh Woody Allen who is a Jewish atheist uh comedian dash screenwriter, of course you know Woody Allen, but he's somebody who's honest at least when it comes to looking at this life. from a secularist perspective. He says, death is absolutely stupefying in its terror, and it renders anyone's accomplishment meaningless. This has got to be dealt with. We're, in a sense, the whole world is a hospital and all of us are patients and we're all terminal. So the resurrection of Christ is the only way that we're going to get some sort of true confidence that that is not the end. Christ coming out of the grave and demonstrating his being alive and the historical data that backs that up. needs to be lodged deeply in our minds because we are facing this every single day. I love the fact Mary is weeping and crying, and maybe the son is behind Jesus. And he says one word to her, Mary. And he goes, Rabonai. She goes, Rabonai. Peace be unto you. The resurrection of Christ is what we need to face The realities of death in this world. Death has been swallowed up in victory, says Paul. Where oh death is your victory, where oh death is your sting. Sting of death is sin in the sting. The power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God. He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Then he writes to the Thessalonians, Brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant about those who have died, fallen asleep, or to grieve like the rest of men. who have no hope. We believe that Jesus died and rose again, and so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him. Do you have this confidence? Do you know that if today something happened to you, you would go to be with the Lord? That you are in him. Some of you have heard that I had an accident about four weeks ago now. I was on the way to a church that I wasn't really sure where the road was that I was supposed to turn on. I was supposed to preach there, two sermons. Anyway, I ended up missing the stop sign And just cruising right on through. And I smashed into another car. And I can tell you something, my 2000 vibes, uh, airbags do work. And uh but but it was like an it was an explosion, it was like a a total shock, but I was fine. But I don't know if you know the rest of the story is that my license plate is one of those special plates. My wife always says, why do you gotta get that special plate? You know, it's an extra 50 bucks But uh notice what it says. And I have that absolute constant. Yeah, this is all smashed up. Someday my body will be smashed up too And you know, I'll be just laying there. But I am his. I'm his forever. Do you have that confidence? Do you have that license? Now I gotta flatten this out and put it on the new car I'm buying. But uh oh th thanks. Yeah Yeah. Lit literature major. Jeez. Okay. So that's one thing. And then that and that's really the biggest thing, isn't it? it. You can have some light on this issue. You don't have to fear death anymore. You can just face it with some confidence because you have a resurrected Savior. Now what about disappointment? You know, on the road to Emmaus, Jesus shows up with these two guys who are walking along. And uh he says, what are you talking about? And he says, oh, oh, you know, about Jesus and you know, and then in verse uh 21 he says, we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. I mean he did all these miracles. I mean he did thirty-five miracles during his lifetime. Uh he he even raised the dead and I mean he he spoke like no other man spoke. I mean he was Basically, we thought this was the one. He's got to be the Messiah. We had hoped that it would happen. But the dream now is over. You see? Lost. Hope, lost dreams, disappointments. We had hoped that the marriage would last. We had hoped that the baby would be healthy We had hoped that the operation would work. We had hoped. We had hoped that the children would turn out well, that they would marry well. We had hoped. But our hopes are downdashed. Isn't the world full of that kind of thing? This kind of thing. Crying, weeping. Let me go back to uh Woody Allen. I don't know why am I quoting Woody Allen. But anyway, he says, life is full of misery, loneliness, and suffering. And it's all over much too soon. He's gotta throw that in. But but you know, he has really the poor guy has really no hope. All he can do is joke about it. But when we look at all of the problems of life we can have some hope. We don't have to be discouraged, constantly disappointed, because we have a risen Christ. In 1 Peter 1 and verse 3, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Though you have not seen him, you love him, and even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy. How can you have joy in the midst of this kind of place? Well, he has the power to turn the worst things around. God has turned the worst possible event in history. the crucifixion of the Son of God, the rejection of the Son of God, the humiliation, the mockery, it's like, you know, humans behaving badly. You know, this is the perfect man. And you're putting him to death? Yeah, it's disappointing. It seems like the worst possible thing. And yet God changes it. He turns it around. If he can do this with this event, can he do that with the event in your life that is so terrible that seems like it's like impossible to redeem? Yes, he can. So disappointment can be dealt with. The best is coming. 2 Corinthians 4 Talks about the resurrection, and then he says, Therefore we do not lose heart, though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day, for our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. Because of the resurrection, we know that, yeah, we're going to hit disappointments here. But they're not permanent. They're not permanent. You know, God has a way of helping us overcome these things by the resurrection power. I mean, hallelujah. Then meaninglessness. You know, the best human ever is crucified. I mean this is this must have been like, what? This is so pointless. The whole life is pointless I would imagine these women and all the other disciples thought, what's the use of being godly? What's the use of praying to God? What's the use of Even following somebody who is a godly person. It's all meaningless. There's nothing in life makes any sense. There's a lot of people that think that way in this day and age. Well, uh Macbeth said, you know, Sh Shakespeare is Macbeth, it is a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. There's another contemporary writer. All we are is a successful virus clinging to a speck of mud suspended in endless nothingness. Richard Dawkins, you know, one of the four horsemen of the apocalypse, you know, the new atheist. He says, the universe we observe has precisely the properties we should expect if there is, at bottom, no purpose No evil, no good, nothing but blind, pitiless indifference. Yeah, that's that's the way a lot of people look at life. That really is. I mean, you know, have you ever had moments where you felt like, what's the use? Have you ever had these moments? I mean I've had I remember talking to somebody at who was a really godly woman in the church. And I'm thinking, she says, I keep having this recurring dream that there's this dark black hole and I'm just being sucked down into it. And in the process, I'm thinking, I'm hearing some voice say, You're kidding yourself, there's no God. There's no God. There's not it's not real. None of this is real. I'm thinking, wow, what could happen? What could happen to godliest people? I mean we can go into depressions or whatever. I mean this is something that is a part of the human condition in one way or another. Meaninglessness, what's the point? Well, the resurrection puts meaning back into life, purpose back into life. At the end of that resurrection chapter, he says, Therefore, since Christ is really alive, really risen. My dear brothers, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourself fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor is not in the Lord in the Lord, is not in vain. Because you got a res resurrected Christ, what this means is like, well, there's there's a point to living godly. There's a point to to honoring God. There's a point to life in general. I mean it doesn't just end. You know, it doesn't It's just we are moving somewhere. Christ has risen. This means like okay, there's a reason for being alive. You know, there's a reason you're particularly been born. That that you are here. I mean you're not just a cosmic accident. It's it's got some meaning, it's got some purpose, it's going somewhere. The resurrection of Christ shows that even all the different things that he went through that seem to be you know, oh it's all over. No. Rising again says all that he did, all of his obedience to God, all of his d you know, com his passive obedience on the cross, his active obedience in obeying the law, all that is worth it. It's worth it because he rose again. See? So we gotta think the same way. What we're going through now, what we're doing now. Nobody sees it perhaps. The nobody knows your suffering. Nobody knows your sacrifice. Nobody knows what you're dealing with. Nobody knows the struggles that you're having. But if you're doing it for Christ, then you're doing in his name. It's worth it. Your labor is not in vain in the Lord, you see? So you've got to think this way. It's worth it. There's meaning in life. What about all of the evil and injustice that surround this crucifixion? I mean you got the evil of the betrayal of Judas, you got the evil of uh Peter's denials, three times he denies Christ. Even though he was warned. Oh, you've got the evil of Caiaphas and Annas and Herod, and then Pilate, knowing that he's innocent, still puts him to death And then the mockery and the sh the sense of like, well, why are you so cruel? They put a bag over his head and hit him and say, come on, prophesy, who hit you And then the crown of thorns, putting him on a cross, these guys wanted to have him crucified. Why? Because then he would never be believed on as the Messiah, because cursed is anyone that hangs upon a tree. Yes, all of this injustice and evil. You think about the injustice and evil that you per personally have experienced. You know, maybe somebody you you know you went to court of law and you expected some sort of justice and it just didn't happen. Or maybe there's a doctor that just didn't seem to pay attention to your situation and something terrible happened. Uh on and on it goes. The sense of injustice is the evil, the bullies, uh the tyrants of this land. Now we have Kim Jung un, you know, with his missiles. We got Assad with his continual killing of his own people. Because he has Hitler, Stalin, and all the rest of it, and all the petty tyrants at your workplace. I mean you you know their names. They don't get in the paper, but they certainly get in the paper of your mind And you feel like, man, if these people are getting away with murder. They're getting away with stuff. They're saying bad things about you. I rema I know, you know, I've got a pastor for forty some years. I had some I had some elders that uh abandoned me, if you will Well, I wasn't it wasn't a happy time. It was difficult. And that hurt me deeply. But the thing is, like I you know what I'd learned to do is say, look, who's gonna judge everything Well, there's a God. He's going to judge everything. Well, how do I really know that? Well, it says it in the Bible, but There's also a passage in Acts chapter 17 where Paul is preaching to the people in Mars Hill, and he says, talking about Jesus, For he has set a day, that is the Father, when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed, that would be Jesus. And he has given proof of this to all men by raising him from the dead. He raised him from the dead to prove that there's going to be a judgment. You know, people say, oh, when you die, it's all over, there's nothing else. No. And some people think, well, man, these people got away with murder. No, there's a judge on the throne. I mean, look at Revelation. I mean, why was Revelation written? I mean, to a great extent it had to do with saying, look, these guys are not winning. Yeah, sort of. They're putting you to death now. Big deal. You know, like the guy who was uh you know He's being put to death and he says, Well what is where's your carpenter now? And the guy says, he's making a coffin for you I mean God Christ is going to judge the world. And it's going to happen. It's coming. And so I think the people that you know, I think you know, they had something true about what they were were saying about me, but really it wasn't to the extent where, you know, I gotta be called in, you know, before the congregation with uh You know, we have to have a big vote as to whether I was acceptable as a pastor. I mean thinking, well, you know, people god they're godly people, but they they make mistakes. And I mean this is the way it is. But there are other cases where there's real abuse, I mean real sinister, you know, hatred directed at you And you are really truly a victim and you go, Man, that guy got away with murder. I think of Stalin and all the people he had killed. I mean millions and millions. And yet he dies, you know, of old age. And then of course Hitler. What do you he shoots himself? Boom, it's over. I mean that is that fair? No. It's not fair. He didn't get justice. There wasn't justice. There's not justice here. However, there will be justice That's coming. And it's good enough. And you can just commit your these people to him that have hurt you. Just commit 'em to him. He'll deal with them. Don't walk around with this bitterness and all this sin. Of like feeling also bad, this burden of injustice and trying to get right, fretting yourself because of evildoers. Just let it go. Because Christ is going to deal with it. The resurrection proves it. Then what about our sin record? I think about Peter's guilt. He started weeping when he realized what he had done. All of them fled. James, his brother, was a skeptic. And uh, you know, he All have sinned to come short of the glory of God. All have sinned. This is like no nothing surprising when we look at the mistreatment of Jesus and we really honestly look at ourselves. You know, I think about this little setup here where you know you can look forward and you guys see my profile. I turn here and you now you see my profile. Okay. Let me tell you something happened when I was in San I went to get a suit and I looked in the three D uh not three D three you know mirrors, you know, where you can actually see what you look on the side and I went, my profile is really not all that attractive. You know, I was wondering, you know, why aren't why aren't the girls just flocking to me? Well, I look pretty good, straight on. But you do that profile and I look kinda like a weasel or something. Well, you know what happens? When you look in the Bible, you see yourself for what you really are. Right? And when you accept what you really are, you say, I'm a sinner. I need a savior. And thank God we have a savior. There's a song we sang last night, I think it was, or night four Behold the man upon a cross, my sin upon his shoulders. Ashamed I hear my mocking voice call out among the scoffers It was my sin that held him there until it was accomplished. His dying breath has brought me life. I know that it is finished. I was among the mock. Why did they do? How could they be so cruel? We would probably have called for Barabbas. The same people who are hailing him as he's coming in on Palm Sunday. part of the crowd calling for Barabbas on Friday. And we get don't get so high and mighty. We are just as sinful as everyone else. That Christ died for. And he said, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. So Peter has a resurrection experience. We are told that in 1 Corinthians. Corinthians 15, he appears unto Peter. Matter of fact, the two on the road to Maeus, when they come back, they say, Hey, he's appeared unto Peter. And what was that for? He said, Peter, I know you're sad. I know you're guilty, but look at these hands. And I'm alive. And they were for you. And then on the left Sea of Galilee, Peter, lovest thou me more than these, like you said. Well Lord, you know, kinda well, what do you mean? He asks again, lovest thou me? You know, he's he's humble now. But what does he say? Feed my sheep. Feed my sheep. Peter becomes the first First one to preach the gospel. You know? First one to preach the gospel to Gentiles. Peter here is used. Peter's an apostle. Even though he's a sinner, he's reading. Hallelujah. So we have that statement in Romans 4, 25, where he says, He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. On the cross, Jesus says, it is paid. On Resurrection Sunday, God says, it is indeed paid. Amen. It's paid. Hallelujah. So that's what the resurrection is for, in part to say that this was a sufficient payment to cover the sins of the people that Christ died for. So this is a glorious thing for us. The prisoners now are set free. Now, finally, our sin tendencies. It's one thing to have our sins forgiven, but you know you know how it is as you live in this fallen world and you look at yourself and you say say man I you know I got so many bents that aren't quite right. I don't know where it comes from, you know, but man it's in there. Nature, nurture, whatever. I don't know. But you know, there's certain sins that are so easily beset us, and uh they are our particular sins And uh half the time nobody knows about 'em but you. Uh but the thing is you say, how can I ever change? How can I change? Where's the power to change? You know where we're going with this. All you do do is read Romans. Where he he talks about the resurrection. If we have been united with him like this in his death, we will certainly also be united with him in his resurrection, for we know that our old self was crucified with him. So that the body of sin might be done away with. We should no longer be slaves to sin. Now you think about the transformation of these apostles, all of these people that fled. And they were just completely afraid. They thought it was all over. Think a look at Thomas. You know, Thomas wouldn't even believe the testimony of the other apostles. I mean, these people were in a mess. But then they got transformed somehow. Now that same transformational power is available to us. Philippians chapter 3, verse, you know, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. The power of his resurrection. It's like new life, it's like resurrection life now is in us. We sang this song. The resurrected king is resurrecting me. The resurrected king is resurrecting me. It's a process. I mean, we don't become automatically perfectly holy, but we certainly now have the power to do it. You know, it's like the airplane, you know, you look at that thing and it's how's that ever gonna get off the ground? The thing weighs like how many tons? Well, there's a certain thing that overcomes gravity. It's called lift. That happens, you know, because of the shape of the wing. Right? Goes down the runway, up it goes. Ah, it's a miracle. No, it's one power overcoming another. Well, where's the power? The power of the resurrection is overcoming this fallen nature of ours. And we are indeed slowly but surely being transformed. It's that resurrection power. You have to say, okay, that you know, that thing, that's that bent, that attitude, that I don't know, habit, that bad habit, whatever it is. You don't have to say, Well, that's just the way I am. No, maybe it's your temper, maybe it's your self-centeredness, I don't know what it is. But maybe it's lust, maybe it's you know, maybe it's obsession with something that seems to be, you know, taking over your life. And everybody around you is saying, man, you're getting really into this. Maybe it's depression. I don't know. Whatever. You say, God, give me the power. It's there. It's there. It's the power of the resurrection. So this risen Christ can give us this power. So, in conclusion, Luther says this about The resurrection. He says, Christ's resurrection and victory over sin, death, and hell is greater than all heaven and earth. You can never imagine his resurrection and victory so great, but that it is in actuality is far, far greater. We have to look at this as as the event, the event of life. You worship, we worship every Sunday. Every day the sun comes up again. It's kind of a reminder. You know, every year, you know, spring comes around and there's there's reminders, little kids are born, uh reminders, resurrection, resurrection, resurrection. We gotta live in the light of it. You remember Blaise Pascal , the great mathematician, but also he was a Christian apologist. Well, anyway, he had an experience. sixteen forty one I think it was. He they call it the fire experience. I don't know if anybody's read about this, but you know, he put it in his diary. It was like this experience with God, and he was just so overwhelmed with the glory of God and Christ. And you know what he did with that? He wrote it out and he sewed it into his clothes. So we would have it wherever he went. Now we've got to do that with a resurrection. Wherever you go. Somebody says, I don't know where you're setting up shop, but I'm choosing to set up my shop at the empty tomb. We gotta live in the light of this thing. Make it a part of us. Otherwise, I'm telling you, this world has got a way of getting us down. We've got to apply the resurrection to every area of our lives. Paul Trepp, in a devotional that he wrote today's devotional, he said this again today he promises you life. It's what he came to live, die, and rise again to give you. That empty tomb not only means he has conquered death, but it tells you he has life in his hands. The kind of life all human beings were designed to long for, whether they know it or not. You can't find or earn that life on your own. It is yours only by means of the work of another. Now, are you in Christ? This is the issue. This is the sole issue of life. Do you have Christ as your resurrected Savior If you believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Do you have him? Are you in him? You probably remember a few years back, 2009, I think it was, there was a German plane took off and the co-pilot locked himself in. The captain was outside banging on the door saying, For God's sake, open the door. he drove right into a mountaintop and killed 150 people. Well, that was a bad pilot. You don't want to get in a plane with a pilot like that. There was another plane, exact same plane, by the way, it was an Airbus 360 that in uh years, a few years before, about five years before, took off and uh had a bird strike And the plane had to land and it l you know, it landed on the Hudson. There's now there's a movie about it. But that was uh s who was the captain there? Sully. Sully. Yeah. You picked the right captain. They were all saved. They were all fine. Who's your captain? What plane have you gotten on? I remember when I took off and went to Hawaii and just wanted to get away from home, my captain was, I don't know, uh, John Lennon. Gray Slick. Uh uh, it was just all these pop stars or whatever. They were leading my life. What plane are you on? You know who's the cat? You gotta get on this one. This is the only one that works. This is the only plane to be on. Are you in Christ? Are you not in Christ? That's really the issue of the of this life. He who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have life. Let's pray. Father, we pray that