Thank you, Sarah and Chuck, for that gift. That was lovely. If you have your Bibles with you, turn in them to Philippians, and we'll be reading this morning the first eleven verses in chapter one. We'll be looking at these eleven verses in the next two weeks. This week focusing on the first Let's hear God's word from Philippians. Paul writes, Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ. To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you with all joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Being confident of this very thing. That he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the in in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are all partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness, how greatly I long for you with all the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your love may abound still more, and more in knowledge and all discernment. That you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. Let's pray that Together. Oh Father God, how we thank you for your mighty and wonderful word. We thank you for your spirit, who enlivens our hearts and teaches us your word. Word. And we pray, Lord, for an outpouring of your spirit now that you would bless us by the power of your spirit to see and hear what you would say to us. In Jesus' name, Amen I love classical music. And I listen to it on the radio most of the time. However, there is one time in the week when I will never listen to the classical music stations. And that is Saturday between the hours of 12 and 4 p. m. You know, don't you? That's when they broadcast the opera from the Metropolitan Opera. I hate opera Now if you love it, I'm happy for you and that's great, but for me, there's some back there. All right. It's not all that. But personally though, uh uh all that high-pitched warbling, which could break glass, uh it just hurts my ears But I do know enough about opera to appreciate this one thing: that the overture to an opera contains snippets of the musical themes which will later be sung. The opera, the overture, is like an appetizer before the heavy, heavy, heavy meal which is to follow Well, we could say that the first two verses of Philippians, this greeting of Paul to his beloved church, is like an overture. It's like an overture to a grand and glorious, uplifting, joyful piece of music, which is his letter to the Philippians. The words he carefully chooses are like snippets of a melody which reverberate throughout the rest of the letter. Paul lays the foundation for what he wants to say to his congregation with just a few words. And with just a few words, he establishes one theme. In one verse, and with a few words, he establishes another theme in the next verse. And it would be easy to just sort of gloss over it. Because Paul is using the simple conventional format of a letter for his day. The format being. Of, of course, that the sender is identified, followed by the name of the recipient, followed by the standard culturally appropriate greeting And we could just skim over it, but we would miss the depth and the beauty of what Paul is trying to say to his recipients. Paul encapsulates in just a few words ideas which open up in full bloom in the following chapters We might compare these two verses to a rock, which we might easily walk by on a pathway and not take any notice of. But that rock contains beautiful, precious jewels which we can mine. But as we mine it today, these two verses today, we will discover two beautiful shining truths. For in these two verses, Paul tells us two things. Who we are, our identity in Christ. And what we need from Christ, who we are, and what we need. First, we'll look at our identity in Christ. Now, our culture seems to place a lot of importance on identity. We're all familiar with the slogan, be all that you can be. And then really, though, our our our emphasis on a person's identity is nothing new. For example, Shakespeare writes in Hamlet, through the words of Polonius, For thine own self be true. And in more recent years, George R. R. Martin has said in The Game of Thrones: never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. Make it your strength Then it can never be your weakness. Armor yourself in it, and it will never be used to hurt you. So it's important for us to know our identity. And it's important for us, especially as Christians to know our identity as in Christ. And Paul does so using two words. We see the first word in his opening statement, at the beginning of verse 1, in which he identifies himself, Paul and Timothy. servants of Jesus Christ. Servants of Jesus Christ. Now that's a bit unexpected, isn't it? We would expect that Paul would highlight his special status as an apostle. After all, he's writing a letter and he wants to ensure the readers of his authority. And it carries weight. But does he do that? No, he doesn't We would assume that he would, but he doesn't. After all, why should he? He planted the church. They all knew he was an apostle. And they respected his authority. No, he doesn't use the word apostle, but still yet, he calls himself a servant of Jesus Christ. He could have simply said, Paul and Timothy your leaders, or Paul your church planter, but no, he identifies himself as a servant. Literally a slave. Why? What is he trying to convey here? After all, in the Roman world, being a slave was no honor. In fact, a slave was the lowest of the low in the social order. And today we would say the same thing that to be a slave is one of the worst possible things that you could be. It's degrading, it's dehumanizing, and yet that is what Paul calls himself. Why? Well, Paul, in addressing himself in this manner, is teaching us a theological truth about all of us. He's reflecting a biblical truth, and that truth is this: that we are all slaves. The question is, the question is, who Who is your master? Whether you're a follower of Christ or not, you're a slave. Now you may be wondering, what am I talking about? I'm not a slave. In fact, I'm really quite free. No one owns me except maybe the bank or my boss. And yet Scripture makes clear that whether or not you are a follower of Christ, you are still a slave. You just have A different master. Well, allow me to explain. Dr. James Boyce in his commentary on Philippians notes that in Paul's day, there were three ways that you could be Become a slave. One is that you could be born into it. If your parents were slaves, then you would be a slave. End of discussion. Secondly, you could be enslaved through conquest. When Rome would conquer a territory, the captives would be taken into slavery. Or you could be sold into slavery because of a debt that you owed. And so you pay it off by selling yourself into slavery. And in fact, all three of those scenarios apply to every one of us, to everyone in the world. Because Scripture says that we are slaves, that we're slaves to sin. Jesus says in John 8 34, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. And Paul echoes Christ's teaching in Romans 6. 20, stating once again that we are in fact slaves to sin. Sin is our master. We were born as slaves to sin, as David writes in Psalm 51, I was born in sin, referring to our fallen nature, which we inherited from Adam. And sin rules over our hearts in conquest over us, so that we do not do what we know we should. Proverbs 522 makes this clear when it says the iniquities of the wicked ensnare him, and he is held fast in the cords of sin. And finally, sin also makes us debtors. We're debtors in great distress. Because Paul writes in Romans 6. 23 that the wages of sin is death. Our sin creates this huge debt that we can never repay. Because sin is an affront to a holy God who is perfect. and pure, and when we sin against him, it is an offense that requires judgment and justice. Oh, we can relate to this Should we damage somebody's property? Should we get into a car accident because of our foolishness or some stupid thing we do? Do we then not owe the person Something for the damage that we have done? That's why there's geico. We need to make restitution. We owe them Well, it's the same with God, only on a much grander scale. When we break his commandments, we owe him, because we have damaged our relationship with him by our actions. And the problem is the offense against the holy, infinite God is so great that we can do nothing, absolutely nothing, to get out of the red. Nothing to erase the debt that we owe, to meet his justice, or to pay for that crime. And so the sentence due to us is death for the wages Of sin is death. And what's entailed is a horrendous, awful death, a spiritual death which entails an eternal debtor 's prison Of darkness, of doom, and of despair, and that would be our fate, and that would be our future if it were not for Christ. If it were not just for Jesus Christ who has freed us from having sin as our master For God is so gracious, and the Lord is so good that he has freed us from the sin which ensnares us. Paul tells us in chapter 2 that God sent his son Jesus, who emptied himself of the glories of heaven, who made himself nothing, who haven't taken on the very nature of Of a slave, he humbled himself and was obedient to his father's will, even to the point of death, a death on the cross. And it was there on the cross that Christ waged a battle for our souls. It was there on the cross that his precious blood was a ransom price that was paid for the debt of our sin. And by his death and resurrection, he conquered the power of sin and death, and he set us captives free, free from its dark, destructive dominion over us. So that we are no longer slaves to sin when we put our faith and trust in Christ. So now, beloved, you who are trusting in Christ, You are no longer slaves to sin. The sin which owned you, the sin which mastered you. No, you have been set free by Christ. And by his blood he has purchased your life, so that now you become slaves to Christ. You have gone from one master to another. But what a world of difference. What a world of difference. For under the slavery to sin there is darkness and death, but under Christ's lordship there is light and life. Under slavery's sin. Under the slavery of sin, there is despair. Under Christ, there is immeasurable joy. Under sin's dominion, there is tyranny Under Christ's reign, there is freedom. Freedom to serve and love God with our whole hearts with joy and an abiding sense of gratitude. Free to be, you and me, all that we are intended to be, free because of Christ's purchasing us on the cross. Because we are now under his gracious reign. So it is any wonder then that Paul would call himself a slave of Christ without any shame? In fact, he glories in his lowly status because he relishes with all of his heart that deep, profound, dynamic reality of what Christ has done for him. For he was a slave to his own self-pride. He was a slave to his own self-sufficiency, that as a Pharisee, that somehow he could earn his right to be in heaven. And what does he say about all of that in chapter three? He said, I counted all of that as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith And for us, what else can we do? But give him his proper due? Our very lives in obedience to him. Him as our Lord and Master, for he has done such an amazing thing in setting us free from the tyranny of sin. But we know what Paul meant when he called himself a slave of Christ. But why does he use that phrase in this letter to the Philippians? We still not answer that question. What is Paul getting at? What is he trying to convey to the Philippians by identifying himself as a slave of Christ? He's trying to make a point. But what is it? Well, the point will become clear as we look at the next word which describes who we are, and that is saints. He addresses the Philippians as saints. Now why? He could have simply said to my beloved church in Philippians. Philippi, he could have said to the believers in Philippi, but no, he calls them saints. Now, when we hear the word saint, We might have an image of our in our mind and a concept in our mind which is more Roman Catholic. The idea that some Christians live such an exemplary life of faith that after they die They were canonized. People who were so good that they died with extra grace. And that extra grace is available to us, and they're there to help us if we just pray today. them. I have an example from my own family of this. My sister-in-law is Catholic and many years ago when we were trying to sell our house in Georgia, she suggested that we bury a statue of Saint Joseph head down in the backyard. Because Saint Joseph is the patron saint of real estate. And although I love my sister in law dearly, I didn't take her advice and the house didn't sell. For two years. But it wasn't because I didn't bury Saint Joseph head down in the backyard. It was because there was such a glut on the market of houses But all family stories aside, biblically speaking, in truth, anyone, anyone who is a follower of Christ is a saint. And saint means literally set apart ones. As followers of Christ, we've been set apart from the world. And we've been given this wonderful special status as God's people. Paul is keying into this, I believe, because the Philippians had a special status as citizens of a Roman colony. Having been born in a Roman colony, they had all the rights and privileges of Roman citizens. But Paul calls them saints. And in doing so, reminds them of the greater status that they possess as citizens of God's kingdom. And we share. in that same status. For all followers of Christ are saints. We've been set apart. We've been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. We've been called out of the doom and destruction that we faced into a new life. We've been lifted up. and lifted out to experience the glories of heaven. And you have been set apart for God's special purposes in your life. life for all God's people are saints and we have saints here with us today I see Saint Verner And I see St. Bonnie and St. Joe, St. Buck, St. Chris, St. Nancy, St. Jim, Saint Jeff, Saint Mary, and of course we have St. Barry, St. Saint Russ, who's on vacation, and last but not least, good old Saint Nick. Well, all of us are saints. And we have this wonderful, glorious new status as God's chosen people And he has placed his seal of approval upon us of his acceptance, of his love, and of his commitment And he creates in us his holy character through his word and through the power of his spirit, for we are his saints. His sanctified ones, his holy ones. But we have a word of caution here from Paul. We are not the holier than now ones. Because we didn't arrive at sainthood by our own merit, our own goodness, by our own goodness. No, we are saints in the same way that the Philippians were And how does Paul describe them? They are saints in Christ. It is because of our union with Christ, our being united to him by his death and resurrection, that we are holy ones. Our righteousness is his righteousness, and our special status is solely because of what he himself has done for us. But it doesn't end there. Note for who does Paul address? He addresses the saints in Philippi. Is not Paul hinting here of a tale of two kingdoms? For the saints in Philippi had a dual citizenship They were the saints, they were the citizens of Rome, but they were also saints in heaven. And there's the challenge And there is a tension, right? As citizens in this world and citizens of heaven, we daily battle with a myriad of trials and temptations, both inwardly and from without And Paul could be reflecting here the words of the Lord in John 17 when he prays for the disciples to be in the world, but not of it. We are to escape from the world, but to be in it as salt. We are not to escape from the world, but to be in it as salt and light. We're not to share in its values, but to be agents of change in it. And Paul may be sounding here a tune that is played full out, fuller out in the following chapter When he tells the Philippians in chapter 2 that they may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted Generation among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life. And Paul would say the same thing to us. You saints in Eldersburg, you saints in Randallstown and Ricerstown, you saints in Baltimore and Catonsville and Columbia, you saints even all the way up in Pennsylvania You saints, shine like bright stars with the light of the gospel, holding forth the word of God to a dark and desperate world And so what is our identity? We are saints and we are slaves. And yet we still have this nagging question, don't we? What is Paul getting at? What musical theme is he striking with these few words? Well, let's tie Altogether now. First, Paul uses the word slave to describe himself. He doesn't emphasize his high status as an apostle in the church. But he defines himself as the lowest of the low, a slave, the epitome of humility and humble service And this is a tomb which reflects the glorious hymn of chapter 2, in which he challenges the Philippians to have the same mind of Christ. Who humbled himself like a slave and who took on our humanity to save us from it. And so he's highlighting the theme of humility. A call to humble service, to serve one another, in the same manner of Christ. And furthermore, on the other hand, he describes himself in these lowly terms, but on the other hand hand, he reminds the Philippians of their high status of being saints in God's kingdom. Notice he doesn't simply say the saints in Philippi, but he says all the saints. And he includes something which he doesn't have in any other greeting. He adds with the overseers and deacons, in other words, the officers of the church, the elders and the deacons. Overseeing being another word for elder. Notice he says, with the elders and the deacons. The officers are not above them, the saints are not below them. No, the officers in the church of the Are with the people. So what do we have here? What tune is being played out? Lowly, Paul, a slave. We have the saints, which includes the leaders of the church, and he's saying, we're all equal. We're all before God. God the same. What he is singing is this song. He's singing a song like this We are families. I've got all my brethren with me. He's speaking of unity. Of unity. He wants to remind them of the unity that they have in Christ. A unity within diversity. A diversity of gifts. Some are leaders And as leaders, they are to be like Paul's servant leaders. But together, together with all the saints, we strive for the gospel of Christ, working side by side, shoulder to shoulder, arms length together to advance God's kingdom. with whatever gifts he has given us, wherever he has placed us. And so with just a few words, Paul proclaims whole worlds of meaning for us. He wants them to be united together for the sake of the gospel, and he encourages them in chapter one to stand firm in one spirit with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel and not to be frightened in anything by their opponents. And he says in chapter 2, if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from uh from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind. Having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourself. Yourselves. Let each of you look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. And so in these two verses, Paul presents two themes humility and unity, highlighted by two words and beautifully intertwined in chapters 2, 1 through 4. But we'll talk more of that next week. Let's move on and briefly look at what we need, which is also what we have received In verse 2, we see what we need. Paul changes the conventional greeting of his day, and he infuses it with spiritual significance. The standard Greek greeting for a letter was simply greetings. Paul takes the Greek form of the verb and he changes it to the noun form to become chorus or grace. And so he wishes them grace. And by emphasizing grace, he reminds them of the unity that they have in Christ, because they have all participated in his grace. They are recipients of it. And so it is with us that we have also been saved by grace alone. It is a gift from God, so that no one can boast. We've not earned it or deserved it or worked towards it. As Paul writes in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. We come to worship today because of what Christ has done for us through his amazing astounding grace in which he has blessed us with eternal life. It is his grace that we've all received. It is his grace that we all participate in. And so we are therefore united by his grace. For who were we came before we came to Christ? We were thankless, wretched haters of God. We were his enemies, full of pride, full of self-sufficiency and self-love. And yet, while we were still yet sinners, he did for us what he did for Lydia, the first convert in Philippi. He opened our hearts to the reality and truth of the gospel, to receive it and to believe it. And we responded like the Philippian jailer who asked Paul, What must I do to be saved? So we have all been recipients of God's grace, and what is the result? The result is peace. For Paul greets his beloved church with the traditional Hebrew greeting. Peace so long. It conveys a sense of inner tranquility and overall well-being. And after we have received God's grace Peace follows. We have peace with God. No longer are we at enity with Him, and we are free from His conduct. Condemnation and wrath. We have waved the white flag of surrender, and we have given him our very lives. And now we have peace. We have peace about the greatest enemy of all death, for we do not have to fear it because Christ has conquered it and we have peace and assurance of eternal life with him. Paul greets them with grace and he greets them with peace. And it's all lovely and beautiful and warm like a Spring day. But we must ask ourselves, why does he wish them what they already possess? Why? Because they need more of God's grace and peace. And God is so lavish in His grace. Grace, that he pours out even more upon us. His grace and peace don't just end when we become his, but his grace and peace continu On throughout the rest of our lives, each and every moment. For Christ has said in 2 Corinthians, My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect. and weakness. And he said to his disciples in John 14, Peace I leave with you, peace I give you. Notice that Paul doesn't greet them with, Be healthy, wealthy, and wise. He doesn't wish them success and a solid retirement plan. No. He greets them with grace. and peace for that which they received is what they need. And from all appearances the church At Philippi was a robust and vibrant one. But Paul knows that storm clouds are hovering in the horizon. There was disunity as two faithful followers warred with each other. Threatening to fracture the church and the factions, and instead of serving as they once did, they were severing the blessed tie that binds by their discord And then there were the false teachers infiltrating the church, threatening to blur the clear teaching of God's grace with added Jewish ritual and legalism. Did they not need God's grace and peace? And what Paul wished for them, do we not also need today? Do we not need God's grace and peace? And peace. We hear of wars and rumors of wars, and we wonder what will be the outcome. Do we not need God's Grace and peace. We learn about our fellow Christians in Iraq, in Moselle, and who are being persecuted by Islamic extremists for the their faith, forced to leave their homes or convert or be killed. Do they not need God's grace and peace to remain faithful Faithful to him. We look at our own country where the cultural tide has shif shifted so dramatically, where good is now evil and evil is called good, and we wonder how will we raise our kids in this culture. How will I as a Christian fare when I go to school or college or with my peers or with my colleagues at work? When biblical truth is mocked and scorned, where standing up for the truth is going against a strong tide, do we not need God's grace and peace? You may be struggling to find a job, or you go to the grocery store and the regular price is now the sale price and you wonder how will I feed my family? Do you not need God's grace and peace to trust me? in his provision. You have a prodigal son or daughter, and it is just breaking your heart. Do you not need God's grace and peace as you trust in his sovereign plan? Your parents are aging, and you struggle with caring for them. Do you not need God's grace and peace in your life You're aging. And your body doesn't do what it used to. And your golden years are really a glimmer of a sunset quickly fading as the darkness of night approaches. Do you not need God's grace and peace? You're torn up with grief over the loss of a loved one. And in that most awful of time, do you not need God's grace and peace? What Paul wished for the Philippians, we need ourselves. But praise God Praise God, for God's grace and peace are there for us, available to us. For Paul writes in Philippians 4, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, rejoice. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And then The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. All these situations All these trials and challenges in life which God allows, are they not opportunities for us to deepen our fellowship with our Savior They act like a magnet pulling us closer to Christ, where we experience in a profound way the grace and peace. Of God. Will we let circumstances conquer us? Or will we be more than conquerors through Christ, finding our strength in His grace and peace? and trusting hand. As we come to the table this morning, let's reflect on our identity in Christ and the grace and peace he has given us. Let's pray. Oh Father God, we thank you for your word, which conveys so much to us in such a simple way. We thank you that you have blessed us with your grace and peace, and that you have called us to be servants of you and to be saints, separate from the world, but totally committed to you. We thank you for your grace. We pray, Lord, that you would meet with us as we come to your table now. Bless us, O Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we come to the table, let's