If you're able, please stand. We're going to be reading from 2 Kings chapter 5 verses 1 through 19. 2 Kings 5 verses 1 through 19. Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and in high favor, because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. He was a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper. Now the Syrians, on one of their raids, had carried off a little girl from the land of Israel. And she worked in the service of Naaman's wife. She said to her as mistress, Would that my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria? He would cure him of his leprosy. So Naaman went in and told his Lord, Thus and so spoke the girl from the land of Israel, and the king of Syria said, Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. So he went, taking with him ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten changes of clothing. And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which read, When this letter reaches you, know that I have sent to you name my servant, that you may cure him of his leprosy. And when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and to make alive that this man sends word to me to cure a man of his leprosy? Only consider and see how he is seeking a quarrel with me. But when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes? Let him come down to me, that he may know that there is a prophet in Israel So Naaman came with his horses and chariots and stood at the door of Elisha's house. And Elisha sent a servant to him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored, and you shall be clean. But Naaman was angry and went away, saying, Behold, I thought that he would surely come out to me and stand and call upon the name of the Lord his God and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper. Are not Abana and Farpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. But his servants came near and said to him, My father, it is a great word the prophet has spoken to you. Will you not do it? Has he actually said to you, Wash and be clean? So he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the word of the man of God, and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. Then he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and he came and stood before him, and he said, Behold, I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. So accept not a present from your servant. But he said, As the Lord lives before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it, but he refused. The Naaman said, If not, please let there be given to you your servant two mule loads of earth. For from now on your servant will not offer burnt offering or sacrifice to any God but the Lord. In this matter, may the Lord pardon your servant. When my master goes into the house of Ramon to worship there, leaning on my arm, and I bow myself in the house of Ramon, when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardon your servant in this matter. He said to him, Go in peace. This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. Let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for We thank you for the book of 2 Kings and the stories of grace that are unfolded there, yet sometimes not always aware to us. We pray that this time would be a blessing in our lives as we go forth into a new year. May the words of our mouth and the meditations of our hearts Be pleasing in your sight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. A solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the earth and the sun. Thereby blocking the rays of the sun from a small part of the earth, totally or partially doing so, casting a shadow over that small part of the earth. And I'm sure there have been times in the past where some of you have seen a solar eclipse. This past year on April 8th, much of North America experienced a solar eclipse, where the moon's shadow followed a path through Mexico before crossing into the United States from Texas to Maine. The next solar eclipse that casts a shadow over North America will be on August 22nd, 2044, about 20 years from now. So other scientists say it would be March of 2033. Oh remember, when in doubt, like they said during COVID, trust the science In ancient cultures, solar eclipses were attributed to supernatural causes or regarded it as bad omens. The Greeks were one of many cultures to develop mythology and folklore to try to understand what was happening. They thought the world was coming to an end And there must be something they could do to stop it. In Norse mythology, the god Loki is put in chains by the gods, and in response, he creates wolves that try to eat the moon. In China, the sun was believed to be eaten by a celestial dragon. In many traditions, making noise, shouting, and creating a scene was thought to scare away the beings that were consuming the sun. In Navajo culture in our own country, when the sun is blocked, it is undergoing a rebirth. It is also seen as the moon and the sun embracing each other, like a solar hug. Be that as it may, the actual eclipse only lasts for a few minutes. But during that short duration, the path of the moon, as it moves between the earth and the sun, casts its shadow on the earth And for a time blocks out the sun 's light and glory. Believe it or not And you can choose to believe it or not. When I read the story of Naaman in Second Kings chapter five, I think of this phenomenon of the casting of a shadow on the earth. And the similarity, I believe, in part fits Naaman's life. Naaman's life in many ways is like the glorious sun. He's commander of the Syrian army, a great man in the king's eyes. He enjoys high standing. He's a mighty man of valor. And interestingly, we read and we are told that he was actually used by the Lord Yahweh. to achieve victories over Syria's enemies, some of those victories possibly at Israel's expense. Achievements, recognition, accumulation of honors, everything that a man or a woman might want Except for one thing, the ever-present shadow that hung over Naaman's life. He was a leper. This great man, this bright and rising star in the Syrian army, had it made in the world's eyes, but he was a leper. His leprosy like the moon blocked the light from what was otherwise a bright life. And it is this leprosy, this dark shadow. That dominates the first chapter here, chapter 5. It's the context for all the following conversations, and it is the context that reveals the character of these in this unfolding drama. Scientists and scholars have offered different suggestions as to what Naaman's leprosy was and as to what form it took. Was his skin condition similar to psoriasis? Was it equivalent to Hansen 's disease today? No one knows for sure, since the Hebrew word used for leprosy was a common word describing many other skin conditions. But what we are sure about is this, is that in name is day, whether you're an Israeli or you're Syrian, it's a serious condition that rendered a person ceremonially unclean and in many instances A social outcast. Accepting it would appear, at least in Naaman's case, that leprosy in regard to his military service did not disqualify him So here we are at the beginning of 2 Kings chapter 5. A story of a great man, but a great man who has a great need. A need to be cleansed of his skin condition, but later we'll see a man needs to be cleaned from his sin condition. And it is in the context of Naaman's dark shadow, his leprosy, that we are introduced To a young Jewish girl who was stolen, who was abducted during one of Naaman's military raids in northern Israel, possibly around Samaria. You know, Harry Truman was supposed to have said that behind every great man is a great woman and a surprised mother-in-law. And I am sure in many cases that is true, and and guys, maybe you've experienced that with your mother-in-law. But but what we have here in Naaman's case is behind a great man is a great girl. And it is to her that he owes a great deal, for from her lips hope would spring, God's herald, God's little evangelist. So what did our little herald say that day? She said, Would that my Lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria? He would cure him of his leprosy. A few words, the only recorded words our young maiden spoke, but words that led Naaman and his family to a new life A life without the shadow of leprosy hanging over him. Our little servant girl, what boldness she showed, what common sense she had. And one thing more, she knew her God. She knew the God of Israel. And she knew where Naaman could find the Lord's prophet. He'd find him in Samaria. The prophet 's name, as you know, as we read, is Elisha. And he follows in the footsteps of Elijah, as recorded in 2 Kings 1 through 2, and I know you're familiar with that. Right away after Elisha takes on Elijah's mantle, we see him displaying miraculous power as we approach chapter 5. He heals the drinking water around Jericho. later provides miraculous drinking water to the kings of Israel and Judah and Edom in their fight against Mesha. King of Moab in 2 Kings chapter 3. And you might be interested to know that this battle in 2 Kings chapter 3, with some differences, is recorded on the Moabite stone. dating to the same time period, discovered in about the eighteen eighties, and today, which is modern Jordan. It is sometimes referred to as the Mesha Sila or the Moabite stone. It's in the Louvre Museum right now if you're interested. It is an extra-biblical source that refers to the kingdom of Israel. They call it the House of Omri. And it bears the earliest certain extra-biblical reference to the Israelite God. Yahweh. So that's the Moabite stone taking place, being recorded around the same time as 2 Kings chapter 3. Later, after chapter 3, we see Elisha, he's used by God to multiply the oil of one widow and then raise the son of another widow. And when you read about Elisha's miracles, you realize you're getting a greater glimpse of Jesus, the greater Elisha. Read those first four chapters sometimes. I left out the fact that he actually multiplied 20 loaves of bread for a hundred men. You read Elisha and you think Jesus. The type to come. And it's this prophet Elisha that our girl desired to have Naaman go and see. She knew enough of Elisha's ministry to be confident in her suggestion. Plus, she knew that Elisha was a true prophet of God. Not a false prophet, not an impostor, but Elisha was a true prophet of God. So you may ask yourself, well, who is this girl? What do we know about her? We actually know nothing really about her. We don't know her name. We would never know, but God knows her name. Where are her parents? Where are her siblings? Are they dead? Are they alive? Were they also abducted? Were they sent somewhere else? If they're alive, are they still missing her Were they captured? Did she know kindness, even love from Naaman's wife? Was she fearful? Of course she would have been, insecure at times with her situation, and lonely I'm sure she was. What we know is she was kidnapped from Samaria and taken a name as household. But what did she carry away when she was abducted? Well, she took away the clothes on her back, the memories of her family, I'm sure, and as we see, she took away the memory of her God. her clothes, her folks, and her God. This young girl, she experienced such personal loss, never lost her faith and confidence. And the God, no matter how dark things got for her, no matter what shadows pressed down upon her, in the midst of her circumstances she showed compassion to Naaman, her master, and to Naaman's wife, his mistress. Could she have been bitter? Could she have been angry at being abducted? Absolutely. But she did not allow the circumstances of her life to block the light of God's grace. And a grace that she knew Naaman could experience for himself. If he went to Samaria to see the prophet Elisha. She is one amazing girl. You know, God did something similar in the life of another young person, Joseph. God used this young girl to shape future historical events for the outworking of his good purposes for his people, just like he used Joseph. to work out his purposes for his people. And to this young maid's good news, here's what's amazing. To the good news that the maid shared, Naaman's wife took time to listen. She's a servant, she's a slave. They don't have to listen to her. The wife took time to listen, who then passed on the news to Naaman. who then shares the news with the king, who then responds approvingly to this trip of Namus to Samaria in order to meet the prophet and find a cure for his leprosy. You can see God working through each step of the way To get Naaman to Elisha. You know, the healing of Naaman, it's part of this girl's legacy, a legacy so long that we're reading about it today. A healing that Jesus refers to in Luke 4 as an example of God's compassion and the gospel going outside the confines of Israel outside the confines of Jewish expectations to the surrounding Gentile nations. It's a story of compassion that has been passed down for 2,800 years. But as the story is passed down, she herself fades away into the background. Like John the Baptist, he must increase and I must decrease. She fades away Things will continue to unfold in 2 Kings 5, but she is now in the background. I think it's a reminder, the way of an application, never underestimate the power of words. And what God is able to bring about through them and through you as you utter them. You don't have to be a minister and stand up here and preach and think that those are the only powerful words people need to hear. You all have powerful words in that pew that people need to hear as well. So never underestimate the power of words and what God is able to bring about through them. They don't have to be flowery. They don't have to be profound. Just memorable to someone at some time in their life. Someone once said, here I stand. Change the course of history, Barton Luther. We shall fight on the beaches. That's Churchill. Of course, he was very flowery and very profound, but we will fight on the beaches. That's short and sweet and to the point. And then we all remember, if you're born sometime in the 80s or before, Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall. There's not a whole lot of gray there, is there? Go see the prophet in Samaria. Tear down this wall. Some examples of sharing the good news. Come see a man who told me everything I ever did. What's interesting to me about this, our little prophet or our little evangelist in Syria. Sends Naaman to meet with Elisha in Samaria to meet that prophet. The woman at the well is in Samaria She invites her town folks to meet the prophet Jesus right there at the well. Both ladies are in the region of Samaria, both witnessing to somebody else. I think it's cool. Come see a man who told me everything I ever did. Can anything good come out of Nazareth? The answer, well come and see. Change the life. Come and see. Who do you say that I am? You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Not flowery, succinct to the point, and changes people's lives forever. Would that my Lord be with the prophet who was in Samaria? He would cure him of his leprosy. Out of the mouth of babies, out of the mouth of young people, come unfiltered truth. No wonder Jesus did not want his disciples to hinder the mothers from bringing their children to him. Compared to the disciples, at times the children made more sense. The Holy Spirit was speaking in that little girl's life, and she had the courage to tell the truth. Don't ever think that God can't use you to touch another life. Who else would he use if he has chosen to use you? As God reminded Moses, so he reminds us. It's he who makes the mouth, and it is he who will give the word of words when needed. Anyway, off Naaman goes to Samaria. With his master's letter in hand and his lute in hand, Naaman meets up with Jehoram, the king of Israel. And Jehoram, as you read, and as I read to you, is not pleased with what he sees or he's hearing. The king of Syria in his letter is implying that it is Jehoram who has the power to heal. King Jehoram is thinking that the king of Syria is basically picking a fight. Interestingly, that in his travel to Israel, and Naaman's been there before, where he took the little girl, He meets with Israel's king, Jehoram, and who seems to have no clue to the working of Israel's God or his prophets. The king of Israel seems to have no clue to the working of God and his prophets. Our little servant girl in a faraway land knew all about him, both God and the prophet. Living in a holy land then and now does not make one a true child of Abraham. Just like today, going to church does not make one a true child of God. So this first meeting with the king of Israel does not go well. And I'm sure Naaman is confused. But then Elisha intervenes upon hearing of Naaman's visit and invites Naaman to visit him. And so Naaman travels to Elisha's house, and things go from bad to worse. For Elisha sends his servant to respond to Naaman's knock on the door. So imagine this scene. A powerful dignitary or a famous person comes to your house. Let's say, I don't know, Tiger Words, Donald Trump. If he was living Elvis Presley or Cary Grant. If they were alive and they came to your door, well Tiger and Donald R , and you stay at your desk, finish reading a book or maybe sending an email. And with a ho -hum, you just send one of your servants to the door. We probably would have run to the door. Some of you, especially if it was Elvis. But we'd probably run to the door. Greet the person. Not Elisha. He says his servant. Talk about a humbling experience. Talk about a slap in the face. Talk about exactly what God, the great physician, has ordered for Naaman to begin tearing down the pride of his heart. But not only did he not meet and greet Naaman, but then he gives Naaman instructions again through the servant to go to the Jordan River and wash. You've seen that, you've read that There's no faith-healing event, no waving of the hand over the leprosy, no incantation, just go wash. Naaman thinks, I can take a bath at home Our rivers are bigger. Our rivers are better, and they are. He's thinking, are you serious? Go wash and this little river? By the way, the Jordan is a little river, widthwise. I'm out of here is what he said. I'm out of here, guys. Unfulfilled expectations also can cast a huge shadow over our lives. But Naaman basically says, I'm out of here. Well, he responds like you and I might respond, put out , out of joint. He's being disrespected or ashamed. He's very angry. So rather than do as Elisha says, we see where Naaman begins to pack up his toys to go home. But before he can carry out this plan to return home, did you catch it another servant? nameless servant gives him some sound advice and encourages him to follow Elisha's instructions. This is the second time that a servant has given a word of advice or instruction to Naaman. The second time a nameless servant has given instruction to Naaman. And how do we see God working out this purposes in this man's life? Well, God simply won't let Naaman go. He won't let Naaman quit. He is going to show Naaman that there is a God in Israel and Elisha is his prophet. And that God is relentless in his pursuit of those he claims at his own. And once God grabs hold, there is no Letting go. He's the hound of heaven, and he's after his prey. And as it was with Jonah, so it is with Naaman. The word of the Lord comes to him a second time. And maybe sitting here today, some of you could say, you know, the word of the Lord did come to me a second time or a third time or a fourth time. And then you finally perked up, listen that it was meant for you. The word of the Lord came to Naaman a second time. Merciful, gracious. What a wonderful opportunity for him to respond. So, somewhat reluctantly and not fully convinced of what he's doing, Naaman goes down and washes and dips seven times in the Jordan, and he comes out cleansed. of his leprosy, and with that the beginning of the cleansing from his pride. Afterwards he comes back from his washing, you can read, and he confesses to Elisha The knows now that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. The little girl knew that a long time ago, but now Naaman now knows what she knows, that there is no other God on the earth. He's a new man, a changed man. He's a converted man. A man who once had the shadow of leprosy clinging to him, now has it lifted off his heart and off of his life. Began with a young girl's hope and a plea. When Naaman came back home, I wonder, did she now have another father in the faith? A master, yes, but maybe another father in the faith because she has lost her first father. She was used by God to change Naaman's life and undoubtedly to some degree probably changed the course of the kingdom of Syria because commander of the army, this young little girl. Dark shadow was lifted off of Naaman's life. Well, dark shadows, well, we have all experienced them, haven't we? And some of you are experiencing one even now. Something that weighs upon you, casting a shadow over everything. You feel it crushing you and you can't see a way of escape. And it's eating you up on the inside. And you have no hope. And you also hope no one else can see your struggle. Of course, what we forget when we go through dark shadows. And so we all have dark shadows at one time or another, each of us struggling in our own dark shadow in our life's journey. Dark shadows are not unique to any one person. They're just unique differently in how we handle them or how they come upon us. But we all have them together. Name of Dark Shadow was his leprosy. What could be yours this morning? What could be mine this morning? Sickness? Your family, maybe you Unreconciled relationships. Unconverted family members. Those are dark shadows sometimes. They weigh heavily on our lives Fear of failure, fear of death, fear of loneliness, job loss, gnawing anger or bitterness over some wrong, real or imagined, they Oppress us. Dark shadows are a part of life because we are fallen, sinful creatures, who long ago exchanged light for darkness. Dark shadows can also be encouraging because we know actually, if you're a Christian, you have a dark shadow because God is wanting to bring you through that. If there were no dark shadows, maybe you wouldn't be a Christian. But it's those dark shadows that make us want to change and make us want to cry out for God. But we were sinful creatures exchanging the lie for the truth, the light for the darkness. What's the good news? We no longer have to go to the prophet in Samaria for help. We uh and we can now turn to the greater prophet , priest and king, we can now turn to Jesus. The greater Elisha. Jesus Christ who invites the weary and the heavy laden to come to him that we might find rest for our souls. And who here does not need rest this morning for one reason or another? I do. Probably you do too. The good news, the gospel, whether the lips from a young girl or from the lips of Jesus Himself or from your lips. That there is newness of life promised to us if we are one of his. Acts 4. 12 reminds us that there is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven by which we must be saved. If you've accepted Christ in your life as your Lord and Savior, then you belong to Him. And in Him we have one who knows all of our dark shadows. He's carried all of them to the cross, which was the darkest of all shadows. And through the cross, your dark shadow can and will be lifted in time. As the light of life begins to shine on your life, on your heart, and on your relationship. No quick fixes for dark shadows. It takes four, five, six minutes for the sun and the moon to separate and the light to come back. But in time, the dark shadows do dispel. So just in closing, I want to mention that Naaman's healing came through the simple witness of a young servant girl, God's little herald. She shared the gospel as only she knew how. This was her one and only distinction in this story. She had faith and she let it be known that's really all God expected of her, but the whole story hinges on her simple word of witness. Naaman's healing is a great story, a wonderful example of God's power and mercy. But it never would have happened without the courage of that unknown Israelite slave girl who spoke a word of testimony to the God of Israel. And for Naaman, that meant a new life forevermore. And who knows, but this week you will have a word of testimony as well. Maybe that life will never be the same again. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you as people who are sinners and uh sin daily. And so, yes, Father, we have dark shadows in our life. Some of them we cause ourself. Some of them are caused by others. Some of them are caused by the circumstances of life. But ultimately, as you know the sun and the moon and the courses that they take, you also know the courses of our life. You also are very much aware of not only uh the hair and our head, uh, but you're also aware of our dark shadows. I pray, Father, that we can take encouragement from this little girl's life and the resulting change of life to Naaman. Thank you so much for the boldness of Elisha. Thank you so much for your word that was established in Israel and has become the legacy of our church today. We pray that through all things that we can trust in you to take care of us, that we can trust you even when we can't always trace you. May we be your people. May we strive to be your people each and every day. In Christ's name. Amen.