Those of you who are here just to hear that song may leave at this time. That 's beautiful. I know my wife uh when she Realized it was gonna be sung today. She's in the nursery. She was very upset. But uh I'll tell her how it went Second Corinthians chapter one is our scripture reading this morning. Second Corinthians chapter one We'll read just the first seven verses. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother, to the church of God, which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in all Achaia. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies. and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble. With the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also abounds through Christ Now, if we are afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effective for enduring the same sufferings which we also suffer Or if we are comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. And our hope for you is steadfast, because we know that as you are partakers of the sufferings, So also you will partake of the consolation. Let's pray. Focus our minds and hearts now, Father. Feed us from your word, and I ask specially that you would Would comfort those who are in sorrow, those who are in tribulation, in affliction here and now. Comfort them through your word, we ask. Christ. Amen. Well, physical afflictions, personal heartaches, the loss of someone we love. The many and varied trials and tribulations that attend our pilgrimage on this sin-plagued planet. Leave each one of us at one time or another in need of comforting. Jesus told us it would happen. He said, In the world you shall have tribulation. Puritan author John Trapp put it this way: God has one son without sin, but none without sorrow. If you are not entertaining a deep sorrow in your heart now, you can expect one to come calling before your trips around the sun have ended. And it's quite likely that you know someone who is in need of comforting. Bill Seidel comes to mind and his daughter. Uh in some ways, even this point on our calendars, uh with uh Christmas and New Year's Day behind us. can be deflating and can put us in need of some encouragement. So I thought it might be good to devote our time this morning to meditating on the comfort of God. The Apostle Paul wrote: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and God of all comforts. Who comforts us in all our tribulation. Think about that. It's quite an astounding truth to try to get your head wrapped around that the creator of all that we see and all that we don't see The infinite sovereign God of the universe is a God who can be described as a God of comfort. A God who comforts his children. Psalm 9. The Lord will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble. King David wrote, You number my wanderings, put my tears into your bottle. Are they not in your book? Psalm 56 God is our refuge and strength of every present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear, even though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Psalm forty-six. More terrifying than finding myself in a in a position where Uh there 's terrestrial cataclysm all around me. And uh the earth is being removed and the mountains are being carried into the midst of the sea, and everything is in it is uh uh an uproar. I actually had a dream uh this week, uh last week. Uh and I was looking out the window and there were mountains there. I don't know where I was and and the mountains started to to sink into the ground and it was moving in my direction. And of course I'm looking back, where do I go now? And uh it was a terrifying thing. The psalmist says, therefore we will not fear, even though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. When we remember God is my refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. And yes, even if I'm swallowed up into the earth, I'm only being carried up into the arms of God. We read in Psalm 103, as a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him. He pities those who fear him. The Lord said through the prophet Isaiah, as one whom his mother comforts, so will I comfort you. What a contrast to the distant God that so many imagine. Note that God's comfort is directed primarily towards his children. It's not his practice to comfort the unbeliever. For comfort is not the unbeliever's deepest need, is it? Comfort is not the unbeliever's deepest need. His deepest need is to have uh His need of forgiveness, his need of salvation, revealed to him. His greatest need is to see his sin and his danger God had no comforting words for Sodom or Nineveh. The message was flee from the wrath to come. Jesus had no words of comfort for the Pharisees. Serpents, brood of vipers. How can you escape the condemnation of hell? he said. It's true that even when dispensing his justice, God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Their stubbornness and stiff-necked resistance grieves him. As Jesus was grieved over Jerusalem. But God's blessed comfort is reserved for his own. It is those who fear him. That the Lord pities. He's near to them of a contrite heart. When Jesus sent the comforter, he sent him to his children, to his disciples. I shared before that uh after the Lord brought me and my wife uh Donna to faith in Christ, and it was uh summer, uh well actually the winter, sorry, of 1971. Uh we began to worship in uh a church called the Orlando Bible Church, Orlando, Florida. And uh m my father was not a believer and we were praying for him and we encouraged our pastor at the time, uh Hayes Minnick was his name, to visit my dad and and uh at a temple to uh break through the hard shell that was there. And uh and uh Pastor Minick did that. And I think I was coming home when Pastor Minnik was leaving the house. I I remember seeing seeing him there. And uh and I my father told me later that uh before he left, Pastor Minnick uh I I think uh said to Dad or prayed for Dad that uh that God would give him no rest until he found his his way Rest in the Lord. And I remember my dad saying, The nerve of that guy. I have a hard enough time sleeping, and now I got a pastor praying. But I'm gonna get no rest. But of course, uh the Lord says, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. The goal is to find a rest in him. Among all believers, who are the particular objects of God's comfort? Who are those for whom God's comfort is exceptionally Sweet. Well, first of all, those who are troubled, those who are troubled in spirit, those who are troubled in heart, those who are troubled in mind, in the multitude of my anxieties within me, your comfort delights my soul. Psalm 94, 19. In the multitude of my anxieties within me, your comfort delights my soul. And Jesus spoke these words to his anxious disciples, let not your heart Be troubled, your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. Are you anxious, full of care? Then you're one whom the Father particularly delights to comfort. designs to comfort. The Apostle Peter urges you to cast all your care upon him, for he cares for you. 1 Peter 5. 7. And then God seeks to comfort those who are aggrieving for their sins. After dishonoring God and disgracing the kingdom by his relationship with another man's wife. And then his vile and desperate attempts to cover his sin. Of repentance, King David declared, You do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it. You do not delight in burnt offering The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise. Are you here today grieving for sin? Run to your Father for comfort. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red as crimson, they shall be as wool. Isaiah 118. Who else is God delight to comfort? Well, the oppressed. But you have seen, for you observe trouble and grief to repay it by your hand. The helpless commits himself to you. You are the helper of the fatherless. Psalm 10, verse 14. Those who are oppressed, God delights to comfort. The poor and the needy. For you have been a strength to the poor, a strength to the needy in his distress. Isaiah 25, 4 The believer who's been deserted. When my father and mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up. Psalm 27, 10. Those in declining years. Listen to me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel who have been upheld by me from birth. Who have been carried from the womb, even to your old age I am he, and even to gray hairs I will carry you. Isaiah forty-six And then of course those grieving the loss of loved ones. He heals the broken in heart. Psalm 147, verse 3. That passage in Isa in uh first Thessalonians four. Uh why don't we turn there? First Thessalonians four It was written for our comfort. First Thessalonians 4, look at verse 13. But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who've fallen asleep. Those who died, lest you sorrow as elders who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus For this we say to you by the word of the Lord that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, with a trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. So don't sorrow as those who have no hope. Those you love who've died in the Lord will rise again. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. Therefore, comfort one another with these words. Isaiah prophesied of the Messiah, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me. To preach good tidings to the poor. He sent me to heal the brokenhearted. And then God delights to comfort those who are in any trouble. He comforts us in all our tribulation, our scripture reading says. Now, what is the means of God's comfort? How does he comfort us? It's nice to read that he's a comforting God. that he cares about us, but how does he comfort us? Well first of all, through the Holy Spirit, who indwells us. He comforts us. Jesus told his disciples, I will pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter. I'm comforting you while I'm in your presence, but he will give you another comforter that he may abide with you forever. The Spirit of truth. He dwells with you and he will be in you. I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you. Wait a minute, I thought you were leaving. I will come to you in the presence of my spirit. My spirit will be in you. I will come to you. I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you. How does God comfort us? He comforts us first of all through his Holy Spirit who indwells us, who lives inside of us. And those of you who have lost loved ones as believers in Christ, you know the comfort. that God gives to your heart. He indwells us. It's uh it's a very difficult thing to explain, but if you've experienced it, you know what I'm saying. God God comforts us on the in the inner man and the inner person. I experienced that comfort when my father died about twenty five years ago now and when my mom died earlier this year. It's a comfort that God's spirit gives to us in our hearts Some of you are experiencing that comfort now. Puritan Walter Craddock wrote, The greatest difference that I know in all the book of God between saints and sinners is that the one has the Spirit and the other has not. God comforts us secondly through other believers How does God comfort his children? He comforts us through his Holy Spirit inside of us, indwelling us, the comforter who lives inside, and he also comforts us through brothers and sisters in Christ. Comfort each other and edify one another, Paul wrote, just as you also are doing. 1 Thessalonians 5. Today we do it not only through Comforting words when we're physically present, but we do it through cards and notes and texts and phone calls. Comfort one another. You're called by God to be a comforter, Christian. Comfort your brethren. That's the responsibility of Christians in general, and it's the responsibility of ministers in particular. God said to Isaiah, Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, speak comfortably to Jerusalem. He who prophesies, Paul said, speaks edification and exhortation and comfort to men. The pastor is called not just to exhort and edify or build up, but to comfort. Paul believed that even his afflictions were so that he might become a better comforter to those to whom he ministered. We read it this morning. Now, if we are afflicted, when he says we, he means me. If we are afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. It's for your consolation and salvation Then God comforts us, of course, through the scriptures. How does he comfort us through his Holy Spirit living inside of us, through fellow believers, through ministers in particular? And he comforts us through his word. For whatever things were written before were written for our learning, that we, through the patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. Romans 15, 4. Through the patience and comfort. Now the scriptures are not patience. The scriptures give us patience, right? Through the patience and the comfort of the scriptures. Paul's talking about the comfort that the scriptures give us. As we read them, as we meditate upon them. Unless thy law had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has given me life. Psalm 119. Now, there are at least six ways that the word ministers comfort to us, at least six that come to my mind. First of all, when we read that God is aware of our sorrows. That comforts me just to read that God is aware of my sorrows. And the Lord said to Moses, I have surely seen the oppression of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry. Because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. Exodus three. Comforts us just to know from God's word that He's aware of the believer's sorrows. He knows precisely What you are going through, Christian. It's said that many years ago King Edward of England visited the town of Norwich to lay the foundation stone of a new hospital. Thousands of schoolchildren greeted the king and sang for him. Soon after the king had passed the multitude of children, a teacher saw a little girl crying. Why are you crying? Did you not see the king? The little girl sobbed out. Yes, but please teach her, the king did not see me Our King sees us. He's aware of our plight. I know their sorrows. Our King sees us. And then the word comforts us when we read that he not only sees us, but he empathizes with us. In all their affliction, he was afflicted, the scripture says. For the Lord will not cast off forever, though he causes grief, yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies, for he does not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men. Lamentations three. The great 19th century Baptist preacher C. H. Spurgeon knew what it meant to be afflicted. He suffered from gout. He described it in his autobiography as uh He said that uh arthritis is like uh you take uh put your hand in a vise and you turn it as far as you can turn it. And uh that's arthritis. He said, then you turn it a little further. And that's gout. He said. He suffered from gout. He once wrote, It is a great mercy to be able to change sides when lying in bed. Did you ever try to turn and find yourself quite helpless? Did did others lift you and by their kindness only reveal to you the miserable fact that they must lift you back again at once into the old position, for bad as it was, it was preferable to any other? It is a great mercy to get one hour's sleep at night. Some of us know what it is, night after night, to long for slumber and find it not. Oh, how sweet has an hour's sleep been when it has interposed between long stretches of pain. He wrote this on Lamentations 3. 33. The verse that says, He doth not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men. From our Lord's words we learn that there is a limit to affliction. Its ultimate end is restrained, and it cannot go beyond a specific point. Lazarus passed through death, but death was not to be the final result of his affliction. The Lord says to the waves of pain, you may go no farther. God does not send destruction, but he does send instruction to his people. Wisdom hangs the thermometer at the furnace mouth and regulates the heat. The God of Providence limits the time, manner, intensity, repetition, and effects of all our trials. Each sanctifying result is eternally purposed. Nothing, great or small, escapes the watchful eye of him who numbers the hairs of our heads. This limit is wisely adjusted to our strength. Affliction is not haphazard. The weight of every stroke of the rod is accurately measured. He who made no mistakes in balancing the clouds and the heavens commits no errors in measuring the ingredients which compose the medicine of souls. We cannot suffer too much or be relieved too late. The limit is tenderly appointed. The knife of the heavenly surgeon never cuts deeper than is absolutely necessary. When we consider how stubborn we are, it's a wonder that we are not afflicted with worse trials. He who has fixed the bounds of our habitation has also fixed the bounds of our tribulation. No mother is more compassionate than our gracious God, no father more loving than our merciful God. The Word of God comforts us when we read of our Lord Jesus Christ having compassion on the multitude, weeping at the tomb of Lazarus, entering in to the sorrow of his friends Mary. Why was he weeping at the tomb of Lazarus? He was about to raise Lazarus from the dead. He was entering into the sorrow of Mary and Martha. Our high priest is not detached from human emotion. He sympathizes with our weaknesses. He was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Hebrews four fifteen. What a comfort to know that when God became flesh and dwelt among us, he could weep with us and weep for us. Arthur Pink noted, this compassion is an excellence peculiar to the living God, for the heathen deities are represented as being so cruel and ferocious that even their own worshippers regard them as objects of dread. But remember godly Simeon in uh the temple who said uh who uh the scripture says of Simeon there in Luke 2 that he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Waiting for the consolation of Israel. And then the Word of God comforts us when we read that God is all-knowing. All-powerful. The word of God comforts us when we realize that God is sovereign. That everything that comes is coming through his hand. That he works all things after the counsel of his own will. Ephesians 1:11. Does it not give you comfort when you contemplate that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose? For whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Jesus said, not a sparrow falls without your father, and you are of more value than many sparrows. How intolerable would the dungeon have been for Joseph if he had not believed that God was in control of his life and that God had a plan and a purpose for his life? John Bunyan continued to preach even when he was ordered to be silent, and he was cast into prison, evidently ending his usefulness. Corey Tenboom and her family for the crime of trying to save Jews from the Nazis were sent to the concentration camp at Ravensbrook and suffered indescribable horrors. But of course, Joseph became God's instrument to save his people through famine. Bunyan imprisoned, silenced Roe Pilgrim's Progress, reaching more souls than his preaching ever could. Pori Tenboom lived to speak and write of God's sustaining grace, and the thing is people believed her when she wrote, There is no pit so deep that God is not there. They believed her because of what she had been through. The shuttles of his purpose move to carry out his own design. Seek not too soon to disapprove his work, nor yet assign Dark Mogivs when with silent tread you view some somber fold. For lo, within each darker thread, there twines a thread of gold. Christian, does it not give you comfort to think that God is all knowing, all powerful, and in control of even what we call chance events. The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. Proverbs 1633. And he oversees even the evil acts of men. Joseph said to his brothers, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. One old saint put it this way, it is one heart-quieting consideration in all the afflictions that befall us that God has a special hand in them. The Almighty has afflicted me. Instruments can no more stir till God gives them a commission than the axe can cut by itself without a hand. Job eyed God in his affliction. Therefore, as St. Augustine observes, he does not say the Lord gave and the devil took away, but the Lord has taken away. Whoever brings an affliction, noted Thomas Watson, it is God that sends it. Whoever brings an affliction, it is God. God that sends it. Who has made man's mouth, or who makes the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Have not I, the Lord? Exodus 4. 11. Satan intended Paul's thorn in the flesh to be a messenger from him to buffet Paul. I'll teach Paul. I'll give him a thorn in the flesh. I'll give him this uh this physical trial. That will drive them uh uh uh to despair. Uh Satan had his own intention for it, but God had another intention for it. God permitted it in order to keep Paul humble, to keep him relying upon the Lord, to keep reminding him of what his life was like before God graciously said. Saved him. Keep reminding him of his own weakness, his own flesh, lest he should be exalted above measure by the abundance of revelations that God had committed To him, 2 Corinthians 12. It was permitted for Paul's own good and for God's glory. So what a blessing to contemplate that nothing can come to you unless it's been filtered through God's loving hand. You remember that example of Roland Bingham, the founder of the Sudan Interior Mission. At the age of 60, he was in a serious car accident. A number of his bones were broken, his head was severely cut. He came to consciousness the next day in the hospital and he asked the nurse what he was doing there. Be very quiet, for you've been in a frightful accident. Accident. Accident? There are no accidents in the life of a Christian. This is an incident. So we take we find comfort in the Word of God as we read that God's sovereign. But then in a similar vein, we're comforted not only knowing that God is sovereign But we're comforted by the word when we read that God uses affliction and tribulation and trials in our life to strengthen us, to teach us, to conform us to Christ. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. Psalm 119. Luther said, Affliction is the Christian's theologian. Affliction is the Christian's theologian. I never knew the meaning of God's word until I came into affliction, he said. My temptations have been my masters in divinity. No man without trials and temptations can attain a true understanding of the Holy Scripture. Wow. No man without trials and temptations can I walked a mile with pleasure. She chatted all the way, but left me none the wiser for all she had to say. I walked a mile with sorrow, and ne'er a word, said she. But oh the things I learned from her when sorrow walked with me Christian, don't fear suffering. You may, like Job, know God much better when the suffering has ended. And then the Word of God gives us comfort when we read of the joy that is set before us. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us, Paul said. The sufferings of this present time, whether it's 70 years, 80 years, 90 years, the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. And so it's profitable to think about heaven at times of sickness or after the loss of a loved one. It comforts us to meditate on the time when the tabernacle of God is with men and he will dwell with them. They shall be his people. God himself shall be with them and be their God. God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain. Or the former things have passed away. Revelation 21. What comfort the contemplation of heaven gives the child of God when he or she is facing death. Richard Baxter wrote, If a man that is desperately sick today did believe that he should arise sound the next morning, or a man today in despicable poverty had assurance that he should arise tomorrow, a prince. Would they be afraid to go to bed? Let thy hope of heaven master thy fear of death, said William Gurnal. Why should you be afraid to die who hope to live by dying? Of course we don't look forward to the process of dying, but as one uh seventeenth century preacher put it, think of death as only a grim servant to let us into a stately palace. , Knock on the door, the grim servant comes, yes. What is it? He's just there to usher you into a stately palace. You don't look forward to the grim servant. You look forward to the stately palace. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Psalm 16. Well, there's certainly other ways the scripture comforts us as in the examples of God working in the lives of his people for their good. The example of David, of Abraham, of Daniel, of Jeremiah, Hannah, etc. But clearly the Word of God is a major source of comfort for the Christian if only we would read it. Right? It doesn't comfort us just by being in our home. Now, what is the result of God's comfort? Not only does it bless our souls, but he comforts us that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble. with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. In other words, God's comfort doesn't end with you, Christian. It enables you to better comfort others. One way God comforts us is through fellow believers, as we said. One old Christian gives this advice, Do you wonder why you're passing through some special sorrow? Wait till ten years are past, and you will find many others afflicted as you are. You will tell them how you have suffered and have been comforted. And then in the eager look and the gleam of hope that shall chase the shadow of despair across the soul, you will know why you were afflicted. And bless God for the discipline that stored your life with such a fund of experience and helpfulness. Christian, will you be a comfort to anyone this week? Will you be a comfort to anyone this year? One final thought. Whatever pains you may endure in this life, whatever trials you may face, our Lord Jesus has taken that road before you. And he says to his followers, You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house there are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. If I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. Where I am, there you may be also. I cannot know why suddenly the storm should raise so fiercely round me in its wrath, but this I know, God watches all my path, and I can trust I may not draw aside the mystic veil that hides the unknown future from my sight, nor know if for me waits the dark or light. But I can trust. I have no power to look across the tide to see while here the land beyond the river, but this I know, I shall be God's forever. So I can trust Trust. If you've not yet repented of your sins and laid hold upon this God of all comfort, I pray that this might be the day of salvation for you. How does that take place? God, I'm a sinner and I know it. God forgive me. It takes place when the Spirit of God begins to work in your heart and brings to your mind your sin and you see it as vile, despicable and and something to to uh to run from, to flee from, and you come to God as a little child, saying, God forgive me Forgive me and save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Make me a new creation. Let this be a new year for me. Let this be a new life for me. God forgive me Me, save me, give me this eternal life. Be my father, be my God, be my comforter. You come to God that way. He promises in his word. He'll forgive all your sins. He'll accept you as as his child. He'll be adopted into his family. And you'll be there forevermore. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what uh peace and joy it gives us to think of you as the God of all comfort, the one who comforts us in all our tribulation. We don't know what Trials are awaiting us in this new year. We know there will be trials and afflictions and tribulations. But Lord, we know that you will be with us, or you have said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Thank you for that. Continue with us now as we approach your table, We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Would you stand with me and let's sing