Anything happening up here? There we go. Good to be back with you. Uh we were at a wedding uh last weekend in uh Charlotte. My brother Ken's uh oldest daughter was Mary. We got to see our a lot of family members, including our son who lives in uh Washington State. He and his wife and four boys uh flew out uh both for the wedding wedding and for a uh a family vacation. And uh it was great to see them. We haven't seen them in about uh eighteen months, so it's little kids are getting bigger and great to great to get together with them We're going to dismiss the little ones now, children uh four years old through second , not a moment too soon, uh, for the uh Wonders of Worship program downstairs. uh led by uh this month by Denise uh Madden and Maxine Saylor. And if you'll open your Bibles please to the Gospel of Mark chapter 14. We're going to resume our study of Mark. This morning, Lord willing. Mark chapter fourteen. I'd like to begin in verse fifty-three. And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him Were assembled all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. But Peter followed him at a distance right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he sat with the Servants and warmed himself at the fire. None. For many bore false witness against him, but their testimonies did not agree. Then some rose up and bore false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple made with hand. But not even then did their testimony agree. And the high priest stood up and said In the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What is it these men testify against you? But he kept silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, saying to him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Jesus said, I am, and you will see the Son of the Blessed of man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we have of witnesses? You've heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him to be deserving of Of death. Then some began to spit on him and to blindfold him and to beat him and to say to him, Prophesy! And the officers struck him with the palms of their hands. Now, as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came. And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also. were with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you're saying. And he went out went out on the porch and a rooster cried Road. And the servant girl saw him again and began to say to those who stood by, This is one of them. But he denied it again. And a little later Those who stood by said to Peter again, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean, and your speech shows it. Then he began to curse and swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak. A second time the rooster crowed. Then Peter called to mind the word that Jesus had said to him: Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. O Father, we are utterly dependent upon you to speak to us through your word. You have breathed it out, you have inspired it, but Now we ask for your Holy Spirit to apply it to our hearts and accomplish eternal things inside each one of us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane, where he had gone to pray after leaving the upper room. Where the Sanhedrin, the seventy religious leaders of Israel, assembled to try him, to put him on trial. In our last message from Mark's Gospel, we We sat as observers at that sham trial, a trial that began with a verdict and the sentence having already been determined. The purpose of the trial Trial was simply to discover a crime, supported by witnesses, hopefully, which could justify the previously agreed upon sentence of death. Religious leaders were unable to find two witnesses whose testimony agreed. So in frustration, the high priest sought the help of the eternal Do you answer nothing? What is it? What is it these men witness against you? But he, Jesus, kept silent And answered nothing. Again, the high priest asked him, saying to him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Well, that was all they needed. That was more than they needed. This carpenter from obscure Nazareth in the Galilean hills was claiming to be the long-awaited Messiah, the Son of God, the ruler of Israel. The entire body of the Sanhedrin, the Supreme Court of the Israelites, had heard this statement. They were no longer in need of witnesses. This supposed prophet had foolishly incriminated himself. There was no specific charge. There had been no reliable witnesses. Had Jesus simply remained Tactic. But as if oblivious to the fact that no evidence had been presented which could lead to a justifiable death sentence, the accused in Explicit inexplicably, it must have seemed to those there , assisted the prosecution. He declared in terms as clear as language could make them that he was the Messiah. The one promised for centuries that he was the very Son of God who would one day judge the nations. What a dramatic turn of events. If Jesus remains silent, he must be acquitted. If he explains the origin of the false charges that were being brought against him, in other words, what he actually said And what he meant when he said it, again, he must be acquitted. Especially given the fact that they had not uh found two witnesses whose testimony agreed. They might be able to remember what he said said but they couldn't remember when he said it, where what the event was, what day it was, whatever their their testimony could not would not agree. Seems to me the only way the accused prisoner could have been found guilty at this point with a charge that would satisfy the more fair-minded of the 70 It was for him to do what he did, for him to commit what these men believed to be a crime worthy of death in their very presence. And these religious rulers knew That for Jesus to declare himself to be the long-awaited Son of God, the one who would sit upon David's throne, David's son, yet David's Lord, that was blasphemy. Unless, of course He was who he claimed to be, and it seems that the court dismissed that idea as just patently ludicrous. And blasphemy, according to God's civil law, was a crime deserving of death. Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we have of witnesses? You've heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. And so, verse 65. Some began to spit On him and blindfold him and beat him and say to him, Prophesy, you're a prophet! Who is it who's striking you? The officers struck him with the palms of their hands. But while Jesus was being tried, falsely condemned for blasphemy, not far away, Peter was facing his own trial. Trial of sorts, a trial that he would fail miserably, a trial that would culminate in real blasphemy. A few hours before, Peter had confidently asserted Asserted that even if all the other disciples stumbled, he would not. Though all men forsake you, yet I will never forsake you, he said to Jesus. Of course, Jesus, foreseeing the tragic scene that was now playing out in the courtyard of the high priest, disabused Peter of his misplaced confidence Jesus said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. Instead of being humbled by Christ's Sobering prophecy, the apostle spoke even more vehemently. If I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And indeed, in the Garden of Gethsemane, when When a great company of soldiers came to take his master away, Peter played the man. He took up his sword to uh resist the arrest of his lord, John 18:10. Taking A swing at the nearest neck, he succeeded in cutting off the ear of a young man named Malchus, who was a servant of the high priest. But Jesus, you'll remember, rebuked Peter told him to put the sword back in its sheath, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword, he said. And then he reached forth and healed Malchus, Luke chapter twenty-two. And he reminded Peter, don't you understand, Peter? Even at this point, I could pray to my father, and he would immediately provide. uh legions of angels, thousands of angels for my defense. But then the scriptures which foretold of my arrest and crucifix Could not be fulfilled. Peter in the garden with the sword in hand, willing single-handedly, it appears, to defend his Lord against a great multitude. With swords and clubs did not seem at all likely to deny the Lord three times that very night. As Jesus was led away, he followed him him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest, where he sat and warmed himself at the fire. Perhaps uh to be mistaken for uh one of the servants of one of those prominent men who was were even now sitting in judgment of the Nazarene. But someone took notice of him Verse 66. Now, as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came, and when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus was of course widely known, and this servant girl had evidently seen Peter with Jesus. Perhaps perhaps she was with her master, the high priest. As he went to hear the prophet from Galilee teach in the temple. If he did so, he went for the purpose of uh gathering evidence against him. And she recognized Peter To be among the prophets' inner circle, you also were with Jesus of Nazareth. The undue attention was the last thing that Peter wanted. He clearly hoped at this point to learn The fate of his master without sharing in it, and he seems to have been immediately struck with fear. If Peter had been identified as the follower of Christ and reported to the one who shortly before had taken off the ear of one of the servants of the high priest. If not, surely Malthus would have remembered his would be ex Executioner, Peter's presence in the courtyard could be viewed as a threat to the high priest, and prison or death might await him if he were to be positively identified. So Peter responded as each of us is tempted to respond when we're accused of something that could bring negative consequences to us, whether we did it or not verse sixty eight. But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you are saying. And he went out on the porch and a rooster came Crow. I don't know what you're saying. I don't even understand it. I I don't know what you're talking about. Jesus of Nazareth? Who is this? I I don't know what Jesus of Nazareth. I just stopped by to warm myself on a cold night. I saw a fire. But things were getting a bit too warm for Peter there, so he went out on a porch. Verse 69. And the servant girl saw him again, and began to say to those who stood by, This is one of them. But he did not Denied it again. And a little later those who stood by said to Peter, Again, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean. This plucky servant girl, confident that she knew this stranger's secret, didn't let the matter drop. She brought in some bystanders. This This is one of them. But Peter denied it again. Luke tells us that about an hour passed before Peter was confronted for a third time. Luke twenty twenty two fifty-nine. A little later, uh Mark tells us here in verse seventy, uh, they recognized his accent. Something about his accent. Accent. Now, if you go to Camden Yards when the Red Sox are in town , you may hear it from someone seated behind you That annoying Boston talking that warns you that a a Sox fan is nearby. You know, it's uh I think they do it just to annoy us. They don't have to talk like that. It's almost as bad as Pi Pittsburghese. It's not quite, but you know Well there was something in Peter's accent that marked him as a northerner, right? As a Galilean, somebody from the hills, from the hill. Peter had cut off, was one of those who confronted him. Did I not see you in the garden with him? With Jesus? If it was getting too warm by the fire, it was getting even hotter now. The only way Peter was going to convince them now, it seems, he concluded, was for him to get vehement about it. And two thousand years Years ago, people were doing the same thing they do now when they wanted to accentuate a point. He began to curse and swear. I do not know the man of whom you speak This was evidently sufficient to satisfy the suspicious ones there. Either Peter's forceful denial caused them to question their own recollections. Or else his cursing and swearing led them to reason something like this. Surely one of the prophets' inner circle, a follower of the one who preached humility and truthfulness, and uh trust in the providence of our Heavenly Father would not so forcefully lie about a matter of such import, we must be mistaken. We must have it wrong. Anyway, they backed off. And Peter, for the time being, was spared a rest. But of course, he was not spared the pangs of conscience For a second time. A rooster crowed. And not only that, but Luke tells us that at that very moment, as the rooster crowed, the Lord Jesus Looked at Peter, perhaps through an open doorway or open window. And Peter remembered Jesus' words. And it says, the scripture says he went out and wept Now let's attempt to drive home some truths from this passage before we move next week, the Lord willing to Jesus before Pontius Pilate First of all, consider Christ's declaration before the Sanhedrin. I remember thinking when I uh first came under conviction of sin When my brother Doug first uh shared the gospel with Donna and with me. We were uh twenty years old, we were college students, we were living in Florida at the time, Central Florida, and and uh I I thought, well, all right, I'll I'll start reading the New Testament. We had gone to church. Uh we we I knew some things about God's word. I was familiar with the Sermon on the Mount and a number of other things. So I began to read the New Testament through, and I remember thinking as I began what would have been my first complete reading of the New Testament, why does Jesus not make it crystal clear? Why do his words often seem cryptic? He speaks with parables. Why doesn't he simply declare, I'm the promised Messiah? I'm the Son of God. He talks about I'm the I'm a son of man, the Son of Man has come, this and that. Why doesn't he just say, I am the Savior, I am the seed that will bruise the serpent's head, uh, the one who was promised in the garden? Uh The one who was promised after man's tragic fall. And then as I continued to read the Gospels, and as God opened my eyes, I realized He did make it clear. He made it clear with a woman of Samaria. She said to him, I know the Messiah is coming, and when he comes he will teach us all things. And Jesus said to her, I who speak unto you am he I'm he you're talking to the Messiah right now John 4 26 he made it clear when he said not Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of God, or kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven. Matthew 7 21 He made it clear to the Jews who rejected him when he said this: You are from beneath. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. If you do not believe that I am, you will die in your sins. And when he said to them, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. And then of course they objected, Well you're not yet fifty years old, and have you seen our father Abraham? And he said to them, Most of Assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am, using the very words Jehovah used to Moses at the burning bush. When I go to the children of Israel, I say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? I am that I am. Thus shalt thou say to the children of Israel, I am hast sent me Me unto you. Jesus made it crystal clear scores of times in the New Testament, including in front of the Sanhedrin. right here. Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Couldn't even say Jehovah's name. You know, they wouldn't take his name, but they felt that was blasphemous. So they, are you the son of the blessed Son of the Blessed, I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. The Jewish Leaders will not be able to say in the day of judgment , we didn't know. He didn't make it clear. And you will not be able to say that either. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Hebrews 2. 3. Now let's turn our attention to Peter. Tragic fall. First of all, this is striking. Think for a moment of the opportunity that the Apostle Peter missed here. The opportunity to testify of Jesus to some who labored in the very household of the high priest. What an open door he had to bear witness to what he knew. The servant girl looked at him and said, You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. It was an accusation, it was a question. Answer this: Were you not with Jesus of Nazareth? Peter Could have said, are you asking me, was I with him when he healed the blind, the deaf, the lame, and the mute? Was I with him when he cast out demons from tormented men and women and gave them the peace that they had sought for so long? Are you asking me, was I with him when a desperate synagogue ruler fell before him, pleading with him to me Was I with him when he arrived at the home and we found that we were too late because the daughter had already died and the mourners were already there at the door Was I with him when he went into the child's room with her mother and father and a couple of us? And when he took the little girl by the hand and said, Talatakum Damn arise when he raised her from the dead. Was I with him then? When he when he said Said to the parents, get her something to eat. Did I witness that? Was I was I with him when he fed thousands with five loaves of bread and two fish Was I with him when he stilled a storm on the Sea of Galilee with his voice, with his word only? Are you suggesting that maybe I was with Jesus of Nazareth when he declared, I am the light of the world. I am the bread of life. I am the door into the sheepfold. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. I am the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep. Are you asking me, was I with him? When on this very night he declared in our presence that I'm the one Way the truth and the life and no one comes to the Father but by me. Is that what you're asking me? Was I with Jesus of Nazareth Yes, I was with him. I am with him. I will be with him forever and ever and ever. And my prayer for you is that you'll be with him too. And let me explain to you how you put your faith in him, you trust in him as the promised Messiah. I saw these things with my eyes, I heard these things with my ears. Yes, I was with him. What a glorious opportunity Peter missed because of his cowardice. You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. Yes, I was. And you should be He might have been instrumental in bringing the gospel message into the very household of the high priest. But instead of saying anything like that, when the Servant girl suggested he was one of those who had been with Jesus. He denied it. He lied. And then he lied again. And then he affirmed his lie with curses and oaths. First, he missed a wonderful opportunity. Christian, how many wonderful opportunities have you and I missed because of cowardice? What a wonderful opportunity. To speak words of comfort, to point this person to the Lord Jesus Christ How many wonderful opportunities have we missed? And then, second, there's a warning here and a call to humility. If the Apostle Peter, with all that he knew of Christ, with all he had experienced with Christ over the past three years, if Peter, not only one of the twelve, but one of Christ's inner circle, if Peter, who declared when he was asked by Jesus, who do you say that I am, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God? You were the Messiah. If Peter, with all that he knew and all that he experienced, could so openly, so tragically fall and deny his Lord , When challenged by a servant girl, then how quickly, how completely, how tragically could you fall or could I fall In the hour of temptation. There's a warning here for us. Peter's Paul makes it clear that knowledge of Christ, experience with Christ, intimacy. With Christ will not necessarily keep you from falling. The apostle was blessed with those things, no doubt, in far greater measure than any of us. How then, you might ask, can you be assured that in the hour of temptation you will stand? The answer is, you can't Be assured of it. Let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. First Corinthians ten twelve However, you can be assured that no temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man. This temptation is not unique to you. And you can be assured that God is faithful and he will not allow you to be tempted above that which you are able, but he will with the temptation also make a way It's not that Peter had only one choice, and his only choice was to lie and to curse and to swear. There is a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. 1 Corinthians 10 13. So How fervently this whole passage reminds us of how fervently you and I need to pray, Lord, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. If Peter could fall, then which of us can say that we couldn't possibly? How prayerfully do we need to sing? And mean it, I need thee every hour. Stay thou nearby. Temptations lose their power when thou art nigh. Peter's fall is a warning to us And thirdly, knowing the epilogue, Peter's fall is an encouragement to us. Had Christ not so graciously forgiven him and restored him and subsequently powerfully used him, we might have I've caused to wonder if he could forgive and restore us after a fall. But as Puritan Pastor William Gurnal put it, God can use the fall of the saints after As an encouragement, a drop of hope to others falling into utter despair. David's sin was great, but he found mercy. Why do you sit here, O my soul, under the control of despair? Get up and call on your God for mercy, who has so pardoned others. Restoration should be an encouragement to every one of us and to every believer who tragically falls. Just a few weeks after his cowardly denial Filled with God's Holy Spirit, Peter was proclaiming Christ to Jews in Jerusalem. About 3,000 of them were baptized that very day. Not long after that, he and his old fishing partner John were proclaiming the resurrection to the very rulers and elders and scribes, including Annas and Who had put their master to death. He who cowered before a servant girl spoke boldly to those who held his life in their hands Or thought they did. Acts 4. When commanded by the religious leaders not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus, Peter and John answered, Whether it's right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to listen to God, you're gonna have to judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. We don't have any Choice. We have to speak the things we have heard and seen. So when they further threaten them, they let them go. What are we What are we supposed to do with these guys? They're going around healing lame men. Everybody sees it and knows it. What can we do? Christian, if the Lord can so wonderfully use Peter after his fall Then you have no reason to despair that your fall means he's through with you. If we confess our sins, he is faithful in Final thought here for Christians. The time may come in our country when someone's going to point to you Point at you or me and say, This is one of them This is one of them. This is one of those discriminatory, intolerant, bigoted, homophobic, hateful, hypocritical, hell-affirming, science-denying troublemakers. You also were with Jesus. And you'll be tempted to respond, I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah, I I went to Some of those churches sometimes. Wanted to see what they were up to. Was curious. Wanted to hear what they said. That wasn't a crime. Wasn't illegal at the time. But I'm not really one of them. I never really was. How much better to respond, yes. I was with Jesus. I am with Jesus. I will be with Jesus. A final word to those who are not with Jesus. can be with Jesus. And here's how. You recognize yourself to be a sinner. You repent of your sin. God be merciful to be a sinner. And you place your faith Faith in Jesus Christ , the only one who lived a perfect life, who didn't deserve death, who went to the cross as your substitute. Who said, in effect, to the Father, Father, punish me and let them go free. You come to Him in simple faith, you transfer your trust from yourself to Him Rest in what he did for you alone. And you'll have everlasting life. Jesus said, He who believes in me has everlasting life Let's pray. Father, this tragic fall of The Apostle Peter is an example for us, a warning, an example, an encouragement. Lord, he missed a a wonderful opportunity But you gave him others, and he was powerfully used. Lord, we've missed wonderful opportunities, no doubt. Some for lack of courage But Lord, you can still use us. There are some here who have tragically fallen, who have done things that dishonored you. But you're not necessarily through with us, Lord. You are gracious and merciful. So, Lord, encourage us. Help us. Remind us of your grace. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Would you stand with me and let's