Pick up where we left off before uh Christmas sermons. Mark chapter 9. Right, and we are uh thanks kids for reminding me, we're dismissing the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. Mark chapter nine and verse uh thirty. Then they departed from there and passed through Galilee, and he did not want anyone to know it. For he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after he is killed, he will rise the third day But they did not understand this saying, and were afraid to ask him. Then he came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it you disputed among yourselves on the road? But they kept silent, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. And he sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all. Then he took a little child and set him in the midst of them. And when he had taken him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. Let's pray. Father, take your word now and apply it to every heart here, we ask. Uh not for our sakes, Lord, but that Christ might be glorified in us. We pray in his name. Amen. As a child growing up in uh northeast Baltimore, I looked forward to the time when my dad, who I had uh whom I had learned was an engineer, would uh uh take me for a ride on his train. And uh, you know, let me uh We pull that cord to make the whistle blow and maybe uh meet the kind uh conductor in the caboose with his lamp. And uh eventually I discovered to my chagrin that uh dad wasn't that kind of engineer In fact he he worked in a in an office all day and uh that explained why he didn't have one of those cool caps and he always wore a suit and tie to work and never came home with any cold dust. But For those first uh fifteen or twenty years I had it all I had it all wrong. And it's hard for us to understand on this side of the crucifixion that the disciples couldn't grasp what Jesus kept telling them. About his impending death and subsequent resurrection. Regarding the purpose of his first coming, you might say they had it all wrong. Remember, these men were not scribes or rabbis. They didn't spend all day studying the scriptures. One of them was a tax collector. One was a zealot who had been intent upon overthrowing the Roman occupiers. At least four of the twelve were fishermen. And presumably, as with most believers until after the fifteenth century, after Gutenberg invented the movable type printing, they didn't have the luxury of having their own copies of the scriptures. Which would have been, of course, cost prohibitive, and have been cost prohibitive for most of history. They were dependent upon synagogue teaching. And the teachers of Israel, the scribes and the honored rabbis, did recognize many of the prophecies of the Messiah in the Old Testament. We know, for example, that when that caravan from the east arrived in Jerusalem inquiring as to where the Messiah, the king, was to be born , the scribes had it right. They uh remembered uh Micah and they pointed the uh scribe uh they pointed the uh magi to Bethlehem. But thou Bethlehem, though thou be little amongst the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth to me, who is to be ruler of Israel, whose going forth to been from old, from everlasting. They had that one right. They knew the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. There were some things the teachers of Israel clearly perceived about the Messiah. They saw, for example, that Isaiah 9, 6 and 7, what we call Isaiah 9, 6 and 7, spoke of him. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end Upon the throne of David and over his kingdom to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward even forever. They got that right. They recognized that as the prophecy of the Messiah. They saw that Psalm 2 referred to the Messiah. The kings of the earth set themselves, the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Saying, Let us break their bands, their bonds in pieces, cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord shall hold them in derision. Then he shall speak to them in his wrath and distress them in his deep displeasure. Yet have I set my king on my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, you shall dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. The teachers of Israel saw the Messiah clearly in passages such as Isaiah 9, Psalm 2, but they seemed to miss him completely in passages such as Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22. In Isaiah 53, writing of the one he calls the servant of Jehovah, who will be exalted and extolled and very high. Isaiah describes this exalted servant of Jehovah as having no form, nor comeliness, no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way, but the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Isaiah goes on to describe this exalted servant of Jehovah as one who would be led as a lamb to the slaughter. Taken from prison and judgment, stricken for the transgressions of my people. They made his grave with the wicked, but with the rich in his death. Now we can't hear this passage knowing what we know of Christ's passion, Christ's final week, and his sacrifice for us. We can't read this passage, we can't hear this passage without seeing the Messiah in it. And it's very hard for us to understand how the scribes could miss him there Or in Psalm 22, which begins, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me? And from the words of my roaring A psalm that includes all those who see me ridicule me, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, He trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him, let him deliver him, since he delights in him. And it includes a passage, dogs have surrounded me, and the congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. R. C. Sproull writes, in the centuries before Jesus came, the rabbis completely missed what these texts were saying. They didn't conceive of applying Isaiah 52 and 53, Psalm 22, or other prophecies to the Messiah. They thought these texts applied to the nation of Israel as it passed through affliction and suffering. So when Jesus began to teach his disciples that he was going to suffer and die and rise again, it just didn't compute. They simply didn't understand it. That was so far from what they envisioned of the Messiah. And and much of what they envisioned of the Messiah was quite accurate. What they didn't understand was that he was coming twice. Like Nicodemus trying to wrap his head around Jesus' teaching of the new birth, they were thinking, how can this be? How can this be? I'm gonna go up to Jerusalem, I'll be betrayed, I'll be killed, and after three days I'll rise again. What in the world is he talking about? I thought it was a Messiah. I thought we'd clarified that. And if it was hard for those who were with Jesus every day, these men who witness his miracles , who heard his teaching firsthand. First of all, and then secondly to accept that he would suffer and die. Imagine how hard it was for those who didn't know him personally. Max Locato writes, it's easy to criticize the contemporaries of Jesus for not believing in him, but when you realize how he came, you can understand their skepticism. Jesus didn't fit their concept of the Messiah. Wrong background, wrong pedigree, wrong hometown. No Messiah would come from Nazareth. small hick one-stop light town didn't fit the Jews' notion of a Messiah. And so rather than change their notion, they dismissed him. He came as one of them. He was Jesus from Nazareth. He was Eliot from Mount Pleasant. He fed the masses with callous hands. He raised the dead wearing bib overalls and a John Deere tracker cap. They expected lights and kings and chariots from heaven. What they got was sandals and sermons and a Galilean accent. And so some missed him. And so some miss him still. The people of Israel in general and the disciples in particular had it all wrong when it came to what their long-awaited Messiah would be like. Yeah, they knew he would be great and mighty, but they didn't see that his greatness and his might would be manifested most evidently, most clearly, in his humiliation and death as our substitute, as God's sacrificial lamb. They didn't see that the path of greatness in the sight of God was laying down their lives for others. They didn't see that either. As he laid down his life for us. They got that wrong too. Look at verses 33 and 34. Then he came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it you disputed among yourselves in the road? But they kept silent, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. You know, Jesus often asks questions not to gain information, but to elicit some sort of response from those he questions. In this case His question would have resulted uh in some uh soul searching on the part of the disciples, and it's not surprising no one was willing to Step forward and answer. Who would want to admit that they had just been fighting amongst themselves about uh which one would be greatest, which of them would be greatest in Christ's kingdom? whenever it was going to come, however it was going to be revealed. How unbecoming was such rivalry. Think about it. Such jockeying for position. Who were these men? They were just men who were chosen by God's grace. Their blindness was removed. They re recognized Jesus as Messiah. He called them out of their own vocations. To becoming disciples of his. These men were chosen as we were, completely by grace, through no merits of their own, out of utter obscurity. uh uh uh not because of anything in them, but by the simple grace of God, to embrace Jesus as Messiah as the believers here, those of us here who were trusting in Christ have done by God's grace alone. And then he in a sense he promoted them. He gave them this undeserved promo promotion to be Christ's disciples, to follow him, to be with him for three years. And his intention was to send them out as his apostles. Uh they uh they certainly had no reason to think that they somehow deserved uh some high position in Christ's kingdom. What grounds did they have to think any of them would necessarily hold some exalted position? Now at some point, evidently later, he would in fact reveal to them that uh one day uh the th they would sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. But at this point it seems it was quite quite presumptuous for them to assume that they would have positions of pre preeminence. Or that one of them even beyond that, that one of them might be considered the greatest Greater than all the others in Christ's kingdom. Think of how discordant this wrangling must have sounded to Christ's ears. uh the one who had just told them that he, their master, was going to suffer and die. Here they are arguing together about which of them would be the greatest. I suppose Peter had a strong argument. Hey, I'm the spokesperson for the group. He was sort of the leader. He definitely was in the running. And what about Andrew? His brother, he actually brought Peter to Christ. Doesn't that give him some preeminence Wouldn't Nathanael, also called Bartholomew, be on the short list? Jesus said of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no guile. Hey, Jesus said, I had no guile. Then there was James, son of uh Zebedee, who along with Peter and James' brother John, was often at Jesus' side. And seemed to be one of the inner circle, and of course his brother John, as we mentioned, who called himself the disciple whom Jesus loved. I wouldn't be surprised to learn that Judas Iscariot considered himself in the running, because as he might have pointed out to the others, Jesus has such confidence in me that he let me be the treasurer. Why shouldn't I be first in the kingdom? of God. Matthew, the former tax collector, Simon the former zealot, might have pointed to the great change that had uh taken place in their lives. Uh based upon the limited information we have, Philip, Thomas, Thaddeus, who is also known as the other Judas, and James, the son of Alphaeus, would have to be considered long shots in this race. Verse uh thirty-five. And he sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all. Now, if you read that verse, if you take that verse sort of out of context, there are at least two ways you might understand what Jesus meant here. He might have meant Uh sort of what what a teacher might say to a class, you know. Uh okay, okay, let's all line up for uh recess, and one little kid comes pushing his way up there and he pushes everybody away and he elbows everybody out and he gets in the very front of the line And it's just, I'm sorry, Johnny, you go to the back of the line. You know. He might be saying, look , if you force your way up, you try to be first, I'm going to make you last That's sort of the punishment for what you've uh attempted to do, uh forcing your way up, you know, jump bumping your way up in line. But secondly, here's what I believe he actually meant by these words, and I think it's supported by similar passages. If you really want to be honored in my Father's eyes, If you truly want to be, as John the Baptist was declared by Gabriel, great in the eyes of the Lord, great in the sight of the Lord, Luke 1. 15, then I will tell you the secret. Be last of all. Be servant of all. And he would later drive home the point in the upper room, remember, when he took the basin and the towel and he went around to each disciple and washed each disciple's feet. If I, your Lord and Master, wash your feet, then certainly you ought to wash one another's feet. John 13. But here, Jesus did something quite astounding. And something that I imagine will have a deep impression upon his disciples. And none would ever forget. Verse 36. Look at it. Then he took a little child and set him in the midst of them. When he had taken him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. Uh sproll notes, in in most Western cultures today, babies are considered adorable. But in the ancient world, when the mortality rate was so high that a vast number of babies who were born perished before they reached the age of five. A little child was not considered significant until he reached an age when it was likely that he would survive to maturity. So Jesus took a small child, a person who was not considered to be of great dignity, And he said to his disciples, Whoever receives this child in my name receives me. You want to be great? Great in my eyes? Great in the eyes of the Father? You want to be honored in my kingdom? Well, don't strive for power. Don't strive for authority. Don't strive for wealth and fame and prestige. If you want to be first in my sight, be the servant of all. That's what he says. You want to be first in my sight, be the servant of all Remember, I came not to be served, but to serve. I came to give my life a ransom for many. So to illustrate this, he puts a little child in their midst, takes him up in his arms, a child who would normally be considered not worthy of their time and attention. He says, I want to get these kids out of here. We're trying to do something important. He brings a little child into their midst. When you receive a child such as this little boy or little girl, you receive me. You show honor to this little child, you're showing honor to me. You receive this child, you're receiving me. You receive me, you receive him who sent me How contrary to the ways of this world was this teaching of Jesus should be quite evident to us. Where do you find uh uh the rich uh and the famous? Wherever you do, the rich, the famous, the uh The kings, the princes, the film stars, the pop sensations, the billionaires, the senators, the governors, the prime ministers. What do you find? You find people hovering around them. Trying to get an autograph, trying to get a photograph taken, trying to get some uh benefit from them. If you were driving in Baltimore or uh DC and you saw a park limousine and a and a circle of people uh holding up their cell phones, you know, and everybody trying to get a picture, uh you would know that there was some sort of a sports icon or a powerful political leader, a film star, or a grumpy cat The source of commotion would surely not be a homeless person pushing a shopping cart, or an unknown child just pulling a wagon, or a sanitation worker carrying uh a can of trash. Jesus said, You want to be great in my father's eyes? You want to be honored in my kingdom? Uh don't butter up to the powerful. Don't aspire to fame and fortune. Don't uh Don't try to be great in the world's eyes. Rather serve others. Serve all. Serve even the weakest. Serve even the children. Minister to the child as if you were ministering to me. Serve the weak. Don't seek what the world calls greatness. In Matthew eighteen he puts it this way Whoever humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Now let me try to try to drive home just the two major truths that I see in this passage. First of all, obviously as we mentioned, Jesus wanted his disciples to understand that he was going to have to suffer and die in Jerusalem. We've seen it several times now in Mark. He's he's giving them this information. They can't uh understand it. It it does not compute and they don't know w what to make of it. He wanted his disciples to understand that he was going to have to suffer and die in Jerusalem. He didn't come to earth merely to teach and to heal and perform miracles. He came to offer himself as a sacrifice, to satisfy divine justice, to reconcile us to God. It was this sacrifice to which he continually pointed. I am the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep. The Son of Man has come to give his life a ransom for many. Greater love has no one than this: that a man lay down his life for his friends. He pointed his disciples forward to it. He points us backward to it. When he left his disciples a sacrament by which to grow in grace and through which to remember him. He didn't institute a ceremony in which they were to anoint their eyes in remembrance of his healing of the blind He didn't give them a ceremony in which they were to cleanse their skin in in remembrance of his healing lepers He didn't leave them a sacrament involving all of his followers standing and reciting in unison his words in remembrance of his teaching. He gave them a sacrament picturing his body broken, his blood shed. He said, do this, do this in remembrance of me. He wanted his followers to understand that before his exaltation would come humiliation on the cross. Before he sat upon the throne, he would hang upon the cross. Before the adoration from the angels, the seraphim, the cherubim, would come the castigation from the soldiers, the scribes, the Pharisees. He came to die as a substitute for sinners. He was called by John the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So the big question is, have you repented of your sins and laid your faith in him? Are you trusting in him? Are you resting in him? Is he your savior? Is he your Messiah? The second major truth I want to drive home here is the one, of course, related to this one. Just as humility preceded the exaltation. For Jesus, humility precedes exaltation for us, for his followers. You want to be great? You want to be great? Serve the Lord. How do I do that? Serve the least. Serve the least. If if we were to ask a cross-section of citizens from every country to give us a list of five great people, great men or women of this world. Certain names would occur frequently, I imagine, uh prime ministers, presidents, uh perhaps uh uh billionaires. Uh there's something in each of us that aspires uh to greatness As an athlete, as a musician, as an author, a performer, a scientist, a businessman, businesswoman, politician, Jesus said, if you want to be great in his economy, be a servant and serve even the least. Now, it's interesting that sometimes even in this world, those who devote their lives to the humble service of others are honored. Whether or not they are believers in Christ. It was encouraging recently to see that uh uh Kailash Satyarthi, an activist against child labor and human trafficking in India. And uh Malala Yousafsi, the young uh Pakistani activist for the education of girls, both received the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize. And it was encouraging to see Time Magazine declare as its person of the year for 2014, not one influential world leader, not a billionaire, not some great uh uh uh performer, but rather the healthcare workers who are risking their lives to treat Ebola patients. Both the British government and the government of the Czech Republic have honored Nicholas Winton, the British citizen who saved 669 mostly Jewish children who were in danger of death. Uh he saved them by arranging for them to be taken by British families before the Nazi invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1939. Uh it the last I saw, last I looked, Nicholas Winton's still alive, he's a hundred and five years old in England. He's been honored now that the story is out, and it wasn't out for forty or fifty years until his wife was upstairs in the attic rummaging around and she found a scrapbook which showed the f families of uh the children and the families who took them in and she began to ask them about it. Oh yeah, I never mentioned that uh What do you people talk about at the breakfast table? So uh yeah it was just uh uh uh amazing. It's amazing. Uh uh what he was what what one man was able to accomplish and and the world even recognizes that that service to others that humble uh uh service to others. So you wonder how many orphanages, how many hospitals, how many homeless shelters, how many clinics, how many food banks, how many adoptions, how many prison ministries have sprung from Jesus taking a little child And saying, whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. Man, that must have been something, as they said, something the disciples would never forget. And of course they recorded it for us. Well here's the encouragement for you, sister, when you're sitting in that cramped room in that nursing home. Holding the hand of an old woman who has no other visitors Here's an encouragement for you, brother, when you stay up late to prepare that lesson for those little Sunday school children. Here's the encouragement, young person. When you miss an opportunity for fellowship or worship because you're caring for infants so their tired parents can fellowship and worship together. Here's an encouragement when you serve Christ in any way that does not generate an income or accolades or even an occasional expression of appreciation. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God did not consider it a thing to be grasped. to be held on to, to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death So I leave you with this. Are you seeking honor or prestige or wealth or power or fame in this world? If so, according to Jesus, you have it all wrong. Let's pray. Oh Father, how we thank you for your word and how we thank you for the example. Of the Lord Jesus Christ who humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And he said to us, Come, take up your cross and follow me. Lord, speak to each heart here, we pray in Christ's name. Amen