If you're visiting this morning and you have little ones you may not know, we have a a nursery downstairs as well as a toddler's nursery, and to my left we have a cry room. So if you need to use that, please feel free. Gospel of Mark, Chapter Twelve We're going to be looking at verses 18 through 27 this morning, but to get to context, let's go back just a little bit to verse 13. Mark chapter 12 and verse 13. Then they sent to him some of the Pharisees and Herodians to catch him in his words. When they had come, they said to him, Teacher, We know that you are true and care about no one, for you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it So they brought it. And he said to them, Whose image and inscription is this? They said to him, Caesar's. And Jesus answered and said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. Then some Sadducees who say there is no resurrection came to him and they asked him, saying, Teacher Moses wrote to us that if a man's brother dies and leaves his wife behind and leaves no children, his brother should take his wife and raise up offspring for his brother. Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and dying, he left no offspring. And the second took her, and he died, nor did he leave any offspring. And the third likewise So the seven had her and left no offspring. Last of all, the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection When they rise, whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as wife. Jesus answered and said to them, Are you not therefore mistaken? Because you do not know the scriptures nor the power of God. For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. But concerning the dead that they rise. Have you not read in the book of Moses, in the burning bush passage, how God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You are therefore greatly mistaken. Let's pray. Father, we ask for a supernatural work of your Holy Spirit today, regenerating men and women, boys and girls, drawing souls to yourself, building up your saints. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. It's been several weeks since we were going through the Gospel of Mark. We are at the point in Mark's gospel where he has already recounted for us Christ's triumphal entrance into Jerusalem the week before his crucifixion The people have shouted out, the multitudes of disciples have praised his name, hailed to the Son of David, praise be to the to the one who is coming in the name of the Lord. And then Jesus went into the temple and cast out the money changers, the merchandisers , further uh incensing the scribes and Pharisees. They were seeking ways to have him put to death. The problem was he was beloved by the common people. How then could they, maintaining their relationship with the common people? uh get rid of Jesus. That was the big predicament that they were facing. And so they said they uh thought to themselves, maybe we can catch him in his words. So they sent uh to him Herodians, followers of Herod, the puppet king who had been put in place by the Roman authorities. And uh they asked him about taxes Nobody in in Israel wanted to pay taxes to the Roman government. We wouldn't want to pay taxes to some foreign government that took control of the United States. And uh and so uh they asked Jesus, is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we give or shall we not give? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? But Jesus, knowing their hypocrisy, they weren't looking for direction, they weren't asking for wisdom. Uh they were trying to catch him. He said to them, Well, show me a penny, show me a denarius, and they did, and he said, Who's is this image in superscription? And he said, Well, it's that's Caesar. Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, render to God the things that are God. In the passage we read this morning, Jesus was then approached not by the conservative Pharisees, but by those we might call the liberal Sadducees. The Sadducees, as you may know, were the rationalists of Jesus' day. They would probably correspond, excuse me, best. today to religious religious humanists, who uh those who view the trappings of religion as simply a means of accomplishing certain goals for the benefit of mankind. If you uh had never come to faith in Christ and you felt somehow called to the ministry, even though you weren't regenerated, you would probably be a religious humanist. You would want to do some good to people. And be of some benefit to the world. And so these Sadducees were rationalists They wanted to accomplish certain things for the benefit of mankind, as rationalists today might want to alleviate homelessness, preserve the environment, lobby for prison reform. Eradicate disease, fight illiteracy, fight poverty, attempt to accomplish other worthwhile goals, but without an emphasis upon, or even necessarily a belief in, The supernatural. That was the case of the Sadducees. They were the broad-minded intellectuals of their day. They denied the existence of angels. They believed that souls died with the body. They denied divine providence. They believed that man was the master of his destiny. They accepted only the first five books of Moses, the first five books of the Bible. For most of us, it's enough to remember that the Sadducees denied the resurrection, which is so sad you see. That's how you remember that. They came to Jesus to propose a question which would they thought show the concept of a physical resurrection to be utterly ludicrous. They're trying to catch Jesus in his words. They're trying to prove him to be a false prophet. They're trying to show that he doesn't really know what he's talking about. And they were making fun of something that Jesus evidently believed. The resurrection. They didn't believe in it, so they were trying to make fun of it. You see, Moses had given instruction that if a man died, leaving a wife but no children, The man's brother, assuming he's not yet married, should take as his wife his brother's widow to raise up children for his deceased brother, so that his name be not put out of Israel. The Sadducees, in an effort to show how foolish was this belief in life after death, proposed this uh case, hypothetical case, of seven brothers, each in turn marrying the same woman, and each dying childless. Now the odds of that happening, better off winning the Powerball lottery, I suppose. Uh the odds are probably better. But their question was in the resurrection, when they rise Whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as wife. You may recognize this as an argumentum ad absurdum to absurdity, right? All right, well, it's a one guy. What about if there were seven? In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? It'd be nice if we could hear the this in the way the way they actually phrased it. with the intonation. Jesus perceived in their question two major errors. Not only did these men not believe in a bodily resurrection, they didn't believe in any life beyond the grave. Death, they presumed, was final. They didn't believe, as the Apostle Paul would later express it, that for the believer to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. They didn't swallow that. And Jesus addressed both their errors. Look at verse 24. Jesus answered and said to them, Are you not therefore mistaken because you do not know the scriptures nor the power of God? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. First, he affirmed the resurrection. After the resurrection, after the bodily resurrection, they don't assume their previous conditions, their previous circumstances The situation is going to be quite different, Jesus explained. We know from 1 Corinthians 15, our bodies are planted in corruption, but they will be raised in incorruption. Planted in dishonor, they'll be raised in glory. Planted a natural body, raised a spiritual body. When they rise from the dead, Jesus said, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. So, whatever else the phrases of spiritual body that God's going to give us, and uh like angels in heaven, whatever those phrases may mean, it's clear that we do not continue in our present marital state. in heaven. Donna, Donna, you said Amen, didn't you? She said it under her breath. Whatever else the phrases uh mean We will not continue in our present marital state in heaven. We will, of course, be reunited with our believing family members in glory. But our relationships will not be the same as they are here. In this way, Jesus answers their stated argument against the resurrection. That silly hypothetical case they proposed. But then he addresses the Sadducees ' basic error, their disbelief in life after death. Look at verse 26. But concerning the dead that they rise, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the burning bush passage, how God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You are therefore greatly mistaken. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob had been long dead in the way we use the term. When God spoke to Moses from the burning bush, Exodus 3. But God said to Moses , Not, I was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Present tense we would say today. Since he was at that point in time the God of the patriarchs, then they must have been at that point in time centuries after their physical death, still alive in some form. He didn't say, I was, by the way, the God of Abraham when he was alive. I was the God of Isaac, I was the God of Jacob. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now, how does that prove? Uh price point. Well, God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. If he says, I'm the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, then Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are alive. They're not alive here, you can't see them here, but they're alive. Now we've considered this passage before as evidence for the verbal inspiration of Scripture, because not only does Christ's reasoning with the Sadducees rely upon one word in the Hebrew text, It relies upon what we would call the tense of the verb. Not I was, but I am. So we see here the verbal inspiration of Scripture, the importance of every single word that God has spoken. So first, Jesus was pointing out to the Sadducees, from a book, by the way, that they affirmed to be inspired of God, Exodus. That there is indeed life beyond the grave. Now they had read that passage, no doubt, many times, but it hadn't registered with them When God said, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that Abraham and Isaac and Jacob must yet be in existence, alive, somewhere. That there is indeed life beyond the grave. And furthermore, Jesus may have been affirming, since their souls are still alive, then there must be, there will be, a future resurrection, otherwise their souls must ever live merely as disembodied. spirits. Look at it again. But concerning the dead, that they rise Have you not read in the book of Moses in the burning bush passage? Now they hadn't they they hadn't physically risen from the dead yet, but Jesus is apparently making the point that if they're alive, then either they're going to continue as some sort of disembodied spirit forever , or they're going to be raised from the dead one day. In other words, once life after death is established, the resurrection follows, it seems Jesus is saying here, as a logical necessity. So he says to the Sadducees, by denying life beyond the grave, and in particular the certainty of the resurrection, you are greatly mistaken. Now it'd be bad enough for Jesus to tell me I'm mistaken. I don't want to be greatly mistaken. The denial of the resurrection, he affirmed, was and is a great mistake. Now it's not unlikely that in an assembly of this size, comprise of both members of the church and friends and family, As I say, it's not unlikely that there are some who, although they may not say so, are not far from the view of the Sadducees on this point. That is, you've never seen someone who was raised from the dead. You don't personally know anyone else who's seen someone who was raised from the dead. And you are deep down, if you were to admit it. inclined to align yourself with the Sadducees on this point. Well I would urge you to carefully consider the words of Jesus here. He said to these men, You do not know the scriptures, nor the power of God. You are greatly mistaken. The denial of the resurrection is a great mistake, Jesus says. And it's a great mistake for a number of reasons. First of all, because the concept of the resurrection is established throughout the Word of God. It's established throughout Scripture. Jesus here went to Exodus, but he could have gone, say, had the Sadducees accepted it, to the book of Job. I know that my Redeemer lives, and he shall stand at the last on the earth. And after my skin is destroyed, this I know that in my flesh I shall see God. whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold him and not another. Job 19. We recognize Psalm 16 as messianic, for their Christ's resurrection is foreshadowed approximately a thousand years before his coming. My heart is glad, and my glory rejoices, my flesh also shall rest in hope. For thou wilt wilt not leave my soul in Sheol. Neither willow will you allow your holy one to see corruption. Psalm 169 In Psalm 17, another Psalm of David, we read, As for me, I will see your face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied when I awake in your likeness. Psalm 17, verse 17 fifteen. And Isaiah says, He shall swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces. The rebuke of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. Isaiah 25. five. And listen to this from Daniel. Many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. Some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt. Those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmaments, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars for ever and ever. Daniel 12, verses 2 and 3. We read this in Hosea. I will ransom them, God's people, from the power of the grave. I will ransom them from the power of the grave. I will redeem them from death. O death, I will be your plagues. O grave, I will be your destruction. Hosea 13, 14. So the denial of the resurrection is a great mistake. First of all, because the scripture, throughout the scripture, verifies the truth of it. But secondly, the denial of the resurrection is a great mistake because the concept of resurrection is clearly established in this world that God has made for us. We see it all the time. We see it every day. If only we'd be cognizant of it. The Apostle Paul appealed to this fact when some in the city of Corinth denied the resurrection. To quote, he said, but someone will say, how are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? Right? The clear implication of the questioner is, come on, we know what a dead body looks like after a few years, let alone after a few hundred years or a few thousand years. How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? You see the question? Quite obviously, after a short time, they don't have much of a body left to rise in. And Paul responds, You foolish ones. What you plant is not made alive unless it dies. And what you plant is not the body that shall be, but mere grain, perhaps wheat or some other grain First it has to die. And what you plant doesn't look like what's going to come out. Now there's no need to belabor this point It's self-evident. You want to plant an oak tree. You don't bury an oak tree in the ground. You know, you don't dig down, what, fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty feet and bury an adult oak tree. Uh i i y you don't need to you you place in the ground an acorn and out of that acorn springs this oak tree You want pumpkins in the fall. You don't plant a full pumpkin. You start with seeds. They bear little or no resemblance to that big round orange gourd that comes out of the ground filled with pumpkin pie and whipped cream in the fall. What you put in the ground may bear very little resemblance to what will come out of the ground. In other words, Paul says object lessons of the resurrection are demonstrated all around us every spring, every summer. It's happening now, right? You see the bushes are budding out because of the warmth. So you have dead seeds with no evidence of any life force within them, buried in the earth, and in time there springs up a new body, a new form of life I I think I mentioned before, I I forget where I read it, but I read somewhere that they they found some seeds in the Egyptian tombs. Right? Egyptian tombs, so we're talking thousands, what, four thousand, five thousand, thousands of years. Where's somebody I can ask about that? That's thousands of years old. And they took these seeds, they found in these Egyptian tombs, they placed them in earth, they put water on, and they spurred them And every eva every sign of being dead, i if death means anything being in an Egyptian tomb for thousands of years. would be death, and yet there was a a life force there. There springs up a new button. And now what sprang up didn't look like the seed And what what we're going to look like after the resurrection is not going to look like that body, that weak, frail, dead body that's planted in the earth. William Jennings Bryan said it well. If the Father deigns to touch with divine power the cold and pulseless heart of the buried acorn. And makes it burst from its prison walls, will he leave neglected in the earth the man made in the image of the Creator? If matter, mute and inanimate, though changed by the forces of nature into a multitude of forms, can never die Will the spirit of man suffer annihilation when it is paid a brief visit, like a royal guest, to this tenement of clay? No, I am as sure there is another life as I am that I live today. And then to deny the resurrection is a great mistake. Because although it may be a wonder to us now, and of course it is, it will one day be a familiar truth that we have all experienced. It's a wonder to us now because we haven't experienced it. We don't know anyone else who has, but it will one day be as a familiar, it will be a familiar truth that each of us will have experienced. If we're believers, of course. Spurgeon, speaking in the 19th century, pointed out that there are many things we would not have believed by mere report. If we had not experienced and observed them. He said, for example, the electric telegraph would have been as hard to believe a thousand years ago as the resurrection. Is now. Who in the days of pack horses would have believed in flashing a message from England to America? He pointed out that natives in tropical countries have difficulty believing that water can grow so cold that it becomes solid and you can walk on it. If you uh lived in equatorial Africa, you'd have a real hard time believing that if you hadn't seen any evidence of it. When I was a child, many of the things that uh we take for granted now were just the stuff of science fiction. You know, telephones, horseless carriages, you know, a carriage that moves without a horse, aeroplanes It's foolish to deny the possibility of the resurrection simply because we haven't yet personally witnessed it, right? He may respond, well yeah, but telephones, cars, airplanes, they don't violate any laws of nature. They may be objects of wonder, but they're not impossible. Well, how do you think those laws of nature arose? Who is it do you suppose who established that? Do you believe we are presently on a rapidly spinning globe hurtling through space? And yet we are in a system that is so finely tuned that we can stand and sit and walk and move about. How in the world is that possible? You believe that? Can you not believe that this being of incredible wisdom and power who created it all could breathe into what is dead and make it alive again? Is anything too hard for God? So which is more difficult to believe? That he can create all that we see out of nothing with his word Or that he can recreate a living human being from the remnants of the physical life that once was. To deny the resurrections of great mistake. It's a great mistake because whether you can explain it or not, the truth remains the resurrection of Christ is a well-attested fact of history. The Apostle Peter lived with and learned from Jesus for at least three years. He became one of many who testified that he saw him alive after his crucifixion. He said, We didn't follow cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord. Lord Jesus Christ, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Second Peter 1. If I may be forgiven for reminding you of these truths before your Christmas tree has dropped all its needles, The risen Christ was seen by the women at the garden, at the tomb, in the garden. He was seen by Peter alone. He was seen by two disciples on the road to Emmaus He was seen with the apostle Thomas absent. He was seen by the apostles with Thomas absent. He was later seen by the apostles with Thomas present. He appeared to James, his half-brother. He appeared, Paul says, to over five hundred brethren at once. He appeared to the apostles at the Sea of Galilee. He appeared to the Apostles at the Ascension. He was seen by Saul of Tarsus on the road to Damascus. He was seen by the Apostle John while he was exile on the Isle of Patmos. Now you can suppose that all those who claim to have been eyewitnesses of the risen Christ were somehow deceived, or you can suppose that they were all deceivers. But if you examine the evidence, you will no doubt conclude that neither of those suppositions adds up, neither holds water. We believe that each of the disciples, except John, died a martyr's death. They were persecuted because they tenaciously clung to their beliefs and their statements. Now, as Paul Little put it, men will die for what they believe to be true, though it may actually be false, right? Men will die for what they believe to be true, though it may actually be false. Islamic terrorists do this, of course, when they kill defenseless citizens and die in the process. Because they believe there's glory awaiting them for it. Men will die for what they believe to be true, though it may actually be false. They do not, however, die for what they know is a lie. John Stott said, hypocrites and martyrs are not made of the same stuff. When we consider the devastated, terrified disciples after the arrest of the crucified one they believed to be the Messiah. The simple fact is, had Christ not risen from the dead, they would have dispersed and returned to their homes and jobs. There would have been no 3,000 conversions on the day of Pentecost, nor 5,000 a few days later. They wouldn't have gone everywhere preaching the word. They wouldn't have turned the world upside down. They would be discouraged and defeated, and there would be no Christian church. And if indeed mankind had somehow managed to survive this long, 2,000 years later, without the sanctifying influence of Christ and the Holy Spirit indwelling his children, And that's very doubtful that we would have survived. You and I and the rest of mankind would be without any grounds for hope in life after death. Life itself would be nothing more than an effort in futility. Full of sound and fury signifying nothing. But something dramatic happened to those distracted, disheartened, despairing disciples. Something that gave Peter, for example, the courage to stand before the very men who put Jesus to death, the men who are responsible for it. And after healing a lame man, to say this to them Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him This man stands before you whole. This Jesus is the stone which was rejected by you builders, which has become the chief cornerstone Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved, he says. The scripture says the religious leaders saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated and untrained men, and they marveled, and they realized that they had been with Jesus. Acts 4. Something dramatic happened to these men. They declared that they had seen the risen Lord. They were willing to die affirming it, and many of them did. Note, all the chief priests had to do to snuff out this new set was to produce the body of Jesus. Yet that's the one thing they could not do. Not with all the power of hell behind them, because Jesus was alive. The tomb was empty. Jesus is alive. and the tomb remains empty. To deny the resurrection in the face of such overwhelming evidence is a great mistake. You're greatly mistaken, Jesus said. to the Sadducees. And then it's a great mistake because if you do it, if you deny the resurrection, then in fact you're denying Christ as Lord and Savior. For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. If Christ is not risen, your faith is futile, you're still in your sins. 1 Corinthians 15. Jesus stated in the clearest of terms that he would rise from the dead, even though his disciples seemed unable to grasp it. Theologian B. B. Warfield said Christ himself deliberately staked his whole claim to the credit of men upon his resurrection. When asked for a sign, he pointed to this sign as a single and sufficient credential. Philosopher John Locke summed it up. His being or not being the Messiah stands or falls with the resurrection. You can't deny the resurrection without denying Christ's deity. You can't deny Christ's deity without denying him as savior. You can't deny him as savior without losing all hope of salvation. It's this fact, the fact of the resurrection, which so clearly sets Jesus apart from all other religious leaders, all other founders of religions, if you will. The story is told many years ago a Japanese baron was in America studying educational methods, and he addressed a Sunday school class in Philadelphia. He said that as far as he could tell, the teachings of Jesus and the teachings of Confucius were the same. So there was no need for him to change his faith. John Wanamaker, the Sunday School superintendent and founder of Wanamaker's Department Store, responded. Acknowledging the high moral standards of Confucius, he went on to say: there is a vital difference. Confucius is dead and buried. And he will remain in his grave until Jesus Christ tells him to arise. But our Christ's grave is empty. He is living, and he is here in this room today. Jesus said, God is not the God of the dead. God is the God of the living. To deny life beyond the grave, and specifically to deny the resurrection, is a great mistake, Jesus said. For it manifests that you do not know the scriptures nor the power of God. But if you'll bow your knees to Christ, if you'll embrace him as Lord and Savior, You'll experience a resurrection of sorts in your own life, in your own heart. And you can be assured that one day you'll experience the resurrection of the body. How do you do that? How do you come to Christ? Acknowledge and confess your sin. God, I'm a sinner and I know it. I've broken your laws. I've been proud and selfish, angry, envious. I take your name in vain. I've gossiped. I've been ungrateful. I've been covetous. I've been an idolater, etc. etc. You confess your sins to God. God, I acknowledge it. I recognize it. And I don't like it. God forgive me. Forgive me. I've rebelled against you God save me. I believe that Jesus lived the perfect life, died upon the cross, rose again from the dead, that he lives today. Forgive me. Give me this eternal life that I love talks about. Jesus said, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Father, this is what I want new life in Christ. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer. And God promises from his word, on the authority of God's word, he'll forgive all your sins. You'll be adopted into his family. Not because you joined the church, not because you did any good thing, but because Jesus Christ lived the perfect life, died upon the cross, rose again for the dead for you. Won't you come to him today? God, forgive me. Save me. Raise me from the dead. Give me new life Have mercy upon me. Let's pray. Lord, I pray that there might not be anyone here, anyone listening, who will make this great mistake. Denying life after death, denying the resurrection. Oh Lord, please open eyes, give sight, raise from the dead your elect. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Our closing hymn, all hail the power of Jesus' name, number 218.