Yeah, a couple weeks ago we started this section, John 5, 19 through 29. And you had to be brought out of that by Jesus into life. Now it's an invisible life, right? No, it's it's a done deal. What does he save us through, according to verse twenty-four? Mm-hmm. I hope not. I'm gonna say one. So he says that phrase three times in these eleven verses. It you can't there's no other way to to honor God uh than by honoring Jesus. and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. Because death here is paired with judgment, right? which is forever life. like they are the words of God, because they are. Because he knew the hearts of all men. The time is coming and now has now come when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear will live um prophetic revelation of the Old Testament. the you know fully bring in all the context from the Old Testament. But don't be tempted to say, like, oh, this is just Israel. this this covenant community of God. This was the special effect of prophecy, right? And in verses 25 through 29, what Jesus is doing is he's taking these two promises from the Old Testament of spiritual regeneration and physical resurrection, and he's saying, both are fulfilled in me. And this is talking about physical resurrection. to verse twenty-eight and twenty-nine to see, because you know I need to I need to build the case here. No. because he's talking about a present reality, uh, that you've passed out of that that death and judgment into eternal life. Right. And why it's important that both spiritual regeneration and physical resurrection are things that Jesus is promising to accomplish in himself here. Fully sanctified. I'm sorry? So you don't have to turn there, but I'll just read it for you. If it hasn't happened yet, and we can't see it. He's saying like, yes, this is an invisible reality, but it's anchored and it's guaranteed by this very visible thing that's going to happen called the physical resurrection. Saints of the Most High. But it's amplified in one crucial way. essentially a progression of empires leading up to the uh the second coming. All right, that's that's amazing. The reason God gives all judgment to the Son is in order that all may honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. Look at verse 24. Sorry? Yeah, from death to life, yeah. It's accompanied by it's a it's a symbol of the judgment of God, right? Yeah. has to come around and examine them and check their vitals and pronounce them dead, right? Jesus just sort of brings stuff up stuff up out of left field and like hits you sideways from from out of nowhere. Eternal life. You know, that what Jesus was teaching about himself has roots, has deep roots in the Hebrew scriptures. Two of the most shocking promises in the Old Testament. And so he's gonna he's gonna act for his name's sake, um for his holy name, which you have profaned among the nations where you went. speaking to the prophet Ezekiel, he says, Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations where you went. And you will be careful to observe my ordinances. Give them a new heart that desires to obey him, that desires to walk in his ways. that they didn't have. to write his law on our hearts and give us not only the ability to do what's right, but also the desire to do what's right. Paul teaches extensively in the New Testament that we by the New Covenant we've been grafted into Israel. But this is the first thread of promise that's running through the Old Testament that Jesus is weaving together, this thread of spiritual regeneration. So Ezekiel, God takes him to a valley, and he's looking out over this valley and there's just human bones sitting, like covering the floor of the valley, and they're dry bones, so they've been dead for a long time and then breathes breath into those reanimated bodies. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, my people. It's similar to what we just read in the previous chapter, right? and physical resurrection in the Old Testament. That's the outline of our text here. It almost looks parallel. Worshiping the Father. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshippers. That text is clearly talking about spiritual regeneration, right? good deed, which is not really our good deed, right? And so even the ability to listen to the word of Jesus and and believe him who sent him is uh is a gift of God. And what we're waiting for is for our soul to be liberated from the body in death and our soul is going to go to heaven and and enjoy this incorporeal existence before God throughout eternity. in that new Jerusalem, in that new heaven and new earth. And and there is a sense in which we should look at ourselves and always be examining ourselves to see if we are in the faith. You know, when we when we sin as believers, um, you know, it can really shake our confidence. to get at us and kinda get us down by saying things like, Well, uh you are no different from the world Um, you know, how can you believe what God says about your about your hidden invisible life? That's why the Christian life takes faith, right? Those were reversals of death, but they weren't resurrections to glory, right? So verse 27 says, He gave him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. No, he's he's actually applying this title from Daniel 7 to himself. And while I I do sort of the review, so what we did what we covered um two weeks ago was essentially the first half of this passage. through about twenty-four and got a little bit into the last half. and giving his message. And we said that was the proof of submission, right? So submission. So that's the third proof is knowledge. So Jesus is one with the Father in his power, right? So Jesus is one with the Father in his authority, right? So Jesus is equal to the Father in his honor, and anyone who wants to honor God, the Father, has to honor Jesus. And that really sets up so that was the first truly truly where Jesus is saying, I'm equal with God, I'm one with the Father. Uh that wouldn't be a scary thing, really. Now today we're going to go on to the last half of the passage, which is the third truly truly that starts in verse 25. But only Christ can pronounce us alive. Uh no, he was he he was very much in continuity, in line with what the Old Testament was was uh preparing people for. So to look at that, I want to look at two of the main and really most shocking threads in the Old Testament. And this is all just setting context for what Jesus is saying here. Okay, so we've got a people who have profaned the name of God, right? Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when I prove myself holy among you in their sight. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. Here is God promising to do for a sinful people what they cannot do themselves, is which is give them a new heart, right? spiritual rebirth. Then you will know that I, the Lord, have spoken and done it, declares the Lord. So there are really five reasons why this one is about spiritual and that one's about physical. Okay, so the first reason is if you look at verse 25, you see this phrase, an hour is coming and now is. right of of drawing those those citations and those connections between texts. both in John 5, is used in John 5 is not a coincidence that it was just used in John 4. Right, so the the text in John 4, when it says, um the true an hour is coming and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. But is there any way for this phrase to be interpreted as those who are spiritually dead? Alright, so that this is one new life. Which if you look in the Old Testament, specifically in Daniel 12, it also mentions those two resurrections. Uh so that's a bit of a tangent, but don't don't be thrown off by like good deeds get the resurrection of life and evil deeds get the resurrection of judgment. trusting in the Son. being brought to the point to spiritual life where it's able to glorify God and worship God in spirit and in truth and follow the the commands of the Savior. with respect to like how to view people. our good soul to be liberated from our evil body. the old heaven and the old earth have passed away and and the new heaven and the new earth has come and they're in some sense joined in a way that they're not today, right? Is that we're not just destined to be spiritual beings, like liberated spirits in heaven, constantly worshiping God up there. No, we're destined to be embodied souls, living in glorified bodies that are that are free from the suffering and and and uh like breakdown and corruption that our bodies have right now. But we're we're destined to live in bodies, in a physical place that is called the new earth, the new Jerusalem, with God. And what it means is like there are things about our Christian life that are that are already fulfilled, that have already happened, right? Right? If I'm really a child of God, if he's really justified me and made me righteous, how could I have done that? This is so important. that. Is that our life is hidden, right? Right. uh in that book. You have been forgiven. So they scoff at him. He says, do not marvel. These verses are the bridge between Jesus' promise of spiritual regeneration and his promise of physical resurrection. So this sounds very similar to verse twenty-one above. He's saying, I can do both of these things because I am the creator. eternal and universal authority. When when Jesus uses the title son of man, which he does often in the Gospels, that's his favorite term for himself. Right? That is the power and authority that gives him the ability to give us spiritual regeneration and physical resurrection. Because Jesus is one with the Father, he has the qualifications to save us. So just as Paul says, but the fact is Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep, and we will follow him in that. six ways, six proofs that Jesus gives for why he and the Father are one. So Jesus therefore answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. And so that's what Jesus' main point is here, is that he who he who meets that precondition of believing in me what will become a very visible physical resurrection. the the full uh the full conceptual loading of the Old Testament, right? And and this is an Old Testament teaching. Hmm. And in the days before like hyperlinks or even like bulleted outlines, this was the biblical author's way of introducing structure into the text. Now, if you look at verse 28 and 29, it's not quite the same phrase. And you notice that one says an hour is coming and now is, and the other one says an hour is coming. Folllows. Right. For those who did the good deeds and those who did the evil deeds. Yes, we have bodies, right? So that's one reason why this is important. Right, so so guys, the Bible talks about our life as a thing that is hidden with Christ and God. were, I think, special in that they they were to demonstrate, give a foretaste of his power to do this, which is the guarantee of his power to do this. And then of course Jesus himself rose from the dead. I think what he's doing here is he's doing something like what he did in Matthew 9 when he and this is a famous story, maybe you remember it, Jesus was teaching in a house. Right? Hey, so so I'll put under here has life in himself. always spoke in the context of the Old Testament. was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. And and we we love his appearing because when he appears, this is what's going to happen to us. Uh verses nineteen through twenty-three together. uh approaching it humbly and letting letting the word of Jesus transform you, that is how we become saved. John, the author of this gospel, has used that word belief a lot in this gospel, right? Um and and hears and obeys my word, he will live. And come out. And number two, the promise of physical resurrection, where he God promises to raise the bodies of his people back to life. And these are these were controversial promises even in the day of Jesus. So spiritual regeneration is the present reality. Uh reason three, if you look at verse twenty-five, verse twenty-five sheets of the dead, right? Uh right, like just like he just said in verse twenty-four, you have if you believe him who sent me, you have eternal life and you have passed out of death and into life. So one one new life, I'll say, 'cause it doesn't actually use the word resurrection. That even that good deed is something that we can't be proud of, per se. Right, so uh yeah, so I hope um after with you know with these these kind of comparative analyses But what impact does that have on our lives and on our faith and on the way that we see our walk with Christ? brought from death to physical life. Right, I mean that's that's part of it. Right, so so we have to be very clear about what our hope is. Right? Now, you know, this this is one of those passages that that people argue about. It goes on to say, and he, the Father, gave him, Jesus, authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. So this again is similar to verse 22. These two things, Jesus is the creator God who has life in himself. Yeah, through himself, specifically through like what's the precondition there? There's a kind of belief that that doesn't save. Do not be amazed at this, for the time is coming when all who are in their graves will hear his voice running through the prophets and the law and the Psalms, then you gain a lot more context for what Jesus says. Right, that that is the good deed. Right. to obey God's law. As Christians, uh this this already not yet can get very confusing to us and and can disturb our assurance of salvation. And uh these guys come up on the roof and they cut a hole in the roof and they lower their paralyzed friend down into the house where Jesus is teaching. So Jesus looks and he sees the friends lowering this man down into the house to be healed. as proof that he had the power to say, your sins are forgiven. An hour is coming when the dead will be physically raised to life. But Jesus promises it in the present tense, right? I have to hear him and then I have to go and like believe that that it's him who sent me. And this this one I'm giv I've given the heading of I Have Declared You Alive. For as a father has life in himself, so he has nurtured the Son also to have life in himself. Thank you. So, here, read along with me as I read verses twenty-two through twenty-seven. And our only hope was for God to come along and take out our heart of stone and put in us a heart of flesh. And so the the first part of Ezekiel thirty-seven is this this pretty well-known vision of the dry bones. And God, as as Ezekiel watches, God raises these bones and weaves muscle and flesh and tissue back onto the bones. Power and authority. This phrase, an hour is coming, and now is, with the and now is on the end, does that ring any bells? In this case, it's earlier in the same book, but you'll see a lot of this happening where the New Testament uses a phrase that was used in the Old Testament No, besides Jesus. How does verse 28 and 29 refer to the the people that it's speaking of? I hope not. specifically in the context of verse 24, the good deed that gives eternal life is hearing the word of Jesus and believing him who sent him. Yeah for one, Jesus has ultimate power and authority over our spiritual vitality and our physical No, not at all. But we still sin. which is a thing about our about our Christian experience, right? Our life is hidden with Christ in God, and when Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then we also will be revealed with Him in glory. So that mirrors this spiritual regeneration, physical resurrection thing. That is a hidden thing. But when Christ is revealed, you also will be revealed with him in glory. Alright, so just real quick, the three people that that we have record of that he that Jesus resurrected in the Gospels are Lazarus, which happened in John 11. Now, that hasn't happened yet. If you say your sins are forgiven, there's no test that can be done to prove whether you have told the truth or not. In verse 26, he talks about his power. So without further ado, let's read verse 13 and 14. He stands up in the temple in front of everyone and he declares himself to be God. He uses three times this phrase truly, truly. Judgment. Yeah, it's if you look at, if you were to analyze this verse grammatically, you know, like do a sentence diagram or something, the subject would be he, right, he who believes in me That doesn't save. I pronounce you alive. So that's what we're going to talk about. Like what, you know, it's it's good to exercise uh these these kind of mental faculties in understanding the text, and it's good to understand the theology of these two promises. Yeah, there is problems in both. Resurrected and resurrected. You there's there's no difference between you and the world. That is if you look at the literary structure of the book of John, that's kind of the the hinge, the pivot point of the gospel. So that's another resurrection that he performed. And the verb is has, and the direct object is eternal life. So that's what he's saying here. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. God created bodies to be good, and he created a human being to be both a soul and a body intertwined. Um yeah, I mean I think if we if we start to divide the soul from the body, we go off the rails real quick in our understanding of of a human being and in our s understanding of God's design. But we're not yet what? So there's there's an already and a not yet about the Christian life. Um touch the cloak. Because he uses this title, Son of Man. God's forever king is is what the Son of Man means, right? And this has to do with God's promise to spiritually regenerate Israel and by extension all of his people They're connected together and they're both fulfilled in me because I have the power and authority to do it. And now it is. Yeah, that's right. That's not Jesus teaching works-based salvation here. With Christ and God. So, spiritual regeneration, physical resurrection. And he has declared us alive. I've sort of broken it out into an outline based on what Jesus, the the sort of the words that Jesus uses So that's what Jesus has saved us from. has eternal life. An hour is coming. Targets the whole person, right? We have been saved. Is all of his miracle all the miracles that he did were to illustrate something about himself and his power and God's purposes. or whether you have the power to do that. So Jesus is using this title to amplify his description of his own authority. Forever King. And has and he has given him authority to judge because he is a son of man And you know, we could go to other other places in the Old Testament, but this is probably the clearest place where you got back-to-back promises of spiritual regeneration. I've I believe that this is pointing to spiritual regeneration, uh like like he said, like Jesus talked about in verse 24. So think about that those things, dwell on those things. The two Yeah, I think I just flipped this page. Think about his conversation with the the woman at the well in Samaria. So the dead, you know, that that could mean physical corpses, but uh it could also mean those who are spiritually dead. Yeah. The dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear shall live. um well being. What happens after we go to heaven? Um well it has to do with what Jesus has already done and what he's going to do and how we live somewhere in between right now. The first truly, truly, is he's saying, I and the Father are one. And this is applying only to those who hear the words of the Son of God and believe the Father who sent him. Regeneration. Someone will use a particular phrase that is that in itself is pretty rare, but it points back to that same phrase used earlier. Why would that be good? Okay. So that's the third way Jesus is one with the Father. This is all review from last from two weeks ago. Judgment. Why does he bring in the title Son of Man in verse 27? In saving people, he takes away the heart of stone and he puts in a heart of flesh. Our spiritual regeneration is a present reality. Right. Verse 25 says, shall live. Well, let me back up and phrase it this way. And because this gets to the heart of how God sees a human being. His kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him. that that prove that he and the father are one. Sorry, does this uh any questions? When we are with the Lord in the new heaven and in the new earth, in the new Jerusalem, what do we inhabit? So keeping these two things in mind can can really help us with um with living the Christian life. So J uh Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead after he had been dead for four days. That's what he means when he says, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me. We're going to go to Ezekiel 37, and we are going to read verses 11 through 14. So I want to show you the textual markers that establish that verse 25 is about spiritual regeneration and verse 28 and 29 are about physical resurrection. I hope that I've convinced you that verse 25 is talking about spiritual regeneration, and verse 28 and 29 is talking about physical resurrection, and Jesus is weaving these two pro uh promises together. Yes, on the new earth, yes, in the new Jerusalem, right? He is saying, I am the creator. And we are going to read verses thirteen and fourteen and verse twenty-seven, just for time. For this second thread of physical resurrection, I want you to turn to the very next chapter in Ezekiel. So he's not just talking about spiritual life. So I'm gonna argue that this relates to spiritual regeneration and physical physical resurrection, like All who are in the tombs We've already been given an inheritance that's eternal and that can never fade. But Jesus' resurrection, Paul calls that the first fruits of the dead. So I would just summarize this whole passage where Jesus preaches the gospel in bio in chapter 5, 19 through 29 as 5th, verse 22, for not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. So to unpack this verse we said we noticed that Jesus saves us from something, he saves us to something, and he saves us through something. Yeah. Fully sanctified. This is so key, I think, to to how we see ourselves and to how we understand like what what we're doing here And that is, for the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing. Those who have done what is good will rise to live, and those who have done what is evil will rise to be condemned. Yeah, so this is a super dense passage, right? Okay, that's that's third. Because okay, so the context here is that Daniel is seeing a vision. Yeah. And as we're going to see today, in this last section, he's going to talk Jesus is talking about this invisible, this uh this hidden eternal life, and he's pairing it with And that so that can't be what Jesus is talking about here. I stapled these in the wrong order. It's almost uh like a like a rephrase of the same thing. And Jesus knew what they were scoffing at and knew what they were thinking. Great. So what has he saved us to, according to this verse? Well, there's that, you know, in itself would probably take an entire semester-long class to like fully answer the um So this is exactly how we ought to see ourselves too, right? Okay, so that's that's reason two, arguably. Jesus himself is raised in glory, but he's the first fruits, right? It says the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. How many? So this is a crucial difference here, because in verse 25, this new life is an unqualified good thing. I'd say another another reason this is important is because it speaks to the reality of the Christian experience. And he's he's bringing them those two things together. No. This I don't know, maybe this is like like already obvious to you guys, but like for me this was this was kind of a watershed in the understanding of biblical teaching This is the reason why he came. And then verse 20, for the father loves the son. Judgment paired with death, right? We cannot we can't see it. Jesus has purchased that eternal life, and he who believes in him has that life already. So that is one piece of evidence, strong piece of evidence, that verse 25 is pointing to spiritual regeneration. Physical corpses go in tombs. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. And then would you read verse 27 just to cap it off? And that verb is present tense, right? And so when God makes this promise to Israel, he's making it to those of us Gentiles who have been grafted into Israel as well. An hour is coming. So over here we've got and now is implying a present reality. So why is it important to make this distinction and see these two threads here? So the wording of this verse implies like if you pass out of death to life, that means you were under death, right? Okay. Jesus is one with the Father in his knowledge. I mean, you know, it it would be a somewhat scary thing, but it wouldn't be it wouldn't mean the same thing as being under the wrath of God. But that's why Jesus in the in his ministry actually performs several resurrections. When um here it is. Uh look at the text. In the beginning of verse 27 28, he says, do not marvel at this. Um and lastly, he's equal Jesus is equal to the Father in his honor. Yes, the one who hears my word and believes him who sent me. No, he's saying whoever sits humbly under my teaching and uh and is transformed and repents of his sin and I want to prove it to you and enable you guys to uh to do this kind of study yourself. That's right. The the the most real and important part of who we are is not visible to the world. That's a thing that you can't walk up to me and like like I said before, you can't just give give me a blood test and see that I have uh you know this hidden life. Paul says, For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. And this is true of a lot of what Jesus says. We've got um and I'm gonna write it in this way. So we're going to take we're going to take the promises first. Verse 28 and 29 is talking about two resurrections, two physical resurrections I mean, is this surprising, uh Tanya? I've got to check my time here. This this would have been um and still is when you read it like a very uh a very shocking vision. So why would it be important that so you know if you see if you see these two passages sort of juxtaposed side by side Right. You know, God's only going to do that for um you know for the Jewish people, take their their heart of stone and give them the heart of flesh. That was John 4, verse 23. We will when we die, we will go to heaven, but that's temporary. We're not yet one hundred percent submissive to God's will. Because without faith it is impossible to please God. And then, you know, the Pharisees who are watching this hear that and they go, oh, like, who does this guy think he is? This is an example of that. And so there already in the Gospel of John we've seen that that there's kind of a a shallow belief that's that's merely like intellectual or merely an expression of interest. Yeah. I know it says I know it uh the prophecy is talking to Israel. No solution apart from Jesus can offer a definitive cure. And so I think you know when you've got Jesus talking about uh spiritual regeneration in verse 25 and physical resurrection in verses 28 and 29. Look at verse 26. Hell. So we have a concept in in our society that when somebody dies, a doctor And that's what he's really doing in verses twenty-five through twenty-nine here. We share in God's glory, but we have bodies. That's the precondition, right? But today we're going to do a little bit of that because I think it's really important to show that um And then we have in the middle, tying them both together, 26 and 27, Jesus' So he controls both aspects of our lives. Like his his salvation is total throughout the t the totality of our personhood, right? Jesus and the Father are one because Jesus perfectly submits his will to the Father. We're not yet freed from the the trials and sufferings of the this body and this life. I mean look at you. Verse 22 above said, For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. He saved us from this ultimate death, that is, experiencing the wrath of God for eternity. Number one, the promise of spiritual regeneration, where God promises that he's going to change the hearts of his people. Fourth, verse twenty-five, how many resurrections does it speak of if you look at verse twenty-five? So they're not they're not both good things. Eternal relationship with God. But it's not like it's not, we're not just spiritual beings there. We're we don't we're not yet perfected in in our ability to um And then Jesus also raised Jairus' daughter. And that's the ultimate guarantee of this. They both have this ultimate power over life and death. Okay. A little bit of a tricky question, yes. By the way, don't be tripped up by that distinction between those who did the good deeds and those who did the evil deeds. So I take a lot of encouragement from what Paul says in Colossians 3, verses 3 and 4. So he used that declaration, that command rise from the dead, or not sorry, rise get up and walk. It's not it's not like, oh, look at us. And does not come into judgment. You can't like go give somebody a blood test and tell that they have that eternal life And over here, we're talking about a spiritual reality, the inward heart that is dead in sin. He's promising to give them his spirit and give them new life. I think, you know, in the church, there's historically been kind of two opposite errors. So it's a little bit hard to use it as as a guarantee. Like we as Christians are to be the ones who love his appearing. Alright, so uh then these are the basis of his fulfillment of the two promises He says, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and he and believes him who sent me has eternal life. So so that's the that's the first half. All of our good deeds that we do as safe people follow from that one Okay, and finally, only verse 28 and 29 use the the word resurrection. Right, yeah, he says your sins are forgiven. Alright, this is this should astonish us. Before he says get up and walk, he says something else. He's not teaching easy believism, like whoever whoever intellectually assents to whatever I'm saying, whoever agrees with me. That's what's needed for us to become true worshipers of the Father, is our our spirits need to be renewed. Like you sin just like they do, or uh you suffer just like they do. It's not future tense. And so how does that relate to our passage today? Is anyone raised from the dead in glory yet? Jesus is the Son of Man who is God's forever king for all time and over all people. Like way back in John 1, it said that there were a lot of people who were believing in Jesus, but he was not entrusting himself to them. The one error says, you know, we've we've got a good soul trapped in an evil body. Two. We are not yet freed from the presence of sin. But um this is this is Jesus standing up after he's healed that man who had been sick for uh for thirty-eight years. Hell. Who is who is what you know if if he's saying if the core of the sentence is he has eternal life, who is he? It's an hour is coming. Right. It helps to be to be very clear that our hope is in the resurrection, is in receiving a glorified body and that will match our perfectly sanctified soul. Promoted to glory. We have been declared righteous in the sight of God if we've believed in Christ. Right, so uh in this passage, in these eleven verses Uh I'm sorry? And um it it's not just death. Or or does this does this amaze anyone else as much as it amazes me? For just as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself. I am Elohim. I'm the creator of life. And I think they correspond to three main points that he's making, basically, in this mini-sermon. And we've got verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine talking about physical resurrection. It's amplified in the sense that in verse 26, Jesus not only gives life to whom he wishes, he has life in himself. So summarize that here as Jesus is God's I mean the reason one and two are very related We the already not yet, yeah Well, which one is easier? Because all he's going to receive a kingdom that is eternal, that never passes away, and that rules over all the other kingdoms of the earth. Right now, he's declared us spiritually alive. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols Remember in verse 24 we just saw Jesus said, He who believes in me has eternal life. In first in the millennial kingdom, as our our church believes, uh, and then in the New Jerusalem, where uh For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. And what son of man means here is God's forever king. He's equal to the Father in that God has delegated all the authority to judge every person in humanity to the Son. Uh-huh. If you you know, if you read the Gospels, sometimes it'll seem like He's talking about the kind of belief that hears and obeys and submits and worships, you know. Um very truly I tell you. A sinful people whose whose hearts are not towards the Lord. I can't you shouldn't just take my word for it that this is talking about spiritual regeneration An hour is coming and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. Right? This is an example of him quoting or referencing Daniel chapter 7. Fourth way, verse 21, for just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. Okay, what's helpful here is uh to compare God doesn't see a human being as like primarily a soul with that happens to be like wearing a body or something. And that can get really confusing to us just experientially, right, as we as we live out our walk. That's the second proof, is the father's love, unique love for the son. Repenting of your sin, sitting under the conviction of the word of God Okay, so there's a slight difference. So the fact that this phrase an hour is coming in now is is used That's that is that's who is in the tombs. It's it's one, right? So he talks about yeah let's go ahead and read So y'all can turn there. And it doesn't always mean saving faith You know, that's where our hope is. It's something that we have now if we believe in Him. And, you know, it's in in an age before movies and special effects, this was like the We're going to take verse 25 and verse 28 and 29 first. The Lazarus didn't receive a glorified body. It doesn't literally say hell there, but how how do you know it's talking about hell? If death just meant we stopped existing It's not, whoever believes in me will one day have eternal life. It's it's the same thing, you know, hearing hearing the words of Jesus as the words of God the Father and internalizing them and obeying them He's talking about raising their physical bodies as well. Two. What ties these two together and forms the basis of Jesus' ability to do both of these things? I'll I'll read it and we're gonna look for these We cannot uh we should not deceive ourselves into thinking that our that our hope is just like for our Yeah, that's one reason why why this distinction is important You have to pay attention to the Son So he has eternal life is like the grammatic core of this sentence. So uh any doctor can pronounce somebody dead Alright, yeah, to compare verse 25 I mean, because this this was kind of surprising to me, I think, when I first learned it. And by the way, I'm going to raise three people in my earthly ministry, and then I'm going to rise from the dead, just to show you that I have the power to do that. And at the in the end of this vision, um he sees a a vision of God's promised king. Who wants to read Daniel 7, verses 13 and 14? God, the Father, shares all that he's doing with the Son. Alright, so that's that's just one final piece of evidence that uh okay over here we're talking about physical bodies being We're not yet promoted to glory, right? And just like we said, Jesus And when Jesus says truly, truly, he's saying, listen up, this is something that you need to pay attention to. We have spiritual regeneration if we trusted in Christ. So this this verse right here is the core, right? So we're going to read Ezekiel 36, verses 22 through 27. Now if you look over at verse twenty eight and twenty-nine Right, that's a that's a good thing. Yeah. Yeah, and where I'm the author of life. So there's this invisible spiritual life and then there's this very visible bodily resurrection. And he said, Which is easier to say, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, get up and walk. Why does he talk about resurrection and not just one resurrection, but two resurrections in verse 29? But what do you see there? This physical resurrection is a future reality. Well, it you have to distinguish between which is easier to do and which is easier Right? So death, the reason why death is a bad thing and death is a scary thing for us, is because But we're going to look at a section of Scripture that deals with both of these promises. That's the first half of what of what Jesus is talking about here in verses twenty-five through twenty-nine, as I'm going to argue. So this here So you'll see this a lot in studying scripture where If we believe in him, he has saved us. Because remember, this word belief In the context of the passage And remember, he gives six proofs, there's six pieces of evidence. It's not just that he came and and preached a completely new thing. It's referring back to that that idea and it's connecting the ideas of the two texts. We've already been adopted into God's family as his children. Because like those other resurrections, those weren't Right? Still in the tomb. And that's that's what we're mostly going to talk about today. Uh well here himself like Jesus But um that's that's sort of what Jesus is addressing here. He's not just saying, oh, you know, I'm just a humble man, like, don't make too much of me. Jesus is God's forever king. It is it is filled and dripping with uh with context from the Old Testament and from So, and it leaves us and now is. It says the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear shall live. One is a good thing and the other is a bad thing. We exercise such awesome faith to save to you know take hold of this salvation. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope has perished. That should sound familiar from something that we studied earlier in the quarter. Like, and how do I get over That's where our life is, hidden with Christ in God. Reading this should just knock us back on our heels because Um but yeah, that's And then in verse 27 And it's like w the you know, it just seems like a non sequitur. But but this here is physical life that he's talking about. Yeah. And and that difference is going to be important, as we'll get to in a second. Which means he is the only one who can offer solutions to both. Jairus was the synagogue ruler. Do not marvel at what I'm talking about with spiritual regeneration and my power and authority. Life with him. So this is God uh And he's promising to give them the ability to obey his law, which which is an ability that they lacked That's this. But it's easier to say your sins are forgiven than to say get up and walk. And in these verses, he explains why he is the key to these events. So again, it's kind of a restatement, but it's also an amplification, right? Okay, so that's that's the first half of this passage. So, you know, for example, like why is he bringing up And that's what that's something he shares with the Father, and that nobody else shares with the Father. W once you once you read the Old Testament and really internalize the main threads And what does Jesus say to the man? Um Right. Before we were saved, we were sinners. This is this is practically back to back. Right? And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the In the future, he will declare us physically alive after we have died For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you into your own land There's nobody else in the tombs, hopefully. What's our eventual destination? I'm one with my father who breathed the first breath of life into Adam. And I will put my spirit within you, and you will come to life, and I will place you on your own land He said something to that woman where he said he started out saying, An hour is coming and now is So just like he did that in this in that situation, I think he's doing that here. Alright, so spiritual regeneration, promised here in the Old Testament. Your sins are forgiven. But if you say to a man who's paralyzed, get up and walk, there's an immediate test that can be applied to tell whether you're lying or not. We're not yet filling the blank. So I'm not arguing that we should be like overly confident about our salvation and go blithely into sin, but Um essentially. Why is it important that and now is is left off? What do you what what's the difference between the two? And that's And that really sets up the second truly truly, which is in verse twenty-four. So it's it's phrased as two conditions, but it's really one. One new life. Yeah, so This is the authority that he has. Presumably he died again. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Uh so you know you That's the physical resurrection. Alright, so that's the outline of our All who are in the tomb, that's right. So this phrase, the dead, could admit um a spiritual interpretation. You know, we're supposed to look at at Jesus as the template for what's going to happen to us. We've been grafted into So we're in John 5. And The resurrections that he performed Do you put spiritually dead people in a tomb? Yeah, yeah. Because you know, Satan really loves to Is that your fate has made you? All right, we've got verse 25 talking about spiritual What phrase do you see over there? So that's fine. Jesus also raised the son of a widow at a place called Nain, and that's recorded in Luke 7. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom will And greater works than these will he show him, that you may marvel. I'm sorry? Oh yeah. And that is W we know it's not just talking about physical death here, right? So can I have a volunteer somebody read verses twenty-five through twenty-nine for me? And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst. We've already been declared righteous. Look at verse twenty-three. Spiritual regeneration. It's clearly given like the most prominent place in terms of the miracles of Jesus. He doesn't go beyond it, he doesn't fall short of it, he does exactly the will of the Father. What does this imply? One resurrection to glory and one resurrection to judgment. So there's this thing that some people refer to as the already not yet. We covered verses 19 He will be saved eventually Like, how could I have done that? And so this is this is him, the these verses are him unpacking that declaration. Same same theme, right? Like this is the gospel from the lips of Jesus. Life with hands. They don't have what it takes to walk in a way that's pleasing to the Lord. Yeah, that's and or you know maybe another way to say that is like Jesus We we inhabit what? And that's in Matthew 9, Mark 5, and Luke 8. He's seeing a vision of uh empires He says, I'm going to bring you up out of your graves and into the land. You guys remember this one? But real quick, so he saved us from death and judgment. How many resurrections does verse twenty eight and twenty-nine speak of? And that's not true of any other person, right? You know, a b a soul without a body is not a full human being. He has the authority of God's forever king. So I want you guys to turn to Daniel 7 Why is that important? Is that our hope is not going to heaven We we did not have that in ourselves. Only God can forgive sins. Because We we are all evil evildoers apart from this one good deed of And what's helpful here. He loves the son in a way that he doesn't really show love to anyone else. That's what he saved us from. Life with him. This is what God does. An hour is coming. It's almost a an exact restatement. We had this heart of stone. Our hearts need to be made new and made clean. Right now, it's present. Because the dwelling place of God is with man We're not yet perfected and One's a resurrection to life and one's a resurrection to Life with him, exactly. And But I think that's often because we're not reading his words with We are completely cut off. It's his power and authority in verse 26 and 27. So biblically speaking For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes. And then in verse 11 he's explaining the vision. You know, it's not like it's not like, oh Future reality. In that verse he's he's not talking about physical death No, it's faith is a gift of God This is something important I want to tell you But One resurrection. What does he save us from, according to verse 24? Haven't argued it yet, but Use that command, get up and walk It implies a preservation. So turn with me to Ezekiel 36. It's an escalation and a ramp-up. Eternal life. Uh it's invisible. That's not true of any other human being. Is that the true Christian hope Right? The cessation of bodily function And his point there is, I have saved you. Literally, he was not believing in them You know, it could be the spiritually dead. He saved us to eternal life. Because he says So Because Like when we sin. Sorry?