So just wanted to open up a discussion and and I will add another to this, you know, I mean I guess maybe focus in on what things in your life make you angry or anxious or What things cause you to act out in ways that maybe you wouldn't otherwise act out? This is a question. Anybody wanna I could go through my own list. Um actually when I started this slide I was originally gonna say well you know I need to talk about, you know, some of the trials that I have in my life, but then the list got really long and I thought, well, maybe I'll just open this up for conversation. So uh yeah, what what kinds of things? Go ahead. Writing scientific essays. Yeah. Um that that that's definitely a cause for anxiety. When people mistreat you? Oh Ah, when you see people mistreated treated in general, you mean somebody where injustice is being done, let's say Yeah, that's a that's a really good one. Um that that's something too that uh uh football game on Friday I got back to watch my my my uh my daughter's a cheerleader. I guess you probably know that 'cause I talk about my family all the time. They had a football game and it was a playoff game and one of the kids from the other team speared one of the the the best players on our team and to just watch the dirty play just just infuriated me. I was so angry to see this Kid just launched at this other kid, gave him a concussion, knocked him out. Um fortunately he didn't not out cold, so he got up and walked off the field. He'll probably be fine, but just the the moment of like what would cause you to do that, that injustice, that sense of injustice, that definitely makes me angry too. Anybody else Driving. It's a good thing my brother's not here today. My brother's like the ultimate mad driver. He's driving down the road. He starts yelling at the guy next to him and Um yeah. Yeah. What about anxious? What things make you anxious? Give you a lot of anxiety, give you fear Yeah, I don't even watch the news anymore. Uh because it if if you do, it feels like the world's gonna fall apart at any second, right? Uh Any anything else? Go for it. Yeah, there's a lot of people who have that fear of speaking publicly, fear of yeah, even just going through a a different subject. I had another hand up, I'll get to you in a second. Go ahead. Did you you had your hand up before? No? I okay, I'm sorry, I just saw okay, go ahead and say it Okay. Yeah, that could be when you're standing alone in a crowd of people and and you're forced to defend yourself. Yeah. Um I'm in the same boat as you, so I I definitely have that fear when I send my beautiful daughter up to college and See my son trying to make it through life and my younger daughter having to deal with different things uh in high school. It it yeah, it's uh it's definitely something. What kinds of things cause you to act out Say things maybe you don't want to say. What kinds of things maybe make you lose your tongue? Now it's the confession time, right? Now we're oh well but nothing ever makes me lose my ton So fighting with a spouse, being angry at a child Personal attacks, yeah. Yeah. You can lose it. I I've never personally experienced that, but no, I'm kidding. Uh why am I asking this? You know, it's it's times and trials like these, just as you're walking through life. Uh times when uh You uh are under duress, times when you're you're you're being pulled apart. Those are the times when your witness is most observed by unbelievers. And the big idea of Peter's lesson here today, the the big idea of Peter's message in this next couple of passages Is that your behavior and your conduct in these moments and the way that you treat these moments will be observed by others around you. And so those people who slander you, those people who slander Christians or Christianity, anybody who wants to hold an offense against you They will pick up on how you behave in that moment. And so will those who are seeking and searching and looking for the Lord. That is your opportunity to be the living gospel, the living example of what Christ can do in your life For you, in you, transforming you. And in those moments, you are the gospel to the unbelieving. You are the gospel to those who need Christ. And just as we prayed for that young man today, and as Maria is out there just pleading, taking one final moment. To implore this young man to see the holiness of God and the mercy of God, that Christ could save him. And give him an eternal life. That today he's in a temporal life that's about to end, but there is a life beyond that, an eternal life. This is her moment to be that gospel for that young man and to plead for that salvation And it's these moments that Peter is telling you, these moments are when you are something that the rest of the world doesn't have. That is your role as a sojourner, as an alien in this world, to be just a little reflection of the greatness and the glories of God. That's the big idea that we're seeing today in this lesson. And I'm going to go back to the previous verses to set this up a little bit. You know, Peter uses some really great great verses from the Old Testament. He uses Isaiah. He uses Psalm 118. And he says, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of the offense. Peter sets these next verses up, the the eleven and twelve up, by saying that there is a stone. There is a cornerstone. And it sits there. And one of two things are going to happen. You're going to see that stone, and you're going to To uh uh recognize that stone, and you're going to you're going to, by the grace of God, believe on the Lord, or you're going to see that stone and you're going to break yourself against it. It will become a rock of the offense. The word in Greek there's scandal on. It has the idea of being a scandal or something revealed. It's revealing of an offense to the the sin in your own heart. It reflects that and it can be an offense. And so you have these two things that can happen. Either you come to this stone And you believe upon it, or you come to this stone and you reject it. But everybody has to to to face this stone. And here Let me just back up a minute and slow around for a second. Um uh trying to get my head back about me. Um Peter has gone through the first, how many verses, talking about the different aspects of salvation. He starts off with you're chosen, right? You're chosen before the foundation of the world to be sprinkled by the blood of Christ, to be justified in him. You are chosen. And then he talks about the future glories, right? That you have an inheritance which is imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. He talks about how that is transforming in your life. Right? Though you you suffer through trials, you see him, you love him, or you though you've not seen him, you love him. And then he compels you to move towards sanctification. We had this discussion in our our home fellowship on Thursday. And uh Kirk and made a comment in the middle of it that I thought was a great way of kind of setting it up because this is also, by the way, the way many commentators view this, that he starts off with that Peter starts off with justification. And glorification and moves into sanctification, but that this first part of 1 Peter is about what is a Christian. What is a Christian? What is Peter's view of what a Christian is? Peter's view of what a Christian is is someone who Who is not deserving? Someone who is irrevocably Irreparably lost, but because of the grace of God, is chosen before the foundation of the world. To be justified by his son, by the precious blood of Christ. Not a work of yours, but a work of God's. Not something that you do in your intellect, not something that you find in your wisdom But something that the God of the universe has to open up your heart and show you who he is. And then he says not only that This God who you previously cursed, this God who you were previously at enmity with, he gives you a share of his kingdom. There's a glory beyond. So he's giving you his most precious thing, his son. And he's giving you his kingdom, an inheritance in his kingdom in the future, your future glory. And your response, or the appropriate response to that, is to desire to live a holy life. Right? It's to desire to be more like this beautiful God who has transformed you and changed you. And if you're really truly transformed, he says You will sanctify. Right? But by the grace of God, you will sanctify. You will long for the pure spiritual milk, he says. You'll desire to know him. And now he's going to kind of flip the script. Now he's gonna say, here's your mission, Christian. Here's Why I made you an elect exile of the diaspora. Here's why I put you in this place. I put you in this place because this God you worship, this person you follow, is either the cornerstone Which is the foundation of not only your life, but the church. That you're going to become these people who emulate and reflect God. And in so doing, that same stone will be rejected by others. It will be the basis of your judgment. And that is why you've been put where you've been put. And then he goes on and he just quite clearly states it, Beloved, I urge you to abstain as sojourners and exiles from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Sanctify. Keep your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. So we'll unpack this a little bit more, but at least on face value, it's pretty clear calling, right? It's a pretty clear calling. When you look at it in the greater context of the first chapter of Peter, now here's your mission. Here's your mission. Right? Are you ready for your mission? Are you ready to go You ready to, as he says, gird your gurge yourself up, sober your mind? Are you ready? Because here's your mission. Here's who you are. Um Before he, immediately preceding this verse, he talks about us being a royal priesthood, a holy nation. And he's drawing on some of these Old Testament references because there is a parallel. Now the priesthood or the Levitical priesthood which he's referencing is a physical located priesthood, right? But ours is a spiritual priesthood. So there's differences. No, we're not Israel, so I don't, you know, we we talked about this in other lessons. I'm not going to go into it again. He is not saying that we are a replacement for Israel, but he is drawing on this analogy of priesthood. He's saying that we are a priesthood because there are aspects of or images of what the priesthood was supposed to be in the law that we now fulfill spiritually and literally The priesthood you they were elected, right? They were chosen. Levi was chosen and pulled out. of uh of from his brothers and they were elected to priesthood. There in Leviticus it talks about the cleansing of their sin. They were always sacrificing, right? When they were Um on for the on the Day of Atonement, they went through this long and lengthy process of cleansing themselves of sin before they ever sacrificed for the nation of Israel. The idea was that they had to purify themselves before they could seek to go before God and intercess and they seek to go before God and and and uh uh Compel them to follow the Lord, right? If you yourself are not clean, if you yourself are not living a holy life, how can you then go out into the world And compel others to live a holy life. They were anointed for service. That's Exodus 28, 42, prepared for service, back to Leviticus. Called to be obedient, to honor the Word of God, to be messengers and teachers of God. This was the calling of the Levitical Priesthood. As a matter of fact, uh when you look at the law when they set up all of the Levitical cities, there was not a single place in Israel within ten miles of one of the Levitical cities. They were to be scattered throughout Israel so that they would be available, that they would be there as an example, that they would be there to serve The rest of Israel. And in that same way, we are scattered throughout the world, right? We are scattered as Christians throughout the world. And we have a mission, right? To become holy, to live holy lives. to uh to abstain from our fleshly lust. If if you're a an an alien or an exile You can't be that and then turn around and go get a green car. You can't be that and then turn around and just start being one of them How do you remain separate? How do you remain distinct? No, it's not over until his last breath. But God was glorified regardless. Amen. Maria was a priest today. Maria was a priest today. And she presented the stone. Which is a cornerstone or a rock of a fence. Maria glorified the Lord. Thank you, Maria. This is just like the most um like it's all just coming out from the interface. Um You you prepare for things and you have an idea how things are gonna go and the Lord just uh shows you in a moment that things are not always as they should be. So uh Um any questions on this first part? I saw a bit of a quizzical look from you, Scott. Was there something you wanted to add to this first thing for the priest? Go ahead It's only because of the Lord, let me assure you. Only because of him. Uh it's so I I'll just say, you know, it's it's it's um this was something that I I wanted to to make the point from next week and then maybe I'll kind of bring this in now since uh Scott is here. I think when you're a teacher, God leads you and and He compels you and I'm going through this and I'm preparing a lesson and I'm just by the way being completely honest. Uh y you have certain things that uh that are are they passionate in your heart. You know, there there's something that's a passion Scott, as last week, week before I can't remember, talked about he didn't like the term spiritual because it felt watered down, right? Um A and you know, I feel him because you know the the reality is is sometimes it can be overused, right? It can be and somehow it loses its meaning in the English translation, you know, and somehow it loses its sense of reality when it's just used and used and used. You use the term holy. Th do you really understand what the word holy means? And I understand that from a teaching perspective, I get that, right? Like I have I have a similar bent. For me, as much as he has that passion, for me it's like I sometimes wonder Like as I'm teaching you, do you do you understand the the necessity or the depth or the reality that Scripture is presenting you? I want you to hear these words, not from me, but from the Lord, and I want those words to penetrate your heart and encourage you to love Him. And it's like the one thing that I can't do. It's like the one thing I can never do. I can break words down in Greek and parse and do all these things and I can read 15 different commentaries on a subject and I can slice it and dice it a thousand different ways. What I can never do is open your heart. You know, and so Are my speaking to a wall? You know, I I I shared an analogy. There's um in Dallas Theological Seminary when you take the uh the preaching class, the classes on on biblical preaching, the first thing they do is take you out to a cemetery and you have to give a gospel message in the cemetery. And they grade you on how compelling you are. Speaking to dead bodies, the tombstones. That's anxiety. The idea is that you know You have to trust God. You have to trust God. And that is hard, Maria. That's hard in that moment because I want you guys to run off and rip open First Peter and just chew it up and then long for the pure spiritual milk and do all these things and I want to hear all these things that God is working in your life. But I You know what? It's never me. You know, it's never me, and I have to keep that separation between what I leave to God and what I leave to my studies and my preparation, you know. And so I I think one of those things as a teacher that that you we share different bents, right? And and And I hear that from Scott and I hear it from and I just think it's kind of an interesting point to bring up. Has nothing to do, by the way, with the lesson that we're learning today. I'll figure out a way to work it in. But yeah, so thank you for saying that, you know, that that I'm I'm glad that that the Lord is opening up your heart because um you know it's it's what I pray for. You know, it's it's what what what I want, even though I have no control over it. So to abstain from the passions of the flesh. So Peter Peter says, after saying you're a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, he says, Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners and exiles, to abstain from the passions of the flesh. So your beloved, your beloved But you have passions of the flesh. And here you are in alien exile. You have no rights in this land. Yeah, we have uh converted souls, but we have a fleshly body. Right? We have a Lord who's justified us. We have a body who rejects that. Right? Martin Luther called it brother ass. This mule that always was being forced to move along, to come along, that just didn't want to cooperate, brother ass Um yeah, it there are um There is abstaining from things that's easy, you know, that's just technical. I I guess the analogy I would use is you know a husband comes home, he's a very crude, crass person, he can look at his wife and say, Go make me dinner. Well she can make him dinner Wouldn't want to eat it personally, but you know. She can make him dinner, right? She can obey. Right? She can obey that command. Right? But he can't come in and go, I want you to love me. It's a different kind of command. Right? You can't just obey that command. You can't force somebody to obey that command. Right? So there are certain things that you can obey technically by your actions, and there are other things That you can not obey technically, it requires earnestness. And if you recall back in the previous lessons where we talked about how he's imploring them to earnestly Love the brethren. Long for the purer milk of the word. Peter's compelling you here, be earnest about this. Don't just do the deed Don't just follow in the action that you're commanded to. Change your heart. Work on your heart. Because justification, you have nothing to do with. All you do is thank the Lord for opening your heart and showing you what you never would have seen had He not done it. Glorification has nothing to do with you. That's not your property. You can't go demand it. The Lord gave it to you. It's an inheritance. Which is undefiled, imperishable, will not fade away. He gave it to you. Sanctification is cooperative. Now you have Something inside you you have to commit. And Peter's point here is it comes from love, right? That That abstaining from the passions of the flesh, you're an alien, you're an exile, abstain from the passions of the flesh. Don't go get your green card. Don't camp out here. Don't become like them. You're not an American. You're a Christian. Your identity isn't in being an American first. Your identity is being a Christian. You're not a German, you're a Christian. You're not a white guy, you're a Christian. Not a black guy. You're a Christian. First. First. That is what you are. And if you have that perspective, then you get it. Right? Then you get it. My identity isn't in the things of this world. My identity isn't in the wealth that I carry or the car that I drive or the friends that I hang out with or Any of that. Your identity is in Christ in Christ alone. And when your identity is in Christ in Christ alone, you will abstain from the passions of the flesh Because that is who you are. And when you are that person, you will take the effort to beat brother ass into the ground and force him to submit to your will. Because it is the will of the Lord. And you will long for the pure spiritual milk, and that spiritual milk will be like a mirror, and you'll Like a woman preparing for for a hot date, right? Checking the eyebrows, making sure in that mirror, making sure the lipstick is just right, making sure the shirt's on straight. You will look yourself over, you will use that mirror to reflect who you are, and you will look at it honestly, and you will change. What needs to be changed, because you love the Lord. You will abstain from the passions of the flesh. Peter uses the word wage war against the flesh. This is in a I'm gonna walk along until sin hurts me and then I'm gonna fix it I'm going to move along until life forces me to change, and then I'll change it. No, you wage war. Strategic. Involved. Right? Logistical, combative war. You wage war. Paul says it like this For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh, for I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out, brother ass. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil that I do not want is what I keep on doing, brother ass. Right? I can't tame the stupid donkey. I can't tame this stupid donkey. It's not listening to me. Now if I do what I want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. So he sees that sin and he changes it. He forces it. Right. Then he says, keep your conduct honorable Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God in the day of visitation. This conduct, this word conduct, and here's where I have to get a little bit technical with some Greek, because we gotta pull some stuff out of this. I won't mention all the Greek words and stuff, but I want to express. This is a tough one to get into English, so we'll have to break some of this apart. The conduct is really in reference to general behavior. It's not a specific act, it's generally speaking. As a matter of fact, the King James uh it says your conversations Just your out and about, just your daily life. Keep your your your daily life, your general behavior, your behavior within society. Keep that conduct honorable and that word honorable can can carry a weight all the way from good, which some translations take. to excellent, which other translations take. It can vary a little bit in degree. Here, I actually like the term honorable. I think it's somewhere in between. It's maybe a little strong to say You know, like keep your your conduct like it's honorable. Just keep your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, among the nations, really, is what the word says And uh so that when they slander you as evildoers, that word uh slander is um Elsewhere referenced as backbiting, the idea that they come against you, that they they launch an accusation against you, that there is an accusation that they say, oh look at that person Look at what they're doing. That's, you know, that they're gonna slander you in that as evildoers in the The word there is malfactor, malcontent, someone who's out to cause trouble. So The reason I bring all that up, the reason I get into that, is because here you get a pretty clear picture of the kind of persecution that Peter has in mind. Right? So from a from a thematic standpoint of the book, from a from a lesson standpoint of the book, it's important to understand exactly what he means when he's talking about these persecutions. This is a very clear picture of what he means by those persecutions. You're going to have, you're going to go about your daily life. And if you're a Christian, right, Jesus says, you will have trouble Okay, there's going to be trouble. And this is the kind of trouble that Peter has in scope here. People who are coming and making accusations against these people. In this time, Christians were often slandered as being atheists because they didn't believe in Roman gods. So they were accused of being atheists, and some of them were being asked or forced to to give temple sacrifices to dispute their atheism. But you can't do it as a Christian, can you? Right, so they would say these people don't believe in gods. Look, they won't offer a temple sacrifice. I do believe in a god, but I'm not offering a temple sacrifice Right. They were um they were called tannibles, that's another real common one, because they ate and drank the blood of Christ. They're eating and drinking the blood of this person That's disgusting. They're cannibals. They're eating people. Um we do We we do eat and drink the the blood of Christ. We take communion. We do have communion. Symbolic, but you know, I'm not out there cutting people up Not a cannibal, but this is the accusation. Why? Because they're trying to cause trouble. They're malfactors, they're evildoers, they're troublemakers You might say, might be modern, the modern living translation or something would say, troublemakers. These troublemakers are coming around and they're stirring up trouble. And of course you can see in the New Testament lots of examples, right, of when these troublemakers would come about, right? in uh Ephesus when uh they they were the the the silver makers w didn't like the Christians because they weren't buying idols So they became malefactors. They started stirred up trouble to get rid of these Christians. Gotta get rid of these guys. These guys are gonna make us go broke. Troublemakers stirring up trouble. And this gives you perfect insight into why we have to get rid of all malice, all hypocrisy. Can you B and have you ever been accused of doing something and you know you didn't do it, but they just accused you of it anyway Was there any worse feeling in the world than to be accused of something that you didn't do? Remember when your your your little brother Did something said oh no Johnny did it Johnny did it No I didn't your parents come in Johnny you did it No I didn't Johnny probably had a little malice that day for the little brother, right? It's not easy being accused of something that you didn't do. It's not easy being given injustice. Right? When it's you suffering the injustice, it's hard. It's uh a cause for malice. You can become angry. You can become bitter Let me tell you something. When that person comes against you, you have to love them. You have to love them. Yeah, there's um Robbie Zacharias uh who's now with the Lord, but Robbie Zacharias tells a story about a guy who um And I can't remember all of the details. I didn't write it all down here, but he uh uh was put in prison for his faith. And uh the the head of the prison took his Bible from him and wouldn't let him have it, wouldn't let him read it And uh forced him to clean like the latrines. And when he was cleaning the latrines, he saw scraps of paper from his Bible the head of the security was using it as toilet paper. He cleaned it off. Getting his Bible back. You know? And when that guy realized what he was doing, he what are you doing? Let me tell you about my Lord. Let me tell you about my God. So they were using it to slander. It became It became a testimony. He was using it to literally desecrate the word, and it became an opportunity for testimony. That's a very extreme example. Okay. But you have these in your daily life You have these every single day in your life. And I know that because you're a Christian, and the Bible says if you are a Christian, you're going to have troubles. Right? And if that is true and the Bible's true and I believe it, you got troubles. Okay, you got problems. Things happen. How you handle those things though Can become a testimony. And so Peter was saying rid yourself of malice, rid yourself of hypocrisy. Rid yourself of these things. Why? Because if you do that and you love them through it and you show your good deeds, when they try and slander you, you're an example. What kind of God can do that What kind of God can do that? You remember several weeks ago I was talking about, you know, we um The Lord will not allow us to make idols. Right? He just doesn't want idols. There's no image of God that you're gonna make it from rock or from stone or from clay or from gold or from whatever. You will never in capture who he is in an idol. You'll never do it He's too glorious. He's too great. He's too wonderful. He's too magnificent. He's too full of grace. He's too full of mercy. He's Too full of love. You can't draw him on a picture But you know what you can do? If you're that God, you can go up to your enemy And they can slander you. They can be your enemy. They can be as far from you And is hateful towards you and is angry towards you, in complete enmity with you, completely depraved, you can go up to that person. If you're the Lord, you can say, Look, I am I can do this. I can change your heart. And all of these sins that you've committed against me I will send my most precious. I will send my most precious. I will give you the very best that I can give. And he will die for you, and he will pay for your sins. The very best that I can give. I will give him unto death for you. Then he can give you an inheritance. Then he can just give you a little a place. A kingdom, an eternity. And he can change you. And where you would curse him, you will love him. Now I'm drawing a picture of the kind of God we follow. That's what you are Right? That's what you are. You are the closest thing he can come to an image of what he is. And you go out there and you show people who he is. That's what Peter's saying That's what Peter's saying. And they're watching you. You don't think he's watching you, Maria. But he's He's watching you. He sees the love in your eyes. He feels the love in your heart. And he curses the God that you love, but he's watching you. And you have presented him with the stone. That can be his cornerstone or his rock of offense, his stone of stumbling. But he will not go to the Lord and say, you didn't tell me They're watching. They're watching Your life is a gospel message Your life is a gospel message. How you choose to live it How you choose to express it, that's a cooperative effort between you and the Lord. But what is commanded of you That requires trials. Right? That's a great thing about a trial. I'm not saying go out there and run headlong in the trial. Don't go run out on the road so you can get hit by a car or so you can say, Oh, I love the Lord. Don't do that, that's dumb Okay, that's not what I have in view here. That's not what Peter has in view here. But troubles are coming. You don't have to go looking for them because they're gonna find you, I promise. Right? Kids gonna mouth off, make you angry. Gonna get hit by a c you're gonna get rear ended by a car and the guy's gonna yell at you, blame it on you, and you're like, dude, you rearrented me man. Like seriously, come on. Okay? You're gonna have somebody at work who slanders you. You're gonna have someone who says that God you follow is an idiot. You're wrong. He doesn't he doesn't he's not real You're gonna be told you completely lost your mind. That's what someone told me one time. You are out of your mind. He told me It was my best friend. You're gonna have a trial. You have to be prepared. Gird up your loins. Be sober-minded Town it all joy. Can't be any clearer than that It can't be any clearer than that, can it? Peter's gonna go on. This is um this is the first of it's actually the the second of four times that that he makes statements. To this effect. He's also um he's I don't have the references in front of me. I don't know where I put them, but he's he's going to make the statement again in chapter three and again in chapter four about how your conduct among the Gentiles becomes a witness or a testimony This is a critical theme to 1 Peter. It's a great way. We have, of course, next week is the last class. And this is, by the way, you bring questions. Okay, you bring questions. Everybody here, you bring questions. This is going to be completely interactive. If you don't bring questions, we're leaving early. Okay. I'm just telling you. Okay. This is the this is the message I wanted to end this class on For this quarter. Because here is Peter's doctrine of what a Christian is. This is what a Christian is. This is what a Christian is. If you're Peter, this is what a Christian is. You're a person who is chosen for the foundation of the world to be an elect exile of the diaspora, to be glorified and given an inheritance. To love him because of the sprinkling of his blood, to become holy because you love him, to prepare yourself, to long for the pure spiritual milk of the Word And sanctify in him so that you can be a witness for him That's your calling. That's what you've been called to. That's where you're called to go. And that's who you're called to be. This is Peter's view of a Christian, sprinkled by the blood of Christ. Yep. My uh former pastor, oh he's he's I mean he's still around, it makes it sound like he's gone, but uh Tommy Nelson, uh he he his uh testimony, his personal life testimony Uh he was a quarterback for University of North Texas. They were one and ten that season. So they were they were not he wasn't a great quarterback for North Texas, he was a quarterback for North Texas Um he was in his room and he got a knock on the door. Didn't come to see him, came to see his roommate And that guy sat down and gave the gospel to this guy. And he always says, you know, the gospel bounced off of him and it hit me right in the head. You're right. You're not just witnessing to him. You're witnessing to everybody in this room. You're witnessing to everybody that was on that phone. You're not just witnessing to him. And you can pray for him and you can love him and you can glorify your Lord. And you can pray, and you can love the others that have heard your testimony today, and I pray that they do. Take with them. And encourage them to do what you do. Be a gospel message to somebody. Be a gospel message to somebody. Let's pray.