Father God, uh today Lord, uh we look and we uh continue in this book which you've given us through the Apostle Peter. And as we read and study your word, I pray that we would continue to be more deeply convicted. more deeply encouraged, uh more deeply aware of who you are. And uh so Father, that is uh why we are here today to spend some time in worship, in awe, and reverence of you. Help me to communicate effectively and clearly. And be with us, that we have ears that are open and hearts that are open to receive your word. And it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Um so I was going through these notes because I kinda like to review. I have this little chart that I sent out at the beginning that kind of goes, I know it's like super small uh here. But um I I that kind of breaks up the classes and I realize that uh and Scott maybe this is m even more relevant for you that like I made a few glitches in the last couple pieces I I had in this one. I so we're we're we've got uh today and then we've got four more classes after today. So it's already getting to the end. We we just broached the second chapter and we're almost we're getting to the end of the class. So um but So we're going in and basically what I did was break it out in a block that kind of shows how I see the overall structure of the epistle. And so then each, of course, each of these is a specific class. And I noticed that that class 10 was verses, I had originally put verses 4 through 12, but the actual paragraph is 4 through 10. Uh so that was off a little bit. And then I rearranged the the the topics because I realized that that if I did this I was going to be very unfair to Scott and giving basically nothing to really talk about for one class. So um I realigned that. Scott, I'll send you the new the new thing today. Uh I just I was gonna do it last night but then I got tired and forgotten So it's it's coming. But uh but now we're getting into so Peter after explaining what a Christian is uh begins a series of exhortations and we talked about the four exhortations uh in the uh Where did I go? I messed up. We talked about the four exhortations that ended the last chapter about being holy. about uh uh having reverence for God, about um uh loving, genuinely loving your brethren. And so he begins these series of exhortations. And then he leaves now with one final exhortation, which is really kind of looking back to the previous ones and then before, which is long for the pure spiritual milk. Long for the pure spiritual milk. And And so this is now he's really starting to focus on not just what a Christian is, but what kingdom life looks like. what it looks like to walk as a Christian in your daily life. So not just that you've been saved, not just that you have an inheritance. Now this is now by implication as he goes starts to work through these exhortations. He's telling you now that I've told you, pick up your mat and walk. Here's what it looks like to walk. And so he starts to go into this section of Scripture, which, by the way, will continue to carry all through the end of Scripture. So or the end of the epistle So uh we're gonna get into what it looks like to be humble in society, what a good f what a family looks like as a Christian, what it's like to suffer as a Christian, and man, we're gonna start digging, right? He's gonna start really needling into your life now. So that that's how we're going. But he begins this series with crave the pure spiritual milk. By implication, if you look back at the end of chapter one, because he's bridging here, there's a bridge here, uh, where he says having purified, this is what Scott covered last week, having purified your souls. by your obedience to the truth for a sincere, brotherly love. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God, for all flesh is like grass. In all glory like the flower of grass, the grass withers and the flower fails, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And then he says, in this word is the good news that was preached to you. And then he goes immediately into, so put away All malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander It's pretty absolute, isn't it? All, all, all. And then he says, like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk that by it you may grow into salvation. If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. And so this pure spiritual milk, uh the the the the term spiritual here is the the Greek word logica, so it's not The pneuma, it's not the spirit milk, it's the spiritual milk. And the logikos being the Greek word is also the it is like it's the word for word, right? So you see some translations that say long for the spiritual or the pure milk of the word. That's probably not the best translation, but it does capture the meaning pretty well. But so when we talk about the pure spiritual milk, know that Peter directly intends to mean the Word of God. Okay. Uh and that leaves me with this question. How often do you read your Bible? And so we're going to play show of hands. How many people in this room believe that the Word of God is the inspired, inerrant Word of God, that it's wholly inspired? Yeah, it's pretty much everybody, right? Now keep your hands up, keep your hands up, keep your hands up. Now, how many of you read your Bibles Like literally open up your Bible and read it once a year. Once a year? At least once a year. I hope so, right? I hope so. Alright, alright, now we're gonna get a little bit closer. How about once a month How many people regularly read their Bible once a month? So our hands are still up, okay? How about once a week? And I'm not talking about Sunday at church. I'm talking about how many people actually get and dig into their Bible. Once a week. Oh is it the hands are starting to kind of say, well, okay, what about once a day How many people read their Bible every day? And a lot of hands start to go down now, right? How many people have a regular habit of reading their Bible each and every morning or day or sometime during the day. Yeah. So the hands start to get less and less and less and less. And I'm not saying this by the way just to beat up on people who don't read their Bible every day, but um You know, and I could start with, you know, my own confessions that there have been times that I've gone an extended period of time without having a regular uh reading time, uh doing the daily reading, you can fall out of that habit quite quickly, quite easily. What I can tell you is that what Peter is telling you today Is that sanctifying in Christ starts with reading your Bible? You're going to confess your sins, you're going to come to Christ. The Spirit is going to uh um sanctify your soul or is going to to to uh Just you're going to be justified through the gospel, which is the good news that was preached to you. But if you want to follow in Christ and you want to sanctify in the Lord, that starts. With reading your Bible. So if you want to follow Christ long for the pure spiritual milk. And I the way he presents this, um, and Scott kind of mentioned this too, you know, this is um last week Uh I I really like that he said this and and and it's because it's also true for me that you know th this particular piece of scripture, let me back up a moment, this particular piece of scripture is not difficult to to understand. I mean it's a pretty straightforward, there's nothing difficult interpretively. Um last week's was kind of the same. Uh commentators might be all around, all over the place on the structure, but the meaning is pretty sound, right? Like the meaning is pretty easy to derive. And these exhortations that he gives you, they're pretty straightforward But they're difficult. And they're difficult and they're convicting when you teach them because they are pretty straightforward. And um so a as we read through and we work through similar to Scott I feel inadequate to teach some of this because I know that maybe this doesn't always emulate me in my life and I know that this is not always who I a hundred percent am all the time and I think part of the thing is is the point is to make it a hundred percent who you are all of the time. That's why he says, remove all this. Remove all of that. Because no matter how deep you seem to dig You always bring up more sin. No matter how many times you dip into the well of your heart, you're always going to come up with more things that need to be rid of in your life if you want to follow Christ. It will be your lifelong pursuit. Right? And and so when I say long for the spiritual milk, I mean he's saying that's how he means it. He means to long, right? And and and the thing that's Really kind of cool about this section with these exhortations is that what Peter is trying to get you to be is honest. Honest with yourself. Honest with these exhortations. You are Not to just set your hope on Christ, not to just set your hope on the revelation, the hope of the grace that's to be revealed to you at the coming of Christ, but you're to set your hope fully It it has to characterize who you are in your everyday life, not on Sunday morning. Not for the first half day on Monday before frustration sets in. Okay? Every day of your life, set your hope fully. Set your hope fully. You should be obedient as a child who calls upon the Lord as Father. And if you reflect on the privilege it is to call the God of the universe your father, Abba Father, if you reflect on that Then be obedient. If that's true of who you are, obedience flows as a result. Right? You're not just to love, this is the one that gets me. You're not just to love the brothers. You have to sincerely love the brothers. earnestly love the brothers. Let me tell you, when you look at your your family Um it's easy to say that you earnestly love them, right? You live with them every day, you're married, or you have kids, or You know, they're your family, they're your father, they're your mother, there's a relationship, it's been extended over a period of a number of years. You you know their thoughts, you know their fears, you know their loves, you know their hates, you know all of these things And you might argue and fuss and fight, but togetherness is always a priority because they're your family. Right? And you can go and make them really, really mad one day and then come back the next and everything seems like it's okay. I mean I I I think most people have people in their family that are like that. So maybe not your whole family, but some people in your family that are like that. It's easy to look at that and say you love earnestly, but what about your brothers in Christ? What about me? What about the person sitting next to you? What about the people behind you? What are you willing to give for them? Is it everything? Are you earnest in your love for them? Do you pursue them? Do you know anything about them? I mean heck I sometimes I struggle to remember people's names. You know, and yet you know we're to exhort one another to loving good deeds. I mean there's so many calls in the Bible in Scripture Right? Uh to to raise one another up, to lift one another up, to support people in missions, to support people. and and ministry, to support people, to teach them how to be good Christians, to be good parents, to be good mothers, to be good fathers. That's that's who we are in Christ. That's what we're called to be in Christ. I can go back and start throwing out all kinds of scripture, right? about what you're supposed to do with your brothers. But are you doing it, and are you doing it earnestly? Or can you not wait to get out the door Sundays? to get to the football game or to go finish your yard or to get back into your busy life. You love earnestly. That's a difficult, difficult call. And he's not letting you out of it. There's no love earnestly on Sunday, most of the time. Love kind of love. Oh, okay, you got a home fellowship group. Then it's Wednesday and Sunday, you're double Christian. It doesn't work like that It's love earnestly from a pure heart. And and Peter, you know, he's going to tell you in a very unequivocal way. And and he's not alone. There's there's quite a few passages in scripture that have the same thing. The difficulty is not the complexity of the Greek or the understanding of where it plays into the larger role of the Bible. The difficulty is not that I can't interpret it rightly because it's right in front of my face. The difficulty is being honest. The difficulty is telling you you can't just do these things as a work, punch your ticket, go to heaven. You have to be honest. You have to mean it. And that's tough. And that's convicting. And if it's Not convicting for you. I know now Scott and I are brothers in this. We're definitely find ourselves convicted as we work through it. Right? Um because the scripture is unequivocal. Peter's not letting you out of this. If this does not characterize your life. And if you take nothing else away from this If this does not characterize your life, you need to look at your salvation. And I can't be any more clear than that. If this doesn't characterize your daily walk, check yourself. Because you do not want to be that person who goes before Christ on the day Lord, Lord, did I not prophesy in your name? Did I in your name cast out demons? Did I not do those things? And he says, Depart from me. I never knew you. You don't want to be that person. And don't apologize for scripture. Don't make up stories as to why maybe he doesn't mean it quite that strong. Maybe he doesn't really mean sincerely. Maybe he just means kind of sincerely. Maybe he doesn't mean earnestly. Maybe he means kind of half earnestly. Maybe that guy that comes up and says, Lord, Lord, did I not, did I not? Maybe that guy, he acts like he didn't know he wasn't saved. Maybe he acts like that, but in his heart he knows he's not saved. Mm-mm. No. No. No, that's not right. Those people came to him without a genuine heart. But they worked their lives for something. They thought they were punching a ticket for something. They thought they were earning something. And God says, you're not going to earn this. This is not earned. So you can work your whole life earning something, but if you looked at the debt of your sin, you could never pay it. Not all the works in the world could ever pay for your sin. There's only one work in the entire history of mankind that pays for your sin. And that is Christ on the cross. Right? Right? And the call is earnest. Be earnest. It's not good enough just to do the work. It's got to be in your heart. And that's how Peter is calling us. That's why Peter is using these words, longing, earnest, fully, knowing That's why those words are put there. That's why he wrote that to you. Because he wants you to not just do it. But do it earnestly. And that's tough because that's a challenge, right? He says, so put away The the actual word there, by the way, maybe I'm being silly about this, but the the the best translation for this is putting away or laying aside. So put away makes it sound like a command. It says laying aside it's uh an active uh is active, so it's it's ongoing. Put this you're laying aside All malice, all deceit, and hypocrisy, and envy, and all slander. And then the command, long, like newborn infants, for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow into salvation And then if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. If indeed You have tasted that the Lord is good. Then long for the pure spiritual milk. It's a heart check. Right? It's a heart check We start off by saying, put away all. And the main idea here, I've already kind of said this, but I'll say it again. The main idea here is to seek complete holiness. The goal of the Christian walk. The goal of being a Christian, the end of being a Christian is that you seek You seek holiness. You seek to put away all malice, all deceit, all hypocrisy. These are hard issues, right? These are hard issues. These are he's not saying stop stealing. He's not saying, you know, stop slapping people around. He's saying get rid of the malice, the deceit, the hypocrisy, and envy, slander. Get rid of those things in your heart Their heart issues, because that's the origin of sin. Jesus says in Matthew 12, for out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. How do I know if you're putting away all envy, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, sign up? Because I can listen to you talk I can watch you in your life. I can see what your life looks like. So I can look at actionable items, but God is judging your heart. And God is saying if you want to fix the actionable items, you need to first fix your heart Right. Um you know and when you look at that See you you recognize your sin, you hear the good news, the word, the good news that was preached to you. And you can recognize when you do something wrong, right? Like you can recognize when you've sinned just in your everyday life because you know that, you know the way that you are treating somebody shouldn't be inconsistent with the way that you want to treat others. I mean that's just kind of logic, right? Like it's not okay for me to go kick a dog Right? If I walk up and kick a dog, everybody's gonna look at you and go, man, you're an awful person for kicking a dog. Right? I mean what that dog do to you You know, well if it bitchy may, I don't know, but okay, I digress. The point is, is that it's easy enough to see that your life is inconsistent with what you call right. What you call right. Because you're going to mess up. You're going to make mistakes. You're going to do things wrong. And so coming to the Lord on the basis of your own sin and saying, Lord, I, you know, I've fallen short. Lord, I confess I need you. Praying the prayer of salvation, becoming a Christian, the Holy Spirit entering your heart, purifying you, justifying you. That part Is preached to you, right? So you hear the word, so you can recognize your sin in your life, and then you're preached to, so you hear the word, and that word is convicted. Right? And that's the good news here that Peter is talking about. It's good news to be convicted. Right? It sounds bad. It hurts. It doesn't it's not a happy moment, but it's a great moment When you recognize that you've fallen short of the grace of God. And that's the good news that was preached to you. But now you go back out and you wake up and you're like, hey I'm a Christian. What now? How do I I want to become a better person? So how do I know how to become a better person? Am I going to look like uh Bob who sits next to me at the computer? Am I gonna look like my next door neighbor? Am I gonna be better than my next door neighbor? You know, I mean that's Maybe an approach, right? I'm gonna be better than the next guy. But that's a problem because The Bible says that that uh the hearts of men are are are full of evil and madness is in their hearts. So if you're looking around at other evil people to try and become a better person You have no idea what true goodness really is. So you're walking around in a world blind Does that make sense? Like, sanctifying in the Lord is never going to happen by being better than the next guy. Sanctifying in the Lord is never going to happen being better than the non-believer. Well, I'm better than that person, so I must be okay. I must be getting better because last week I wasn't even as good as that person. Now I'm better than that person, so I mean that's a terrible game. Right? That's a terrible game. The hearts of men are wicked If you're looking in the world to try and find how to become more like Christ, you're not going to find it. You're just not going to find it. I'm gonna say this and maybe I should hit pause because you know I don't want you know Dave to become calling me, but she it may be even hard to find a church sometimes There's a reason we come to church. It's rehabilitation, right? We're here to lift each other up. We're here to change each other. But we bring our evil hearts into the church Right? And it's only by the grace of God that we've been saved. So let me tell you something. If you're going to set your hope fully on becoming more like Christ by clinging on to people at church You're going to find yourself very disappointed. That's a hurtful thing to say sometimes, but some of the biggest pain I've felt as a Christian has been by fellow believers. So if you want to cling to other Christians, you'll get some help. You'll find someone who will encourage. You'll find someone Who will will will bring you along. And of course that's what we're here for, because we're supposed to love each other earnestly. But you're going to find some that don't love earnestly. And those people are going to hurt you Right? Those people are gonna hurt you. So you don't want to look just at the church. That's a a a a uh that's a start Sorry about that. I don't know how to turn this stupid noise thing on. Doesn't come off. Anyway. Um I can't work an I can't work an iPad, so Um so you don't want to to rely solely on people from church. What do you have? What do you have? You have God. And where are you going to find God? Where are you going to find the pure unadulterated Spiritual milk that you need. Scripture. Scripture. You want to know what God has to say? God's written it down. I don't you know I I never did understand this uh charismatic idea like I don't need to read my Bible, I know what God told me. Really? That's great. I I don't want to talk to you. Maybe we need to have a different kind of conversation, right? I I don't need to I don't need to read my Bible. I see God in everyday life. Well, the hearts of men are wicked. Are you sure what you're looking at Are you sure what you're looking at? That person made you feel good. But are you sure they're speaking the truth? Am I speaking the truth now? I mean heck. What if I'm up here Espousing lies to you. Could it happen? Pray to God I'm not, of course, but what if I am? What if I am? Are you going to walk away from a sermon or from a from a teaching or You can walk away and go, okay. Now I know I've heard the word of God. I don't need to open my Bible because I got all I'm all full up I'm all full up till next Sunday. I'm good to go. What if I'm lying? You want to know what God has to say? God has a lot to say. He has a whole lot to say. And he's written it for you. Yep. That's true. And sometimes I find that I tell I kill myself wise And I need the one in God to say, what is that true? What I think it's good Yes, I got our child guy. I need to give that to the Bible. So we need to hurt ourselves if we are in the Bible. You you went online and got the notes, didn't you? She's cheating, everybody. She's cheating. If if you didn't hear what she had to say, um, I actually liked the way she said it better than the way I was gonna say it, so I'm just gonna say it the way she said it. The biggest liar, the biggest liar you're ever going to find to yourself is yourself. Um the power of the human mind to rationalize. Yep. Go ahead. Yes, Satan is the biggest liar. Yeah. So Satan's the biggest liar, he lies to us and we lie to ourselves, and yes The the point I'm I think that I'm getting to with it, and I think that you're also getting to is that we all have the powerful ability to rationalize anything. Right. We have the powerful ability to always excuse ourselves for things we would never excuse somebody else for. You ever notice that? Right? And and and so, you know, where am I going with all this? The only place that you're going to go where you are a hundred percent sure That you're not going to be lied to is right here. Right here. God doesn't lie. God's word is true And God doesn't lie. And when you look in this scripture, it's like looking in a mirror. And you can read the pure spiritual milk, and you can compare it to your life. You can compare it to your heart. Do I meet this test? Is this characteristic of me? And as you do that more and more, you know what you're gonna do? You're gonna praise God more and more. Because you're going to realize more and more what a sinner you are and what a mighty work the Lord Jesus Christ has done I'm worthless. I I'm uh that's a fact. Me by myself standing here before you, I am worthless. And if I confessed every sin that I had in my life, you would walk away from here going, how did that man stand up and try and teach me something? Just one second. One second, I get you. Um But I'm not here because of me I can't stand in front of you as Frank Johnson. I can't. I'm standing here prayerfully on the Word of God. And my job is nothing more than just to tell you what God says, because what I have to say is probably wrong. And that's a fact. I mean that's a fact. So if you want to know what God has to say about your life, if you want to be transformed, as Paul says, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, the mercies of uh by the mercies of God. Present your bodies as a living sacrifice. If you want to present your body as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, if you want to worship Him, By sanctifying in him and becoming more like him, that you might reflect him to the rest of the world. If you want to glorify God in that way, You have to be transformed by the renewal of your mind. And the only way you're going to be transformed by the renewing of your, or with the through the renewing of your mind is through the Word of God. Dan you're gonna come here and you're gonna go, oh yeah, he's preaching the word, and I know he's preaching the word, and I can see it And if I don't, guess what you also can do? You'd be like, hey, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. That was a mistake. Nope, you said that wrong. Okay. And we can have that conversation. Lauren, you raised your hand a minute ago. I didn't want to stifle you but I just wanted to complete that thought so I could get to the next slide because I'm gonna run out of time. I just don't I actually have a question as far as regarding like first Corinthians thirty because it kind of like is a massive overview but more like an emphasis but the the the biggest thing that I had a question about was whenever Paul is talking about like how he couldn't come to the Corinthians as a spiritual man but had to come to them like infants. And and he could not give them the meat, but he had to give them like But in that text it's actually being used as like a negative thing because there supposed to be correct. Correct. So let's talk about that. That's actually thank you, because you actually turned the slide when I should have been turning the slide before. The pure spiritual milk is the word of God, right? And for a Christian, it is our life sustenance in its most basic form. And then he says it's a newborn babe. And then he calls it the b the pure spiritual milk of the word you'll see in other translations. And then you can see that there are three cases elsewhere where that reference is kind of made with children being a child in the New Testament. Uh and in 1 Corinthians 3, um the reference is, you know, look, I I you should be eating solid food by now, but I can only give you milk. The reference is that they're not mature. They're not maturing. They're not ready. And First Thessalonians is like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. There he's talking about the compassion that a mother feels for a baby. for a child. Again, not the context here. Okay. Hebrews 5, you're still in need of milk, not solid food, a reference again to being immature. But here that is not what Peter has in mind. What Peter has in mind is that the spiritual milk is necessary for sustenance to a growing person. Right? You are a newborn babe. You have to grow. You want to grow, read your Bible. And it's not so much the emphasis on being immature. The emphasis is on the sustenance that the milk provides for you to grow. The better parallel is James chapter 1 verses 21 through 25. Therefore, and then you're going to hear the parallels right here, put away all filthiness. And rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves So be earnest. You hear the call for being earnest about what it is? For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer, but forgets But a hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts will be he will be blessed in his doing. And I'm going to focus here on this idea, this part about the mirror, the man who looks intently That word in the Greek for man is actually man. It's guy. It's a dude. Don't be like a guy looking in the mirror. I I see Scott and did y'all have a comment that you wanted to make? I feel like it would disrupt your full thought that basically So okay, then we'll we'll maybe circle back around as we get through. So the idea is to focus on this very man. Don't be like a guy that comes up to a mirror Right. As opposed to a woman who comes up to a mirror, maybe. Right? So the guy walks up and you know he's gonna get ready for work or I'm getting ready for you know I'm checking the basics, right? I'm just checking to make sure there's nothing like I don't have a you know big thing here. Maybe my teeth look like they're clean. They don't have to be clean, but they have to look like they're clean. Right? Make sure that, you know, I don't have a big stain on my jacket or on my shirt, and then I'm like, okay, I'm done. Okay. But how does a woman look at the mirror? That could be an all-day cookie right there, right? I mean she's gonna check her eyebrows, check her how does she look, to make sure her hair is right and perfect. Guy sitting there like, baby, I don't know what's taking you so long. I already checked myself in the mirror. But uh a woman's gonna look methodically. Right? Because she cares. She's gonna look methodically, kind of go through and look. So don't be like a guy that just walks up and checks and leaves, but be methodical about it. How does this mirror Reflect on me in my life. Oh man, I got a huge wart on my face right here. That's malice. Oh man, I got oh man, I got this stain on my shirt. That's deceit And start checking it. And and a as you're looking at this mirror, as you're going through this Have it reflect on you and see how it impacts your life. That's what James is saying, right? That's exactly what he means by this You can't put those things away until you see them. And when you see them, you put them away. Don't look Ten-second glance, off you go. But have it genuinely show you. Be methodical. Approach methodically. And that's how Peter means this here. That's exactly how Peter means this here. Get rid of all. Get rid of all. All of it. All malice. All deceit, all slander, get rid of all of it. Yep, correct. Yeah, to that list of the codes and spiritual growth in the uh first This is worth uh dwelling on what you say and making sure we do this animation and it's uh uh Circling back to the to the ability to rationalize, when you look at that list, you think, well, that's not me. None of those two things. Nobody would ever characterize my room characterized. that way. But if you think of something like envy, envy is a totally acceptable sin today's point. Uh somebody else has something I don't have. uh uh you know, far away. You know, you're not that's not fair. So um when when you think about when uh come to think about something like envy if if I ever come to think that's not fair Nine times out of ten, what I really mean is somebody else has got something I don't have. And that's what I see. And so when I see the word envy in that list, I think I need to check myself anytime the thought that's not fair if there's an honest. That's probably interesting. And so it's it's worth dwelling in the mirror. Thinking about it in terms of the polite way that we'd like to characterize those students. Yeah, that's that's actually really great. Um hopefully everybody heard that. But what he was basically saying is that, you know, and I I sort of touched a little bit, but I I like the way you put it, so I'm gonna restate it is that that it's easy for us to look at the list of sins, all envy, all slander, and say, well that's that doesn't, you know, I'm not an envious person, right? But But envy is in today's world is acceptable in in many ways, right? Like we, you know, so when I talk about what is envy And I'm using the world as a gauge to what envy is or malice or slander for that matter, you know. I I actually the the example that that I think is is is funny is, you know, Christians You know, how do we how do we slander people? We offer 'em up for prayer. Right? Hey, I need you to pray for this person, uh Oh really, really, really? What wh wh what do we have to pray? Well I can't really say, but uh well, you know, there's this thing. You know, we're really good at that, aren't we? Really, really good at that. Envy's the same way, and and he was using envy as an example. And and and then be you know, oh well that's not a fair thing. Well why why does that person have that and I don't have that. I think the the biggest problem with energy is that it boils down to price. But if you think you know better than prize, deliver this into you the game someone else And so now you've got an issue of well, okay, well why didn't you give that to me? Wow. Yeah, I I Peyton will tell you one of my favorite statements to them uh anytime. They would never say, that's not fair to me. Because if they said that's not fair, what would I always say? No, you you don't want fair, right? You don't want fair. Because what is fair is that you're burning in hell for your sins. You don't want fair. You don't need to envy because you got way more than you deserved already. Right? You don't want fair. Um but uh yeah it uh we totally got off topic. Um all right, so Um so what Peter is trying to say, also James saying in the same thing, and this is a terrible graphic, but okay, it it it depicts the point. That by it you may grow in your salvation. If you want to be sanctified in the Lord, long for the pure spiritual milk. You want to obey these exhortations which He has just given you. Right? Set your hope fully on the grace that it uh on the graces to be revealed at the coming of Jesus Christ. You want to set your hope fully on it? Long to the pure spiritual milk, because in it you will see your inheritance. In it you will see the grace that was given to you. In it you will see what you were, what you deserved, but what you got, and you no longer envy. Right? Because you can set your hope fully. You want to be holy because I am holy? You want to emulate the Lord and reflect Him in your life, bringing people around to you You want to be holy? Read your Bible. Find out what holy is. Right? You want to love your brother earnestly and with a sincere heart? You want to do that? Better find out how because Lord knows you ain't gonna find that in the world. That's a pretty unique thing. It's a pretty unique thing Christians are called to be You want to know what that looks like? Read your Bible. Long for the pure spiritual milk. Desire it. Desire it. Read it. Incorporate it. Indoctrinate it into your life. Pound it into your head. And you'll learn. You want to live a life of reverence and awe? Find out how the Creator created all of history from the beginning of it to the end of it with a with a crowning point that was his son on the cross Find out how he orchestrated the entire universe for that moment to show his grace And you are going to be filled with an awe incomprehensible. And then find out how he did it for you. Find out how he loved you so much that he created the entire history of the universe Crowning point of Christ on the cross, ending point, you going to glory. Beginning point, you were his enemy. That gonna fill you with a little awe? That gonna make you want to thank your creator Is that going to make you realize what grace really is? Yeah. You want to put aside All these things? You want to put aside malice? You want to put aside envy? You want to put aside slander? You want to put aside all of these things? You want to be a total, genuine, earnest person? Truly loving the Lord, long for the pure spiritual no. That's the exhortation that Peter is leaving you with. Long for the pure. spiritual milk. And that pure spiritual milk is going to help you grow. It's gonna help you grow. I listened to like all these sermons this week on this, um, which is maybe why I got a little bit preachy, so I apologize for that. Um but um Uh you know it in addition to this, because it's maybe not in the scope of exactly what Peter's saying Think about the grace that having the word embedded into your heart can be just in an everyday scenario. Think about how, I guess it does kind of fit, but but think about how um just immediately being able to recall scripture in a moment where things get heated with a coworker. can be. Think about how the ability to quickly recall scripture might be grace to you when someone asks you about your faith. And you can just start boom, boom, boom, boom. The Word of God will never return a voice. It always accomplishes something. You may not see it. But it does. Right? What grace? What about in your dying days? What if God takes your ability to speak? What if God takes your eyes? What if you can't read? But you can close your eyes and you can hear his promises in your heart. In your mind. Is that grace? Is that Grace? My um my wife's grandfather had a stroke and spent years um Where he couldn't speak, couldn't get out of bed. He was he just never fully recovered. And and I think about that. What if that's me? Am I going to be able to recite the promises of God in my head? Because I can't get to my Bible? But you play the music, and then that's great, but what's in my heart? Will Christ be with me in that moment? Long. Long. Long for that. Long for that grace. Long for it. Long for it. It's right here. It's right here. You know, uh can't remember who said it. Um but uh there's a guy who said, you know, you can Give me a Bible and a candle, and you can lock me in a dark room where I can't see or hear anything outside of it, but I can tell you everything that's going on in the world. With a Bible and a candle. You want to see the world through God's eyes? You want to see what's going to happen to this world? You want to see where it's going? Long for the pure spiritual milk. Because it's there. It's right here. It is free. It's the most published book in the world. And it's not even close. There are so many copies of it. You can get them free. You can pay a bunch of money. You can get them wrapped in leather. You can get them wrapped in paper. You can get them on your phone. You can get them on your tablet if you know how to work it, which I don't. You can get it anywhere. It's completely available to you always. Long for it. Long for it. If indeed you've tasted that the Lord is good. Because now we gotta get to that if. Now we gotta get to the if. Because if I am walking along and I am showing up every Sunday And I am coming to church and and I put my head down and fall asleep while the pastor's praying and I kind of drift off when the sermon's there, right? If if uh if I come to my Sunday school class and I don't have any clue what the guy is saying and I don't really care to follow up Men Monday comes around and I'm just same old Frank And I'm just like everybody else on that phone call, and I am just like everybody else in that building, and I am just like everybody else in the world around me If that's who I become on Monday, but I show up on Sunday, have I tasted that the Lord is good? Am I willing to suffer and find out what it's like to suffer and to be blessed by suffering? You know, this quotation of Psalm 34, uh one commentator says And I'm like, well it was God, dude, but he's like, Peter picked the perfect song And I'm like, Well, yeah, okay, but God picked the perfect song right? Um, you know, because it's about that psalm is about uh uh having trials and suffering and then tasting and seeing that the Lord is good. And um so I don't have time to to fully unpack that because I'm gonna run out if if I'm not careful. But If indeed, if indeed, does this characterize your life? And that's That's what God has me teaching today. That's the exhortation God has given me to give you today. And it's really simple. But it's really important. And I I don't want to walk away from here. No, let me just say this a different way. As a teacher A person who teaches, we we have to rely on the Holy Spirit. Like I'm I'm standing here before you today And I don't want you to take any clever thing that I said. I don't want you to to think, oh wow, this guy can really speak well. I I don't I don't really care about any of that I I want to be and can and demonstrate the passion that God's given me in my heart. Don't get me wrong. I want to compel you, but I can't compel you And I have to know that. And it's hard. One of my most difficult parts is of being a teacher is that I want to be able to compel you, to force you. I want you all to get up and go, man, I'm going to start my reading plan. I'm going to start bringing this in. I'm going to start in. But I can't do that. No matter how hard I try, I can't do that. If I give you the gospel, I can walk through the most eloquent Gospel presentation. I can walk through and talk for hours about the greatness of God, the goodness of God, his glory on the cross. And your need for a Savior and your need to be justified before a holy God who's going to throw you into hell. And I can go on and on and on and on, hoping Did I convict you? But if that's my mindset, I'm wrong. If that's my mindset, I'm completely off base. Because what I have for you is what the Bible tells me to tell you. What I have for you is wrong for the pure spiritual milk if indeed you've tasted it to the Lord is good. It's simple, but it's hard. Right? It's simple, but it's difficult. And I have to say it, and then I have to say, God, this is you Now this is all on you. God, if you want this heart opened up, if you want this heart convicted, if you want this person to start desiring the pure milk of the word, I have to step away If I want you to believe in the gospel, I have to step away. You know, I just so you know, I spent years trying to talk to Jehovah's Witnesses. I mean they would walk around my house Because I'd see him out and I'd go running. Hey! Hey, come talk to me! Come on, let's talk! And I you know, I invited Mormons over to my house a lot Hey, come on, sit down. What's your name? Elder? Elder Bob? Elder? Get you some water. Come on, let's have a talk. I loved it, man. I read all the books. I renew all this stuff And you just at certain point you're like, wow, I am speaking to a dead man. Like I am speaking to a dead man. There's a a sermon I got a sermon I don't even remember who said it, but it's talking about when he was learning. At Dallas Theological Seminary, when you learn preaching, the first class, they they take you to a cemetery and you have to give an impassioned plea for the gospel. And his point in it was, never forget that when you are speaking, you are speaking to dead men's bones. Unless the God of the universe opens that heart, it doesn't matter what you say or what you do. You are not going to bring them one inch closer to the Lord unless the God of the universe opens them up. So all I have for you Is what Peter's telling me to tell you. All I have for you is what the Holy Spirit had Peter communicate, and then here it is for you today. Long for the pure spiritual milk. Let it convict your life. Let it change who you are. Let it make you and transform you into a better and greater reflection of Him And if you're not doing that, check yourself. Look in the mirror. That's all I got. That's all I could ever have. And so I hope that as you walk away from here, you take those words. Those words. And you know, we can talk about what does that look like? How do you start? For those people who didn't get to the daily before you you lowered your hand, it it takes discipline. It takes discipline that the world will try and choke out of you. One of the most eye-opening things that you will ever do as a Christian is try and start reading your Bible every day Because you are going to find that the world does not want you to do that. You're going to find that to be incredibly difficult. You're going to battle your own heart. You're going to battle the world. You're going to battle all kinds of distractions. You're going to battle all kinds of areas and issues and things. Because the world will throw anything in its path to keep you from doing that. Because the world does not want you to reflect him. And the first thing you have to work through is all those encumbrances in your own heart. Why do you think Peter put so much emphasis on your heart? Why does he use all of these words? Fully. If you call him as a father, are you truthful about that? Knowing you were ransom? Sincere blood brotherly love, earnest heart, longing Because the first encumbrance you have to get past is your own heart. But once you're past that, it gets a lot easier. But getting past that requires discipline. We talked about this on Thursday. It requires discipline. So open up your Bible and read it and force yourself to read it. Five minutes, I'll I'll get to it after the game. No. Beatings. Oh I I'll start tomorrow. No, now Don't give yourself and the king of rationalization inside of you, right? Don't give that the in to stop you. Read it now. You wake up in the morning, you get your cup of coffee, you sit down and you read. And you force yourself to that discipline, and it stinks at first. It's hard at first, but it's good. And you'll be blessed long.