So yeah, I I kinda figured this was gonna be a little bit of uh you know short crowd today, but that's fine. Uh we're putting a button on this first part of First Peter and looking forward to the second part And I thought it would be good to just do like literally just a question and answer. You know, and I said last week, if you guys don't come with questions, we're gonna have a short class. So now's your now's your get out of jail free card or you get out of get out of Sunday school early card if uh if you don't wanna ask questions. I d I actually that's not true because I have questions for you guys if you guys don't ask me questions. question. So uh the original format for this was supposed to be Scott and I Scott couldn't make it today so you just get the half. Um But uh my original thought on this was I was going to give a kind of a 15-minute spiel on how I felt like this first part, the structure of the first part of this. uh overarchingly goes uh you know from from the uh from the exegetical standpoint and I was gonna have Scott do his piece because I think you know we've we've had kind of Not dueling perspectives, but slightly different perspectives and we approached it in in a little bit of a different way. And I hope that was enriching to each of you, uh and eye opening to each of you to see how we can kind of start from two sides and come to the same place in the end. Um it's the glory of Scripture that you can look at it and look at it and look at it and you can always dig something else out and pull something else out. Uh never think that just because you've covered something or you've read something that you've got the full depth of Scripture because The Lord is good and his word is deep. And the further you look into it, and the more you learn and study it, the more you're going to learn and grow. So because God's not here, uh actually So here I get past this. Because Scott's not here, I'm going to give my quick summary. I one of the the great things I think I try and me personally I try and focus more structurally exegetically, right? Like I I actually go through and I'm more interested in uh my approach is more more focused on just going through the scripture line by word by word, piece by piece. And so when I put this summary together and just know that I didn't spend a ton of time on this, but just to see overarchingly how I kind of see it breaking down If you read different commentators, different commentators really It it's not a difficulty uh I'm trying to explain it ha the there's a focus on, okay, what is Peter really focusing on? You know, how how does the structure of the epistle fill out. Some people see it as actually like an exhortation, like a like a sermon. Okay. Uh they think that maybe it was a recorded, you know, that somebody just penned what was preached in a sermon and then distributed that to the elect exiles of the diaspora. Other people see it as what's called a sec circular letter It was written by Peter and sent abroad with a specific intent in mind, or well actually a general intent in mind, to speak to these people about specific things, but with they were speaking to a broader audience, let's say it that way. Uh and so they kind of break it apart differently as well. Uh there are some that actually think it was two sermons spliced together, which I think is interesting. I didn't read too much on that but how they kinda put that together. I tend to see it as a continuous from Verse one all the way through chapter five, one continuous discussion, all evolving around a single subject Uh and so for me the breakout of this epistle seems pretty straightforward and clear. And he says it in the very first verse. He says, you are an elect exile of the diaspora. And then from there it just becomes, what is an elect exile? Okay, what is it? How do they get there? What is their calling What is their duty? How do they serve the Lord in this position that they're in? And how do we function in life knowing that we have this perspective of who we are? And so for me it's a continuous discussion from point one all the way through the last point in chapter five. But this first part breaks out for me very simply You're left exiled. You're sealed by the Trinity, right? Chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, the sprinkling of Christ's blood, the propitiation that Christ brings you for obedience in the Spirit. And you're born into, so you're sealed by the Trinity, but you're born into a living hope. Right? And your faith is tested by trials. The outcome of your faith, this testing of trials, comes up early on And he says that your suffering is a way of purifying this brilliant salvation that you have, this living hope that you've been born into, this inheritance you've been given. And he said that's imperishable, undefiled, and will not fade away. And these trials have a purpose of serving to purify your salvation. And your salvation is so great that the prophets were amazed. They didn't even know they were writing these prophecies down And then they were going back and searching scriptures trying to figure out how the prophecy that they just wrote down fit into the greater picture because they were just amazed at these prophecies that the Messiah was coming. And the angels long to look because you have something the angels could never possess. Right? You have a salvation that's greater than what the angels possess. It's even greater than what the angels possess And so because of this great salvation that you have, the outcome of it then just falls into place. Set your hope fully on that grace. You've been given us salvation. Put your trust in it. Set your hope fully into it. And be holy. Be like God. If you love God, be like God. Right? Live a life of reverence or fear in the Lord. And let those things have an output where you love your brother. Right? Where you're setting aside all malice, all deceit, all hypocrisy, all envy, all slander. And instead of going into those former lusts, look forward into your new life. By longing for the pure spiritual milk. To me it just flows. And now you're being built up. Now he's getting to the what's your ministry part Right? So this is who you are. This is what you should be doing. And this is what the Lord is going to do through you. He's going to make you a priest. He's going to put you in this place. Your job is to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices, to present the stone. Either the chief cornerstone or the rock of stumbling. You don't get to choose who that is for each person, right? You don't get to choose who that is for each person, but you present the stone That's your job. You present the stone and you proclaim his excellencies. And you pro oh excuse You present the stone as somebody. So you're you're worshiping the Lord. You're striving to be more holy. You become an example. You're this elect exile, and people are looking at you and you're different. And they're going to want to know why. Why are you different? And that leads to verses 11 and 12, which we talked about last week, which is really his summation of everything that he had previously said. Everything that he had set up until that point, uh, where he says, Beloved, I urge you as sojourners in exile. to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul and keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. You see how it all sort of fits in there together? So that when they speak against you as evildoers, and remember we talked about that as a per as a troublemaker, when they speak against you as a troublemaker, when they lodge accusations against you They may see your good deeds and glorify God at the day of salvation. When they speak against you, your conduct presents to them the stone. In your good behavior, in your holiness, in your job as a priest, as an elect exile in the diaspora When they come up and they're going to speak against you, and in those moments, you can present the stone. What makes you this way? Let me tell you about my Lord. Let me tell you about my Lord. That's our job. Now the rest of it is just him telling you what your job looks like. From here, next semester, whatever, next 13 weeks, we're going to spend talking about how we do that. How do we demonstrate that? How do we do that in daily life? He's gonna get real, you know. He's a good preacher, he's gonna start meddling a little bit, he's gonna start digging into your life. Uh if he hasn't done so already. So that's it. For me, I see it as a very continuous discussion point. There's some pieces in there that are great and brilliant, like You know, I wanted to put when I was doing this, you know, the the uh living a life of reverence that you know this whole Trinitarian state statement that he makes in that there's some really beautiful stuff that he says, but if you just look at the overarching structure, what's kind of the overarching structure Um there's some great stuff in between and on the way, so I don't want to oversimplify. I thought about putting like a list of the adjectives and a list of b you know Scott did some of that and I thought that was brilliant, so I thought maybe I would continue. that but uh I wanted to keep it simple and leave you guys with the opportunity to ask questions, make statements, things like that. So um so now I'm just turning the class over to you guys. Any questions? The thoughts Yep So that's um that's a really good question. Uh so the question in case anybody didn't hear it is what are the evidences that he's speaking to Gentile Christians and not Jewish Christians who are truly members of the diaspora? So most of it is contextual, the fact that that it's written to people in northern Turkey. Now there would have been Jews there, so it that doesn't by itself eliminate that the um um that he was speaking to members of that Jewish community that was present. But some of the things that he says in there don't make sense when you're if he was speaking to specifically and I should say specifically because he is also speaking to those people right so how is it that we we know he's speaking to let's rephrase it the church And not specifically elect people who are in the diaspora, Jewish Christians, let's say. So not a specific group of people within the church. But I I think the probably the biggest evidence is his comment in I let me go back to verse one Verses seventeen and following where he says, uh if you call on him Oh, I'm sorry. Verses 14 and following. As obedient children do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance That idea of former ignorance suggests that they were not knowers of the Old Testament before they were presented with the gospel. So it's uh more or less a specific reference. It infers that they were unknowledgeable about the Word of God before. But as he who called you to be holy, you also be holy, for it is written you shall be holy. for I am holy. Um there's more inside this this verse as these sets of verses But anyway, yeah, that's how when you're looking at what he's specifically saying of them, you get the idea that he's actually speaking more generally to the whole church and not specifically he would have phrased it much differently had he been speaking specifically to Jewish Christians. So that's the primary evidence that you see. It's mostly contextual evidence Um and maybe as a as a balance to that if you think about Romans, like in Romans when he's speaking to the Jew, how he he he presents them with the law Okay, that's a better example of where he's speaking specifically to Jewish Christians in that moment, right? Or Jewish people in that moment Uh because he's presenting one side as being from the law and one side as being from the Gentile and then they end up equal, right? In that section of scripture. Um you see how maybe it would have been presented if it was specifically. Does that answer the question? Yeah. That's a really good question by the way. Anyone else have questions? And it's open questions. So any any I mean, you can ask me the name of my dog, but I mean I don't know how I don't know how good that's going to be for everybody, but if you want to ask, I'm here to answer. So any question you have, is really just open Yeah, no, that's a that's an interesting question. Um and uh Um trying to think how it's really a church history question I think. The question just in case just want to make sure everybody heard it is and and I'm paraphrasing just so we make sure How is it that the Gentile Christians were brought along in terms of the knowledge of the Old Testament, which to them at that time was purely scripture, right? I mean it was just scripture Uh how was it that that the Gentile Christians were brought along in the fold of of Scripture and how was it that that it was treated versus maybe when the Jews who grew up with Scripture had heard Scripture, how did how do you how does it how does Scripture bal how does it what is the evidence of the balancing? Is that the right way to say it? What is the evidence of the balancing? And I'll I'm going to speak full New Testament, if that's okay, as opposed to specifically about 1 Peter. Virtually Correct me if I'm wrong about this, but virtually all of the Old Testament references in the New Testament are from the Septuagint, which was the Greek the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible. So that is partially some of the scriptural evidence when they're speaking to Gentile Christians versus Jewish Christians. Um so I think Matthew speaks from the Hebrew. And this is It doesn't match perfectly right. Yeah. So okay, so all all of that there's a whole bunch, if we could get into a whole discussion on textual evidence, and by the way, I love that discussion. So if we want to go there, we can go there. But Um uh the Septuagint was also more widely distributed because it was the Greek com Greek was the common language and so it was more appropriate for distribution of the the the Old Testament texts in the Septuagint because then more people could read 'em. Um They they didn't have the little button on their their phone that said translate from Chinese to English. You know, that's kinda cool. I think that stuff's coming up now. But um Uh so uh so there would have been an availability uh that's where I was trying to go to with that. And the the availability was in the Greek texts and there would have and they would they that was the only scripture that the apostles had other than what they were writing themselves. Um and then maybe to take that just Since we're talking about textual edit, they there are many, many passages in scripture that in the New Testament where they refer to their own writing as also being inspired. So um uh just an interesting kind of discussion point there. Um but I think that uh the the early church uh was uh especially Paul when he was in ministry would would go to the synagogue first. And the result of that, at least in part, was to pull out some Hebrew Christians. And those people would then also be able to help teach the scripture. to the Gentiles as they were also converted. So that was the way that God had intended for it to be spread out. It's the way that Christ and and the the Great Commission s says, Paul followed that and that had the benefit of providing at least an initial group of people who would have been available to teach. the the Gentile Christians more scripture uh and be able to help translate the scripture. Um interestingly with Isaiah you hear it quoted a lot in the New Testament. And that's because inside of Isaiah you really get a full gospel uh presentation. Isaiah 53 is a full gospel presentation. Uh so it was written 700 years before Christ was born, you were already given the gospel. So and so I'm sure that they drew heavily on Isaiah because of that as well. So did that was that sufficient? But it's a great topic of conversation. Like you could do you could literally do 13 weeks on that. That's a it's a really great question. Any any anybody else Do you have a question? Oh, you're working on Well then okay, plug time, please. Give us give us the full detail. Is that what you're working on Okay. Okay. Yeah, that's that's good. I I think um How many people are familiar with the historical background for canonization specifically of the New Testament? Just by a show of hands. More or less, maybe kind of. Let me tell you something. It is a brilliant, and I mean brilliant, apologetic It is so worth knowing how we got the New Testament scriptures. And then when you get into textual evidence, And you start looking at how do we get our translations and where are we drawing our our where are these texts coming from? Because they're all ancient manuscripts and you can start talking about things like um Uh and I don't know the exact number, so so don't quote me on it. Um and maybe I should hit mute on this, but it's something like uh like a thousand times more manuscripts than the next closest set of copies of ancient manuscripts. the New Testament has. So, you know, imagine it like, you know, a stack like this, and then the next closest is just way down here. And uh the next closest is the Iliad, Homer's the Iliad. Uh and it's something like we have something like 10,000 manuscripts or ancient manuscripts versus like a hundredth of the Iliad. Like it's it's not even close. The fact of the matter is is that our knowledge of uh in our proximity to what they call the autograph, which is the first the first one written We are actually getting closer and closer to the autograph as a result of the science of of of contextual textual criticism. We're actually getting closer and closer to the autograph where everybody else is getting further and further away through time. So it's just a a wonderful apologetic. When people want to challenge the the veracity of the Bible and our translation of the Bible, you can really just look at them bullet in the face and you don't know the facts You don't know the facts. Because we got we got all kinds of evidence of what was actually originally written and the dates that they were written And that they were that what we have today is what we have been. And it will it will fill you with all kinds of confidence. I think the Lord just took that question completely off the table. So, but uh anyway, how do we drift into that? So hey, we're going where this class is leading. So next question Oh, resources. Um, you probably do you know what I'm F. F. Bruce is the one that I know has written really good stuff on Instagram. It's uh how we got the scriptures or something. It's real simple. F. Bruce, just look up F. F. Bruce. And on Google and his book will come up because they want to sell you everything. So but you Yeah, that would be yeah that uh I have a I think I have a a copy of it as well if anybody else is interested. I can I can bring. It's actually not even a very thick book, but it's really wonderful. It's great, great stuff in it. Any others that you would recommend? There's a lot to the science about how like you date the manuscripts And you go, okay, we they tend to prefer the older version. I mean there's a whole bunch of like things, like there's a lot to it. Like it it's really a science. I mean it's really, really a science. Um and uh so the more you want to delve into that, FF Bruce is a great person to send in, yeah, and then actually I might go look at stuff later just because I I I really enjoy reading some of this stuff. Uh yeah that's the uh Strobel. Oh, the case for Christ, Strohville is the case for Christ. Josh McDowell is evidence that demands a verdict. That's right. That's yeah that those are also very good. I read both of those, but um did we sufficiently answer that? Okay. Any any other questions? Because I got questions for you guys if you're gonna not give me questions. So you can either fill it up with questions to me or I can fill it up with questions to you Uh this could turn into a feedback or a quiz. You guys get to choose. Um anybody else? I'm sorry. You can't think of another question. Oh, okay, okay. All right. Let's see. What is your one-sentence summary? So you guys have all been through the class. Uh what is your one-sentence summary of this first two chapters, well one and a half chapters of First Peter? If you were to like kind of encapsulate what you learned into one sentence. Um and just try and and and you know what was the big idea of of first of this first part of First Peter for you guys. I always refer to it as the big idea. What's the real takeaway? You wanna give it a shot Okay that. Okay. Okay. Um anybody else want to give us a stab? Go for it All right, very good. Very good. Absolutely. Um as a believer, uh we're called, right, to be these these people, these elect exiles of the diaspora. Hopefully that sinks into you. If you just meditate on that. Yeah, yeah, good, good. Anybody else Yeah, this the first part, yeah, the first half. I'm sorry How to live for God, yeah. How to live for God, what's our calling in Christ? And they I can't remember what I named it, something like that, like our calling in Christ. So yeah, how to live for God That's uh that's Peter's Ephesians one. Every now and then Greek, you can get some really long run-on sentences in Greek. Yeah. So you get some really good run ons. Go for it. Yeah, I I I do think that that is very central to this message in first piece. Peter, um if you yeah, I mean you're in a you're an elect exile. You're here, you're getting sent off to college, right? Now it's and and uh It's a great image, it's a great word picture. Um you're going off to college and now you're gonna go and and and the Lord knows how things go for college, especially for young Christians that that go to to universities. Um Uh they they want to eat you alive. Uh my daughter Peyton is going through that now. It it it's um it's difficult even to find Fellow brothers and sisters in Christ that you can lean on during those periods of time. Because you're gonna meet someone who uh you think is a a good Christian friend and they're gonna disappoint you 'cause it turns out that maybe they don't believe rightly about things Um it's tough. I mean I I think it's tough. Uh people who do college ministry around here, they got a tough job uh helping and encouraging and uh 'cause that's a difficult time for your faith, you know. Um it and there's a time when your faith has to leave the faith of your parents and become the faith of your own. Right? Uh at some point you've got this word pounded into your head from your parents, hopefully, but sooner or later you've got to either stand on it or run from it You know, you gotta hit the stone sooner or later and it's either going to be a cornerstone that allows you to be built up as part of the living house or it's gonna be the stumbling block. And guess what dad? Guess what mom? You don't get to choose. how that child takes that. So it's the most terrifying things you do as a as a parent is is watching the child go through that uh as you pray through that with them and you're just you know urging the Lord to to to keep them strong and protect their faith. Um But at the end of the day, they're out there, right? And in those moments they get to remember whose they are. Remember who's you that's and that's that's actually a great way of putting it, I think. How is First Peter, you know. You have to be holy. These people are gonna talk about Gotta have certain new new preposit or new the pronouns. Gotta change everybody's pronouns. Gotta have groups without changing pronouns. Yeah, but that's not how the Lord made you You know, uh you're gonna have groups talking about Rainbow Coalition and all kinds of things. I'm not gonna get into politics because I don't that's not my job here and I don't Well, you know, I don't really care about it anyway. But everybody's got an idea, everybody's got an opinion. You've got your Bible. Yours isn't an opinion, yours is a word from God Yeah, yeah, and I've watched like a You're gonna get the honest version of me. I got I got one that um didn't hold on and one that did, one that's doing it, you know So if you guys have a prayer for me, pray for pray for Peyton. Because she's strong. You know? Um, she's really, really strong. And uh nothing will make you prouder as a father. And to have your daughters now. I gotta find the right friends I gotta speak right in this class, this perspectives class that I've been forced to take with everybody's dog and honor. And she's like, Oh no, I ain't having none of that. And uh it yeah, it it's a joy, it's a fear, it's a joy, it's it's pain 'cause you know your kid's struggling. But she She's strong. You know, and then uh I have another one. He wasn't so strong. You know, maybe God'll bring him around, maybe God'll I don't get to choose. You know, he knows what I've taught him, right? I don't get to choose. So um So yeah, I mean I think that's a great way of Yeah. It's uh the verses that I keep It it's tough for me as Jacob I loved but Esau I hated. You know. It's a terrifying thing You know. So it's a terrifying thing, it's just a reality. You you have to trust God for that. But we're not talking about that. We're talking about First Peter. Come on, man. All right. Anybody wanna add? Anybody got questions? Because I got I got another question if you guys want to go to the next one. Going once? Going twice? Alright. How has this class helped you understand your salvation? We talked about a living hope, inheritance, imperishable, unfiled, will not fade away, protected by God. For faith protected by God. Though you have trials, you love him, you haven't seen him, but you love him. How has this helped you understand your salvation? Yeah, that's just a good thing. That's actually really great. Um before I add to it, does anybody else want to add? Mm-hmm. Yeah, the angels want them to look at it. That's good. Anybody anybody else? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Anybody else want to add? Yeah. I think yeah, and for me I think uh in even in teaching a class, you know, we we tend to learn like soteriology in a very kind of dogmatic way. You know, you learn justification and all the things that happen during justification and then you learn sanctification and all the things that happen during sanctification and then glorification and all the things But Peter he doesn't really distinguish between the different pieces He's flowing in and out throughout the scripture, just going straight from chosen according to g the knowledge of God the Father, straight into your future glory, the hope, you know, set your faith, you know, your your hope uh your future glory and and be holy because I am holy. And so he's he's taken the whole picture of salvation. And he's just put it all together in a very seamless way with incredible imagery and incredible, you know, your life has purpose. So you aren't just saved to sit around and say, hey, I'm saved. This is awesome. You have a job to do, like you have something to do, and you're going somewhere, and when you're going somewhere You're gonna become more holy and you're gonna be built up and all of this for him is just one salvation. So we tend to see it in different pieces, but for him it's all one thing. You know, and I that was For me going through and studying it and going to prepare for classes, that was the part I feel like uh in terms of that specific this specific question, that's where it I I really enjoyed being able to teach that with all three aspects of salvation in one lesson and you know being able to show how Peter sees salvation. Uh, because he doesn't see it as three separate events. He sees it as one thing. You know, your inheritance isn't in the future. Your inheritance is reserved in heaven for you right now It's reserved. It's there. And it's imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. Set your hope fully on the grace that is to come. Look ahead at that salvation and be holy. Prepare your minds. Sober your minds. It's now, right? Your salvation is today. And it has a future implication and a past implication and a current implication, but it's all one salvation for Peter You know, and I think that's a a great like study of soteriology, all in I mean, really just a few short verses, relatively speaking. Right. Um so I I enjoyed that. Uh any other questions, comments? Because I got another question. All right. Okay, hey, cool. Because it segues into the next question, so I'll just do like that. How has this class helped you in your daily life? How has this study helped you in your daily life I think we talked was it last week? We whenever we talked and I I told you it's kind of one of the things that's as a teacher, Gabe probably can also testify to this is that you're looking out and and you're you're you're s you're teaching these things and and you're just desperately hoping that the Lord is opening your hearts because you're really Just kind of stuck at that point. Like I could be the best teacher in the world, but less the Lord opens your heart You know, I'm I'm speaking to dead men's bones and it it it it's probably the single most humbling and most difficult part about being a teacher for me You know, and uh so hopefully this class has affected your daily life. Hopefully this class has affected your daily life your daily life. And I put this question in here and immediately thought, okay, Frank, I gotta kinda I gotta kinda you know temper my own heart in this, but uh I I would be I would love to hear how this class has affected your daily life. day with life. So anybody have any questions or statements I guess? Any anybody want to add? If nobody adds I'm going to feel pretty bad, so Right. Yeah, that's really good. Thank you for for sharing that. Anyone else wanna Yeah, for sure. All right, that's great, thank you. Uh anybody Then I realized he was actually testing me. I'm kidding. And so here I am. Yeah. That's really good. Thanks. Um probably the hardest lesson for me to teach, well not harnessed, actually maybe I should say it differently. One of my favorite messages that I was able to teach was on the uh long for the pure spiritual milk Because I, so like when I'm preparing, and maybe this is more information than you guys care about, I one of the things I like to do is pray the scripture back before I teach it. Um and uh so I'm sitting there, Lord Lord help me put away all malice. Help me put away all and I'm I'm meditating on that, right? And I'm going through and I just suddenly realize how much in your daily life you're you're so full of you know complaining or grumbling or you know how much of even even if you're not typically a grumbler There's always something in there that's grumbling, right? You know, at least for me, because I'm not much of a grumbler, but I recognize that I have certain things that that need to be cleansed in my own heart And hypocrisy, you know some of the the most pain my family has ever endured has been at the hands of hypocritical Christians. And that's a fact. I mean I don't want to talk too much about that, but that's a reality. And it's, you know, just going through that part of scripture was incredibly convicting for me. Um, because that's the call, right? All malice, all slander, all hypocrisy. It's not enough to get rid of part of it, you gotta get rid of all of it. And then how do you do that? Well, you long for the pure spiritual milk. Um and and uh so for me to teach that class was was personally I I enjoyed it. It was also deeply convicting, it was deeply difficult. I know Scott, because I've listened to some of his classes, had made similar comments that you know you're you're up here and I'm teaching you and you can't grumble and then like you're got grumbling in your heart and you're like, oh, and I gotta tell you not to grumble It's hard. It it's there's there's difficulty in that, you know, um to to reach that that point and So for me that was that was where I think it helped me mostly in my daily life. And then God just started putting all these people in my path that I had to minister to on that level. That's a whole different conversation for a different day. So, you can see that you can get a Yeah. Well good. Well thank you. Um thanks for sharing. Uh let's see what do we have. Next. Okay, yeah, see I didn't know I would get like uh to this far because I was you know I I I I can keep going. I think I've got like one more, but then I thought, now I'm going to start making these harder questions as I go along. So how has this class compelled you to look differently at your role within the church If you are to be built up as living stones, how has this have have have you reflected on how you personally should see your role differently, not in the building of the church, but your place in the the church in general or maybe even specifically in the church, but in the in in Hope Bible Church, but But I I mean maybe generally I think in the Catholic Church so to speak in the greater church, how do you see your role differently and uh uh or have you seen your role differently And then the explain. Like okay, explain it. That was maybe a little harsh, but Anybody want to take a stab? Oh, yep. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Um so I'll just repeat some of what you said so everybody hears that that Uh so many times Christians want to see their lives as the church is a spectator sport. You know, that's the term you use, a spectator's fort that You show up to a growing disciples class, you you sit in church service for an hour, and you walk out and you feel good about yourself and where you're at in your life and positionally with your sanctification, but it never leaves the confines of your mind or your car or your you know maybe by Monday you're already back to you know needing to go back to church again on Wednesday, right? Um if There is no example in Scripture of a Christian with that attitude There's no example in Scripture of a Christian who hears but doesn't do It's not there. There's a reason for it. Right? And and it's always a tough message to deliver, but it's the reality. That that there's a sense in which you have to measure your own heart, and this is also, I think, what you're saying, measure your own heart in the context of your obedience to the Word of God Though you haven't seen him, you love him. That's not a command, that's a description Right? That wasn't a command. That was a descriptive term from Peter. Though you haven't seen him, you love him. Command, long for the pure spiritual milk. Command, be holy, for I am holy. If you call upon him as father, Abba, if you call upon him as father, as obedient children. Love earnestly. Not just show up to church and hey, how's it going? Don't be smiling, Bob. Love earnestly. That's a tough call because I'm not a very lovable person. You're not very lovable people. Right? But we have to love earnestly. And if we're not doing that, we're not doing what we're called to be as Christians. And there's no example in Scripture of a Christian who is a disobedient child. The closest you can get is the prodigal son. Right? The prodigal son. That doesn't mean that we don't ever fall away. Lord knows. There's times our faith gets weak, and so I'm not suggesting, but the reality is that we have to heart check ourselves constantly You know, we have to to always be measuring ourselves for our own good, for our own hearts, for our own comfort, right? We should be doing that Um but also because we have a ministry we should be preparing for and working towards and doing. Yeah, go ahead Then do you think that's a good thing? Right. Yeah, it's uh a and and and just to just to also leave it with with this, it's not to say that that a Christian won't sin or won't grow cold in their faith for some period of time. And not that it would die, but that it it'll never die. But i there could be times in your life where maybe it's maybe it's gotten a little bit cold and you need to heat it back up again. And you know, I I think, you know, you you you mentioned it as a slow, steady climb of progress. Well, sometimes you have peaks and valleys too. Um It's not to say that, but the the idea is is that you're going somewhere. You're moving along in your faith, that you're growing in your faith, and you should you should be growing in your faith If you're not, then that's where these verses become a test for you personally. I can't judge your heart, I don't know your relationship with with Christ. But I can I can look and see and exhort and and encourage right wherever it's there. But you should be doing that even to yourself. You know, um it should be something that you have built into your daily life, your daily meditation. Conduct yourself With fear and reverence. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. You know. Um it it's I got another one, I think we're out of t oh actually we're out of time. Can we do one more? Y'all want to do one more? Yeah. One more. Alright. Alright. Uh how has this class impacted your Bible reading? I mean if nothing else you've read all of 1 Peter 21 through or 1-1 through 212, right? How has this class impacted your Bible reading? And we'll do this with a show of hands. How many people have been, as a result of this class, encouraged to study deeper? Like genuinely deeper into the word. How many people have been encouraged because they I mean maybe they already are studying but they feel good that they're continuing to grow in Scripture? Um okay. So I I won't I won't take the next step and say how many people are like yeah. Whatever. I I got I read two or one one through two twelve. Hopefully you've read more than that. And hopefully you guys are back next next week. Uh we we're starting part two of this It's gonna feel a bit of a continuation because new people will be coming in. We'll do a review kind of of this So it may feel a little bit redundant to just hang on because we'll we'll we're gonna move someplace, but because we're gonna have new students coming in, I gotta set 'em up with all this. And then you know, hopefully you can watch me knock them all down. You know But uh okay, uh let's let's let's frack