Uh Peter four, twelve through nineteen. So uh as I said, there's a lot of verses to cover, uh a lot of subject matter to cover, so I I'm gonna jump right in um and uh just start with with the reading. Beloved Do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something were stran as something strange were happening to you. But rejoice in so far as you share in Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed because of the Spirit of Glory and God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful creator while doing good. Uh so we have been now for several weeks and we've got we've got three weeks left. This week and then two more and we will have gone through verse by verse the entire book of First Peter in uh was it twenty six weeks, actually twenty five weeks 'cause we lost a week. Um so we had to kind of jam some stuff together, but um long journey. And this is the end of I just wanted to go through the the the different lessons that we went through and just kind of quickly encapsulate. I'm committed to getting through this part in under 10 minutes. So because I got a lot more to cover. But we'll I just wanted to kind of give you the bigger picture view so as we go into this last section. as we go into this last piece where Peter is going to summarize everything that he has set up until this point and really quite quite succinctly articulate his theology of suffering. I just wanted to kind of give you a quick view, quick overview. This obviously is not in the level of detail that that maybe we could have. But first is we started off with the who will harm you? Remember this kind of rhetorical question which Peter brings up that uh if you're following uh the the the Word of God, if you're living as a Christian, who's gonna harm you? And it's a rhetorical question because obviously there was harm coming upon Christians, right? And so what Peter was doing was saying, look at these people who are harming you and have no fear of them. Because you've got to see them for what they are. But be ready But be ready because when you are being a Christian and you are living the way that Christ will have you live, someone will ask you about the hope that you have in you. Remember we talked about to to to put w forth a word? That's to to give the hope that's in you, to put forth a word when a word is requested of you. And we talked about that um that that it's your gospel opportunity to give an answer for the hope that is in you. So be ready. Then we went into eighteen through twenty two and we kind of mixed these up in terms of timing, but I'm putting them back in order a little bit here, where we talked about Christ example of suffering. And and really uh Christ's victory in suffering more specifically, and we can get into, you know, the spirits in prison and and whatnot. I'm not addressing that situation here, that subject matter here, but just know Knowing that regardless of how you interpret those verses, that the fundamental notion here is when Christ suffered, his moment of greatest suffering was his moment of greatest victory. It was when he reconciled man to God. God, put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. That Christ's victory was preceded by that suffering, but he proclaimed judgment, that he brought salvation to man, that he was declared victorious by his resurrection. And he sits at the right hand of God, and everything is subject to him. And that is the example that we have of suffering. That is the model that we look to when we encounter suffering. And so with That knowledge we four one through six arm ourselves. We arm ourselves with that knowledge, that same way of thinking. Uh that your suffering also brings victory. And hey, if you die You cease from sin. The worst that can happen to you is the best thing that can happen to you. The worst thing that they can do to you brings you to the greatest place that you will ever be. To look forward to your inheritance. That is unhappy. undefiled, imperishable, will not fade away. And they think you're strange. They think you're weird. Right? You're weird because you don't follow them along in their passions. You don't follow them them along in their ways of working in this world and their their debauchery and their their their partying and their their sinful lives. You don't follow into that and so you look weird You ever look at yourself in the mirror in the morning and be like, man, I'm weird. I'm really weird. Because you should be weird to the world. You should be strange. And they're astonished at your strangeness. We no longer live the way that they want to live. And that that our suffering brings victory So if we are judged according to the rules of man, then we are made alive according to God. That was his summation of how we should arm ourselves with that way of thinking. And then finally, last week, uh Uh and and I uh so I'm gonna tell you, I listened to your message and uh and I was having man, I was having a bad week. Uh it was a tough week for me this week. Actually last week was tough too, and I was getting to the point where uh I was kinda grumbling, you know, and I'll just give you this little personal just in case, you know. But um and Thursday come along and I gotta get ready for group and uh I had done very little to prepare uh my lesson for the group and it was just It was awful 'cause I've been working. I probably worked forty hours between Monday and Tuesday alone and then, you know, it's just one of these weeks, right? Every everybody has these weeks. I'm not, you know, trying to But uh and I was like, you know, I think I'm just gonna have a discussion. for Gluc for group because, you know, I don't I don't have I don't have it in me to prepare anything. And uh and Erica kinda came to me and she was like, ah, you know, but you can do something and just just see what you can do. Just you know, just get into it, just read it, just see what you can do. And man, I opened up, you know, I was listening to your lesson and then I opened up scripture and it was like water for me. It was the best feeling I think I've had in months. Just just the first verse I read just just stuck out to me. It just it was like water to my soul. It was a an amazing feeling. Uh and then you know, and Scott's talking about don't be grumbling and I'm like, here I am grumbling, you know, about things and and uh so thank you for that because I think it was very appropriate. Uh and it was also an act of service which was something that you did and didn't even know that you would bless me in that moment. Um but yeah, that's that you know, the end of all things is near, right? We're we're we're living in the end times. We are living in the end times. And you need to know what that means. Right? You need to know what the end times are and what the end times mean. And why? Because During that time, as we learned last week, we gotta hold on to each other, don't we? Right? We gotta hold on to each other because this is a wild ride. And this is a time when when there's tribulation, there's There's troubles, there's temptations, there's problems, there's all kinds of things, right? And how are you, Christian, going to get through that? How are you, Christian, going to learn who you ought to be in Christ? How are you, Christian, gonna deal with the daily struggles when you come home and life stinks and you want to Grumble and you feel miserable or things were hard. You go to group. You love one another Right? Your wife tells you, just go read the word. Just go read the word, man. Just get into it. You hear a a person exhort you, stop grumbling, just love. Your brothers. Just love. Be hospitable. And and all of a sudden and and he used you, Kirk. You you have to go back and listen because you were this long just just saying. And and you know, and and his example is actually quite right, and I don't want to just put you on the spot and embarrass you, but if you ever want to see a person who humbly serves, just watch Kurt. Just watch Kirk because he does it all the time, every day, always. And it's really inspiring. And I and I thought about you when I was preparing the lesson, you know. Um And uh, you know, we're getting a room ready and stuff and I was like, Man, we come in here and Kirk usually has this done and I'm like, Man, he just does it and nobody even sees it, but he's out there serving and loving. And that was the heart of seven through eleven, right? The heart of seven through eleven, think about Think about the love that we have to have for one another when we go through these tribulations, tribulating times, these difficult times. Right? These these problemed times. We need each other. We should love each other. We should hold on to each other. We should embrace each other through all of that. And now Uh I show this as two parts. Um it's like one and a half, okay? It's it's they really are joint, but you know, I'm a data guy, so I always split everything into its smallest component. So I look at this as is kind of two pieces, okay? First, this idea from 412 through 16 of fiery trials, and we're going to talk about four things. Four things in the face of fiery trials. This is probably is this hard to read? I see you straining. Are we first to live in expectation of those trials. We're gonna live in expectation. We we shouldn't think it abnormal. We should live with expectations of trials. And secondly, we should rejoice. We should rejoice for two reasons. First, because we share in Christ's sufferings, and we should be glad that we're capable of sharing in Christ's sufferings. And second, because we can be glad that as we look forward to Christ, Christ's return that will be there with him. So uh also you're blessed. And why are you blessed? We'll talk about that. I'm not gonna get too much because we're gonna go verse by verse through this, but you're blessed. And then fourth. Don't be ashamed to suffer as a Christian. Don't be ashamed. And then he goes on in what I call the theology of of Pete Peter's theology of suffering. That suffering is always good for the believer. You believe that? Suffering is always good for the believer. It doesn't feel good in the moment, but it purifies us. It glorifies God. It gives us our gospel opportunity. And it's only for Your suffering is only for a little while. But for the unbeliever, it is always bad to suffer. For the unbeliever, Suffering is always bad. Why is it always bad? Because it's eternal. You're gonna suffer now on earth in this life, you're gonna suffer in hell when you die. So you can run from it all you want. unbeliever, but you're going to suffer. And for the believer, it's always good. But for you, unbeliever, it's always bad. So what when we talk and I want to get into just kinda open this up for a little bit of discussion. When you think about suffering and we've gone through this long period, what what are your thoughts on this? Where is this study taking you? Have you considered your position and your place and and in Christ and the the the reflecting on the the suffering that we've been talking about now for the past what five weeks, four weeks. Anybody want to share any thoughts on that? How it's moved them or changed them or altered their idea or understanding? understanding of of what we have or what we need to be in Christ. I know that suffering is good for the believer, and in the moment you just can't see the good you just have to trust in God's word. But I know what really sticks out to me this past week is the gives us our gospel opportunity because I um I'm just dealing with parenthoods on both ends and n over the years they've not been um open to the gospel and been a little uh argumentative about it. But the people that are also helping them, I had an opportunity to share the gospel, but it it was taking like looking at statements that they made in using that as a springboard. It wasn't like me waiting for them to say, Hey, what gives you the reason that you're so cheerful? Not cheerful, whatever. Why do you keep doing it was more of someone saying Um you know, that's someone so needs therapy and it's like actually they need Jesus, but you know what? I I was in that same frame of mind thirty years ago spiritually and I was able to launch into my testimony and then someone else making another comment and then I could say, Hey, you know what? Funny thing you should say that I just shared a little bit of my background. Was you see interested too. So it that opportunity comes in different and unexpected places. It just made me more mindful to look for the statements that people make and try and bring in their I I very good at the the you know the curve example to just engage people. I'm I just sort of kind of start with my testimony and hope that people ask questions if they're curious. And I I think by the way this is a a matter of of fact. I I think the most powerful times that we're witnessing are times when our testimony is opened up to be given. Um times when I mean it it's exactly as Peter says, right? That this you know, someone from somewhere is going to ask you why. You know what I'm saying? They're going to ask you why. Why do you do what you do? Because they're going to be surprised. They're not going to understand it, you know. And um in my life, the times where those opportunities have opened up, they've been for me the most powerful. powerful opportunities to really present the gospel in a very real and concise way. And and I can actually think back to those, you know, that that there are several like I've given I've done exactly what Kurt's done. I've even like knocked on doors and done some of that that kind of evangelism and I think there's totally a place for it. So don't don't take me as throwing shade on that at all because I think that's a wonderful thing to do. But I do think that when those opportunities come open Man, you have to take those. You know, you have to you have to seize those. I I I really feel like that's that is when the spirit places you exactly where you need to be to present the gospel and your faithfulness is critical. You know, your faithfulness in that is is so critical to that. Um so yeah, so thanks for anybody else wanna share? There's one story. For those who were at the church in 2015, you probably might remember this and I know the Um when the church had a physician's trip to Spain, um, something happened to me, we don't know what. Um the best we can say is I was sick, but it wasn't an actual sickness, it was something that was really wrong with my head. um for the whole two weeks that we were there. And through that opportunity, the Owens who we were staying with have a friend in their neighborhood who's a doctor, who's an unbeliever. And so they were able to ask him over several times and there were opportunities to pray. And so we were all kind of hopeful um that through that there would be more of a connection made with I think his name was Francisco. Francisco and the Owens. Just because there was more conversation that was happening through that. And we still ask about him and they're still friends with him and have connections. So it's still one of those hopefuls, you know, he um he's not a believer yet, but it's it's just, you know, wha how is the Lord using this to make further connections? Yeah. Yeah, that's that's really cool. Yeah. Um Spain's beautiful by the way. There's lots of great opportunities too. Um there's a large Muslim population there. Um so yeah. I I didn't I didn't reali realize you guys went on a a mission trip to Spain. But yeah, those are the things, right? Like you and hey, maybe the the opportunity presented in your faithfulness and they they heard the word and they rejected the word. And you know what? That's not up to you. You know what I mean? Like I think that's the thing, right? You can't take if if they it's good the connection was made, but it's ultimately up to God to make the connection. And I think m my personal struggle is always that I feel like if I'm just That's convincing enough, right? And and that is the biggest mistake you can make when you're when you're giving the gospel. It's really the biggest mistake. It's the most arrogant mistake that you can make when you're giving the gospel. So but thanks. Anyone else want to share? Oh oh I haven't really put in the words up but I I do see where if you if you're around someone under a lot of different circumstances, they can't actually fake it in all circumstances. So if you're um if you have on if you have the Spirit of God and your um you're living out your faith under a number of circumstances. It's it's undeniable and it it can't be overlooked even if someone is antagonistic toward Christianity. consistent uh it it'll eventually it has to be a a sign and a light to people and it's undeniable given different circumstances of pressure. pressure and stresses. Yes. And even if we don't even if we're not faithful and we compromise sometimes but there's still a pattern of consistency, it's still an undeniable testimony. That's how I came to Christ through the uh person in the navigators on my col college campus who live that kind of consistency under just the malou of um college life on a secular campus. Yeah, you mentioned that even if we're not always look, you're not gonna always always be consistent. You're not. You're not gonna always be consistent. Okay, if you think you are You really need to think again, okay? Because you're gonna fall. Right? You're gonna you're gonna give in to temptation. You're gonna there's gonna be times that you're gonna act a out of anger, act out of emotion, act out of a whatever. How you repent in those moments that you're open openly acknowledging, you know. I mean I I could go on a a whole list of things for myself but then you guys would probably walk out of here and think I was a heathen and you know. Um and I'm sure if you looked at your own lives you would say the same thing, right? That there's time. The reality is that the overarching pattern, again, to your point, I think is the real key. But it's focusing on also, look, as as quickly as I can fall is as quickly as I can repent. You you see what I'm saying? And and I've had moments where, um oh my gosh, I told you a story about this guy, Melvin, that uh asked me about, you know, my relationship with Erica and uh there were times that he would just man, we would be it'd be midnight and we're we're working on this SAP project and he's just letting in on me about you know this thing or that thing and we're talking Bible and I would get frustrated with him like Melvin just shut up and then a immediately go, Oh, I'm so sorry Because uh you just get to this point uh being frustrated and you lash up at the moment I would do something like that it was always the moment I would try and catch myself and bring myself back, you know? And I think he also could see that, you know, I struggle with the flesh. You know, I'm not I'm not perfect, right? And I and I contend with that flesh and I I'm I'm happy to contend with it openly, right? And and be transparent in that. That's also equally an opportunity to say, well why do you repent like that? Why do you care if you get angry? Just let it out. Have a good time. Say the bad word. Say something, you know. No, that's not who my God calls me to be, right? So that's also the thing. Anyway, um anybody else wanna add? What I found was offering is it's um perspective. What is your perspective on it? Is it negative or positive? And that comes from a condition of your heart. And I have found that suffering has drawn me closer to Jesus because it builds my faith and my trust. But um it doesn't mean that in each circumstance I'm gonna do well, I think it's like a life lesson that prepares you so that when these incidences occur again, um, you might be quicker to repent, quicker to make amends with people. Um and as that And it doesn't sit right with you as it once did. And I think it just um it's the process of preparing you for um heaven tape. Yeah. Yeah, no, I I think when I think about specifically like medical issues or stuff like that kind of suffering. Um I always think about and I I don't know why my wife keeps coming up in these conversations, but I I because she's not here and she can't defend herself. So um she went through a pretty serious medical issue uh many years ago and God used it for some pretty amazing ways. Um but I just remember when sh we were done and everything was better again, you know We would talk and she'd say, you know, I miss, I miss that suffering. She actually got to where she missed because she felt so close to God in those moments. And she's like, I could just close my eyes and it was he was there, you know? Um and he's like and you know so finally after it's over she goes back to the world and back to life and all this stuff bogs her down but for that moment she was just so close and she missed that time. And she she looks back on that suffering sweetly because of that, you know. So anyway, we gotta move on because we're not gonna get done. And I told you I had a lot of verses, so here we go. Okay. Uh the fiery trials of life. So Peter starts off this section with the word beloved. And that's important. Why does he use the term beloved? And sometimes we overlook these words. Sometimes we just think that it's a common word. or I said, but but beloved. It's a tender term. It's a tender term. And it's not used like, you know, to the saints that are, you know, you hear all of these things. But when he calls beloved, it's a it's a tender term. It's a a fatherly term. It can also be described in scripture. It's always used to declare a special or exceptional relationship. In the Gospels, the most frequent use, well actually the only use I think in in the synoptic gospels is uh my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased, God's declaration of who Christ is. that term beloved. It's also used at times to vouch for a person's authenticity. So Paul would would call the people in Colos in Colossians, you get, this is my beloved Tychicus, right? He's take care of this guy. He's coming as my ambassador, as my beloved, my beloved servant, this person who I'm bringing forth. He's vouching for that person, so to speak. But the idea here is that that Peter's going to take a moment to get really tender. Right? He's going to sympathize, he's going to empathize, he's going to reach out because he's about to tell them something that's hard. Right? He's not that he hasn't already told them, but now he's just taking a moment and saying, hey guys, beloved, beloved. Don't be surprised, he says. Don't be surprised. Ironically, the same word he uses in verse 4-4 But they are surprised at you. Right that same word. So they're surprised at your behavior. You don't be surprised at their behavior. Right? You don't be surprised. They look at you and they're shocked. You look at them, don't be shocked. Don't be shocked at a fiery trial. Don't be shocked. The term fiery trial is uh purosis. It it literally means to burn. It's also used in the context of being a furnace that burns and purifies metal. The idea here is it is hot, intense trial. And you shouldn't be surprised when you have a hot, intense trial. Why? Don't act like it's something strange. Suffering. Get this. Because this is important. If you take nothing else. Suffering is normative in the Christian life. It's normative. It's not the exception. It's not sometimes. It's not maybe. It's The norm think about that. It's the norm. It is the characteristic of the Christian walk. Don't believe Peter? Believe Jesus. They hate me? They're going to hate you. They persecute me? They're gonna persecute you. Right? Don't believe him? Paul Paul lived his whole life suffering for the for the for the cr for the Lord's sake, right? He he did ever he went through all these missionary journeys, he was stoned, left for dead. What did he do? He got up and he walked back in to the city. It's the norm. Suffering is what it's supposed to be to be a Christian. Don't overlook that. Don't overlook that. At this fiery trial, which is totally normative. This word paresis is used three times in the New Testament. Once in First Peter and then twice in Revelation. The idea is an intensity and I I I c I didn't so could someone please open Malachi three, two through five and I was a little bit reluctant to put this verse down because it doesn't one for one compare when we talk about the eschatological things, but I think the overall So if someone can open up Malachi three and read verses two through five. Go for it. But who can endure the day of his coming? And who can stand when he appears, for he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and refine them like gold and silver. And they will bring offerings in righteousness. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old, and as in former years. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker and his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who press aside the sojourner, and do not fear me. So he's talking specifically here about Israel. So I don't want to overlook the eschatological point there that he's not talking about end times. He's he's really talking about tribulation times, right? He's talking about he's talking about about the refining of Israel. But the the point is still there. Right? God is going to use persecution to refine Israel. God is going to use great suffering to bring Israel. And God God is going to use suffering to bring you closer to him. Right? He is going to refine you. He is going to put you in a furnace. He's going to test you. And that word paras for test, it could mean temptation, it could mean trial. It could mean temptation from sin, for example. It's used the same word is used to describe Christ's temptations. when when the devil came to tempt Christ, it's used as a as for for the idea is that it could be temptation or it could be a trial And uh what I gotta put my notes down here. Okay. Um and it's And it's appropriate in this sense in both ways because when you're suffering from persecution The obvious fleshly temptation is to flee. Right? Car's coming down the road a hundred miles an hour and you're standing in the middle of it, temptation is to get out of the road, right? You're gonna protect yourself. That's a good temptation, by the way. I strongly suggest you follow it. No don't get hit by a car. But but when when trials come, when trials come, how many times do you Stop looking like a Christian and start looking like the world. Oh my gosh. You know, my hair's falling out. You know, maybe I need to go and put some stuff in it and you know, maybe I need to to hide it, you know, maybe I need to whatever, you know, because I don't want people to make fun of me. You know, boy, sure would be nice to make a little more money. You know, maybe I should go take these jobs or these roles to pursue this life and live this way, even though I know that it draws me away from. God. Right? Because I want wealth to to prevent myself from suffering. You know, and I'm not saying that, by the way, I'm not trying to be overly altruistic about this. Of course we all make decisions in life. We all live our lives. But if your if your consistent pattern is any time a trial comes you run from it like a scared child, then maybe you should think about how you're handling those and whether or not you're glorifying God in those moments. you acting like the world? Right? Or are you acting like the world? The temptation is to flee. But this also refers To the purpose of the trial. Right? This also gives you an idea as to why God is sending forth these trials to you. This idea of purification. This idea that He's going to refine you and turn. Turn you into the likeness of him. You know, there's always this analogy, I've heard it like a million times about you know, when how do you know when silver's done or gold is completely refined, when you when when you can pull it out and you can see a reflection clearly in it then you know that it's been fully refined. I don't know if you've ever heard that, but I've heard it a lot, so I feel like everybody's heard it. But that's, you know, that's the idea that we have here, right? That it's you know, this idea of of refinement, of burning, of testing. of trialing until the point where you are wholly reliant on God. Until you realize, hey There's nothing good here. Everything that I have, everything that I can cling to, everything that I can be, it's there. It's God Right? And when you get to that point, though that is what a trial should do to you. That is where a trial should bring you. Then he also says Uh hold on, let's make sure I got everything. Oh yeah, yeah. So the the other opposite side of that uh is the parable of the sowers. Right, a trial comes. As he sowed, some seeds fell along the path. Right? Either sow or he's just spreading the gospel on some, they take it. They fall on rocky ground, they didn't have much soil, and immediately they spring up, psh, because there's water, boom, chh, spring up, but then the sun comes out. It gets hot. There's a trial. What happens to those what happens to those those seeds? What happens to those little those little plants? They wither and die. They fall away. Right. But the believer, rooted firmly in the soil, produces what? Fruit. Produces fruit. Sun comes up. Water comes down, fruit comes up. Right? That's what a trial should do. That's how a trial should grow us Change us, transform us. Right? And also, we should rejoice. We should rejoice and say, well, how can you be happy in the midst of a trial like that? This to me by the way was the hardest part to kind of wrap my mind around, you know. And I'll just be honest with you, this is the part where a lot of prayer was involved for me personally to really get down deep and understand this idea of rejoicing because I'm sharing in Christ's suffering. Like Christ didn't want to suffer. He prayed to God. He said, Lord, if if you can take this cup from me, take it. It wasn't like he was joyously running off into to to to face the suffering, but he didn't turn away from it. Why? For the joy set before him. Right? For the joy set before him. Because he knew. And he knew. He was convinced and he knew. Beyond this suffering is victory. Beyond this suffering is something great, is something amazing. Go ahead. Yeah, Paul goes to that same thing in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. the part about uh we have this treasure in American vessels that's close to God and not to us. And then he talks about we are persecuted but not forsaken, prospered, not perplexed, we are struck down but not destroyed. And then at the very end of that That whole passage he says, therefore we do not lose heart, for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are tempted. So it's well Paul teaches the same thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I know I call it Peter's theology of suffering, but it's really the Bible's theology of suffering. Let's just be clear about that. That's an excellent point to that end. But the the reality is it's that joy set before him. And when you are suffering as a Christian, you're sharing in that suffering. Is that is that reaching like I because I I I I struggled with this idea, and I'll be honest, I struggled with this idea. And and I hope that maybe you're not. Maybe you're like, okay, next, let's go to the next thing. But I just want to make sure that we fully get that. Right? That in sharing with Christ's suffering, we face these persecutions, we face these afflictions, but we are with our Lord. We are with our Lord, and that is joyous. Right? I mean, if you think about walking alongside Christ in the midst of your deepest struggles, and he is Is there with you. And when you have that, go ahead. Frank, I I think um just the opposite is characterizes our life. We want Jesus to identify with our suffering. Whatever we're going Going through we pray and we want him to be with us and to strengthen us. But rarely do we want to identify with his his walk on the earth. Yeah, i i you're right. I mean it It's true, right? It's what we always want, you know, you got the picture of the the two footprints in the sand and then there's only one set of footprints and they're like, Oh, that's when Jesus was carrying me. Great. But guess what? You know? You you should be walking that way too, in a way that where you're you're facing these afflictions for the joy set before you. You know, and and I and I think that's a a difficult idea, but you're you know, you're sh and and this theme, by the way, he's been talking about this throughout the entire Epistle. It's not, I mean it's this is not something he just brought up. I mean he in 111 he mentions it. In two twenty-two through twenty-four, eighteen through twenty-two, chapter three that Scott taught, uh in four one he starts that that section off with sharing Christ's sufferings. And you know the idea is that when you share in Christ's sufferings, you're bearing his likeness. When you're sharing in Christ's sufferings, you're bearing his likeness. And I brought up in a again, I don't know why Erica keeps coming up, but when she was going through this problem with her work and and she was struggling with it, and then she found another a job and she left that place, someone came up and said, I had no idea. what you were going through. You wore that well. That was the words that they used for her. They saw in her time of distress that she was patient, that she didn't act out, that she didn't revile that she she didn't do those things and they said you were that well I didn't even know you were going through it because I never saw it on your face. Right? And that's an amazing testimony. Now what is it that, how were you able to accomplish that? And I think uh real quick, I think um being able to rejoice in trial, it just seeks us as evidence of uh of God regenerating a honest giving. you would use our mind in many ways then I don't believe a man in his natural state, I don't believe he can rejoice successfully in a satisfaction. No you're you're evidence of that scientific. I was just thinking about Job and what he went through. I mean he he never got an answer to why he suffered, you know. I mean he he sought God throughout the the book and there was a silence, you know. never got that that answer, but you know, it the the question that you know Satan posed was those those jokes serve you for you know no reason at all. I mean it's because you're blessing him, you know. So the question is is God God worthy of worship and to be served no matter what comes along in his life. Yeah. And and at the end, you know, Job Job comes to that after God questions him. Job comes and says, Behold I am thile, what shall I answer you. I laid my hand over over my mouth once I spoke in, but I will not answer yes twice, but I will receive no further. So you know, after God questions him, he realizes, you know, God is sovereign and no matter what comes along He is worthy, worthy of worship and you know, I I even though I throughout I question it, you know, I just have to accept that he is worthy no matter the cost. Yeah, I I I I think Joe's a great example because Yeah, he he goes through it's like well why God and God doesn't give him an answer, he gives him what's like 36 questions or something like that. Well, do you can you make a behemoth? Can you make this? Can you do this? Can you do this? Can you make the sunrise? Can you do these things? Well then guess what? I'm sovereign, Job. Shut your mouth. And just know that I'm here for you. And just know that I'm here for you, and that's enough. And Job said, Yep, you're right, that's enough. That's enough for me. Um, okay. You look forward to Christ's return. We talked about that. Remembering that you're his bride, right? You are the bride of Christ. Remember that you're his bride, and remember that you have an Inheritance that is imperishable and defiled will not fade away. Reserved in heaven. It's already in a bank account, waiting for you to cash it. You've already been paid before you ever did a work. Right? Because Let's be honest, it wasn't your works that got you the reservation. But you've already got it sitting there waiting for you. Right? Look forward to that. And just know that your suffering is just a, I mean, just a moment. Just a brief moment in eternity. Just a little tiny moment. And then this amazing statement, you are blessed. And don't overlook this. You are blessed Because the Spirit of God rests upon you. Do you realize that if you are persecuted for Christ, you realize that if you suffer for Christ, Christ's sake, if you suffer alongside Christ. I kind of alluded to this before, but I want to make this special point. He will be there with you. Think about Think about Stephen sitting there amongst the Jews, and they drag him off to stone him. face of an angel. And he looks up to his Lord, who's looking down on him, and he stands. Well done. Well done. In those moments, you will be he will be there with you in a very special, very unique way. And you it if If you need more evidence of that, just read Fox's Book of Martyrs. When these people were being burned at the stake and they're singing a hymn. These people are being beaten to death and they're praising God and they're they're they're they're asking God to forgive them of the sin Yes, I wonder, are are they forgiving are are they asking God to forgive them of the sin because they're just so happy that it was done to them? Like, hey, I'm about to die. I'm going to glory. Don't hold that against them. Because I'm coming to you. Because if they didn't do that, I couldn't do this and I want to do that. I don't think it's true, but I thought about it. And it's kind of a reality, right? That when you are being persecuted, he's with you And you're going to glory. And if you die for Christ, you're going to cease from sin. You're going to go to heaven. So you just stay faithful. You just hold on for just a little bit longer. Then he goes on, if anyone suffers as a Christian, he says, don't suffer as an evildoer. Don't suffer as an evildoer. Um and we've talked about this, so I'm not going to go over it too much more, but When you suffer as an evildoer, you suffer as an evildoer. They don't see Christ in that. They don't see anything in that. They just see that you deserve what you got. You know, don't come When when you get fired from your job. Oh, I was persecuted as a Christian. No, no, you were late every single day. You never did your work. We were always waiting for it to be completed. You were lazy. That's why you got persecuted. You know what, you deserve to get fired. Don't come talking about, oh, I was persecuted for Christ and, you know, I got fired from my job when when you cussed your boss. As a matter of fact, don't say you were persecuted for Christ from that moment. Right? Driving down the road, 80 in a in a 35, the cop pulls you over. Oh, persecuted for Christ. No, you're driving 50 miles over the speed limit. You deserve to get a ticket. Actually you deserve to go to jail. You deserve it. If you deserve it, you don't glorify your Lord Right? There's no glory in that for God. You should be punished. But when you suffer as a Christian, and that's a unique word used three times in Scripture, Christ follower. That I think it's funny 'cause like, you know, they say, Oh I'm not a Christian. I'm a Christ follower. Hey dummy. That's what Christian means. Like literally, that's exactly what Christian means. Christ follower. Um so we don't need any new age kind of things. I mean it's what you are. You're a Christ follower if you're a Christian. So let's not try and reinvent what's already there. Uh it's just sorry, little bone that I have to pick. So forgive me. Uh and don't be ashamed for that because you're going to glorify God when your conduct is good and you're reviled because you're following Christ That's when you glorify God. And I think we've we've I think sufficiently beat that down between Scott and I in the previous lesson, so I won't go too much further into that. The other thing is don't be ashamed. Don't be ashamed. Oh, look at that goody two shoes. He just That guy can't hang out with him. He's too he's too good. Don't be ashamed. Be glad. I'm glad you noticed. Thank you. I'm glad you noticed. Thank you for telling me that. You know? Um a couple years ago I had a f uh a guy um we we just he's a Christian, I'm a Christian, we decided we would start doing lunch in the conference room a couple times a week and have just kind of go over scripture. You know, we we start off with Romans. of going through it. Um and you know um people I I didn't even know people noticed, right? But then it came up in conversation. Well you're always taking a conference room at lunch. You know what if someone needs the conference room at lunch and why don't you guys go somewhere else? And I thought to myself, well that's great. I'm glad you noticed. I'm glad you noticed what we were doing. Can we go somewhere else? Sure, if it really bothers you that much, but just so you know, it's not going to stop us You know, um where is a badge? Be proud, be happy Rejoice when you're persecuted as a Christian, as a Christ follower, because that means people noticed. Right? It means people notice. Then starting in verse 17 begins Peter's final word on suffering here. His final His final uh uh statement on the theology of suffering Um he says uh reading verse seventeen, he says for this For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, so he doesn't leave any mistake over who the household of God is, right? If it begins with us, But it begins with us. But what does he mean it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God? We suffer, right? We suffer because we're sitting in a or we're we're we're in a sinful and fallen world. So guess what? Suffering is gonna come Right? And that linkage there between the fiery trial and the things that are happening to you is linked there also to this idea of of judgment. If you go back to four in chapter four or the the first part of chapter four, I can't remember exactly what verse where they talk about uh judged according to man but made alive according to God. Judgment's beginning. Right? So there's one element of that. And this goes back to uh what I was saying initially about suffering for a Christian is good. There's another aspect of this that judgment's beginning in the household of God because we are out there putting the world on trial. Or we should be. Right? We are out there in the world today being the gospel of life. We are out there in the world today saying, hey, guess what? Christ's coming back. Judgment's coming. Judgment's coming. It's gonna happen. The Lord will judge all sin. You need to live this life. You need to repent. You need to believe. You need to find Christ. You need to put your faith in. in him. We're out there every day as a living example of that. Right? That's that's what he keeps telling you. Be different. Be different so they see you. Be different so you're noticed. Be the royal priesthood, elect alien sojourner, you're out there In foreign country being the gospel for Christ, judgment is coming. And you're out there go ahead. that uh that Christ considers persecution of his followers as persecution of him. Hmm. But if you go back to Paul's conversion I'm getting there. No, it's okay. Finish, finish, finish. Why are you persecuting my followers? He says, Why are you persecuting me? That's that's the accusation he puts on Paul. I think that's the same kind of thing that's happening here. Absolutely, one hundred percent. Yeah, and I again I am gonna get there. I I was just kidding about the don't don't stop don't don't ruin it for me. Because no, it it's a hundred percent uh a hundred percent there. Um judgment's coming. Right? Judgment's coming. And suffering for the believer is always good, right? Because it tests us, it purifies us. It gives us a chance to be the gospel, it gives us a chance to proclaim that judgment is coming. And this is to your point. Did you ever think? Did you ever think that in giving the gospel to someone who rejects it, that in giving them God that gospel, that you are ultimately declare forcing them to declare their rejection. Of the Word of God and who God is and the character of God. You are fundamentally getting them to confess that they are enemies of God. Here's the gospel. You don't like it? You're an enemy of God. How do I know? You just said it And now you're going to persecute me because I gave you the truth? Now you're just expressing your enity with God. There's an aspect of suffering that's judgment. There's an aspect of suffering and suffering for For the Lord's sake, but is the judgment on the unbelieving world. And that's what he's saying. Right? You're not persecuting, they're not persecuting you. They're persecuting Christ who's in you. And God doesn't see it as they're persecuting. I mean they are, they're persecuting you physically. He takes it personally It is a personal issue for the Lord. So suffering is good for you, but for the unbeliever It is always bad. And um the one thing I never blame an unbeliever for is running from suffering. If I'm an unbeliever, let me tell you something. I'm going to run from suffering like well, like a suffering. As an unbeliever Your goal, the good life. You're gonna crave it. Right? As an unbeliever You don't want suffering, you want things to be great. As an unbeliever, you don't want suffering, you want wealth. You want to follow along with your idols of beauty, of power, of wealth, and you want to reject anybody or anything that makes an appeal to your seared conscience. Right? You're gonna reject anything that forces you to look at God because you're an unbeliever. You're gonna walk away and be tempted by every new idea and every Every new thing. You're going to be out there groping for some deeper meaning in life that you're never going to find The deeper meaning it also allows you to cling to the sin that you have in your heart, that you so desperately hold on to. If you're an unbeliever, you're tossed about my waves of time all the time, every political uprising, every new political movement, every new age philosophy. Every new freedom song that comes out. Ever New perception of what is beauty in a woman. And you know what you're gonna do? You're gonna smash against anything that tells you you're wrong. Until you decide you're wrong and then you go on to something else. Frank, uh the the only exception I can think of as far as suffering um is never good for the believer is that uh God th those who the Lord has designated for salvation He uh can put the right type of suffering in in their minds to motivate them to for their need. That is why that's where I would say that's the believer. Right. Chosen before the foundation of the world, you you suffer as a believer and it brings you to Christ. And that is the greatest kind of of suffering you can ever write when it breaks you. Go ahead. Yeah, I mean this this book and this passage is primarily talking about suffering from persecution, but I just also want to mention you know uh suffering just Paul mentioned suffering in the flesh, you know, the thorn in the flesh. Uh, that he prayed that the Lord would take away the thorn in the flesh, but he said, My grace is sufficient for you You know, so there's also just a suffering that's because our body is weak and fallen and you know, it's passing away. So so we also have a a suffering that that can really try us, you know, um but Paul gives us a model to follow there, you know, just when when I am weak Yeah, the the the same word um here with testing, this um for racist I believe it was, is the same word Paul uses in that in that sentence. That's why I when I talked about you know his thing before about the temptation and the trial there and and actually I should have brought that verse up because actually that's a great example of um of where it's kind of both things at once, right? It's a temptation or something that he's struggling with, but it's also a trial and it's being used to to humble him, right? In this case he says it's to humble me, right? Because of my surpassing uh uh uh revelation that was given to me. God has to humble me now because I've seen the glory, right? And now God has to to remind me that I'm in my flesh. And so he left that thorn in there so I'd feel it every day. Right. And and um so yeah, that is an excellent point. Thank you for that. Um and as far as the unbeliever, when they're smashing against anyone that tells them they're wrong and they reject the truth that's presented to them by the Word of God, delivered through a faithful servant of God. Clearly demonstrated by this person what a good life really is and what a good way really is. When they reject the way that God intends us to live, and they turn away from it, um, and they turn away from it, and we Surprise them by refraining from emotional lusts that we formerly had, that we've we've chosen this new life, and it shocks them that we won't participate in it anymore That we choose to live with a good conscience. When they reject that, they bring judgment upon themselves. Their suffering is always bad. Their suffering always ends with an eternity of suffering. It doesn't ever end. And when they revile us They're reviling Christ. And when they slander us, they're slandering Christ And when they persecute you, they aren't just persecuting you. They are persecuting a child. of God. They are persecuting a child of God. They are persecuting Christ's bride. They're persecuting a laborer, an ambassador of God And if you don't think God cares about that, then you don't know my God. Because he takes it very, very personally. And so while you suffer for just a little while, what about them? What about them? So judgment begins with you. But what about them? What about those who disobey? Go ahead. Um I think for me sometimes is so much like why the road is narrow. Cynically Seinfeld threw out a quote one time saying like everything's in existence is basically just in a different state of becoming garbage. that's that's the unbelievers worldview, right? Like it's all just uh useless. Go to nothing. And um I I think about for us like in our society especially It's so difficult to experience um I'll say suffering in the sense that we have nothing else to rely on but Christ. Because if we're you know the the most negative view of life, right, is life is just one series of trouble after another that has to be solved, right? Every meal is because you got hungry. Yeah. And and so there there is uh in that sense like nothing positive and to and to solve those troubles, to really like dig down to the point where you're not searching for something else to solve that problem, but to actually like push down to get in communion with Christ in the midst of you know, the fiery trials or the everyday mundane trials that just sort of accept as normal. Like that that takes a lot of work and you know, kind of like what you're talking about with the judgment of PM. in the household of God like so many times we we don't choose correctly and um there's a certain judgment there that the Lord uses to r to refine us and that you know you talked earlier about it being both a temptation and trial. Um and it you know, it's just it's just so so hard. It it is, it is. And I think um thank you for that point by the way, 'cause I I I would go back to the the cease from sin, right? Does ceasing from sin sound like a good thing to you? Does dying sound like a good thing to you? Does the idea of dying so that you will cease from sin sound like glory to you? It should. Right? It should. It probably doesn't for most of us because we don't really fully understand or feel the the impact of our sin and living in the sinful world and and maybe to your point we don't look at being hungry as a need And our food coming to us is God fulfilling that need and providing that need. We don't spend the time thinking about that. Go ahead. And the last laptop is to pray for those who persecute you. Jesus gave the example by Father. forgive them if they don't know what they're doing for those that were nailing them to the cross and killing them. Um but there's lots of examples from subsequent Christian history like uh Torture for Christ, Richard Wernbrand he has all kinds of stories in the air about praying for his jailers who came in and beat him and in fact uh there's a great story in there about him whenever he would pray they would come in and beat him for praying. They told him you're not allowed to pray but he just kept praying and they would come in and beat him and and one time the guy that was supposed to come in and beat him, asked him who he was praying for. And he said, Well this time I'm praying for you. And the guy was just totally stunned, closed the door and walked away without beating uh because he just went in there to beat a guy that was praying for him, who was the guy that always beat him. Yeah, no, i it it it it and that's yeah, that's a great because it's also that like that perspective, right, of having that if you're living with that end times perspective, I think it was last week was that that that it should impact your prayer, right? That knowing that judgment is coming. And this guy that's beating you, you know, he's causing you temporary suffering, but guess what? He's looking at eternal Damnation. And and finding a place where you're compassionate about that I think can be very difficult. But praying is a good start. All right, praying for that is a good start. Um I start to try and get through this uh quickly. Uh Peter ends it by saying, uh, if you suffer according to God's will Right? Entrust your soul, he says. Entrust your soul. He says, therefore, those who suffer according to God's will, entrust your soul to a faithful Christian. Creator. God is faithful. God is faithful. Entrust your soul. To the faithful creator who holds your faith, who guards your faith, who has your inheritance reserved for you. Entrust your soul to that creator who loved you enough to live and die. for you. Entrust your soul to that. Look forward to your reward. Live for the Lord. But entrust your soul because God is a faithful creator and He will never leave you. He will never forsake you. Rejoice in his character and do good. Just do good. Don't revile in return. Just do good. Demonstrate your character in him. Demonstrate his character in him. Demonstrate his character in you. Share in his suffering. Rejoice that you can share in his suffering. And know know that in your darkest moment in your Most difficult trial, the Spirit of God is going to rest upon you. It's the promise of Scripture. And just glorify God. Be ready to prepare. Have a word prepared. For when one is requested, be ready. Be ready. Apologia. And who suffers this way? Um this is just the last little note, and then I'll finish with a A couple of quotes from that I I really liked from some of my reading. Who suffered? Everybody, everybody who believes in Christ will suffer this way. Peter, Acts 5, 29 Paul, um, Acts twenty one, thirteen, fourteen, twenty through twenty one, he mentions it. I think we mentioned this verse earlier so I won't beat it to death. Twenty three two twenty seven, second Timothy four, six through seven. Uh Old Testament saints, oh that's supposed to be Hebrews eleven thirty five. Sorry, I don't know why I put that there but messed that up. Um and then New Testament Saints, Revelation two ten and twelve eleven. All of them, all of them will endure testing. All of us will endure the fire. All of us. All of us. Everyone who names the name of the Lord. Uh a couple of quotes, Grudum writes, G Wayne Grudham writes if God used the experience of death, uses the experience of death to deepen our trust in Him and strengthen our obedience to Him. That it is important then it is important, sorry, that the world's goal of preserving life at all costs is not the highest goal of the Christian. Do you get that? That differentiation between us in the world, they pursue preserving life at all costs. Why? It's all they got. It's not all we have. That should be characteristic in our attitude and approach to life. Uh then uh I forget who wrote this one, but Christians should be known for what they do, not what they suffer. Fixation on the difficulties of life robs the believer of the opportunity to display his concern for the well. of others. The idea here is that when you're suffering and you're rejoicing, right? You're you're su you're rejoicing and you're suffering. What does your face look like? Don't grumble and tell everybody, you know, that you're going through oh it's just a terrible trial I just every day is hard but I love the Lord no don't grumble rejoice rejoice Right, and when you have that joy in your heart and it spills out in spite of your suffering, right, that That is the perspective that you hold and then instead of focusing on your own suffering you're able to be concerned for others, which is to serve and do good. Right? So was that out of the um out of the um Overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. Thank you. I was like I I don't know how you came up with that. Thank you for that, because I was like one word in. Okay, and I know we're running okay, go ahead. Um One of my favorite thoughts or quote about suffering from a very wise counselor um is sometimes Jesus calls before him, sometimes he calls you out on the way to Yeah. Absolutely. That's I should have used that, thanks. Uh let's let's spray