All right. So hey, listen, uh as we get started, um uh actually because I forgot to do this last time, I'm going to make sure that I begin the very first thing with uh let's pray so that we can begin. Father God, you are so good. Um and I thank you for the opportunity that we can come together with a covering over our head, with seats that we can sit in and be comfortable with opportunities to sit and learn you, Lord. And as we sit at your feet, and I just pray you would work through me to communicate whatever message it is that you would have, uh, and Lord, and help us to uh just have a good uh time of sharing and a time of uh coming together, Lord, that you would um enrich us in this time, that you would be with us in this time. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh so a couple of notes uh from the uh any Jon Motley people in here? We switched rooms. That's the benefit of having the PowerPoint, because you walk in and you're like, that's not gentlemen lowly So uh a couple of notes from last time. Uh first the the note the the major note to myself was slow down, calm down, breathe. I I I was listening to the the beginning of the tape and I realized Now you guys you guys had to put up with some seriously fast speech last time. Uh so I'll try and slow down a little bit, but uh I missed a few sections that I wanted to just kind of quickly discuss Uh the first was, and and this is actually for me uh probably the most important part is that one of the things about First Peter is that generally the epistle is a restatement of Matthew 10 uh about uh serving Christ, about um uh living and and and having a mission uh in Christ. And so I I'm not going to go through it all and I didn't prepare anything for it, but um it's worth a read. So if you it doesn't take long, it's one chapter, go in, just kind of scan through it, read it, uh, and then know that that Peter really picks on a lot of the themes within Matthew 10 And he applies them. This is kind of what what one commentator called the Petrine view of Matthew 10. So it is the life of serving Christ From Peter's perspective. So if you have some time to do that, I would just encourage you to go ahead and read it Uh the other is is that of all of the authors of the New Testament, uh Peter relies heavily on eschatology, uh not only for uh the purposes of salvation, but for the purposes of of understanding we are going to a place. Right? So be this way. Why? Because we have a home in heaven And that's an important perspective to maintain as we're working through the epistle because he's going to start off reminding us of exactly who we are in Christ. And then he is going to build on that from there. So much of the structure of the epistle is based on that. And then you have specific eschatological references, 1 Peter 1, 4 through 5. And 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 1 through 7. The other thing that He and James share, actually, if you get into it, is a heavy emphasis on using imagery from the Old Testament. We're going to see a lot of that today. Uh so Peter will draw on a lot of imagery. Now Paul quotes Old Testament scripture a lot, right? But Peter actually not only quotes it But he draws on that as an illusion, an imagery, and and you'll see you'll you'll get a good dose of that today. So uh just know that that is also something that is very common. Uh uh commonly cited or commentated about within this epistle. Um also, and then this is just kind of a a clerical thing, I posted the teaching schedule on Hopebook So if you're like, oh my lord, when does Scott teach? You can go there and you can look. Yeah, so it's like it'd be taken both ways, right? So Sh sh yeah, so yeah, uh so I know uh I'm not I'm not suggesting that we should be gambling But if you wanted to place bets on whether or not I trip over this cord, I could actually see maybe we just, you know, make a pot for a donation or something to my uh My hospital bill whenever it's whenever I kill myself here. So anyway, but that's posted on Hope Book. I'm trying this with the PowerPoint Um and then if it works out and if everybody likes it and I get good feedback then I'll continue to use it. Uh it's believe it or not a little bit of a tool for me as well because it kind of helps me stay within a certain pattern, within a certain um structure. So it it's helpful for me. I I'm hoping that it'll also be helpful for you. So if it is, then let me know. If not, or it becomes too much of a hassle or it gets in the way of maybe the opportunities to talk and and communicate, then maybe we we don't do it. But for now I'm going to try it and we'll see how it goes. Okay, uh any questions before we begin? Okay. Um so one of the first things is this is not moving so see now maybe we do have a problem. There it goes Uh last week we had kind of a quick discussion about um I was going to do block diagramming and how do you how do you um technically work through a passage. Okay, so this is a new method for me. I'm gonna be really honest with you, I've never used it before. I actually did something that was more of like a tree diagram uh of of the passage. The basic idea is that you want to just break the verses out into what are the key um specific sentences, like what what is clearly said. Yeah, go ahead. Oh well that could be a problem. Okay. Um I may be able to fix that. Hold on. We're over twenty Well I'm really close to it so let me see if I can fix it. Oh, I'm not sure. Well I didn't like that. Well you might want to post those notes Yeah, I will. I'll post them on on the hope book so you can see them. And and really I was just this is actually more just an op opportunity for me to illustrate how I went about doing it than it is really knowing each individual and I can read through it. It's just basically the passage and it's broken out into like the the the key statements and then the statements that support the what what you call the dependent clauses and then the subordinate clauses Um so if you're an English person and and but uh then uh I did it and then I was kinda like, you know it might be fun to just stick the Greek words next to the ones that I plan on talking about. That's for visual purposes only. I do not expect to teach or because I would drastically fail But uh do not expect to teach Greek, but at least it gives you some visual idea as to where I think the key Greek terminologies are. Uh and if I hit on them, then I hit on them. It's not. But just know that when you see it in the hope book, those are just for me, they're just important terms within the the the New Testament that I think are worth, you know, just mentioning. By the way, he uses this term here, he uses this term here, he uses this term here. And it's just visual not intended to be like I said, I'm not going to do a deep dive on the Greek you know, I'm not going to sit here and try and uh uh what do you call it parse the verbs and the the the nouns in front of you so because that would be brutal so I would fail. Anyway, uh so let's just go through this real quick. So The the two verses are a specific term and we'll talk about we talk about the old text, the allusions to the old di the imagery. From the Old Testament. This is Peter drawing on that imagery. Um which is chosen and then prog prognosis or prog prognosis is actually how you're supposed to say it, prognosis. which is foreknowledge. So those are just kind of terms that you see frequently in scripture. When we hit them, I'll just maybe spend a little bit of time talking about them as we're going through. Okay Uh so this is Peter's introduction, right? And we talked last week that this was a circular epistle, right? That it it uh that this Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia as almost certainly the way that the letter was carried. So like geographically how that letter was dispersed So they start here and they're kind of going through each of these major areas, major regions, and hitting the churches along the way. So the idea was that, you know, that uh it was a um uh a circular epistle are not intended to per to discuss a specific heresy within the church, but really more to just give general encouragement or acknowledgement about some things that were pertinent in the time So um so that got me uh and I'm gonna go back to this so it's a little bit easier to see. So that got me thinking about various types of salutations in scripture. So I'm going to tell you, okay, this didn't turn out the way I thought it was gonna, okay, because I had read some stuff and some commentary And I thought, oh man, that's really cool. I actually want to see that. And then I started going through each of the each of the introductions and then I didn't see what like The commentator said I actually saw something a little bit different. The commentator made the point that uh in in scripture frequently the salutation is intended to first direct and inform the reader of how the author views those people. So you are the chosen. You are the, you know, and uh and so it's kind of an acknowledgement that you always begin with um kind of an an idea of of who those people are in Christ, who those people are to them or etc, etc. And so I I was just kind of playing through that, you know, so Romans to all who beloved of God in Rome, Corinthians, first Corinthians, these are just examples. I didn't put them all on there, um, because then you really couldn't read it. I'm getting the idea that this is I see some strained eyes and people are like, oh, I can't read that. But uh Corinthians to the church of God who is in Corinth. Uh the red letters indicate where I think there is some similarity between Peter's statements and um you know james mentions to the twelve tribes who are dispersed so he uses that term di di diaspora Paul uses in 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus, my true son in the faith, or my beloved son. So it's a very tender, warm, personal greeting. uh Philemon where Paul is going to address uh something to an individual, he reminds him, you're my beloved brother and fellow worker for the gospel. So The idea here is that it it addresses a specific element that then throughout the epistle they'll draw on. Peter's was uh for me a little bit different, and that's where I wanted to to bring what is in an intro? You know, when you're introducing yourself, even today, you know, let's forget about Peter for a moment, but today, when when you have um your kids, you know, you're going to address your children Okay, when you're I mean how do you address your children? So you've got your children here with you. Good morning. That's when you're happy with them. But what about when you're mad? Does it change? Um Yeah. Don't worry, because it does for me too. And Peyton's over there going, Oh yeah, it can change. You know So yeah, so how you address your children, uh but but it's always, you know, I always think about uh I grew up in Corpus Christi, so I had a lot of friends who were Hispanic and I just remember Mijo. Ay, Mijo, my child, you know. Such a warm way of addressing Ah, Mijo, come here. Let me talk. Whether it was really that person's kid or not, you were still Mijo to them, right? You're my child. Um so that was just What about uh uh in the military? You know, you you're in the military, you have to wear your your uniform, and always on your sleeve is what Your rank or your color if you're an officer, right? What's the purpose of that? To distinguish who you are, right? So anybody Yeah, it's the mostly to distinguish who you are 'Cause you don't want some little corporal walking up, you know, and then he goes up to the general and he goes, Hey, dude, what's going on? That's not what happens, right That's not how that goes. It's like, oh that's the general and you're you're high and tight and you're saluting and you're doing your thing. But if it's another corporal Hey buddy, what's up man? You know, how's it going? You know, so it changes, right, according to what's on that sleeve and that that's purposeful within the military, right? What about businesses? Why do they keep org charts? Erica helps uh manage the org charts in her organization, so I know she knows why they keep org charts. Why why keep an org chart? What's the purpose of an org chart? Listen, I promised you guys we were gonna have conversations, so now it's time Why in orange? Anybody just take a stab at it? Establish roles, responsibilities, authorities, accountabilities. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Uh if you're a payables person And you're sitting in a little cubicle, you can't really see much further outside of your cubicle, but then you got an issue with your boss. Who do you go to? Right? You gotta know who in the organization. Or to your point, uh boy, I gotta get this done. Who do I call? I gotta call someone in sales. Well let me find somebody in sales. You have an order chart that you can go to. So knowing where a person is placed within the organization can be very functional is the point that I'm trying to make there, right? So um so Peter's going to start off his letter, and th and he is going to start off with a very deep, very intricate explanation as to who he is speaking to and who he is. He's going to start off with, I'm Peter the Apostle. Okay? But then he's also going to take the tower. Why do you think that is? Why do you think it would be important for him To say you are the chosen exiles of the dispersion in these areas, according to the foreknowledge of God For the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to obey Jesus Christ in it. Why does he go through such great lengths to establish who he's writing to? You don't have to answer that right now, but that's the big idea. Okay? That's the main purpose of this greeting. So I want you to be thinking about why. What is the purpose of this? Why? Why does he go through this? This is a beautiful intro. And when I walked away from this, it was like, wow. This is deep stuff. You know, between this one and Ephesians, um you can just meditate on this two verses for A long time. I mean, Ephesians intro is very similar. But this is deep. This is a really deep. He takes some time with this. And and there's a reason. And what I want you guys to be thinking about is why does he do this? Why? What's the purpose? To what end? Okay? So that's again, that's that's the key theme, the key message of today, the key message of these first two verses is gonna be found in answering this question. Okay. You like the picture? I want to tell you something. This is kind of funny because I I like putting pictures up. This is not what Peter looked like. I promise you, Peter did not look like this is nobody knows what Peter looks like That's from Rembrandt, and I'm like, this guy looks like Obi-Wan Kenobi. Doesn't he look like Obi-Wan Kenobi? So but this is this is Rembrandt's version of of Peter. I guess he didn't know who Obi-Wan was. But uh but uh sometimes it's it's nice to have a little picture there. But um so Peter refers to himself as Peter, the apostle, and then you see the first Greek word, apostolos, which literally means a delegate or a messenger or someone who is sent forth with orders. Okay, it has the force of being an ambassador. In other words, the message that Peter is carrying The message that he has has the full weight and force of the one who sent him. You ever thought about that? And he knew it, right? So he knew the purpose of his of his mission, of his He was aware that he was sent by Jesus. And Jesus was God. So Peter is not making a small statement when he says, I am Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Right? I am one who brings the message that Christ gave me to give to you. The moment he says that, he's speaking inspired. The moment he gives that message, is he not telling you what you're about to hear? is straight from God. The message you're about to receive is straight from God Now, I'm gonna be honest. Um it's a little weighty being a teacher, right? I mean in in the in the In scripture it'll tell you, you know, it says, you know, mm let there not be many of you that want to be teachers because they're gonna acquire or they're gonna in in in they're gonna in They're going to see yes, already I'm in trouble. They're going to incur a stricter judgment. Right? So being a teacher puts you in a place where uh you're you're in a position of authority within you know and so churches are very careful and this church especially is very careful to weigh out who can become a teacher and who can't and there's c You know, there's a process for it. And I think that's very wise to have a good process for that. It's great wisdom in that. Why? For two reasons. Number one, because you are a representative of that church when you stand up as a teacher Right? And so that's important. You're representing the church. You better be saying and agreeing with the words that the ch the church over and all uh a gra you know state and and if there's doctrinal differences you need to work through those. So you don't want them going up and stating a different doctrine from what the church is is proclaiming. But then also because those people will incur a stricter judgment. Can you imagine being an apostle? I mean, I feel the weight of being a teacher. I would be crushed under the weight of being an apostle. I'm just gonna be really honest with you. I'd be like, I'm sorry, Lord, you picked the wrong dude But that's that's an important point that that I want you to remember that he's sitting there and he is maintaining that I am sent by Jesus Christ. I am his ambassador. Okay, and there were qualifications. This is more technical than practical at this moment, but uh in in Acts 1, 21 and 22, he lays out Requirements of being an apostle that they're appointed by they're now the the appointed by Christ part is just It's obvious that but walked and taught walked with and taught by Christ. So some people wonder, well, how did Paul then become an apostle? Well, Paul was appointed directly by Christ in his uh in the Damascus Road. And um He was also taught uh and then they have to be a fellow witness of the resurrection. So Paul's witness of the resurrection, for example, is when he saw the risen Savior in Damascus Pretty good evidence, right? Whoa, wait a minute. I thought you've been dead for a while. Well apparently you're not. They were also given special authority. So they they had gifts of healing, for example, miracle gifts, and they had sign gifts like gifts of tongues. um that that they would also that would also accompany them. So there's a lot about that. I'm not going to get into that today. That's not really relevant to the particular passage, but the point is Is that Peter is coming up and immediately declaring that he is sent by Jesus Christ, that his words are the words of Jesus Christ. They carry the weight of Jesus Christ. So this is him knowing That that that what he is about to tell you is inspired by God. And then I go, wow, I can't even imagine feeling the weight of that. But that is the weight that Peter carries when he makes that statement. And he writes it too, and this is um, by the way, this is the way the ESV writes it, and this is actually the most accurate interpretation if you go through the Greek. Okay Um elect exiles of the dispersion. The noun is dispersion. Elect and exile are the ones that they're the adjectives that then qualify of the dispersion. So they are Members of the diaspora, who are elect, chosen by God, and who are scattered among in Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia Aliens. The other term for exiles would be alien. So um just as a little story. Back in 2012 I was sent by my work to go fix some problems in a small office in Argentina, in Buenos Aires, Argentina. And uh man when I got the call to go do that, I was super excited, you know, because I was like I'd never been to Latin America before and here I'm gonna go and and this is gonna be great, you know. So Uh so the first thing that happens, you know, I get in in the plane and I'm flying, it's freezing cold on the plane. Turns out when you fly over the Andes it It gets really bumpy, so you can't really sleep. It's miserable. I, you know, then you land and you get out and you're in a whole different world. I mean a whole different world. The first thing was, you don't have a visa. Wait, well, I was told I didn't need a visa. Oh yeah, you need a visa. So okay, what do I do? You pay 300 US dollars. Oh wow, okay, well, um you take credit card. You know, and then then nobody speaks English Right? So I was suddenly, you know, spent my whole life in Corpus Christi. I talked about me holding, don't speak a word of of Engl of Spanish, and I'm walking around, I can't even order food. I'm like, what is aceituna? Hmm. Oh, olives. Okay. And so I mean literally ordering for me was its own adventure. Okay, it was its own adventure. I was an alien Right? I was foreign. It got worse when I showed up to work that day. And they're like, who is this guy coming from the U. S. ? to come and tell us how to do our job. So now not only am I an alien But I am an alien that is in a position where they don't want me there. Right? And this is the imagery that Peter's trying to create with this. That you're an alien. You're chosen, but you're an alien. You are foreign. They are scattered. They are not in their home. See, because when I got in the plane and I flew back, you know, that was my best moment, right? Because I would get off the plane and I would go home and there would be my children. Right there would be my wife. And I'd maybe have a few guests for them or something. And they would, but I was home. But when I was there, I was an alien. And what Peter's trying to tell you is you're not home. Right? You're not home. The other thing is he is drawing on Specific references from the Old Testament. All three of these words come from Old Testament imagery. Okay, so the first is is chosen or elect. Does someone want to open up Deuteronomy and read chapter 4 verses 35 through 38? Yeah, go for it. Just read it. To you it was true that you might know that the Lord is God. There is No other beside him. Out of heaven he let you hear his voice that he might be such you, and on earth he let you see his great fire, and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire. And because he loved your fathers and chose their offspring after them, and brought you out of Egypt with his own presence by his great power, driving out before you nations greater and mightier. So y you heard the because he chose The offspring after you chose the forefathers, chose the offspring after. I could have picked a lot of other verses that maybe specifically use the word chosen, but I kind of feel like this one encapsulates the Old Testament idea of being chosen. If you think about the key words that are being used there, right? He says, not because of you Not because of you, but I chose you. I chose you. And I discipline you, right? And I give you and I treat you because I chose you. God's action is not based on anything that you do. God's action is based on His choosing. And specifically, his choosing of you. And that is exactly the image that Peter wants to convey here. This is the message of being chosen. Right? And we'll talk about a little bit of that in a moment on the Christian context of that. But the imagery he's trying to draw on is that right there. That idea that you are chosen by God. And then exiles or aliens. Anytime I think about this from an Old Testament sense, I immediately, boom, my mind pops to Daniel If you want to understand, even in your own walk, a lot about what it means to reside as an alien for Christ, read Daniel. Right? Because he was faithful. And when they challenged him to do something that he felt or he believed in his heart would cause him to deny God, he was firm. I can't eat that meat. I can't eat that meat. And I'm going to trust God here. Just feed me vegetables. Okay, well first of all I'm going to say congratulations Daniel for becoming a vegetarian because that would be really tough on me too. But that's a whole different discussion. The point is He he he chose God. When they there was an edict that you had to pray to these idols, and it was a statue of Nebuchadnezzar, if I'm not mistaken. At that moment, he chose he was not going to bend his knee to an idol. Now he didn't run out and be like, hey, here's a sign saying Heck no, we won't go. No, he just said, no, I'm going to be faithful to the Lord. And I'm going to do what I do Right? I'm gonna be who I am, and if the consequences come, then consequences there are. You're gonna throw me into a dental lion, God can stop you. You're gonna throw me into fire, God can come and pull me out. If that's what he wills. Right? But I am submitted to my Lord, and I will not turn my back on him. That is the imagery of being the resident alien, right? That is the process of and then the diaspora. So A diaspora is technically speaking a period of exile. So when you talk about the diaspora, here he's drawing on the Babylonian captivity. And that also draws on Daniel a little bit right in the imagery of Daniel, but it's really talking about a period of time. Right, a period of time in which the people of Israel were scattered from where? Where were they? Where were they moved away from? Anybody? Anybody have a thought on that? Where were they away from? They're away from the promised land. Right? So again, the imagery here is you are not home. You're somewhere away from the promise that you've been given. You're somewhere apart from the place that I've given to you. Now, next week, we're going to talk about the place That's given to you. And man, that's gonna rev me up. I I I probably will speak way too fast on that day. But because I for me this is some of my favorite bit of scripture Because then he's going to tell you what that promised land is. And oh, it's beautiful. It's amazing. Right? But here he's just mentioning you are not yet to the land that God has promised you. Right now, you're sejourning. Right now, you're exiled. Right now, you're an alien. But soon enough the promise will come, right? I in if you think about it for yeah, go ahead. Not only if you were tied and they're filling and with their scattering. I haven't realized that they didn't have that And they are like this. And of course, you are chosen and and that essence beating in this world. Because it's they think you know, oh god. Well, you're getting to the why You're getting to the why. Boy, that's really good and that's true. Everything she said is true. So hold on to that. You want to answer the question right at the end Be thinking about what she just said right there. But then I had this other question. So I was thinking about this, and actually one commentator had made a mention about this, and so I just decided that I would bring this topic up So if Peter is referencing Old Testament Bible terms, I told you last week he was writing to Gentiles. Okay, but he is referencing, he is ascribing to these Gentile Christians what was specifically stated in Scripture to be referencing Israel. Is that a problem for anybody here? Does that make you go, hmm, are we replacing Israel? There's this idea of replacement theology that I'm trying to bring up. Do we replace Israel? And if Peter is referencing these Old Testament Bible terms to refer to Gentile Christian believers, is he engaging in that? Is he is he elucidating replacement theology? Anybody want to comment on that? No, I don't think so. When of you when you Paul does the same thing. John does the same thing. Um but just because they're ripping Old Old Testament Bible terms that refer to the nation Israel. That doesn't imply that the church is a replacement of Israel because there are so many promises in the Old Testament That only referred to the to the mention, but not to the church. Perfect. Yeah. Couldn't have said it better. Anything will be drafted on. Oh you used you went and used Paul's term now. I see what you're doing. You're trying to show everybody how smart you are. I'm kidding, I'm kidding. Can someone read uh Romans chapter eleven, verses thirty-five through thirty-seven? For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery so that you will not be wise in your estimation that any personal hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved, just as it is written written, the deliverer will come from Zion, and he will remove ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. So he's planning on fulfilling his covenant to Israel. Right? Every promise to Israel is a promise to Israel. Excuse me. So every promise to Israel is a promise to Israel. And it'd be great to pull in the the grafted grafted verse here because I think it's really relevant as well. I wish I had put the the mark on there, but But the fact of the matter is, we're a wild offshoot that's been grafted in. Okay, that's the imagery that Paul uses. Right? We're We're we're just a bunch of of of heathen, no good Gentiles that God has graciously Grafted in to the promises, right? So the old imagery is intended to give you some idea as to how God sees us, and there's some similarities, and then obviously, and then if you really get into it, there's some more eschatological things. But never think that God is done with Israel Because it's simply not biblical. It's simply not what the Bible teaches. But what this is Is not a view that Israel are that Christians are replacing Israel. This is an image of the P trine view of what a Christian is This is Peter giving you his definition of what a Christian is. You are chosen. You didn't choose to be, you were chosen. Now do you, yes. Do you name the name of Christian of Christ? Is that part of becoming a Christian? Absolutely. But know that you are chosen. Right? Uh 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 9. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of God's own possession. so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous life. For you were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. That's a declaration, right? That's a declaration. You once were Hopeless. You were once in Ecclesiastes, to draw on the reference from earlier. You were once life under the sun. You were once squandering around in vanity. You were once groping around in the dark, as John likes to say, hopeless. But God chose you. But God chose you. And now, look at you now. A holy race. A chosen people. That's a that's a marvelous thought. That's a marvelous thought. Can someone read yeah, go ahead. that you were not a people, so God has not made you people. And that also to Hosea. Basically the adoption of the of that bastard child. Again the point of like being graphing is you're not, but surely because of my choice, you are. Right. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, absolutely. Um It we'll we'll kind of touch on that particular point, maybe not in view of Hosea, but but that grafted idea will come will come back Um can someone read Ephesians chapter 1 verses 4 through 5. Doesn't he tell us in him before the congregation of the world that we would be only in point of supporting in blood? He opened us to adoption that Son through Jesus Christ was solved according to his own intentions of his will. Okay, chose us before the foundation of the world To be predestinated, right? To be predestinated into what into a home in heaven, to an inheritance in heaven. Okay, into an inheritance in heaven. But for now, we are a people sojourning. Our home is in heaven, our home is not here. For now we are journeying through this world. We are experiencing this alien place You're Frank in Argentina who can't figure out how to order a pizza. Right? It takes them 30 minutes to order a pizza. Okay, and then you get it and well that's a whole different I'm not going to get into that. First couple times were miserable. I'm just gonna say. Then I found Provoletta. That's a whole diff I'm gonna we're gonna focus on this But we're a people sojourning. First Peter one seventeen. Uh I'll just If you address as Father, the one who impartially judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your stay on earth or sojourn on earth. It's just a little while It's just a little while. You have an eternity promised to you, but for just a little while. You have to meet this, you have to rise up to this, you have to be this to the Lord for just a little while. You're so joining. First Peter two ten For you are once not a oh I just read that one. Um you've received mercy. Oh no, I guess not. For for you were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. You have not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. So this is who you are. You're so journing through is the idea here, that you are in the diaspora Did Daniel know when the Jews were going to be reprised to go back to the promised land? Is anybody everybody familiar with Daniel? Can you remember a specific moment? In Daniel, where suddenly he's like, wait a minute, we're supposed to be going back Well that was was the uh was the empty whether you recognize that uh closing out the seven seventy years was real. Yeah He uh yeah yeah exactly. What but what does he do? So he's reading Jeremiah the prophet. He's reading Jeremiah the I love this. This is like one of my favorite things about Daniel. He's reading Jeremiah the prophet and and the yeah, go ahead. Oh, I gotta back up my iCloud. Now you guys know I'm bad about backing up my iCloud. Okay. So we're we're near he he knows after reading Jeremiah that the captivity is going to last forty years. It's gonna last 40 years and it's time. Wait, it's it's 40 years. It's 40 years. We're going to go back. And so he sets his face to prayer. He's looking ahead. Lord, you promise this. You promise this, and I know you're faithful, so I know it's coming. When's it coming, Lord? When's it coming? You promised. And he's fasting and he's praying and he's looking forward to. That is a wonderful image of how we should view life as Christians. You have a promise from God, and that promise is sure. You have a hope in God, and that hope is sure, and you can rely on that promise And you should be looking forward to it every day. And you should be praising God for it every day. Because you have a promise and it's coming. Just as sure as for Daniel, he knew, you know, you have a promise. Right? But for now, you're so journing. But for a time, you're so journing. So let's talk about this Petrine view. Now, I showed you the Petrine view of what a Christian is. Now he's going to give you his view of how you're saved. So first he tells you, you're this Christian. Well now let me give you a P trine view of salvation And what is the very first thing he says? You are an elect exile of the dispersion, and how is that according to the foreknowledge of God the Father? Prognosis for knowledge. Before I explain what for knowledge is, It's great to point out what foreknowledge is not. Foreknowledge is not that God looks ahead in time See that you made a decision, I want to be saved, and then comes back here and blesses it. That's a ridiculous view of foreknowledge. That is literally shooting an arrow into the air and wherever it lands, drawing a target around it, and saying, look at what God did He hit the bullseye. No, you did not God. No, you did not God. He chose it. You just rubber stamped it. That is not foreknowledge. Because if that is foreknowledge Then you're the one that chose your salvation. But he doesn't allow for that. He says it's according to the foreknowledge of God. Now, I'm going to give you what Peter refers to as foreknowledge. Acts 2, verses 22 and 23. Can someone read that? Our uh my former pastor was always real big on this particular topic, and one of the things I I always thought was funny about what he said is, you know. The funny thing about the Armenian argument of the foreknowledge is any third-rate lawyer can come in and defeat that argument with very little effort, because that's a ridiculous statement. But anyway, I just thought I would bring that out. Who's got it? Go for it. Israel viewings were being definitely in ethics and boggles. This Jesus delivered up according to the government plan and foreknowledge of God being crucified until the hands of those So the the idea here is that God always had the plan from the beginning. Right? If we go back to the Ephesians 1, verse 4, can someone read that again? Just real quick. So Peter says, Christ's work was known from the beginning. Right? Christ's work was according to the foreknowledge of God. is part of the plan of God. So that's the idea there. One verses four. Just as he chose us in him before his foundation war, that we would be holy in things before him in love Yeah, just as he chose us before the foundation of the world, before God said, let there be light, he chose you. Before God formed the world, he knew you were coming. And he knew what he was building for you. One more verse, and then we have to speed up a little bit. So um Romans verses 8, 28 through 30 In which he can mean he also predestined to be formed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn of the many. And those who need jested, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those who need justified, he also glorified. So those whom he called he justified? Those whom he chose he glorified? Where did you enter into that equation? I just real quick, can you tell me where it says what we did? Is that in that verse? Because I I was waiting for you to tell me how I was part of my own salvation, but apparently it's not going to be there, right? So yeah chosen by God. Did I sufficiently beep that into the ground? Yeah, go ahead. The idea that God will that God look ahead makes it sound as though he would be reactionary without his reaction. Oh that's a great point I would have said that if you would have told me on the way to Sure. I I really enjoyed when I got to hear the not just elect, but elect exiles. And a lot of the commentaries argued about what modified what, but you know just a plain reading. You were a chosen group of people that would live as tech as exiles scattered around this other country. I mean Genesis 12 Abraham gets called out of his homeland, right? Your country and your kindred and your father's house that I will show you. And I guess what I enjoyed about that probably influenced by the Ecclesiastes study, but just the idea that not out of control. I'm where the Lord has called me on. If He did call me to stop being a citizen or of like culture and kind and language and focus and destination as where I was. He called me out of that. That's intrinsic to the call, the sovereign work of God in my election. And he called me to now live as a stranger, necessarily uncomfortable in the world that I live in Necessarily competing with the views of those around me. Necessarily, if you will, suffering, because you're talking about suffering Suffering this ostracism, indignities, slander, you know, whatever it is that we suffer in the current culture. Um That also is a part of his choosing. And then you throw in Hebrews eleven thirteen. Every hero of the faith it says in Hebrews eleven thirteen Lived holding firmly, I think it even says, but it's this this word of grasping with thanksgiving The homeland that was promised, that was not yet seen, but daily presented with an opportunity to turn around and go back to the land they came from. And they never did that. That's what makes them the heroes of the faith, right? Is that they constantly pressed forward. So I just really love how the chosenness is not only the chosenness of our our salvation, it was also the chosenness of our scattering, the chosenness of our exile. You will now not be citizens. Yeah, yeah, that's great. That's uh that's actually that's excellent. And and when you think about the construction of the chosen exiles of the diaspora. The noun there is of the dispersion, right? You are of the dispersion. You're in the diaspora. But you are chosen exiles for the diaspora. So it carries absolutely the weight that Scott is mentioning there, 100%. So then he says next, because he's going to bring in all three members of the Trinity here, by the sanctifying work of the Spirit. By the sanctifying work of the Spirit. That term sanctifying is the same that we get hagias or saints from. It's the same word. It's the idea that you are purified, that you are holy. Right, to be made more holy is what Peter is saying by the work of the Spirit. When you're home, you're going to be completely holy. For now, the sanctifying work of the Spirit is there. John will call it the deposit given to you. Right? the sanctifying work of the Spirit. And this is, Peter is going to draw on this throughout His epistle. And he's going to start on 116. So I'll read that just real quick since I'm right here. Act as free men and do not your use your freedom as a covering uh wait, oh sorry, that's 216. Guess that wasn't quite so close I was like, that is not the verse I was looking for. Because it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. And then he goes on So that we read that verse previously, but now you see the connectedness between that and being holy. To obedience of the faith. You know, if you Google images of obedience, you get a lot of weird stuff. Just know that this was chosen out of Like I couldn't find a good one. Like it I don't like that picture, but okay, whatever. Becoming an exile of the dispersion meant or to o it for the purpose of obeying Jesus Christ and be sprinkled by his blood. Now those are two ideas. Okay? To be obedient But also to be sprinkled. And that terminology of sprinkled, here again, Peter is going to draw on the Old Testament references. Right, of sprinkling of blood. When was there a sprinkling of blood? It can Yeah, during the sacrifice. Who is your sacrifice? Jesus Christ is your sacrifice. What he's telling you here is that Christ is the propitiation. Right? That Christ is the one. His blood is the one that cleanses you. And he's drawing on that. Actually, when I first started this lesson and I was bringing it together I actually was going to go into Leviticus, I think it's 16, where it talks about how the priest goes into the temple and how he prepares the sacrifice. And and I was going to talk about how this image was there. I don't have time to completely unpack that, but just know that that that is where he's drawing from with this with these Old Testament references. He's thinking of it in the context of of Old Testament sacrifice to be sprinkled with the blood, to be covered by the blood of the Lamb, right? I'm sorry? Sprinkling with the blood. You are now my My people. That is my government. There you go. That's right. It's the idea that yes, you are you are you are propitiated by his by his work And now you have a way through and you are his people. Someone can read 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 through 4. My little children, I am right when we thank you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sin. Not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And by this we know that we have come to know if we keep his commandment. Whoever says, I know it's keep his commandments to the liar and the truth is not in Yeah that's the other place where you see the obedience of Christ being paired with the propitiation of Christ. Right. So you have been propitiated, and I don't know if we want to dig into that term much m much more, but the idea is is that that The idea of propitiation is that it takes the weight of punishment on your behalf. It's actually a legal term, and the idea is that there is a a satisfaction A satisfaction for the offenses committed. So Christ has satisfied the offenses that you commit. Right? But in so doing, it's to the to the end of obedience. Obedience to Christ. And if you say That you're in Christ because he has satisfied, he has propitiated your sins, brought satisfaction for your sins, but then you go on sinning and you don't change your life and you don't become this exiled people of the diaspora. Better think about your calling. Right? Because that propitiation was to the end that you would obey Christ. By the sanctifying work of the Spirit, according to the foreknowledge. So before I jump into this, note that Peter now takes the time that his view of salvation is really fundamentally a work of each member of the Trinity. It is a beautiful Trinitarian statement. So if you go and you read things that you you'll never find the word Trinity In the Bible, that specific word is not there. But there are definite areas where the Trinity is spoken about And and definite areas where the Trinity is spoken about according to their cooperative work with one another. This is one of these areas. Another great area is Ephesians. So I think it's the first I think it's verses four through sixteen, if I'm not sure, four through fourteen, is it's all one word, all one sentence in the Greek. Where Paul will go through in great detail how each member of the Godhead worked to bring you to them. Beautiful Trinitarian statement here. Peter's a little more succinct than Paul, you know. He kind of puts it all together a little faster. You can text this, but you know, Peter or with Paul you might have to You may have to sit down on a computer to write that one out. But here is a very quick, easy way of Peter just saying, here, you are an elect exile of the dispersion Because God chose you before the foundation of the world. And the Spirit sanctifies you. And Christ propitiates your sins. And each of these members of the Godhead working in coordination with one another perfectly to bring to work and serve and give to you this salvation. Beautiful picture of the Trinity right there. And why does Peter, now we're back to this why question again, right? Why does Peter Take this time. We talked about last week that he's writing in during a time, 64 A. D. , right? We're not yet to Nero. We're not yet to systemic wide persecution, but what you have are pockets of intense, often very intense persecution, which, to be honest, could be even worse than than some of the things that Nero would have done. But there's these pockets of persecution. There are these times when it's difficult. Right? There's times that it's difficult. Why does Peter take a moment to remind you Of your salvation? Why does he take a moment to remind these guys who they are as Christians? Anybody want to just take a stab at it? I know you were like right there. Why? Why would Peter take that time? I think it's easy in our in our culture um to lose our identity And I mean we see it stay a lot, you know, um but as we live in a world that's swimming in confusion about who they are, this anchors us to be able to live in the way he's gonna call us to live life that's different without having that foundation Mm-hmm. Yeah, you're a miho. You're my you're my child. You're miha for you, sorry. You're my child. Just remember that. Go for it. I like what she said because when it gave mm not only does it it gave you uh thing that I believe to be and it gives you an identity, it gives you a conscience. And it also s sort of solidifies within us our mission Yeah, anybody else have thoughts? That's great. That's a great and both of you have great thoughts. Go for it. A hundred years ago when I went off to college. The last thing that my father said to me before leaving my door leaving me in my dorm room at my college was Rob remember whose you are That's the way he put it. And then he walked away. And then subsequently for four years I was in college, every time I know, go home for s for summer and then go back to college. That's the last thing he would say to me every time. Remember whose you are. And so that was his uh way of making sure I remembered who I belong to, that I belonged to the Lord. That's that's whose I was and that was as they said an anchor. That was an anchor for uh for Me as I went off to college and I never forgot it. I mean it's something that just decades and decades later. Yeah, fantastic illustration. Absolutely fantastic illustration. Anyone else have thoughts? If he was talking to a Gentile audience, like Jewish people probably already stood out a little bit from the culture that they lived in because they have their own forms of gentlemen. But Gentile believers would not have had that necessarily. They looked just like everybody else and they came to us But now as believers in Christ they had a new identity. Just like the Jewish people when they were exposed to maintain their identity as trees, but also live in a culture which entirely possible and things as the U. S. Yeah. That's actually a really great point. Um did everybody catch that? I don't know. Because I thought that was that's a that's an excellent point. You know, that y he's talking to Gentiles, and part of the reason for his illusion is in prob probably exactly what you're saying is that, hey, you know, you are called to be different You are called into a nation, a new people, right? You're a new people. So you might dress the same and have the same haircut, but you're a different people. Fundamentally, you have changed. Right, you've gone from here to here. So that's a great, great point. I think that's a great point. Anybody else? But why we should obey. Because we are chosen. It's not just like oh we are chosen, we are bought. I mean and he went and chose us, he bought us with his blood. And that blood is the strengthening is a mark that we are the chosen. Bach Bach mutual A and Girl and Eagle are the ones that use things um Yeah, and and I would leave because we're it's time to wrap up, but I'd also leave with this thought. Choosing The fact that God chose us before the foundation of the world, that is of zero comfort to the unbeliever. Right? But it should be of great comfort to us. Right. I actually heard someone in an evangelical context say, don't talk to people about predestination when you're giving the gospel. Because it has nothing to do with them until they're saved. I don't know if that's I to be honest with you, I I kind of bounce back and forth on that notion a little bit. Um Within an evangelical context, but the idea is true, right? For chosenness Is for you to rest in when you're saved. And why is that? Why is that? Because I know me and I vacillate. And I have bad days and I have good days and I fall and I get up I have times when I have to do things that I don't want to do, and some of those times I fail. Right? We all do But my election, my adoption, my inheritance does not depend on whether I'm steady. It depends on whether I was chosen according to the foreknowledge of God by the sanctifying work of the Spirit and sprinkled with his blood for obedience. It's not on me, it's on God. God chose me. And in those moments when you're at your lowest point, in those moments when you think, there is no way a God would ever choose me. Because of how filthy I am or how bad I mess up. There's no way God would want me That's when it's the greatest of comforts. Because you know it has nothing to do with you. It has everything to do with this promise. Go ahead. of um and he said to us he said um are you picking what you want on your religion and is that like are you following your religion because You've been told it's something and you're taking your own version of that so that you can follow what you want to give you comfort, or are you following a religion for yourself play first who you really what you really believe. Are you really following the religion Because you believe it, because you truly have accepted it and you follow it wholeheartedly? Or are you just kind of moving through the motions because you've been told your whole life that that's Yeah. Yeah. What if you wane? Right? What if you drift? What if you go a month, two months, and you don't show up to church or you don't even want to open your Bible Did you fall away? Can you make yourself fall away? But you're chosen. But you're chosen. Right? Peter is giving this message to him, and I have to wrap up because now I'm a little bit over time. But Peter is giving this message because he's talking to people who are suffering Peter is giving this message because he is talking to people who are enduring external persecution. And when the external persecution starts, the internal waves move. And Peter is trying to tell them, you are cemented. In Christ. You are firm in Christ. You're chosen. And when all those waves, Peter, when you're out to sea, don't look down. Don't look down. Don't look down, Peter. Look at me. Look at me. We're going to talk about that next week. What what are you looking at? What are you looking at? Don't look down. What are you looking at? Okay, let's pray.