Uh hopefully I'm on time. Hopefully coming home soon. From Applegate Christian Fellowship, I believe there's like 10,000 members, resigned amid accusations of sexual misconduct, harassment of three female church members And that's because when we as Christians fall short of our calling, the unbelieving world is so quick. But they know you know the Lord. Four times in this epistle. We're put into this world. For now, you're a person who is scattered, not home, you're a foreigner. It's my goal to ha I mean you can stop me at any time, ask me any questions, Scott as well. And then in chapter 2, verses 1, he says, put away all malice, all deceit, all hypocrisy and slander, and long for the pure spiritual milk. And though now, if for a little while you have to suffer through a trial, you love him and you rejoice. Right? Right? And the Lord is feeding you his word. Maybe you could be a missionary that gives the gospel and serves hundreds of people. And there was a the woman next to me was reading reading the lyrics of the song, you know. That's the trick, is having the integrity to be a complete, to really mean and really be sincere about the things that you say. And he couldn't understand that. And my job was to come in and just put the hammer down on all of that and to be um to be an enforcer. And he's like, Yeah, just tell me what you wrote there was something in Romans. And I followed the word of God, and then I drew my strength from that, even when people were yelling at me and people were I mean, it was contentious. And uh yeah, it just he's just so I want you to tell him what you what you taught me about. What I love about it is is that it's like they were like, Oh, who is this guy? They saw his and they were interested. I would be a completely different person. And if I do that, then that's all I really want to do. This guy, he's a pastor of Denton Bible. 1 Peter together. Chapter one verses two where he he's or chapter one verse one, sorry, where he says uh uh he calls us the uh Peter is referencing actually the Levitical priesthood. Food offerings as their inheritance. You're absolutely right, Kirk. Prepare your minds. They're watching us. When is your salt and light seen? Everybody in Argentina eats steak, so I'm eating steak and we're talking and more wine and he brings wine and and we're all just having a g the second time I came he left the office. Herman would come in, he would do whatever I told him to do. that you would open it up, that you would help Scott and I to just teach articulately, uh, to encourage and exhort everyone here to to grow in you, Lord, and that uh that they would be encouraged by your word. You know, it it we're moving forward, it's a continuation, but at the same time I think you'll be just fine where you're at. We know that's what you deserve. with this story. Gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. different path, we have a few different commentaries but we always end up at the same place. chapter two verses eleven and twelve today, but it's really going to be more or less in the context of what does what does what is the the central meaning in First Peter to help prepare you for where we're going and and and how we're going to handle you know, like the the overarching course of the class or process in the class. So if we are to be salt and light, if we are to be uh if we are to be salt and light in the earth, if we are to be examples for people to see, if we are to be I mean what does salt and light even mean, right? builders rejected, but he says uh he he calls us a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. Beloved. Have different cultures. And and what we do as examples is what we do is salt and light, is we we simply live our lives Right? Right? were the priests there to come to. exiles in diaspora, but they were they were scattered throughout. uh which hearkens Romans seven. is prepare your minds. Admire, don't live with the pigs. We've studied. Showing up to home fellowship once a week, once every other week, whatever. It's not enough. Jesus Christ. You have to you you have to to to be you have to to long for the pure spiritual milk. If you know you get when you read theology, you you learn textbook theology, okay. Kurt's comment um is that you know we know when w we we're justified because we're chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. You know, and but she didn't deserve it. like footsteps, boom, boom, boom, boom. long for the pure spiritual milk? then I don't know of anywhere else specifically in Scripture where it's where salvation is brought about in quite the same cooperative way. Your faith is not just your faith. interactive these things, right? Just stop it. And I know at least I'm in his will when I'm praying back scripture. Excellent. Um Dobson's uh ministry Faith for the Family. He had just broken up with her and it was this thing. Ain't no uh a ain't no uh grave gonna hold me down. 'Cause before my song was from La Crae it was uh actually Erica made me change it 'cause it was like It's about to go down with travel disc You know So she's like, Yeah, I don't like that song, you need to change that, that's not good. The nature of being a Christian will appeal to people. me but I really don't care. Others said that we were sexually immoral because we had love feasts. kind of softened me up with this meal didn't work. that I was doing. months to a year and then he's sort of faded off and then but he still comes back every now and then. Because you're not. Because you don't know. So we're gonna be, Scott and I are gonna be meddling. Again, longing for the pure spiritual milk. You get them so familiar with the real thing that they can always spot a counterfeit because they know when it's not like this. Uh you can go through every single class if you want to hear the first couple of chapters of of this. And seeking your face in prayer, seeking your face in your word, seeking your face in an ability to just broadcast that to those around us. As beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. And I I by the way I'll take a moment here and pause because uh there are many of you who's maybe the first time in the class and so we'll kind of get a little bit more into this as we go forward, but I just want to be clear and explain up front. Yeah, I'm just kind of excited as we go through this second part uh that we will you know and continue in this but just so you know as we go through this we're go I go verse by verse we're gonna go verse by verse through this uh we're gonna cover chapter one uh chapter thing is salt. offer spiritual sacrifices which of course should hearken Romans twelve one through two where he where he says that um uh where he says that uh our spiritual act of worship is to to uh get uh to to s sanctify and be holy in Christ, right? Uh uh the uh exiles of the dias diaspora, the um oh my gosh, my brain is just not firing off today, sorry to do. not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. Prepared to give the gospel to anybody who calls and asks to be something that they're not and to have them wonder why. that was more than ten miles away from a Levitical city. to just interrupt or or discuss or whatever, just feel free. kick it and and constantly struggle against it and strive against it, he had to hold back the passions of the flesh. flesh, for I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. the pure spiritual milk that you're somehow not a Christian. Which is more precious than gold, yet tested by fire, is revealed. into the next and it's a fascinating study of of faith and obedience and obedience and faith like two legs that walk a body. Um anybody else have comments by the way? To God. If you don't have integrity when you do those things, you will end up being a stain. And they will be false prophets, right? It ends up front page news. it and his comment was, Well, there was one time when I was in youth group that this youth leader talked to this girl who had become pregnant because of something that happened to her and um he told her that Constantly trying to give him the gospel. I just can't imagine any who would ever just throw them into hell. and you know they badmouth their wives and I no, I I'd never do it. so tender with your wife. to love her. Right? things that you didn't even think that anybody would ever concern that like w it's just so fundamentally natural to me as a Christian, and yet to you it's a foreign concept. lyrics like it comes up like well like by itself, you know, like it comes up because of the settings or whatever. I just had the the phone was on my lap, you know, and I was just closing my eyes and just going up. Caesar because they didn't worship Caesar as God, because they worshiped a God that was higher than Caesar. said that other people claimed that Christians were atheists because they wouldn't pay tribute at the temples and they didn't worship the Roman gods. men are equal, that we believe that women are submissive to men. So I I I had a time when I was going to Argentina. on in the office in Argentina that were that were being called into question and so they sent me as kind of a call it an enforcer and an auditor uh into the situation and I came in and my job was literally to put the brakes down on every everything. this, they yell at me, you know, and I'm like, I don't care if they yell at you, Marco, you gotta do this. right before the end of all of this, Marcos says, I want you to meet my family. studying Romans at the time and so I was kind of imparting some things from Romans with him and and uh he says, uh yeah, I want you to come and meet my family so he comes and he picks me up and we go to this place, I'm trying to remember what it was. conduct and he was able to understand that there was something besides the secular world that was forcing me to behave the way that I was behaving. on you know this image you know you you guys worship every God but let me tell you about the unknown God and he immediately goes to the gospel uh because they saw what he was doing quick. uh look forward to chapters uh two and a half through five okay because because peter is not going to simply leave it at that he's now going to tell you what does it mean being Excellent in your dealings with the government? Or when you're suffering for Christ, how does it affect your relationships in your church? We post the PowerPoint presentation and then any kind of subsequent notes, we put those out on Hopebook. Begin this march through the second half of 1 Peter and your word, Lord. Words to say and ears to hear, Lord, that we might all be enriched in you. Um I just is a blessing to to hear the words of encouragement that we're receiving and uh it's been a growing, but you know, hopefully she's getting better and um That is what the unbelieving world simply finds unbelievable. DC talk, thank you. Christian or Rambling Gospel or something like that. Mark Darling, Evergreen Church, Bloomington, Minnesota, all resigning in the past two to three years. due to some allegations of not fitting or not acting in accordance with the the proper ministry. To broadcast it, it becomes front page news. As you talk to your neighbors, you're being watched. Evil. We are supposed to illuminate the God of the universe to the world. perspective. not do or if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law that it is good. Because of the conduct of your life, because of the way you behave? living with integrity. Right, but we can't always force our bodies to do it. we had this kind of question and answer, you know, and so I was kind of thinking some of the things that as we went through the first part, what impacted me the most. to a place, you're going to heaven, right? You still have these passions in your heart. Didn't mean it quite that way. The same thing. Sincere brotherly love. Right? that that she shouldn't be showing up to to the to the youth group anymore, that she should go to a different ministry because she would be a distraction for the other kids. Melvin is he's he's Dutch. song uh that's uh when I fly off, you know, and I just I just that's just it's my thing, you know. doer. I can't I was trying to remember the name of the place but um and and we go out with the kids and I'm holding her daughter and we're you know walking along in a stroller and the wife and we're all meeting and we we sit down and and he says, uh tell 'em what you told me about the Bible. world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And then uh yeah, so that that's that. And I pray for that especially today as I begin that you'd be with me and you'd be with us. Brian Houston, Hillsong Church in Australia in 2021, amid allegations that he covered up sexual misconduct of his father. Hear any comments, discuss it further at any point that we we want to. obstinate thing that just kept doing what it wanted to do no matter how hard he tried, he couldn't get it to always obey and he had to constantly This isn't the the exact right way to say it, but kind of a cooperative effort between you and the Lord, this kind of as you're growing and learning in the Lord, you sanctify in the Lord and then there's glorification which is looking ahead and seeing you know that you're going You get to this, but Peter doesn't see the sanctification part as being fundamentally any different. Right? obeying? And it's not enough to go to church. News, not just in the U. took the one thing that he could find, the one stain that he could find in his mind. year and for the next six months Marco would would email we'd email back and forth. And he changed me forever. off of him hit me square in the head. Also, uh, if you want to catch the first part, Scott and I did the first part last quarter. Mark Driscoll, Mars Hill Church in Seattle, Washington. did not walk the walk, people who did not uh walk what they spoke. Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. How you're supposed to walk as a believer, and what trials mean to you, what struggles mean to you, what persecution means to you. You're different because you're in the world, but you're not of the world. The the the Levitical priests didn't run off into to other lands. Hold it back, Peter says. Hold it back. Is there somebody that would look at you and say, Oh, if he's in here, I'm out? It's just given to you. It's just there reserved for her. When you respond to that trial in that way and you have that right perspective, it's a proof in yourself. You said something else I thought before the class began I thought was really great, which is there's this sort of two-way communication. We know internally as Christians we see things. Because they're watching us. Every day from the passions of the flesh. thought Marco thought one thing about me having the integrity to come in and enforce and do the things God. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, it perishes through, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in the praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. There are eternal consequences that that you have opportunities to glorify God, but in order to do that, you have to have this If that person is there, you should fix it. It's not enough to sit here. You have not seen him, you love him. Right? that you shouldn't, you know, commit adultery. You have to do it earnestly, sincerely, desire it. Internally, as members of the church, we know we're gonna fall short, right? But when I look at you and your relationship with your wife, I want that. Right? I need to know if it's not a valid expense, I'm not paying it, you are. And we are one who is being built up into, he says, a spiritual house. Yes, alien exiles of the diaspora. Who, by his great mercy in verse 3, are born again into a living hope, and given an inheritance which is imperishable, undefiled, will be. It's already available. problems in life that you you get frustrated, you get angry, maybe sometimes have a potty mouth, maybe don't watch all the movies that you're supposed to. Are there things that drag you along? Right? Standing guard. Right? Those of you who are married don't agree with that? Okay, I it was a little story that's kind of funny about me is that um I travel for business from time to time. People say that because we consider uh homosexuality immoral and a sin, that we're somehow intolerant, uh, that we don't believe that women and men We should all have stories like that. will bring to you. So uh I'm just gonna read a few things here. Right? Abstain from the passions of the flesh in verse 12. In that moment, my conduct to him was an example. Um you know, back then uh when this was written uh in sixty-four AD, um I think Scott and I are a little disagreeing over the exact date and time. I don't know why every time I think about this, I think about Paul in front of the Areopagus. That's how we should be. But at the same time, there's the opposite example I can give you. You know, so you could be I don't know, wearing, you know, the the the priestly garb and walking along and doing your thing and then people might notice, but they you know, but what do they really notice? And you had two people, two people who saw you and your conduct drew them closer to the one true God. you ha I was going to push to make it right. Areophagus, okay, thank you. Chapter 3 verse 15 But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. You should fix that. It's not a work of ours, it's a work of God. And so it brings out this kind of fascinating study of how one thing begets the other thing, which begets the other thing. Because you want to be an obedient child. The excellence is defined in the pure spiritual milk. Um grew up in the church, knew everybody in the church, was new key minister, you know, ministers in the church, and um fell away from Christ. That who he was preaching the gospel to was not the person who would receive it, but the person over here. Father God, uh so often, so many times in our lives that uh we don't give you our absolute best, and yet John Ortberg, Menlo Church in San Francisco. You are a walking proclamation of the gospel That is what Peter is addressing in 1 Peter. You don't even really claim your family. Right? Question. All of it. And you can stand up there and you can preach. I have that relationship. I'll just read the book. I just went back to I think it was 2018 was as far back as I went. You have to continue it on and you have to to sanctify, to be holy. It's um I I'm not gonna uh I I know a person personally um who went to church for years at our church, my our local church, not not Hope Church, but in in Denton, Texas. I do it because God tells me to do it. Um and uh say uh this is the course schedule because now we've talked about some of the the previous chapter one and two. You have passions of the flesh? So I'm like, wait a minute brakes on this. I'm not. Salt is for flavoring, right? In chapter 1, verse 2, he explains that the beloved are the beloved according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. I mean what what what our job is, there is a weight to it. Put the put the the the the hammer down. There's a lot of corruption in here, but I hold it back. It's been long enough, I think. Four times he makes this point in the epistle. We are exiles. You're a Christian now. You're in church today, right? We're not to be sucked into the culture. So if Scott wants to go with an earlier date, he can go with an earlier date. It never occurred to me that he saw that as particularly valuable, but he saw that I believed in a God You can't have a little bit of malice for this guy and a little bit of slander for this person. You can't deceive this person a little. I think I'm like 50-50 if I'm being honest. Who are the beloved? We're all ready. I mean I some of this makes me think of the Sermon on the Mount. He's elevating your your requirement. You see my point? So um they were working out of two accounting systems, they were uh paying their travel by, okay, here's my MX bill, just pay it. And I'm like trying to use my broken Spanish to read out of the the the the the the Spanish Bible, you know, I mean it's like okay, you know, and and we're going through and we just had this conversation. Please do not do this to pat yourself on the back. So you're justified. Am I doing it earnestly with an earnest heart? We're called hateful and intolerance because we speak of judgment and condemnation into hell for people who don't repent. The Lord will bring those people into your path. Uh I think it was uh Martin Luther referred to his flesh as brother ass. You have to have integrity. No, that's uh um that's actually thank you for the segue. So we can explain it internally, but externally, it's a stain. You're not going to get to choose who to love. You're gonna have passions. Yeah. That's the big idea of 1 Peter. Speak to a person who comes to church and looking for the one true God. They shall have no inheritance among their brothers. It's reserved in heaven for you. If I'm not, is there something, is there something in my walk that needs to, is there sin in my heart that needs to be gotten rid of so that I can look forward? We would get in these discussions. You're not. Your faith is protected. You have to go to God and you have to train the God. You have to have integrity. Um, by the way, you deserve it, Melvin. There's a lot of material here. You cannot live that life and still be effective in ministry in Christ. She just got it. You're being watched today, Christian, as you go to work in your daily life. You guys all hopefully have faith in Christ. You gotta get rid of all of it. They're going to speak against you as an evildoer. Yeah, no, I I I agree. Right? 5785 Western View Place where I live. Uh but yeah, anyway, so great comments. Like he just if I told him to do it, that's that's what happened. Beloved, this is chapter four, do not be surprised with the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you, but rejoice insofar as you share You're empowered y the the the the um the yoke of sin is broken. Not all of you who come to me in that day and say, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. So uh anyway. What does it mean being excellent in submission to authority? We know that our offering to you can only be a love and earnest pursuit of you and who you are. Or they know that you say you know the Lord. What do we have to do to be salt and light? Pure heart. I don't care what you think about Jimmy Swaggard, but in nineteen eighty seven, I think it was, or eighty six, he was found in sexual misconduct with prostitutes. Didn't know I was gonna be on Didn't know this was part of the deal, Marco. Don't be conformed to your former ignorance. You have to have integrity. Focus on the family. That's who we are. There's a seamlessness between faith and obedience. That's not a faith that you your faith is protected by God, Peter says. You know, I think there's I I can't remember the verse location but he says there's not uh Paul says there's not many of you were wise. You can't do that because you don't know which person you're witnessing to that will receive the gospel. She told me the other day, she's like, I am so sick of being in the hospital. We we put our faith in Christ and we're still here. But that didn't necessarily I mean they weren't going off as priests to I don't know uh Rome or to Assyria or to whatever. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin. If you know who you're supposed to be in Christ when somebody accuses you of something is pretty easy. The greatest single cause of atheism in the world today is Christians who acknowledge Jesus with their lips and walk out the door and deny them, b deny him by their lifestyle. Peter takes these concepts and he just jungles them all up. You know, and and uh I thought about that, and then I also thought about the fact that I really enjoy praying back scripture because then I always know that whatever I'm praying back at least is shelled around the the his inspiration. I want a relationship like that. You're one of the beloved. It's already there just sitting and waiting for the time when you go on to glory and you partake upon your inheritance. S. It was a stain. And he he said, You know, I'm not, you know, I'm not a Christian. Should learn to love it. It it it's a it's I was talking about this with Erica the other day that in reading the first part of First Peter, one of the things that kind of became very focused for me is we because we had last week You're legally innocent before the Lord because you're justified. You long for the pure spiritual milk because you want to be more like him. And it's actually my joy to tell you that. I wanted to uh also I was gonna put a note in here and thanks for those people who prayed for us this week and my mother-in-law There's somebody, just think in your mind. Maybe she deserves it more because she had to put up with me for for so many years. Why? It just something triggered them. He says, I'm sitting in my uh in my dorm room in in college, okay? So we're supposed to be the flavor of Christ to the world. We are no longer of the world, but we remain in the world. Be sober-minded. Fifty bucks. They're watching us. We were working late at night. I I I've been teaching Romans one sixteen. In Deuteronomy eighteen, uh he says that the Levit there to the Levitical priests, all the tribe of Levi shall have no portion or inheritance in Israel. Right? It's not enough to live your life coming to church every Sunday We can I should stop and ask for comments. Yeah, no, it it's that is a bit of a difference between yeah the the one example and the other, but it y the point's well made, right? Hold it back. Hold it back. Right. It's uh oh my gosh, I can't think of the name of the groups. That's very powerful, even though we may It's it you didn't earn it. It's true though, like it's really true. Are we catching maybe a little theme here? That's your inheritance, and it's reserved. Is there somebody that can walk in those doors? You've got to walk the walk. Yeah, yeah it it it's uh yeah You can't just get rid of malice. That relationship isn't given. Well, then maybe I should stop talking and move on to the next slide. So what you're saying is that you had a conflict in a trial, and in the midst of that trial, God was glorified and blessed because of your conduct. Um but I I just love the way he says, you know, the times of ignorant uh the times of ignorance got overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world. We're to be we're to be we're we're to continue being the elect exile of the diaspora. Thanks. They will see things in you as a Christian, right? Because I have integrity. Don't be like you used to be. You still have to get rid of them. Like, you know, and we'd have these conversations, you know. He he the guy wasn't even there to talk to him. So uh we are to be salt and light. We're sprinkled by the blood of Christ, right? Every day to work harder to make a better family, a better life. I spent half a year in Argentina, um one year. But that didn't I mean they were in place. But if you even look at somebody with lust, it's like committing adultery in your heart. I'd never badmouth my wife in public. It's in the Word, right? I I couldn't remember I'm it was but yeah, it it why? He is he is an atheist of atheists. And if I keep that first, Melvin, if I have that perspective first, Melvin. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. One of the things I thought was really cool last semester was the the the the contrast in styles and how sometimes they really they really added a lot of character to the class and so um Thanks for the the comment. Just stop hitting 'em. You know, I will fly, I will fly, I will fly. Sanctify, be holy, for I am holy, he says in verse 14. And we all are giving the Lord our best. It's an amazing gift to you 'cause I love you. You have to sincerely love the brethren. , not just in the U. I mean I think you know, we're we're all in a walk here, like I said before, right? So sometimes I don't post them until after, but I usually try and post them before. It's a it's a process, right? You cannot walk out of here on Sunday and resort to your former lusts on Monday and expect that you're going to be a witness for Jesus. Yeah. He's trying to get you to see it's not enough just to fulfill the obligation as a work You can't do that because you don't know who the Lord Do I love the brothers? Um but yeah, it's crazy what what what they might know. Um if you're a fan of uh uh uh of uh uh oh my gosh. Thank you. The power of God protects your faith. Chapter 1, verse 6. If God is your father, as an obedient child, you should train at your father's feet. But to them, it was a stain. Your inheritance is in heaven. Uh and uh that that uh their that our stance on abortion is is is against women, right? But um, you know, and uh but there are going to be things, right? I'm doing what my job is, and no, I will not accept another travel expense report that's just simply an American Express bill. We're supposed to glorify who God is, right? That feels like a lot of weight. That's that's a great story. You don't deserve it. Uh and people will look at you and maybe uh follow along. Now, what you think about Jimmy Slagger, that's you know, okay, whatever. But you know, you don't have to look very hard. Someone's paying attention to my previous classes, hopeless. That is the big idea of 1 Peter. We're really just exeguting the scripture and talking about the scripture. You have things that you wish you could get rid of. You're gonna have sin in your heart. Is there somebody that you don't want to see because you're angry and you can't stand those people? As a matter of fact, he just recently reached out, was it his kids was it you or Sienna? He's like this seed picker, they call him and they're like, Oh what's what's what's humor? And and when I can do that, then I can glorify the Lord. And he's referencing in these passages, he's referencing verses chapter 2, verses 5 through 10, where he's talking about the stone that the You have to be like obedient children So I would go away for two weeks and I'd come back and Herman was just loyal. And and that was what drew him. Like you've done enough. You're not going to get to choose who to dust your sandals off and walk away from. There are people who don't know the Lord. Uh anybody have anything else before we we go to the next yep. This one I will give a name. And it's in Jesus' name. Uh we'll stop addressing any questions Wage war against it, because these passions wage war against your soul. You still have to abstain. All hypocrisy, all slander. We would get into these discussions and he'd get so frustrated with me. Um and then he calls us sojourners and exiles, which goes back to verses one, chapter two, where he calls our or chapter But you're you're absolutely right. Yeah. That's great. We went back and forth, you know. I just pray that you would bless this path for us. There is a there is a I mean there are eternal consequences to this Go for it. But no, it's not enough to be good. Uh or you could be a father and have three kids. They wanted to hear. But make sure we we get finished on time. Bill Hybels, Willow Creek Church, Chicago, Illinois So they were out there, they were available, they were out there for people. Uh normally I put in here like moments where we can just stop and kind of dialogue. That's the test for me. You've got to get rid of all malice. Well Melvin, it doesn't come from me. Now people say we're bigots because we don't accept same-sex marriages as valid. I was like, Oh, okay, 'cause we would stay up late at night and and I would teach him things about the Bible. It was where we were going through Romans one sixteen. We'll talk more about this again as um as we move on. Brother ass is always there, always requiring work, always requiring discipline. The Lord is their inheritance, as he promised them. That term abstain means to hold back, to push back. That kind of thing. Like I think that's a great point that you make. Uh Ben Corson Um uh trying to keep context with my notes. Peter answers this question uh all throughout when he he says uh that he says If we didn't have a job to do, why wouldn't God just bring us up right then? Would never do it. So in the things that when they slander you, he says, when they slander you and speak against you as evildoers. We should all have stories like that. Did I say that right? Why delight in soul? Does Peter have a point he's trying to make? I guess that's the point I'm trying to make. That's because while you have a redeemed spirit, you still have a fallen flesh. Was it bad what happened? I glorified God in that moment. Thank you for sharing that. And we're we're driving in the car, and people in Argentina, by the way, do not know how to drive. John Blanchard, The Rock Church, Virginia Beach, Todd Wagner, Watermark Church in Texas. We're a church. You're just different. It's it's it's purified. And it was very contentious at times. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you've been greed by various trials It's not enough Also a great point. If you want to be like God, if you want to be like Christ, if you want to live a life that's pleasing and honoring and glorifying to God, you have to talk And if you don't have those things, then you should seek more to desire it. Uh I don't necessarily think that you need to. Right? And I think it's a great point that you make, by the way. Internally we know that that we are always striving to be better, striving to be more. He wanted me to go all through Romans with him, which is very hard to do on an email. Gird yourself. Though you have not seen him, you love him. You know, I I have a friend. That's a really great story. And I just love that thought as I'm flying into the sky, I'm gonna fly, right? So now it is no longer I who do it, but the s the sin that dwells within me. I mean I you know I have an inherent I have fifty bucks in the account. Meddling with you for the next twelve weeks after today. Written by Brendan Manning in a book called, I think it's called The Rambling They teach you about salvation and they break it into parts. Um, You know, and Melvin Schmidt. I want that, he told me. That relationship is earned. That's the big statement that Peter is trying to make, that we are to be salt and light. Four times. I I mean it does. Now he showed up. Because you're not living with integrity. You know, and I turn around and there she is reading the reading the s the thing and you know, and and like you said, you know, just not having the anxiousness, not having I mean just things in life that But no, he was still interested. Do I love the brothers earnestly? Hold back. I was thinking of a play hammer, that came out kind of That came out a little violent, sorry about that. S. And it was a tough job. That's all available on Sermon Audio Uh so no need to go back, but if you want to, it's there. He had something happen and he was he was on Jay Leno, man. Did I say that right, Scott? Lord, lend us He just sort of he speaks about them in almost like a Rubik's Cube kind of way. You're praying to the Lord That's the way they view it. How does being excellent look in your family life? Right? Amen. You don't claim your home, you don't claim your car, that's not your inheritance, you don't claim your job Right? But if you don't have integrity when you do those things And I just put it on my lap and I'm just like this, you know, and I'm just listening to the song, you know. But for me it was sixty-four. As a leader, as an elder, as a as a young man, or even the whole congregation? They were people who fell from grace in that sense. They stayed where they were. Right? Be who you're supposed to be in Christ. We dress up, we look good, we look nice. Why do you long for the pure spiritual milk? I hold it back. You can't do that But we're a church full of living stones, we're made up and we have a we we're building up into a spiritual house to be that holy priesthood, but to They they worshiped a king that was on a throne in heaven. It's already there waiting for you to show up For I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. But but it's it's not something that was it's just given to her And and in a sense, you can measure your own self and your own walk with that same principle, right? And we were on this project together, we worked for with each other for about two years, and I was constantly talking to him about Christ. You can Google it. Gurge your minds for action. Stop doing that. Who we are in Christ, uh as as elect exiles of the diaspora, we are still in the world, right? It's protected by God, and the image that Peter creates in that verse in verse, I think it's verse three or maybe it's verse four, is of a centurion. Yeah. You will end up being a stain that unbelievers will look at on a church wall somewhere. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. You're not going to get to choose who mocks. And that's that's where longing for the pure spiritual milk comes in. Toby Mac uh anyway. And as you walk through your daily life, as you meet people, as you go through your daily life, And then also that the fourth time is in the verses that we're talking about today, chapter two, verses eleven and twelve, where he says. Um and so, you know, we'll get a little bit more into this as we we we go forward, but yeah, I mean he's absolutely It's it's been told to you He was the uh Al Jazeera was reporting it. Thanks for sharing that. Um it's like, oh my lord, it's a winding road, it's it's all bent from a heavy load, feel the weight beneath the ground You all have a profession of faith in Christ, I'm hoping. Um great way to uh to bring out the next point because yeah, you're absolutely right. We know there's going to be false prophets, right? You know, so oh no, my wife's not like that. So that you may glorify God on the day of visitation. And how does Peter addresses this? What you say you should also do. But for me, that's a reality. I mean that's part of having integrity too, right? Like things that you don't even think you're doing. It was a really tough job. So if you're registered in the class, you'll get the email, you'll get to see those Don't be conformed to who you used to be. But you have to have integrity. Um so this went on for a whole year. Areopagus or Arepegus? Some people said, this guy's an idiot. It was just this mule that just this this Right? Glorification is an inheritance that's given to you Yeah, no, I a hundred percent. He was there to talk to somebody else. And light. Um and we were sitting one day, it was actually in my office we were sitting one day, uh, and he had a girlfriend that he was with He wanted something that I had and he couldn't figure out what it was, but he wanted it. And and so I was just I so I just started talking to him. They are waiting for you to fall You're a foreigner. God uh ge Christ elevates the law, right? And so I put it up there and I I just you know and I I guess I on my my Apple thing that um I just have the It took me ten minutes to come up with these names on a Google search If that person is there, he should fix that. Is reading the Bible a chore for you? Yeah, go ahead. I'm um okay, what do you wanna know? It's like how do you spot a counterfeit, right? I'm gonna go ahead and uh start. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Right? It's a purification in yourself that you you pure you you're your faith I haven't so much in the last couple of years, but every time I travel I play a David Crowder song. But it's because of our views of sub of submission in marriage We still every now and then we'll connect on Facebook or whatever. So I I I just really and that was for me something that as we went through the first part I I enjoyed very much. Uh so hopefully that gets better as well. And who is it that he's calling salt and light. Yeah, it does. But yeah, I mean that's that's our job here as as the royal priesthood You have to work every day with your wife. Now when they heard the re of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, but others said, We will hear again about this. Scott and I are co-teaching this class. You can't get rid of just get rid of some deceit. That's a great illustration. We had some moments, okay? So um why be like, oh wait, hold on. You don't know. They had Levitical cities, right? Like like it's it's almost like you say you're gonna give me an image of kids fighting, right? Um long story, I won't get into too much of the details of the story, but essentially there was a lot of things going Please do not have integrity to show the world, oh look at me, I'm so awesome. But the one thing he could find in his mind firmly implanted in him that it must be bad. When was that you said? Um yeah. If you were walking in the world today, here's here's just kind of a a way of looking at it. And then there's this sanctification, which is kind of a Back in sixty-four AD, uh they they claimed that Christians would not be good subjects to Uh others said that we were cannibals because we ate of the blood of some man. The the guy who was the director at the first time we came, he's like, Oh, I'll take you out and he took me to this really nice dinner and every And this guy comes walking in and gives my roommate the gospel. It's this is uh Is there something that Peter is trying to say about you as a Christian walking in everyday life? But uh alien exiles of the diaspora, in other words, were sent into this world. The Lord will bring them to you No It's an amazing image and it's an amazing way to think about it. Is there somebody who you would be embarrassed if they walked in? And one of the things that occurred to me in this first part is there's this sort of I mean, look, you can you can pastor a church of ten thousand people He didn't want anything to do with me. Keep your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see you again. Right? So Peter doesn't really distinguish one from the other, from the other, right? Right? Um any other comments on this? Right? They just as we obey, our faith is strengthened. And by the way, for those of you who have not been in this class before, um it it's not my goal to preach at you. That you kind of hope doesn't walk through those doors? But then they're going to see your good deeds. It's my joy to say, I know a guy The images of a soldier preparing for war. I abstain. You have I mean that was Melvin's big thing to me, was he just could not understand how loving God would put people into hell. You have to be excellent. Let's come on, bring him in you know, they didn't even really want to give him so much the time of day, but he comes in and he starts drawing Your inheritance is in glory. Okay? Um this is not suggesting that if you don't long for If I die today, Peyton gets fifty bucks. I'm sorry. Back then they had things, today they have things. Because if not, it's gonna be exposed. I mean some pretty funny moments, but they were moments. Uh I I read another one about a guy who uh is uh one of the heads of uh You know, he gets so used to say I just I can't imagine any God that would put people in hell. You speak a different language, you have different customs. He says, you know, how do we do that? Thank you for for that comment. And um not all criticism is bad criticism, even if it comes from unbelievers. People who He says, You're you're so kind to your wife, we would get in in discussions with other people. I I wasn't in that moment not trying to specifically witness to anybody. So I'm just telling you, if you ever go to Argentina, just close your eyes when you're in the car, because it's terrifying. All he did was just listen as the message was being delivered. We could go on and on and on Who are you during those moments? Interesting to note that as he calls us a royal priesthood, Peter 'Cause that's kind of an open ended question. You just don't know. Being a a complete person. Uh twenty sixteen to twenty nineteen. That's just a great feeling, you know. And I had this kid, he's a young kid, he was like 18, his name was Herman, and Hermann. And other people said, hey, I want to hear more about this. As a matter of fact, I think there was a a thing I read that said that there was never a person in Israel So like I butchered that a little bit, but okay. I never will be. Because we're gonna go, this is where this is where it gets tough. I had integrity. Why do you choose to be holy? Okay, it's it's been broken from you. I love her. Was just loyal. You don't teach a person to spot a counterfeit by showing them every type of counterfeit. Bring us on into glory. But for now, you're an elect exile of the diaspora. Maybe some of you don't, but in any case, if you have a profession of faith in Christ. You rejoice. We know that. And I just can't I can't believe that they would do that. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. You know, they say, Oh, you're justified. Maybe you could be an evangelist that leads thousands to Christ. So how would they possibly worship Caesar or how would they possibly be obedient to Caesar? But he was he was so interested in learning that. You're a Christian now. We prepared our minds to receive the word, hopefully. And Melvin saw that. Sienna. And so as we Be doers of the word, not just hearers. But y you know, then then you get to this sanctification thing. So uh those of you who were here in my first class know that Jay Leno couldn't wait to get up and knock him. There's a lot of corruption in in here. Um He goes on to call us a chosen race, a royal priesthood. You're not Is it earnest? Right? You've got to get rid of all deceit. Also current, I had I I was gonna I think I was gonna tell Marcos Um Okay, so let's uh let's open up in a word of prayer. Yeah Love her to death. For I know nothing that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my Don't sit around in the in the muck and the Yeah, and and also yours, it's true that that you're empowered with He said he was a Christian, he was Catholic. Like it just opened the door. I'm not very wise, okay. The fact that, you know what, you know, I Yep, go ahead. Yeah, so his he wanted his son to meet my daughter. That's not your choice. How do I know this? So there's this kind of seamless sort of interconnection between the three pieces. That word honorable there in that verse is really excellent. He'll he'll IM me or whatever. We have a little bit of a different style. And then just to bring it maybe back to Kurt's He wanted nothing to do with me because his attempt to to Went on for a whole year. It was supposed to be like a Disney World but it really wasn't very Disney Worldish. Um in this particular case I I didn't put any in this, but if you want Which means going to the Word, which means praying to the Because I know it's right. Oh, you say it, Scott. She's inheritance, right? And here Peter's kind of in in di different parts doing Marco Marco was like, yeah, I don't know about I'm happy to do it but we can be here all day. Uh uh So as we walk through, we're just going to walk through this. Um, I think that's a good thing. Your response to the trial is to rejoice. He doesn't really look at one as being apart from the other, apart from the other. Every day with your family. And um uh I I just looked up one time and Are there things that pull you? And then, yeah, and then it becomes this kind of Rubik's Cube where they're in. There was no audit, there was no oversight, there were no receipts. And every time I say that I think of Tommy Nelson. How does it look when you're being treated unjustly? So in your priesthood, you don't claim. Do I really care? Stop that. Friday And it was in England. I know that this is the key because she says it four times And he said, and I see these people and they say these things about but you're always They're going to speak against you as an evil deer. I got it. He he says in in verse 13, he says, As our faith is strengthened, we desire to obey. And in that moment, it was an example. So we our justification is is not in our You don't know what they're gonna look at. Um so that's okay because So, and none out of time, so I'm gonna have to hurry up real quick. No. If they came, there were people there to come to. Stop that. Gurge your mind for actions. You have to have integrity. Internally we know that there are people who will come It was global. Come on. Peter's going to get deep. We're we're to remain elect ex Because you're an obedient child. You're not going to get to choose who wants to know more. Well he starts off in his in this verse by saying You you the the power of sin is broken. It's gonna be exposed. I would not accept the easy road. Okay. Do I really love? And uh uh one day Marco So that you may glorify God. Because I love her. But in that moment he was able to see the He leaves us here. We talked a lot. Were it not for Christ I would uh Stop that. I tend to follow a certain path. They were in Israel, right? Where where is the excellent Now I want to just kind I know it's really small So she gets fifty bucks. Every day to abstain. Well they're gonna probably notice things. That doesn't work for me. Well you said England, but I was wondering like what They say that we don't want we don't believe Um and And this went on for called six And why? He was front page Why? They shall eat the Lord's fruit. We've prayed. Right? Acts 17, 30 and 30. Did that guy know? Uh we're walking through first Who you are to unbeliever? Stop hitting them. Why? How do we prepare to He just sort of flows from one. And I was talking to him about I think he's like two years different from Am I faithfully It's always the same David Crowder song Um I left that He just he simply Because God tells me. You know, I I never Chapter uh He wanted it. Yep. You teach 'em the real thing and Yet do it with jealousy. Now if I do Because we have a job to do. And Peter says It's grace to you. But um Do I really love That's what he would tell me. Um I was But let none of If you call upon It must be bad. He follows a different path. Uh It was a state. You really don't I need responsibility Uh Some of that is just They were elected Because That's us. And What's Peep Hey