I'll stick close to my notes. A full heart means a babbling mouth for me. And so I'm gonna constrain myself by what I uh tried to reduce to these few pages. Thank you. We're in 1 Peter. We are going to work on verses 22 to 25, which so much of Peter uh all of Peter to this point has been leading to this in in so many ways. All the theology of um God's election, all the theology is saved only by grace, only through faith, not of ourselves, but totally of Him. And so much more of that theological good, strong, solid, necessary theological framework has been building to this. This Christian conduct, and today even that will be shown to be a means to a greater demand on our lives. And so we'll do a little review but hopefully keep it close To date, up to this point, and I'm borrowing some of the framework for this from a commentator named David Helm that has a great I think he doesn't have it, he just did this one on 1 Peter in a series called Preaching the Word, which is quite good and very approachable. But he writes that there are two marks And three motivations for our hope that is a a definite theme, maybe even the framework for this first Peter passage that we've been reading to date. I'm going to call that expect it con expectant confidence because I don't like the word hope. It's been abused so much. It doesn't mean what I want it to mean here. Hope in these scriptures is talking about an expectant confidence, that which we are imminently expecting. I'm waiting for it to happen. I am living in light of the imminence of the hope that I have in Christ. The imminence, that means, you know, like right there, right? It hasn't happened yet, but I'm expecting it to happen right there. And that's what it means when we live in this hope. We are living in light of the return of Christ, the judgment of Christ, by the way, that was the passage that Frank worked on the other day, and there's no way of avoiding the meaning of that passage. the impartial judgment that Christ uh will do even amongst his believing people. That's a different judgment than the judgment of unbelievers. I'm going to trust Frank's teaching last week, although I wasn't Here I did review his notes, and it looked like he did a good job dividing those up very nicely. But we will stand before the Lord in judgment, and there is a fear that is set before us. lest we fail to live faithfully for Christ in light of that judgment. That was one of the three motivations, by the way, for our our hope. Two marks and three motivations. Our expected confidence, excuse me, two marks and three motivations for our expected confidence. You see it first in chapter 1, verse 3, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. That was the beginning of the purpose that the Lord had for us. We're born again to a living hope. born again, so that we might conduct ourselves in all of our conduct in light of the hope that we have in Christ. And then in 113, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you That we are fully transformed in this new birth because of this hope. So 13, 113, talking about the expectant hope, and then in 121. Your face and hope are in God. A living and walking face. An imminent face, a present face, a supernatural face Uh not because of what it is in and of itself, but because the object of it, because it's in God. We're not trusting in an idol, we're not trusting in weather, we're not trusting in suns and moons and signs. We're trusting in the person and work of Christ as He manifests His Father God. Again, I know I'm skipping over a lot of good stuff there, but that it's all we have the time for. I will take it to Ezekiel 37. I I said that the Lord has been changing my lessons since even a few hours ago. This was a passage we ran into last night in something we were reading as a family. Ezekiel 37, 1 through 14. I want to give you some idea of what this hope is about and what it's supposed to mean for us. This was a passage for reasons I'm not clear on because I've read the Bible from beginning to end. I was unfamiliar with. And so when it popped up in a a book when and my son asked me about it, I was like, I don't know, let's go look. Reading quickly, Ezekiel 37, verses verses 1 through 14. The hand of the Lord was upon me, Ezekiel, and he brought me out into the s in the spirit of the Lord, and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, you know. And then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live, and I will lay sinews upon you and will cause flesh to come upon you and cover you with skin and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied, as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound, and behold, a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone. And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them And flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them, but there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain. that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood on their feet, and an exceedingly great army And then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost. So if you missed it, that's why we're reading this passage right there. They say our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are clean, cut off. Therefore, prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my God. People, and I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the Lord. What a picture of what Peter is trying to do here. What a macabre picture of what Peter is trying to do here. Can you imagine walking into a valley littered with the bones of men? Scattered across the valley in seeps and piles, dried up, unsinued, unfleshed, unskinned, ancient bones. And the Word of God begins to be preached to these people that their hope would not be dried up. And then, just continuing with the horror of the picture, the bones assemble themselves into their rightful bodies, and sinews begin to Frame them together, and then flesh, and then skin. And still not alive yet, the spirit is called to be upon them And they become alive. And they become a living army. And there is so much in that picture that I do not have time to explore, but all of you know that an army is not formed, trained, and kept For the purpose of nothing. They're kept for a purpose. They're kept in a state of readiness. They're kept in a state of preparedness. They are resourced. For the action that is at hand. And there is no army that exists for long, at least, without a firm and secure hope. You take hope from an army And you've defeated it already. And how many times has that been done in history? Any of you that are any student of history know that it has often been done. One or two or three or four or twelve desperate men have defeated thousands. by finding a way to deprive them of nothing but their hope. I can't win, so I surrender. How many of your lives feel like those dry bones? Maybe not every day, but even on some days. How about most days I confess to you, I spend a lot of time feeling like I am laboring in a valley of dry bones. And a lot of that is just my whining attitude, by the way, but I still feel that way. A lot of that is me, not Fixing the promises of God correctly before my sight and seeing the events of my life as ordained by my sovereign Father. Who is judging my response to those things, by the way? I have no fear of saying that Because I know I love my sons and would surrender myself for them, and I demand of them more than most of you think is healthy for a father to demand of their sons. And by the way, I don't care. I hope that this picture in Ezekiel 37 helps to frame our discussion. What is Peter trying to do? Peter is telling forth the message of God To enflesh and enliven through the work of the Spirit solely. These are dead bones. They're not going to raise themselves. So, those of you that are worried about my grasp of reform theology, cut it out. I fell in love with that theology twenty years ago and I will die with it. Peter is talking to people that have to live in this world as though in the valley of dried bones, and his message is intended to form us. into the army, a living army that is filled with hope, that is marching toward the reward that He has established for us. And to live in the glory of that army. Does any of you any of you know what a elephant march is? I think that's what it's called. If I got that wrong, somebody correct me. Any of you know what an elephant march is? It actually appears in the news occasionally, and I say that as the guy that like never reads the news. But it actually does appear in in the news occasionally. Large uh military forces will often parade their their might down a main road or a runway or or whatever else, right? And and the whole point of it is just The same idea as if you got a whole bunch of elephants together, right? They're so huge and they rock the earth when they all move together, and it's so impressive, and and so it's called an elephant march And I'm not trying to be foolish at all, but do you understand that that is really what the result of us being enlivened in Christ is? That he would lead his captives. That's us, by the way. A lot of us mistranslate that passage of Scripture. We are the captives that he is leading. We are the army that is living with great hope. We are the army that is exceedingly abundantly resourced in crisis. And you cannot you cannot be a member of that army because you put the suit on. It plays itself out in the testimony that we have at home when nobody else sees us. It plays itself out in how we respond to our work and our lives. Our community, our lost things. I had a miserable failure last night because I lost something and I got angry. Not at my wife, just at me for losing the stupid thing. And then the Lord rebuked me by making it appear in a place that there was no way it could have been five minutes previously. You laugh, but I know Bright lights, magnets. I was in there, man. I was determined to find it. It was not there. Until after he was like, you're being an idiot, Scott. Look And my son looked down at the very place we had all been searching. I mean like at the feet of the place we'd been searching. On a tile floor. There's no place for it to hide. And it was there. And he said, See, you sinner? And I said, Do I have to teach tomorrow, Lord? He said, Yes. I'm not making good progress. That's the hope we're called to. It's supposed to look like this and Ezekiel 37, there are two marks of that, a mind that is alert and constantly prepared for action. You saw that in verse 13. I'm going to read you quickly some passages Tozer writes this in his book, Pursuit of God. In this hour of all but universal darkness, one cheering gleam appears within the fold of conservative Christianity. There is to be found increasing number of persons whose religious lives are marked by a growing hunger after God Himself. This is the only harbinger of revival which I have been able to detect anywhere in the religious horizon. This is Todd speaking It may be a cloud the size of a man's hand, or only, he's saying, the size of a man's hand, for which a few saints here and there have been looking, but this hunger must be recognized Current evangelicalism has, to change the figure, laid the altar and divided the sacrifice into parts, but now seems satisfied to count the stones and rearrange the pieces with never a care that there is not a sign of fire upon the top of lofty caramel, right? The Old Testament illusion there. Put your sacrifices in. See what you can do, all for uh idols, um worshipers of Baal. No fire. But when the true God descended on the altar, right, there was fire. Why are we not alarmed that there is no fire? Why are our minds not fully engaged about the fact that there is little fire evidenced in our lives? A mind alert and constantly prepared for action. William Wilberforce, by the way, uh Tozer, 1948. I'm going back further with William Wilberforce, 1797. Just to give you some idea that for hundreds of years men have been cautioning us about being drunk in our minds and being asleep and being unprepared for action William Wilberforce writes in a book called Real Christianity. The main object he has in view is not to convince the skeptic or to answer the arguments. I don't know why he talks about himself in his third person, but he's the he. in this sentence. The main object he has, the guy that wrote it, in view, is not to convince the skeptic or to answer the arguments of persons who avowedly oppose the fundamental doctrines of our religion. But to point out the scanty and erroneous system of the bulk of those who belong to the class of Orthodox Christians. And contrast their defective scheme of religion With a representation of what the author apprehends to be real Christianity. And you know where he goes first? Education It's the first thing he dives into in this fairly long book that goes into other things, how we think. But he he moves first into education because he understands that this is in the mind. How we think about things, how we apprehend God. His word first communicates, illuminates, if you like better, through the Spirit, our minds, our intellects. And then he gets a hold of our hearts, and then we act it out in volition, the footsteps that we take each day. Another author I was just introduced to, I've only had a chance to now uh read a few of the chapters from his book over the last 48 hours or so. But I love this quote He's writing in the 1960s, but is it so popular this work it's been republished and modernized? It was republished and modernized in 2005. So he's more contemporary. There is no longer a Christian mind. That's how he starts his book with that statement. There is no longer a Christian mind. It is a commonplace that the mind of modern man has been secularized. For instance, it has been deprived of any orientation towards the supernatural We do not believe that the Lord what he's trying to say, he goes on to say later on. We do not believe that the Lord is going to supernaturally intervene In our lives. We pray, but we are really not expecting the Lord to raise somebody up to a healing that we cannot comprehend through normal means. That doesn't mean that the Lord doesn't use normal means It's to say that we limit him to that all the time. If we cannot conceive of the solution, if we cannot rationalize the solution, then it cannot be done. Why are you praying, man? Where does that come from again? Books, dates, pages, the whole bit. There is no longer a Christian mind. It is a commonplace that the mind of modern man has been secularized. For instance, it has been deprived of any orientation towards the supernatural. Tragic as this fact is, it would not be so desperately tragic had the Christian mind held out against the secular drift In other words, if we if we stop thinking so hard about what it meant to be exiles from the world, separate from the world, right? If we stopped If it would be okay to some degree. It wouldn't be so bad if we'd stopped thinking about it, if we'd at least stay separate. But we didn't. We just drifted in there along with all other culture, right? Secularization was the same thing we studied so hard in Ecclesiastes as well Don't have a secular mind. Don't have a mind according to all that we see around us under the sun. It is not The sum total of what we are. There is a whole reality, a super reality, a real reality. There's a stupid sentence for you, that is above the sun But unfortunately, the Christian mind is succumbed to the secular drift with a degree of weakness and nervelessness unmatched in Christian history. A mind alert and constantly prepared for action. You want to know what sober-minded means? It means don't be nervous. By the way, nervelessness isn't in the dictionary, but he's British, so he can use words like that. It's the opposite of nervelessness, is what you're being called to here, because of the hope. A degree of weakness and nervelessness unmatched in Christian history. I don't know if I agree with him about that. We've been really broken people for a really long time, but I get his point. It is difficult to do justice in words to the complete loss of intellectual morale in the 20th century church. One cannot characterize it without having recourse to language which will sound hysterical and melodramatic. In other words, if he tried to expand on what he's saying here about the nervelessness of our thinking and the drift into secularization, he would resort to such passionate language that it would sound dramatic and hysterical and melodramatic It's that bad. So the first mark is a mind alert and constantly prepared for action, not like the testimony that we heard warned by Tozer, Wilberforce, and this guy named maybe Blamyers. Maybe not. The second mark is conspicuous obedience in all conduct, and that's where you were hunkering down last week. Conspicuous obedience in all our conduct It says it is obedient children, but it's an idiom that's actually used in the Greek, and it would be really better said as children of obedience, children born of the Father who is obedience, is really the idea that's given there in the Greek. Conspicuous obedience in all our conduct. That's a mark of people, a fundamental mark, a necessary mark, of people that live in the hope of what we have in Christ. And I'm I'm skipping over so much there because of the sake of time. Those are the two marks A mind ready for action and alert to all that the Lord is doing in our lives in every single day. In the little humdrum everything of your day, like that stupid lost item that I lost the other night. And conspicuous obedience. Three motivations for living in that kind of hope are God's holy character, verse 16, as he who called you is holy You shall be holy, for I am holy. We are to live that way because it's consistent with God's holy character, and if we thought about it for even two seconds, We would be appalled at the idea that we would call him Father, climb into his presence or his lap, or however you his embrace, however you want to look at that, and think that we would mix our unholiness with his holiness. It would offend us or to presume upon the grace of the Lord. Oh well that's okay. I can live how I want. I can bring the filth of my life into His presence. God's blood or Christ's blood covers it all. I'm just gonna go however I want. If we thought about God's holiness in its rightness For even a second, we would take a bleach shower, and then we would spend some time in prayer to say, Lord, I know that bleach shower isn't edifying. For the sake of cleansing my heart, I need the blood of Christ to do that. Please forgive me for my sins. And won't you cleanse my heart with the blood of Christ? Because that's the only thing that will do it. And then we would go before the Lord. And I want to be careful about that. David shows us in the Psalm so many times a a a man angry and a man broken and a man frustrated and a man afraid. going to the Lord in prayer. And what you always see is the Lord changing his heart during that prayer. So I'm not telling you you have to get clean before you go to the Lord, but I think you understand my point. I hope that you understand my point. Because of his holy character, because he judges impartially, and because he was talking to you that call him father. Don't use your framework for theology to blunt the force of that verse. You will not stand in the center's judgment. I don't know exactly what it looks like. I don't really have the time to talk about eschatology with you this morning You will not stand in that judgment. God is good. He has secured you. But he puts before you a type of fear that is meant to be a holy fear. He used the word all. And it's a perfect word as long as that all isn't an old Bugs Bunny reference. I think it's mammified. Have you ever heard that? It's it's the idea of a child before his his Feeding mother, right? Don't mammify the fear of God by talking about it as awe. This is the kind of awe that shatters your knees. This is the kind of awe that you see expressed by everybody that ever saw the glory of the Lord manifest in any way. What did they do? Boom. This is not the kind of all that's like, oh wow, I'm so glad. I I am not subject to that It is not that kind of all. It's the kind of all where you are looking at nobody and nothing other than God and you are just begging Christ to stand in the place. of intercessor. Because you know what you deserve. Because of his holy character, because of his impartial judgment, and because of his precious sacrifice. It wasn't a pecuniary transaction. He didn't just whip out a wallet filled with bills and buy you. He did what was most costly, and he did it for no better reason Certainly not because he had to. He did it for no better reason, as near as I can tell, to express the ultimateness of his affection for you. So that you would never grow suspicious of the love of God in your life. So that you would always know that there was a place of redemption and repentance and renewal and refreshment and return. There's no way for me to stand here and confess the sins that I confessed to you at the beginning of this and then say, well, there's no way back. No, there is always a way back. That's the point of Christ. That's the point of the costly sacrifice. Why did I spend half my time on an introduction? Because the next thing builds on top of it. Verse 22 says, having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth So he's saying all that stuff that I just told you to do, all those imperatives that started in verse 13 You do, and then having done them You sincerely love your brother. And then he amplifies that with love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Purified. Most of the commentators you pick up are going to tell you that has to do with redemption. They are dead wrong. I studied this so hard this week. I am willing to be wrong. But I don't think I am. To turn that purification into the work that Christ does to redeem you, that instant of getting saved, is to abuse this passage and neuter it of its force. It makes no sense. Since verse 13, we have been in an imperative passage. An imperative passage is the author or the speaker or the preacher looking at you and saying, you do these things. When the Lord wants to tell us something about us that he is doing that's true whether or not we participated in it, he uses an indicative voice. These things are true That's not where we're at. We are in an impassage, we are in a passage of imperatives. And he is saying, since you, notice all the u's in this, by the way, and they actually occur in those personal pronouns in the Greek. A little hard sometimes to understand how, but it's like lots of personal pronouns. Your action, your activity, you. You have purified your souls by your obedience to the truth. Well, what obedience? Well, the holiness we just talked about in all your conduct that came from the sober-mindedness, from that alert, ready for action mindset. You cannot have holy conduct without a mind that is correctly set on Christ. The loss of the Christian mind is fatal. It is fatal. And it corrupts. It seeps out like a cancer. And the remedy is for us to set our hearts back on the Lord. We are set apart, purified, cleansed by fire, by washing of the blood. We are set apart for the use of the Master. And that's why I love that 2 Timothy passage that I quoted you earlier, 2 Timothy 2. 21. He that would cleanse himself when it is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. It's got all of it in there The Master is the one that sets us apart for his work. It's the Master that cleanses us for what he wants us to do. It's the Master that gives us our usefulness and the charge for what we do with it But it is us that goes about ready for every good work and accomplishing those works as we are instructed and directed and led. So I really wrestled with this passage because of the disagreement amongst all the commentators. Who's doing the action? It's us. And what action is being done? Well, it says by your obedience to the truth. So we're doing the action. You see it in 13, you see it in verse 14, you see it in verse 15, you see it in verse 17. Set your hopefully on the grace of the that we brought to you with the revelation of Jesus Christ by preparing your minds for action and being alert, awake, watchful. That's 13. Who's doing the action? Well, as children of obedience, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. He's talking to us. That's an imperative. Verse 14 Who's doing the action? Be holy in all your conduct. Verse 15. That's an imperative. Who's doing the action? Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. Verse 17. We are supposed to be doing these things. This is a passage about our action. Unless you wonder why I'm beating this purified over the head in light of all those others seemingly more clear directives, it's because you will never get to the goal that you are intended to do, which is loving one another from a unhypocritical is the word, sincere, by the way. Literally in the Greek is not I'm not going to try to say the Greek I'm not a Greek guy, right? Not hypocritical. It's that prefix that says not, and then the word that says hypocritical To love our brothers without hypocrisy, and to love them fervently with a pure heart So we talk about this all the time. Right? Well, we're supposed to love each other. What does that mean to you? And I submit to you, you don't know. I submit to you that as I prepared this lesson and I thought about ways to to provide simple applications for this. I was like, I I don't know. I I'm not sure I can flesh that out. I feel the conviction in my own heart in certain specific ways. But I'm I'm not clear that I should generalize that. I'll tell you what I know. I'll tell you what I know. It looks a lot like some sort of an obsessive life mission It's a life whose entire focus is intended to be involved in and to come along. I see you give me just a sec. to come alongside and to support and encourage and enable and direct and relieve and comfort and point people at the only thing that ever brings comfort which is Christ It's a life whose clear focus and motivation in every aspect is geared toward God's people for God's glory. Yeah, the the you mentioned the Greek word the the hypocritical, but not hypocritical. The the origin of that word is to not be fake. Fundamentally it just means not fake, not to put a mask on Um and it I think it it adds a lot of color and context to what he's saying. This is great what he's unpacking it is The first step is don't be safe. It's gotta be real. It's gotta come from your heart. Because if it doesn't come from your heart, then it's not right. And so I just think it's a great way to unpack it that sorry to interrupt a little bit. That's good. So why am I spending the time on Purified? Because purified requires all those actions of holy conduct, of a mind ready for action. Of a mind alert to all that God is doing in the every day of your life. Without those things, you cannot skip ahead to loving. Now for you that are, and I've got room for everybody here, just no time to include everybody, but for those of you that are married and have children, I I am slain by the foundational necessity of verses 13 through 21. And I'm slain by it because I am unable able even in in my own family to express the fullness of of God's love and and when I say that word I just mean as opposed to the fakeness of the other thing. I I don't have too much time for it, but just quoting a another couple passages, you know, one commentator writes, love is a terribly debased term today. almost beyond rescue as a as a description of the good news of the kingdom to come in Christ And another one writes, The love Peter has in view is neither a warm, fuzzy feeling nor friendships around a coffee pot after worship. I I may be content to fake my way through loving you guys I'm not saying that's true. I'm just saying for those outside of my family. But the thought of doing it within the context of my own family, that's horrific from me for me And yet I will fail at it every day, unless my conduct Is lived according to that 2 Timothy 2. 21 passage. I will fail at it every day and each day and all days without the conduct That is consistent with Christ's character. That is consistent with Christ's impartial judgment. That is consistent with the amazing cost that God paid in Christ. to redeem me from what I was to now what I am in him And we need to stop talking about loving one another until our lives conform to the holiness that we're reading here. And it's hard. It's hard because life is hard, because we live in exile. It's hard because the exile is real. It's hard because the injustices of this world are real. It's hard because things get lost. People get hurt. Sickness lasts longer than we think we can imagine. And our minds get tired. And so we dull them into nervelessness. We know them. And we say things like, Well God didn't really want this to happen to me. Well, yes he did. Yes he did Now we may be depriving ourselves of the goodness that he has for us in the midst of that trial because we're busy being distracted. We may be depriving ourselves of all that richness and goodness and grace. And again, I would say to you, you go find me a depressed martyr in the scriptures. Good luck. There are a lot of martyrs, but through mechanisms that I'm not fully clear on, they're rejoicing martyrs. You find a lot of martyrs. Who are giving praise to the glory of God? You must walk in that holy conduct. For all the reasons that we know we're able to do it through Christ, in order to be able to love without hypocrisy. Anything else is to put a mask on and say, I'm okay, I'm going to come love you. I comply with 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 13 through 21. And so I'm going to get involved in your life and I'm going to love you. And we're wearing the mask. It is hypocritical. It's hypocritical even at the brotherly love that's described there. No surprise that we're Philadelphia. It's it's hypocritical even for that, but the passage goes on to amplify that and talk about a fervent love. And I don't want to draw too hard of a distinction between agape and pileo and all the rest of that. You you can read that you get into some Pretty goofy arguments there pretty fast. Scripture is not clear on which is greater or or lesser. And I know that offends some people, but I have a nice book for you. I'll just give it to you afterwards. Written by D. A. Carson, right? So n not a whack job commentator either. Um But it's clear here that Peter is trying to amplify it in his next sentence. He moves from this brotherly love thing without hypocrisy to this fervent love, a burning love From a pure heart, an undivided heart, a heart set solely apart for the purpose for which it was intended, for the service of Christ and the love of brothers and sisters. Sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly. from a pure heart. Literally, since you have set yourself apart to Christ through obedient conduct in every day of your exile for the purpose of an unhypocritical brotherly love, love one another fervently from a clean or a pure heart. It's the only heart that can do this. Our whole salvation and lifelong obligation to walk in obedience is meant to be the ground and basis of our transformed way of treating others. Of loving others. And you better believe to get a hold of that verse, you're gonna have to go home and think and study and work and pray a bit for the Lord to impress upon you what does it mean to love others? brothers, because it does not mean what the world calls love. It does not simply mean charity. It does not simply mean kindness. It does not simply mean I don't know, fill in the blank. Approval of all things that you say and do. As a matter of fact It it's gonna it's gonna look a little bit the way Christ loves us. I don't have time to belt that, but there's a good start for you in your study. Go figure out how Christ loves us Something that's probably near and dear to my own family's heart. We feel like we run hard. We we try very deliberately to invest in people's lives. We try very hard to not be distracted by Anything. But we're when I say that, I don't mean we're vague about it. We have things that we believe in our lives would be distracting to us if we endeavored upon them. Not bad, just distracting. to us from what it is we should be accomplishing for the sake of the Lord. But as a result of that, we often feel tired. We often just feel completely poured out. And and of late we've been in a season like that in our home where all of us, all four of us, are are kind of independently talking about how we just feel done. Used up dry bones. God's love God's work for us to be loving is intended to look like that Ezekiel passage And at the times when I feel like that dry-boned valley, I I know, I am convicted that the Lord is saying, Yes, out of that I intend to build from you a living army. That will do my work and my service. My point there is wherever you are, under whatever burden you are under No matter how closely you identify with that valley of dry bones, the Lord's intention in providing you his word, in sending Christ, in redeeming you, is singularly this. To have you conduct your life in holiness, as he is holy, for the purpose of an unhypocritical and fervent love. For those around you. And he will go on in Peter to first talk about that in the context of the family and in the church, but he will extend it to ungodly rulers and ungodly society. This is really a theme-setting, this whole passage and all that it's sharing with us is really a theme-setting passage for the rest of Peter. You will miss the force and the strength and the piercingness of the rest of Peter if you miss this call. And then in my final moments, um there's this quotation from Isaiah 40, and we won't go back to it, but I've got to flip back to Peter, sorry. So I I am able to say all those things I said and in my own heart I feel very pierced by that. I feel very undone by it. I I I identify With whoever Peter's audience was in my need to hear this truth and be renewed in this truth. I have not lived. In all my conduct, with a mind that is ready for action and is sensitive to the leading of the Lord in all things that occur to me every day in every way. so that I might conduct myself in the holiness that is consistent with God's nature, consistent with God's judgment, and consistent with the cost of Christ. And as a result, I accept that I have been hypocritical in my love, first in my home, to my family, and then secondly to those outside of my home. That's a lot of brokenness standing up here, isn't it? And I am not wanting to leave this room defeated. Okay, Lord, I see that. But where's the grace? I need you to fix that And you see it a little shrouded here, but it would have been keener in the mind of a first century Christian. You see it here in this quotation from Isaiah 40. When he says, you do these things, you do all that loving from a pure heart, because you have been born again. In other words, you were born to do this. Not of a perishable seed, but of an imperishable seed. You were born to do this, and the seed that you were born from, changing the metaphor kind of from human birth to, you know, botanical one You were born from a seed that is imperishable. It will not fail to accomplish what it is to accomplish in Christ. And you were born to that because of the living and abiding word. Living and abiding word of God. Not a dead word, not a static word, not a word for once, but it lives now, in this moment. To convict, to redeem, to restore, to direct, to shed the light of God in my life, in the situation that I just described to you a moment ago, is a living and abiding word. And then he goes back and he speaks through the Israel exile in Assyria when they were losing heart Right? Men were gradually turning, one commentator says, men were gradually turning away from God, gradually closing their minds to Him, and gradually letting their face grow cold. Men that live under the lie that there is nothing above the sun, no hope beyond the grave, live each day seeking satisfaction. They live in an inherently selfish life life, even the ones that do so by means of charity and service. And so when he goes back there at a time when he encouraged the Jews in exile, when he said, Stop trying to find your satisfaction. I see that you've lost hope. I see that you have lost your ability to see God as He is and who you are in God. Now you're seeking satisfaction in the secularized world around you. And he says, all flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls. But the word of the Lord remains forever. The very thing that traps us is the thing which is that secularized, nerveless mindset. The very thing that traps us is the thing we turn to We ask for more nervelessness through entertainment and through activity and through wealth and through other things. We ask for more of it, lest we be confronted with the crisis of our reality. And he says, all of that is exactly why you're hungry, is exactly why you're hopeless, because it is nothing but withering grass. But the word of the Lord remains forever. God will be faithful to his promise. If you are in Christ He has redeemed you that you might walk in a manner that is in all your conduct holy and consistent with his character. So that without hypocrisy, you might love your brother, sister, family member, spouse, neighbor, whoever it is, with a fervent heart These things are of the will of the Lord. This is not exceptional. This is the conduct of a Christian. This is the code of conduct of anybody raised from the dry bones to the army of Christ. Peter seems to be interacting with an understood struggle in the lives of the people that he's writing to, an understood set of circumstances that make holy obedience difficult and the resultant fervent brotherly love heart. He encourages his audience by reminding them that God will be faithful, that nothing of God's word will pass away or fail to accomplish all that he requires of us or promises us. We cannot love others when our focus is dominated by the difficulties of our exile. We cannot show the abundance of our care for others out of the aridness of our hearts. but by the abundance that we have in Christ. And Peter will go on with the rest of this letter that he wrote to encourage and instruct us in very particular ways of how we would do that. And so I hope that you will be convicted, but I also hope that you will be encouraged. This is what Christ calls you to. This is what he in the This is the grace that we love to talk about, but aren't thinking about with a mind innervind, enervated, that actually is a word, I think. By God's truth. And so I hope that's what's been done in your mind and in your heart this morning