I can't remember what it was I think it was earlier in our first Peter class the previous semester, but I said women struggle with identity. But if you men would do your duty, say you like it's out there, right? If you have it in your head that, well, this is for one wife and and one husband and one marriage, and we need to touch that gingerly, I would say largely that's a wrong statement. Everybody needs to be treated with dignity and respect. That can't be the likewise. Uh you're respectful and you're you're starting to right that I understand what they're trying to do with that word, but that's that same word. I try to make some time for you. I am broken. That's why I have a message for you from God. But here I have a fundamental promise that says that male headship, male leadership, everything that is good and noble and gets glory to God that men can do is interrupted of women as God created. But that translates the word phobos, fear. seeing Phobos as ultimately referencing the fear of God harmonizes the three examples given slaves, wives, and masters. Likewise wives be subjects to your own husbands, servants be subject to your masters. that they are somehow more blessed if they go back to abusive relationships. Or at least not in that way. And then the only thing I want to comment is here, it was the suffering that he seemed to abhor and that he asked to be free from. I see no reason that we should expect somebody who is not Christ, somebody that walks around with the same frailty of heart, mind, and body and soul that we have. Despising the shame. I I just wanted you to know that was a fantastic comment. It's a powerful gospel message with no words spoken. I'm not gonna get there anyway. the objectification of women. And I'm actually sick to death with how much time we spent on the submissiveness of a wife in the house. touch on a bunch of the other passages that we've read previously and and some today. the wife and he really treats the subject much more totally. You how to play this out in the society. This is what you do. subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. fundamental building block of society and as such was the responsibility of the society. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human human institution. Trying to imply that he tells husbands to be subject to wives, he does not. of the commentaries like human institution, marriage, that's from God. out there that best. part is literally way or path or direction or walk. What does a woman think about verses 1 through 7 in this in this context? with her son once you think we're out on the limb here. No fear. Of a husband or fear of anything. over the head, but for to this you have been called. from a master or a wife from a husband, you put yourself on funny ground. with Psalm twenty seven and these were Psalms that David was writing while he was on the run. this context it is. Hindu scripture and talking about the type of givers would be I was really challenged by the cheerful giver and I know that was in reference to m money, but in my own life what I'm dealing with judges justly. perpetual, it's this present tense, ongoing every moment, every time the temptation to doubt or get angry or frustrated arises, is that no, I I serve a righteous God who knows this and has planned this. justly. The life of Christ in that situation for her is this realization of what the Lord is doing in that, and that she is able to be faithful to him and to serve him and to bow the knee before him. These pains and we we get used to them. that resource keeps going dry and it keeps leaving you unsatisfied. for their families. Pour that cup into other cups, but you have to refill the cup, you can't just keep pouring out. or throughout the week in order to continue pouring out into other people. from there is also not wives, it's female ones. a peculiar way, according to knowledge. the roles that women fill in the in the uh context of household. It was unseemly for a woman to have society outside of the context of her husband's society. this letter to were husbands that that came to know the Lord just drug their wives along with them. husbands live together with knowledge, showing honor, setting a uh uh assigning a high price to the female one as the weaker vessel. time was a pretty radical statement. he hindered. when we do not live with our life our lives according to understanding, according to knowledge. in my own heart. middle of some safe place and I want to go rescue him. I want to discharge my my role as a teacher in in this Sunday school class or in the church at large in a right way. God is saying that what is in our heart, that is what we should be wearing on the outside, so that others can see that that is the image of God. seeing that we're not to suppress those feelings. Read when he talks about do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the putting on of gold jewelry or the clothing you wear, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God how you were assigning that to my previous commentary, but but at the end of the day it doesn't matter. maybe a Roman and she would take on his Christianity, but maybe the other way around too, if she was married to him but she became a Christian, then she would have to display that in other ways. thing and taught it the exact same way, um that for the woman to continue to focus her self towards the Lord and to to show that extend that the beauty from the inside is also begins when we look outward towards others who see it. me, this is what my family has, we're rich. That even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives. Submit, which is where we get that favorite title for a lot of those women's seminars are. Submit like this or submit like that or be subject like this or be subject like that or you know and and we variously make it sound like you know, a democratic vote that is agreeable or some sort of democracy that Peter is is doing something a little unique that I don't have the time to develop, and that is that he's addressing them as people that have free choices that they can make, and he's calling them in the midst of the freedom of their choice as Christians to live in the context of their marriage, with this rebellious husband, a husband that is rebelling against everything, well maybe not everything, but rebelling against the truth of the Lord, he's calling them to make a choice to live in those obediently, such that their conduct Counter-cultural in some regards playing out this reverence for the Lord. action, a sense of peace, a sense of purpose, it doesn't mean we don't go through hard times, it doesn't mean that there aren't tears. Looking for the jewel that is set before them. understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. Person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. home environment where it is difficult for your wife to enjoy the relationship that she shares with you in marriage. From the start. Strange tack here, or may seem strange to you. message on, lest we forget, get distracted by the particular nuance of his message and miss the overall thrust. starts in Nicaragua doesn't actually start it, but in English it makes the most sense to s start those verses in uh with that word likewise. out how to play out their Christianity in the particular role that they're in. And and you know, I I'm sure I have a thousand things I need to be liberated from in my own biases. Lord's sake, to every human institution. perspective on marriage and family. Failings is a modern bias. An analogy. own husbands. husbands likewise. Even when we look at 218 masters and slaves, we need to be understanding that the respect isn't so much intended or if at all intended slaves to masters, but slaves to God. common or the same way with regard to how we relate to God. the same way interact with the people in which they are within their side societal roles. called. get from the Lord, the amount of well doneness, if you will, that I'm going to get from the Lord when I stand before him will be directly commensurate with the weight of my suffering. Suffering. him he endured the cross, despising the shame. God's grace, God's mercy, God's empowerment, God's providence, an individual by the way, this could be a husband, it could be a wife, it could be a worker, it could be a employee, it could be a slave and a master, it could be any of these people that were talking about right now. the example of Christ. sounds like emotional language. a lot of people that pray like that consistently. characterized by morbidity. He has a good purpose for all this and if I think that he has allowed this in my life for a good reason and for his glory, if I focus on that, I can be glad on part of his entrusting ourselves to him who judges justly. What was the point of all that? is actually particularly pointed in that, right? It her reverence for the Lord are are what are satisfying her heart and enabling something other than just a begrudging service. in that thing that previously was grieving my soul. Or cried or got upset or you know, did whatever it is you did. Identify ourselves somehow with that pain. of the creator of all things, the fullness of every joy. Conduct is so good, the manifestation of it is so good. the point. In in the time when this was written, wives took on the religion of their husbands and exercised it faithfully, and they only had the society of their husbands, meaning their friends, their husbands' friends were their friends, and they had no other friends. We're not actually told here whether the wives are believing or not believing. Passage, the the we were alluding to it earlier. group of people that set a high value on how things went in the family. In the context of family. Since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. spiritual good will be accomplished by his life without an effective ministry of prayer. Out there that they're gonna have to wrestle with, those same things that I wrestled with, that somehow I was telling Angel a few weeks ago. with the Lord through prayer? site is very precious. share this conviction with you that fundamentally our failures in in society as Christians in marriage begin with Osman. evidencing your focus here. my role I am then convicted to see and that's Christian to Christian, that's also non Christian to Christian. comment on something Erica said and correct me if I'm wrong. those things, right? We uh employ in the household to you know, that's on one side maybe, and then on the other side, you know, just be a doormat, right? that in verse six when we are told to look as Sarah or like Sarah obeyed Abraham calling him Lord. at the end of verse five and the word obeying in verse six. this slavish obedience, this tortured obedience. what the passage is saying. Not obey could mean I'm not really paying any attention to it. shattered and crushed life. one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. identity, men fundamentally struggle with duty. to their husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. As a male, if you will. in some senses and not appropriate in others. And then hopefully give you some time for some questions. That that first one and the conclusion are supposed to kind of really sum up your argument and the other stuff is the proof in it, right? his his discussion with be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. In the family. in the church of the obligations primarily of the people involved in those marriages, you've got a wrong idea. But it's very much a short term institution. to understand likewise in the orientation of the people that he's addressing. Uh one author that I actually w I I I think I shared with you I'm for the first time in my life I'm using a commentary written by a female and I'm I'm enjoying it. reverence for the Father. That is the example that is presented before us. I have a goal set before me, and I despise the shame. from the obsession uh the mortal obsession of of Saul to kill him and but yet not wanting to take vengeance himself upon Saul, but Me strength. of another rabbit trail. my parents, I thought, Lord, I I I am serving out of necessity and then I don't mind doing that. situation that I can be happy about. to focus on God and His purposes because when you look at the situation it you you can be mortal. struggle when people come up with good comments like that. for me. Outside of that, it's some sort of sick morbidity. together in the way of knowledge as weaker vessels. involved in that. What what your wife is as a woman created in the image of God. Right? Specifically for his glory and his purposes. Cause. example, not because there's no truth in it. called to magnify the self idolatry that you see all around you in the world and that is encouraged of you, you are called to put on that thing that is precious in the sight of the Lord, which is a a walk that's completely they are challenged and convicted in their own walk to walk the same way. Because if you follow that logic through they weren't allowed to wear clothes either. Quiet, strong testimony. be subject in verse one back up to wives. Word, their conduct does this. So, with that says, I want to pick up on likewise, again, it's first first word in your English Bibles in verse one and the first word in your English Bibles in verse seven. right? There have been too many testimonies of women that have been made to believe or have come to believe. the best rendering of the Greek in Hebrews twelve. first went into the saw blade, I reacted a different way forty five seconds later. are physically uh weaker, but frankly none of it holds water well in the context of this passage. high value to her womanhood, not her wifehood, but her womanhood as a created woman as the weaker vessel. feelings hidden but that what he's saying is is that the world tells us to braid our hair, to put on certain makeup, to put on clothes and to look a certain way and that that is the image of a perfect wife. Which is ultimately the little the Lord. should be convicting of the man, which is how it brings them to repentance, right? with how they magnify Christ. nothing that is frightening. Actually is testimony to the gospel of Christ. plan. Here to the nature of women in their created kind. expect an effective prayer life unless he lives with his wife in an understanding way, bestowing honor on her as a co-inheritor of the salvation and glory of God. so that he understands that this is your heart, that your heart is um beautiful and gentle and quiet because of God. Sounds stupid as a guy, but right, braiding my hair and putting on fine clothing and everything else, I'm drawing attention to myself. is is is the start of a lot of the issues that women have in obeying and in and the word of God. we make it so difficult. He also uses of us in Christ so that we might gain better understanding. Called for here. to just praying for that he would hide himself in in the Lord's protection. All of these verses describe and instruct the people that are to know who they are in Christ and that He is leading them in every in their everyday lives, even the suffering portions, to accomplish His will. No Christian husband should presume to think that any good will be accomplished by his life without an effective ministry of prayer. I was like, how can that be? role that you are in. But this is not about, hey, I I I'm a Christian, in order to be the best Christian that I can be, I should look for suffering. I I love that thought. in the way of knowledge. And I I just thought one author in particular, maybe went a little farther than I liked, but I I thought it was a good I thought it was a good thing to at least wrestle with. Where's she going? against what her societal pressures would be. We're gonna go through first Peter chapter three verses one through seven. But those are metaphors that are used. To to let you know this isn't talking about fear of husbands, for instance, in in the wives passage, right? I have goodness for you today. Thank you for giving me victories. His relationship with husbands when they are not doing, excuse me, when they are not living in an understanding way with their wives. is foiled as well. Not not all men. Um but I mean that it still hurts actually because I smashed it up so bad. Ouch. And when Peter is trying to impress upon husbands the importance of their relationship with men, he doesn't just say, go back to this one person that you're associated with in a in a societal manner, according to a societal contract, if you will. When we adopt a new religion. Do your duty. of this theme of Peter addressing people that are rightly oriented toward Christ, perhaps best, in 221. But there was a special calling from God to go live in a way that was peculiar, so peculiar, that it testified to something unique. I have a a lot of things I'm responsible for. Husbands, in your role, like this, do this thing. within the bounds of the human institution that you're in, whether it's masters-slaves, wives-husbands, husbands to wives. He he addresses husbands, so clearly he's talking about the relationship with wives. Oh yeah. Phobos, fear God, honor the emperor. Christ gave an example of asking to be freed from it. And to think of Christ being the perfect example, it wasn't like a one and done deal. Likewise, husbands live with your wives in an understanding way. Women are weaker physically, women are weaker emotionally, women are this, women are that. Men talk about leadership all the time, leading in church, leading in this setting, you know, the different roles. is not diminutive. You do understand that that's the synthesis of this argument, right? So um how's it different today? And while I can think of a thousand women seminars that want to talk about wives submitting as husbands, I I can only think of a few that I have ever been asked to be a part of or attend or something else and talk about men. There's a lot of other things that need to be said there in order to edify you and to glorify the Lord. God created a man and a woman and put them together in a relationship that magnified who and what he is in a way that was really good for us. As enabled by Christ to walk that road after the example of Christ. The word fear doesn't occur in any of those other places. We we have people that pray like that all the time. I want you to understand what the likewise is. Right? So what's the likewise, right? That word doesn't work well for us in English. There are never people whose lives demonstrate morbidity. What's what's she doing? Because I believe it it speaks a little bit to a fundamental failure of the church. Notice that Peter connects every Christian call to the specific applications of the call using likewise. Or he at least isn't primarily asking them to be involved in that. They are co-heirs with you. It is if it's your identity. We've lost it so far. Masters and slaves. To to live out your life in a reverential fear of Christ in a way that glorifies him in whatever But if by some miracle of God's special enablement somebody is given an overflowing heart of joy to drink a cup of suffering, then praise be to God. Um, I pray that I don't I don't fail. And how can I have a relationship with the Lord through prayer when I'm not living with my wife according to understanding, according to knowledge, when we are not living together in a way that magnifies the glory of the Lord to the degree that it drives people Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. And so the marriage and the family were very much a subject of market conversation, or political conversation, or sociological conversation. Everybody needs to be treated with the gentleness that is in Christ. But this is not an obsession with suffering. I don't think that testifies to the Lord at all. He doesn't seem to be interacting with wives and husbands in the context of marriage as much as he is Christians who happen to be in the role of a wife or a husband and need to figure And I will argue at a later date, depending on what commentary some of you make, that for you to try to put a limit on the amount of suffering that a slave should endure. I cannot stop crying. I was a broken kid. So when I read this verse, um and I know a lot of people have said it differently, but I when I read this verse I don't read it that he's saying that we have to keep our thoughts in our But kind and good. It's a metaphor that's used that we might get understanding. And so it's worth looking at what that likewise is. That is a great reminder. That's what happened. The next thing though, we're we're we're we're drying up. Same for me. And they keep praying. I just if you get nothing else out of this, I hope you'll take that out. And I'm hoping that you are an educated enough group, actually I'm expecting you to just have heard those lessons, those sermons enough to be able to to understand a little bit of the difference. I don't wanna go back and handle their commentary as though I'm shaping it or you know, it's like well that was good, just leave it alone and say it was good. Doesn't doesn't jar us too badly right now, but it would it would have been pretty radical in the context. Let me just go a little bit further 'cause we see those sort of speculative look on your face. Paul wrote Ephesians 5. Thank you for stepping on the neck of my enemy. I mean, it's not cheerful to me. I don't want to handle it as though it needed manipulation. I think I was going off of when you were speaking about women taking on the religion of their husband. He's not actually instituting some new structure. I'm I'm not I'm not looking at you Julie because you're in the prayer room. She's got a situation that she's serving in beautifully, but it it's it's a dry kind of thing. That that's what the Greek is. The end of verse six here, right? I'm walking my way. And and very specifically in that context, that is the conduct that will win a husband that is a rebellion to the Lord in that one through six passage right there, right? Servants be subject to your masters with all respect and Frank did a great job touching on this actually last week. I'm going to bring the sun up for you. Conspicuous. We aren't told what knowledge, but at the minimum, this knowledge promotes profitable life together in the sphere that is a fundamental building block of society. Well I can't if I'm not if I'm not in a right relationship with the Lord. And if we simply just did our duty, we would open it up and make it much easier. Uh and that's what I was trying to get at there, right? There's some really hard issues there that I don't think we have good answers for. instruction on how we counsel fives that are struggling in difficult marriages. You're not alive because God didn't get around to finishing you yesterday because of your bad deeds. I love concrete promises in Scripture. That was even earlier and I did it worse. Right? But we like to talk about all those contexts in which male headship exists. And really harkens back to verse 17, where it says, Honor everyone. Oh, look at me, I'm suffering. The few exceptions to that I can think of are when God specially charged certain prophets to live morbid lives. You say, where are you relative to your passage? That's every Christian. But that thing that you do when you really can't put words to it, and it just hurts. It doesn't say all husbands do not, by the way. You when you're in school, they teach you to write those five-paragraph papers when you're a young person, right? He suffered. It still feels that way. In an understanding way is is actually, you know, there's not much there. It's as if somebody came up beside you and began to communicate with you and you might answer them, but it's so clear that your attention is there that they can't help but kind of go, oh, where's she looking? So I don't know if I was super clear in that statement but yeah, I I think Yeah, but anyway, that's fine. That conduct can be amazingly powerful for the glory of the Lord. And the modern bias is that the marriage is completely private. Um and and because of the because they see the narrative of your walk towards that goal. That they may be one without a word by the conduct of their lives. It's a fundamental abdication of your duty as a male, and then most offensive, as a Christian. The shame is nothing. That is not what God is. That's a perfect example. I want to you should depend on me. So it's a way of being you know, ostentatious and and putting other people down and their hearts were in the wrong place. Will you be given in marriage in heaven? Translate the words that literally means in the same way, right? Joy. Right? So unless that's your queen, good luck with that, by the way. God's goodness played out in the home is so good that without a word, people that do not know the Lord come to know the Lord. I didn't grow up like they grew up. Right? And it's not appropriate for servants and masters here because the word is always translated in the context of a fear that we have of the Lord. Every single word of prayer or prayer request from their mouth is, I hurt, I'm in trouble, I'm sad. Uh owning a company, raising sons. For us, despising means I hate it. And uh clearly wrong attitude that they were coming with. Peter does a really funny thing here. The society from which you've been exiled. So it it simply means to obey. And they keep praying. You out you acted out as a result of the pain. There is no reference to a woman or to a wife or anything like that in in the original Greek. Um it's actually a difficult uh subject because like I just said, in in this society, if a husband took on a religion, the wives were just expected to follow. That's not really given here. Oh, I was just gonna say that um one of the things that my dad always says that I always liked is that when you're like same thing when you're witnessing to someone. Touch on the weaker vessel just briefly. But I've been taught that that it was cultural during that time. And uh we've lost it. I think too often we encourage people to go back into a situation and just, you know, well keep keep keep giving them the gospel. Peter is writing this passage. This the Hebrews is just really helpful to me to remember that Jesus set the joy before his eyes because um in think and reading A heart broken to be free from the suffering that one is called to. And he's saying you need to learn how to live together in a way that is filled with knowledge. And so I I feel okay. The likewise is this this reverential focus on who God is and what he's doing. Which in this context is pretty significant. We we live in an age that is is so lost the intrinsic dignity of women, the fundamental dignity. Likewise likewise wives be subject to your own husbands, by the way. I'm then going to jump forward to husbands. And then in 18, servants be subject to your masters with all phobos. I can barely see through this to a glimmer of what you are, God. But if that cup is empty, you can't continue to keep pouring out because there's nothing left. This woman is not weak. And then you mentioned the uh not external adorning, not not fake pretense, right? Peter says, Christian Not because you're a wife, not because you're a husband, but because you're in Christ. And he gives an example of all people to government, masters to slaves, wives to husbands, husbands with wives, with the caveat that I am not trying to do. 218. So it's it's it's in the same way or in the same direction is that likewise. Joy. But it's pain I've become used to. And it's supposed to be so good that without a word, now this is spoken to wives, but I'm going to argue that it there's no fallback on it with the husbands. It's a peculiar word that's not used much in the New Testament at all, and not so much in Greek, but it's not the word we use for wives. I I really agree with what you're saying there and ultimately it supports this same thing uh in that context. I I only know a little of what it looks like because the Lord has blessed me to meet a few women along the way who just blew me away. He's not calling husbands to submit themselves to their wives. Honor means to literally to assign great value to, that's what it means, or set a great price on. I can't do this cheerfully. I tend to to you know, be more timid and and I feel like I drop the ball more than I carry it, but that really is true that you have That's two twenty three. I don't let the rainfall for you. I thought of that too. I want to be clear that this is not an obsession with suffering, though it certainly includes suffering as severe as crucifixion, because the example that we're given is Christ. He prayed to get out of it, and it wasn't until the Father enabled him for a joy to endure the cross. Because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. And so I think we begin to practically, and I'm way off my outline here. He's making a call to every Christian. Whatever it is, it's not intended to do anything but hold up it it's it's the pedestal it's on the pedestal of honor. You know, husbands love your wives as Christ loves the church. But if they cannot, with the heart of joy, then what we have is a corruption of what God wants. You want to pay that? And then you magnified it with, and that needs to be continued. And Peter is instructing these people to live together according to a knowledge that magnifies the profit of Christ, the profit uh the value of Christ. And it is an abdication of the God given duty as a male first, just as a male, in your biology. And you are her children, if you do good, and do not fear anything that is frightening. But he still, nonetheless, is talking about being subject to the Lord in a human institution. Because I mean that's what we do, right? You know? Read the passage to you real quickly. I want to introduce a common thread that's running through not only wives and husbands, but slaves as well. Right? Wives are not supposed to fear their husbands. And sometimes at the end of the psalm, or sometimes three psalms later, that same psalmist says, Thank you, Lord, for what you've done. Whatever it was. It's a call to every Christian that Paul is making here, starting in 213. Thank you for I love that God's people are never morbid. She line said that kind of glazed over her eyes and I was like, oh no. It's a fantastic comment. We're running out of steam. Oh, pray for me, I'm suffering. Um I sent one an email a few weeks ago with with my wife's knowledge. It doesn't even it doesn't even mean that there isn't abusiveness. You find me a place in Scripture that says that you're supposed to identify yourself as a defeated person. And certainly of husbands that's hauled in there too, that if I am not rightly focused here and building that relationship, then the rest of this This is more of an active rebellion, uh a direct disobedience. But there's a different focus there. I want you to have a reverential fear of God first. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. And even when he endured it, he endured it not for the sake of suffering. And all I have is Scripture, right? Like he entrusted himself. I'm going to skip over a bunch of notes here. It's it's not like every guy in the church or every husband that exists. And that word be subject there is literally to arrange under or to put under. This is not a passage about every husband being a jerk. That's harder for us to get a grasp on here, but I just don't have time to develop the difference between our current perspective on marriage and family and Greco-Roman. That's our obligation as Christians, to care for people that hurt, to try not to be offensive. And uh even the Ephesians 5 passage that draws the husband into our context of relationship with his wife as was Christ with or as is Christ with the church. In the context of being co-heirs, it says, since they are heirs with you of the grace, but there's no sense in the original language either. They were not willing to build what they were building in society with broken bricks. Satan's won a victory in your mind already. Good question. I want you to see that that resource never runs dry. A conspicuous manifestation of the character of God, the nature of God, the nature of our relationship with God, played out in such a way that There's gotta be a point when you can continue to find that joy and continue to grow in Christ and fill your cup up every week. He's going back to this original created order. I thought I did better as a parent. It does not follow in the same way how we relate to the particular human institution. So I will argue with all of you, vociferously, that this I feel like I'm a pretty worldly wise guy, but somehow as I interact with my sons, I'm crushed by the fact that they're wrestling with my sins. And I'd like to start talking about stop being a jerk at home. But here, with regard to this here, Phobo, she says, you know, hey, look, it really is best translated reverence. So the with your wives part, not in the Greek at all. Wives and the rest of the household. Let me repeat that. That's that's that's it, all put together with fewer words. We live in a feminist era in that the favorite tool of every marketing and advertising anything in the world i is I when I think of her, I think of a a tough person, you know, like maybe even a little intimidating to me, just because uh you know, smart, capable This is an unswerving commitment to the will of God in the face of a cup that we wish could pass from us. I don't feel too upset about calling that a human institution as long as you understand what I mean when I say it. That is not what He calls us to. The God who doesn't just let breath enter your lungs every day, he literally speaks it in. The word is in fact synonymous with obey. You are a stranger in this society, and I want to teach you how to live like a stranger in this society. I'll pay that. You know, none of that's in Peter. The only way that they're the same is in their relationship to God. But for the glory and joy of the Lord. But there's no subjection called for in seven. My wife gets mad at me 'cause I didn't react enough when we went to get it worked on and had to spend too long in the emergency room. Scott, a comment. It says Likewise, first Peter chapter three, likewise, wives, be subjects to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be And there are so many things that we need to say outside of that, but for the sake of time I'm going to keep blazing. I loathe it. If we would be doing our duty, there would be less on this. It starts with that prefix humo, like homogenous milk, right? There's nothing there. Wives submitting to husbands can only do that in a way that honors the Lord when it's within the context that I just described. We drag our wives along with us when we not only we today, obviously, um, but in the Greco-Roman context that um And I I don't know how to say this differently than this, but you know frankly, if we were doing what we were supposed to be doing, those other six verses would not be a challenge. When they see your fear, when they see your phobos, it's that same word there translated respectful in I'm saying that because most of you have E S Vs and that's what And as far as I know, Christ asked to be freed from that suffering with a perfectly holy heart and conscience. One is literally gained, which is cool, right? Just means vessel. Because in my lack of and their completion of their role in my lack of fulfilling It doesn't, it does whatever this obedience is, demonstrates a reverence for God with a fear of It said he continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. You know, I think that's where the example that that the woman can have and the man can have in a relationship begins and our marriage Paul has extended discussion on marriage and divorce and adultery and submissiveness and honoring I don't I don't mean ours specifically necessarily. I'm going to carry you through a dry place so that you can experience what it's like to depend on me. Husbands have a responsibility to create a home that demonstrates that sort of goodness and provision. We like to make that whole leadership thing kind of, we like to put some candy on it. They're getting to that age where you know they're not children anymore. We've lost it so far. What I'm trying to change for you here is something I referenced earlier with regard to the nature of being a man. He then deals with government, he deals with masters and slaves. Sorry, just trying to be funny. That's nothing. What they are. Again, uh a lot of books go on and on about what this means, but we need to understand this, we need to understand this, we need to understand maybe we do. And again, I just can't convince you enough, I can't try to convince you enough that that reverence needs to be played out in a sense of satisfaction. We want to talk about Peter all day long every day. But when I looked at another verse about God giving us a sustaining grace in that he He's saying we need to live together with these females, this other image-bearer that I created in Right? So it's that's not the likewise. So same same situation where he was um pouring his heart out to the Lord to to protect him. No Christian husband should presume to think, and I'm going to get rid of that word spiritual. Every time I tap my finger on a on a thing, it I get this like it feels like I'm being electrocuted. Then it does something really weird. I'm choosing my words here carefully. How do I make that thesis statement or that hypothesis statement? Uh be subject to your own husbands. Women are not called to fear their wives. So I don't want to say too definitively what weaker vessel means, but whatever it is. It's disgusting. Alright? So I'm going to focus on husbands a bit. I don't mind honoring my parents. Well, those nerves are still severed five seconds later. Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing, but let your adorning be the hidden As Christ loved the church, it says in Ephesians 5, right? And that first paragraph is supposed to be the theme, three supporting points, and the conclusion. It's an institution that God, by His mercy, ordained for our good while we were here. That person is just sad, and every time I'm with them, their pain hurts me. And so Paul uh Peter is is talking to potentially believing women, potentially not believing women. When our newness in Christ clashes with the world we live in, we are to continue in Because they're just there. We make it so difficult on women to do their jobs, to submit to a godly husband and a loving husband. And I think just to kind of get back to that a little bit, because I would have, by the way, said the exact same. Whatever happens, happens. Paul says wife. People would come with their pretty dresses and their hair braided and their adorment and there was social pressure. I have a few minutes to tie up. But what is precious in the sight of the Lord is a woman whose life is lived out, drawing attention to the one who she represents. Which is why he then flips co-heirs and masters and slaves. As opposed to husbands in the same way, with this reverential fear of the Lord. He said, one man, one woman, and I want you to live together according to knowledge. You're alive because God says, Keep going. Down in verse 6 it says, Do not fear anything that is frightening. And we don't even look up. Love the brotherhood. That's not worth my time. No. So this is hard, by the way, because wives and the rest of the household were expected to assume the religion and society of their husbands. It says some do not obey the word. And as a matter of fact, if I can weigh my suffering, the amount of glory that I'm going to get There's a lot of that in the verb tenses that are used in chapter three. Now I have a joy in that, I have a delight in that, I have a purpose in that, I have a satisfaction in that, I have a value even. But unless that's your queen, we are not, we are people. So you can talk and and they do. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. I want you to see what it's like to delight in the exceeding abundance of a good God, unimaginably good God. But to not to wear those things inward and to hide them, but to wear them outward for your husband. Yeah, I and I'll get back to I I love what you said in the beginning that that fundamentally because I I I was super thankful because he prevented me from feeling like I needed to make a more developed argument. Because every new wave of something, just like pain, I mean if you hurt yourself and on the instinct you scream. And I'm I'm trying and I'm working on those things, right? And and the reason that it's important to continue in um entrusting yourself to the Lord is because we get into And there's no violence that Peter tries to seems to suggest between the words submitting there. What they are in God, what they are in their roles in life, what they are in society. And so the only thing I'm trying to do here is make clear to you that the likewise really only well fits a customer. Our failure of duty causes and our failure in leadership That's supposed to be foundational to what she is as a mother, as a wife, as all those other And I can't be in a right relationship with the Lord if if I'm not living with my wife according to understanding. And that that thread really gets pulled through with that word likewise there in verse one and again in verse seven. I love the Psalms because there's the honest heart cry. It doesn't matter how I feel about it. There was no such opinion in the Greco-Roman period. But in the Greek it has more the idea of just I I care less. I actually thought it was a great question. And you're going to see that magnified in a number of different ways as we go through it. Uh I have to say. And then we turn around and we like to talk about the submission context as well. But I think there's some good material here in Peter to interact with it, and I'm hoping to share some of that material with you. It just says husbands in the same way live together. I want God's blessing on that. We we try to make you carry a lot of baggage. Again, it's likewise, it's like all those other things that we studied, so this cannot be Just coincidentally this morning I was reading the I think it was about five Psalms starting Psalms are filled with such honest prayers like that. It's not right, I say that sentence and you're like, well, what's wrong with that? Or or maybe I do, but I'm just not trying to reflect on that. I I love that I can serve the Lord that way, but I am not cheerful. At the same time I feel like when you skip it, people are like, Well I didn't really say much about it. We added that in order to try to make it clear. After the example of Christ, praying that the cup of suffering would pass and yet act It's not worth my distraction. Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, filled with knowledge, assigning So that would go both ways. And then we have to go. He's not calling wives to submit to their husbands in the way that slaves submit to their masters. I'm so far off talking. It was conspicuous. It it brings it brings the attention more to the And my son looks me right in the face and says, Dad, I need help. How can I have any expectation of being able to do that without having a relationship? I sent one an email a few weeks ago just to thank her for her amazing, patience. I want to touch on a few key points here. So I'm gonna run you through that main current, um, centered around that word likewise. But also there's submission. I guess I don't know necessarily how they got, where they got all the time. But Hebrews 12, 1 and 2 says what? That their husbands might be gained into the fellowship of believers by the activity of the wife. Paul says. Um flip down to two, verse two. But Peter is very succinct in this particular verse. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting I guess I should look at my own wife. We are con to continue entrusting ourselves to him who judges To say that they're equal in airship, if you will, equal in inheritance with you at this particular time. So likewise isn't reflecting on fear of a master or fear of It's an extremely common Greek metaphor for body, so it may just mean that when This this is a command to wives and their particular husbands so that And when you are oriented correctly before the Lord, you will know how to live And what restores the joy of that situation to her, or what infuses I see no reason that we should encourage that person to continue willingly inside. And he brought that out. Fear God. And if by some mechanism that I do not fully understand, which is otherwise called God's. So um I know it's kind of backtracking, but back in verse So he wasn't saying don't put on makeup, don't do your hair, just it was just with I don't agree with everything, but I'm enjoying it. The next word is not where it says that we got the wives Yeah, it's only if everything you said I'm a hundred percent in agreement with. Say, how do you play that out? Or homogenized milk. It doesn't even bother us that we wake up every day and we're in pain. Right? And I get that. You know, I ran my finger through a table saw. So you've got adversarial husbands here with Christian wives. My little greenhouse that I built for them will not contain them any longer. He doesn't say that much. Aristotle, Plutarch, Xenophon, every commentator I read. The Greek is very specific here that it's your own husbands. Paul says. So like um that's an encouragement for me that it it it's it's Yeah. So I think I covered most of the rest. It's in anus. And as a matter of fact, he said outside of that it would not be good. So while we try to make that word carry a lot of baggage, it means There's a particularization of that I've wrestled with every one of these issues over the last four weeks, so I think it's great that you And we begin to get an orientation that's important, and I'm trying to build on this. God's people don't act like this. And they believed fundamentally those bricks with marriage. He endured it for the sake of his In verse 1 here, it's translated subject, and in verse 5, it's translated subject. Everybody wants to take this passage and read it back into Ephesians 5. He says this is this is a fear of God, a reverential fear, right? It's not worth anything in light of the goal that I have. So if he was a Christian then she would take on and she was All fear. It's coming right off of the passage that Frank taught last week on So it's honor everyone, love the brother. And you know that great later on in the passage, but Certainly Peter's talking about that everywhere. They're just there. By the way, there's a context for this which is entirely appropriate. I don't want to water down God's word. Slaves, wives, and husbands do not in the Hosea would be one of them, Jeremiah would be another. And then finally it's an application to women as well, right? But Christ prayed for the cup to pass from him. And then I'll do my best to touch on the wife stuff. Slaves likewise. Her reverence for the Lord. Oh, I didn't wanna veer off. No Christian husband husband should presume to think that any Do your duty. Yeah. I'm not sure. And in the meantime, the wife's life looks remarkably like a And in 218 I want to make sure we see the current that Peter is riding. Wife! And see if you have a concern, please hit me up in a minute, right? Keep going. And this one author says, God interrupts So that when our husband sees them, that's what he That's exactly what it feels why am I doing it? And we like to read Ephesians 5 here into this passage. Um but but What about the wedding and the wedding piece and in happen? That's what I was saying, is that she's displaying that in And again the English is a little poor there for That's not here in this text. I think we begin to see some practical She's like, Next time bleed all over other people and stop telling jokes, you know? Because of your good conduct. I want to swim next to my son when he gets stuck out in the moon. And so you're you're right on, right? He uses just about every metaphor he uses for his human relations. And no husband may It's no different here. Likewise, wives, be subject to your And in this particular study I found it helpful. And again, Frank did a good job on this last week, so I don't want to be I'm taking it back out because I I think it confuses The word simply means to obey and you see Right. And by the way, the other six commentaries by men agree. That's what Peter says to wives. And it's not always David. I don't have much of it in my notes because I already had too much, but Well, nothing. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an unrighteousness I just mean as a Christian body, one of our fundamental And I I struggled with that when I read that morning. Right? And that is the fullness of their testimony. I'm struggling with this, that, and the other thing. That's that's worthless to me. It's like you have this cup and you can pull So I anticipate that some of the people that he was writing But the wife's ability Honor the Emperor. God's prophets don't live like this. So that your prayers may not Did you know that? In your role, like this. The same. We keep talking about submission here. I'll just go back to the suffering. Well what? Well, it doesn't take a barnine surgeon to understand. Now, I'm not making any sort of a strange statement. For the moment I just want to make sure we understand So I'm going to take a little bit of a stress In the context of God creating it. And I reacted one way when my finger Keep breathing. To this you have been called. But it is if it's your identity. They're wrestling with the same sins that I wrestling. It says, be subject for the For the what that was set before. You keep trying to depend on yourself. It's pretty high level. But if you have it in your head that the marriage I wonder if waving my hand like an idiot. And it specifically says, without a word. I'll post whatever notes I have left. Women fundamentally struggle with identity. There is an illusion. It was it was very much look at Can I throw you a little It was not good for Adam to be alone. I was looking up trying to figure out how But I will comment on this. I say that mostly because That's a fantastic reminder. I don't know if you remember, I can't Sorry about that. I already told you how I feel about that word. I guess I'm being quiet because Wives likewise. When you see uh Right? That is not after We need to use what But And that means that there are things This this word As Sarah obeyed Abraham. That's insignificant. Go find it. I'm mocking it for the sake of Matt, you're not Family was a There is suffering. Thank you, Lord, forgiving. Um Why is your life There's nothing in the I love that verse. I have a work for you today. Additionally, I hope you understand. I'm not asking you to get I'm like, how can If I'm When you create a And then the last. Notice there's no He just says, husbands. Peter is writing to a It's more like because But that rather I just wanted to And that's appropriate. Peter Stark. Everybody needs We begin to identify. Why are you doing this? Let me show you. But it's not out. Without a word. That's the that's When I That was the example. So And so You know we have