Just a few quick notes. I think I kinda start off I didn't change this touching from last time. Just quick notes that we have uh the PowerPoint should be posted on Hope Book. Actually the PowerPoint may be posted on Hope Book shortly after this class. I just realized I didn't put it out there. Shucks. I gotta remember to do that. But uh so it will be. I will put this presentation out there uh as soon as the class is over. I just need some time to post it. Um because I realized I I forgot to go back and do that last night So the idea would be in theory that you would be able to wat look at this on your phone. There were some people that said the first time I ran this that the words are a little bit small. Is that still a problem? I tried to increase the font. But hopefully hopefully it's a little easier to see or maybe you can all there's plenty of space up front too if you're having some trouble So anyway, that will be available to you on Hope Book shortly after this this class. And then also too, if you missed last week and you didn't get a chance to here Scott or you know you want you need to get caught up. It's also available, Jan is doing a great job of posting it on Sermon Audio. So you can go out and you can always get caught up on that. I just wanted to take a moment because we're now closing out the first real section in this epistle. Uh so versus uh really you could say it's one through twelve, but really it's three through twelve. Because one and two talk about our salvation, uh the origin, and he calls us the elect exiles of the diaspora. And then he goes into this Um from three through twelve, a discussion about how great your salvation is So he begins and he opens this epistle reminding readers that we are called into a living hope. That we have great joy in our salvation, that we rejoice even in times of trials. And and that is to evidence and is to purify us and to give us evidence in ourselves of our salvation, to reassure us, if you will. And then he's going to talk about something, and I'll be honest with you. I uh th this is uh this is a this next part is is um it's deep. He goes real deep real quick here and uh I struggled a little bit with um what to say because there's so many things that so many implications about the next steps of scripture. But effectively he's He's talking about how great this mystery is, that that it it is literally the preoccupation of the prophets and it is the work of the Holy Spirit through scripture and it is the the calling of the apostles. And so he's going to go into this great uh uh uh example and and and bring it all around by telling you just how great this is and how privileged we are to have this salvation And then from here he will go on after these verses, he will go on and talk about the implications of about us internally, the implications of us in this in and with the church, to love one another, uh and on and on and on. And then he'll go into how we suffer through trials and and he'll go on from that. But this closes out this first section where he's really focused on our salvation. What is this salvation? What have you been born into? So I'll hit on that again here in just a moment. But I wanted to kind of go over last week's just to kind of set up these first verses, these 10 through 12. just kind of quickly. He says Peter says, he says, we're called into this living hope And we have this inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. And he says, in that salvation, you rejoice. And the connection is as he starts off saying, blessed be God the Father. Worthy of praise is God the Father. He is worthy of praise. And we praise him. We rejoice in this salvation. Even though we're having some troubles, even though we're struggling from things that are coming to us from the outside. We have these, but we still rejoice because these trials purify us, they sanctify us, they help us to hold and clutch on to God and in that We have we we we know in him his strength, right? In us. And so there is this sense that he's saying, you're rejoicing in spite of trials, and you haven't seen him. But you love him. Right? And you have this joy inexpressible, he says. He says it's filled with glory. Your joy is glorifying the Lord. Even as you walk through these trials, you are glorifying God because you have this joy inexpressible. And it tests the genuineness of your faith. And that faith is the most valuable thing. Why? Because that faith means that you have a spot reserved in heaven for you You are an elect exile of the diaspora, going to a kingdom that is beyond anything you can imagine. You're an elect exile of the diaspora, suffering for the Lord. But it doesn't matter to you because you have this Promise. You have this hope, and it's protected by God And so, blessed be God the Father, and you are blessing him. You are rejoicing in him. Right? And the outcome of your faith is the salvation of your soul. I wish I could unpack that a little bit. Unfortunately I don't have time, but this idea of the soul you know Something that differentiates us as Christians is when we're saved, we have a whole body, right? We have a resurrection body. And this word that's used in the Greek, soul, really means like the complete person. And it's just a reminder to us that we will have a body in heaven. We will have a place for us in heaven, a home for us in heaven. And we're going to be there and we're going to be a completed person. We're going to have complete knowledge. Now we worship by faith, but then we worship by Right now we worship by faith, but then our knowledge is perfected. We see our Savior And and so that this now sets him up because he's going to turn around and the very first words out of his mouth are concerning this salvation. And then I broke this down for you Um uh again, you you're gonna see a couple of things uh I just want to point out. Number one, you're gonna see it just visually is kind of like out there, right? There's a lot of bloom, meaning there's a lot of verbs. Right? There's a lot of really key Greek words that kind of fall into this. It's a difficult piece of scripture interpretively. There's some challenges with it. I'll talk a little bit about that. I don't want to make this a Greek class, but again we're not focused on what they say, these words, I'm just pointing out these words. Use of verbs, uses the keywords. It's just for visual purposes. But um you know but you can see you know props that search, inquired carefully, requiring, imitating, predicting, revealing, serving, enacting, preaching, and sending It's a lot of action going on. It's a lot of action going on in these these next steps of verses. And I just I think visually it really oh and then I forgot to put these are also longing and looking are also version So even even more so than more pursuit of these shows. There's a lot going on in these verses. Right? And I'll go ahead and just read it. Concerning the salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you in the things that have now been announced To you, through those who preach the UN Gellion, the good news to you, by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven things into which angels long to look. Things to which angels just take a minute and meditate on that. But the heavenly host is in wonderment. Of this salvation. The whole the whole the the angels are looking down at you and going, wow God, wow, God, wow What do angels do? They praise, right? That's their job. They serve the Lord. Right? They serve the Lord. And they praise the Lord. And you are a subject of their wonderment. It's an amazing thought. It's an amazing thought I get stuck on it, so let me not. So what preoccupies you? Open this up a little bit for discussion. What kinds of things occupy your daily mindset? Hobbies, sports, is there are you are you a big fan of the news? I I can't read the news anymore because it's just too much for me. But um what kinds of things? Your work Anybody? I could start the Dallas Cowboys. Been a fan since I was a little boy. I remember Stahlbach and Randy White and Tony Dorstadt. Some of you may be like, I don't know, a Redskins fan, he needs to shut up now. But okay, it doesn't matter. I I I I I it it for me it represents, you know, a a a history with my family. You know, it when you're a fan for a team for a long time It becomes preoccupying, right? It becomes a peace. And then that's that's something I I find myself maybe overly preoccupied with sometimes. I can't wait for Sundays, Sunday afternoons, the game start And you know, get home from church and watch. But um what about you guys? Is there anything? Ah, come on. The debt of our country. The debt? That's uh been the preoccupation of more than you. It's consumed. The Congress has consumed uh yeah, so yeah, the debt of our country. Um it it uh it's yeah, it's getting huge. Yeah. Yeah. Um I remember when I was a kid, uh we would watch the news and they would always have like a Like an anchor segment where like they always had to talk about something good. You you remember it like um uh they they don't they don't have those anymore, do they? Anybody else in the news, the politics, the debt? Go ahead. I'm a tennis fan. Okay. And I can go back as far as peak samples and advocacy out of the reasons to some people. But I go I watch them develop and play and, you know, make their records. I have gone through Nadal etcetera and Jokovic. And now I'm trying real hard to go through the up-and-coming tennis play. But to be honest with you, I cannot say their name It's hard to have a conversation with somebody, you know. Uh my future son-in-law was talking to me And he said to me, um, who who I told him that they were in Chicago. I told him that the women in Chicago, the tennis player. And so he said, Well who's playing? And I said, Oh, uh uh uh Bench Benjamin do that So I think I might have to leave the tenant. Oh no. Yeah, I I think there is something kind of fun about um Um like I I know people who are fans of golf. I'm not as big of a fan of golf, but you know, watching people develop throughout a a career i is is kind of fun to see them grow and and get better and Uh that is a f fun thing. It's it could also be preoccupied. I think you raised your hand, right? Yeah, I was just gonna say having recently moved, um, you know, setting up house, a lot of house projects and it's great with the internet. You can do a lot of Google searches, YouTube, you know, where's the nearest lows? And and I don't think any of that is bad, but probably the point you're trying to make is is that can you know I found out all day yesterday that's when I was going in errands, you know, Google projects and and how much of that time was spent really just focusing on boy Laura, thank you for the staff So with the internet it's really easy to to do a lot of different things. Um of course that is kind of where I'm going. Um you're right. Erica is big on planning vacations, you know? So she she's like already on our next vacation, which is like in April. Okay, so I'm like, okay, can we tap the brakes? Can we talk about this a little bit later? But no, she loves it. So she's already planning that. You know, Peter does say that the kind of the big idea here is that this is the preoccupation of the prophet. Okay, our salvation is the preoccupation of the prophets. They search and and uh Diligently through the scriptures. It's the delight of the Holy Spirit. It is really the work of the Holy Spirit. If you think about it, the the words written, all the inspired scriptures, all the Holy Spirit's work. It's this delight to bring this illumination to our salvation. The preoccupation, the prophets, the central message of the apostles, what were they teaching? Christ crucified. I wish to be nothing among you but Christ crucified. So it's a central message of the apostles, and it's the longing of the heavenly host. And then of course there's a challenge in this as we go through. And I brought this back on Thursday. I kind of brought in the same commonness because I was kind of meditating on this thought That do you spend enough time in your daily life reflecting on the greatness of your salvation? Because the conviction that I had was that I don't. Right? That I've been given this Wonderful, amazing gift from the Lord, right? And Peter goes in great detail about how amazing this gift is. And I find often that I don't meditate on that, and sometimes even in times of trouble. The natural inclination is when you have a bad day, something's going on, then you're like, okay, Lord, I need you. You know, but even sometimes I I struggle to even do that. And I wonder if other people are the same, if if you also have that same issue. Because Peter has now gone through, and we'll review it again one more time, but I want this stuff to really lock into your head. Because Peter is spending an enormous amount of time and energy to really explain this. Because he's going to go on to tell you other things, but it all starts here. It all starts with a perspective that looks forward into our future glory. Right? And so do you spend enough time? Are you looking at the greatness of things that God has done? Are you searching out what God is doing in your life? Lord, where are you working on me? What trials do you have for me? Do you embrace those trials as a way of testing your faith? That's the conviction here that I'd I'd like to leave with everybody. That's the the message of this first part that I want everybody to take time and meditate on and think about. If you leave with nothing else, From this first sets of verses, let's leave with that. Okay, let's leave with that First words concerning this salvation. And I've already done this, I did this earlier because I was kind of excited. I liked it He starts off with this salvation that's God's gift to you, right? Verses 1 and 2, that you're an elect exile of the diaspora, chosen before the foundation of the world. To be made holy by the propitiation of Christ, by the sprinkling of his blood. Right? You were an enemy of God You were a reviler of God. You were in your sin, and you were hopeless And while you were cursing God in your heart, He was sending His very best. While you were being an enemy of God, living a life in your own way, following along your own way, wandering in your own way. God sent you his best. He gave up his son. Right? He gave you his son. And by the sprinkling of his blood, you're now brought to him, an elect exile of the diaspora, into his very best. So he sends you your very best and he gives you his very best. You are born into a living hope. You are born into an inheritance. Not only is he sending his son, he's giving you a share of his kingdom. And that kingdom is imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. Remember the repetition of words, the emphaticness with which Peter is saying these words? Imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. It can't be taken from you from external forces. It won't be taken from you from yourself and it won't be ever fade away from time. And why is that? Because he's protecting it It's reserved. Your name is on the door. And he's protecting you. And he's protecting your faith. And he's standing beside you, you will not turn away. He's with you. They're protected by God. And then he says that that is the cause of great joy. Blessed be God the Father, in this we rejoice. Blessed be God, worthy of praise as the Father, and in this you rejoice. Even though you're suffering through trials, but that's okay because those trials have a purpose. They refine your faith. They strengthen your love for Christ. You love him, but you don't see him. Not yet, but one day you will. But you love him and you don't even see him yet. Because you have a faith and it strengthens your love for Christ and it affirms in you the reality of your salvation. So there's a purpose for your trials. You remember talking about Ecclesiastes, and we I I think Scott brought it up last weekend as well. I listened to the tape and I I think he brought it up as well. Life under the sun without hope. Life under the sun, you live, you breathe. You have a family, send off children, maybe make millions, doesn't matter. You die, it goes away within two generations, you're gone. No one even knows your name anymore This world will leave you, it will forget about you, it doesn't care about you, it never will care about you. You are an ant In a great big world full of ants, just one, just walking along Waiting to die, consuming whatever food it is in the process, being returned to the dirt where the grass will grow in you. I heard a sermon illustration one time about a guy planted underneath an apple tree And the apple tree's roots kind of went into the the coffin and it literally consumed him. They went in and it was gone. Okay, that's gross, but it's kind of like it's indicative, right? You're you're gonna go away. You're gonna just disappear from the from the planet You'll be lucky if your tombstone lasts 100 years after your death. Let alone anybody visit it or care about it or see it. This world gives you nothing. It is without hope. It has an end. And you will disappear from the planet. And it will forget about you. It will walk over you. But in Christ, you have an inheritance. In Christ, you have a hope. And that hope, undefiled, imperishable, never fade away, reserved for you If you can't rejoice about that, what can you rejoice about? If that doesn't fill your heart with love for your Savior What will fill your heart for love with the Savior, for the Savior? You are known by God. According to the foreknowledge of God. God knows everything, but he knows you special. God knows all things, but he knows you special. You were set apart. You were chosen. If that doesn't cause you to love your Savior, what's going to cause you to love your Savior? What's going to cause you to rejoice if that doesn't make you rejoice? So this is the salvation, and now he's going to give you one additional perspective. He's going to give you, as MacArthur calls it, the historical view. The historical outside view of your salvation. How does the heavenly host see this? How did the prophets see this? What was the preoccupation of the Holy Spirit who took this time to write these words, to write, to speak to these prophets, to fill these apostles, to bring it to you, to enter your heart? What what what do they say about your salvation? What do the cloud of witnesses, as Hebrews will call it, say about your salvation? The prophets who prophesied are the first he hits what he hits on. And here he specifically, I think, some people say that the prophets who prophesied are referenced to all of Scripture. I'm not a fan of that view because I think he says prophets Okay, and I think he's pointing to the prophets. He's not talking about everyone who proclaims. He's specifically focused on the prophets. So you may hear or read some commentaries who disagree. It's really a minor disagreement. If you want to say it's everybody who proclaimed in scripture, if you want to include um, you know, David in that, of course you I guess David was technically technically considered a prophet, but uh if you want to include you know Ezra or you know Nehemiah in that when they in their writings, okay fine But but me personally I see them as focused on the prophets. Okay? And Peter, Peter actually hits on the prophets at Pentecost in Acts 2, 14 through 36. He brings out now he talks about Joel and David in in there. He's talking about how it was foreseen that this day would come, right? The rock that the the the stone that the builders rejected became the ch Chief cornerstone referencing Old Testament prophecy and referencing the specific prophets who prophesied these things He talks about that. So this is kind of a very P trine thing to do, let's say. This is characteristic of Peter. If you were in the first class and I said this is a very You see Peter all throughout this epistle. Here's one of the areas where you really see something that's his focus. Um and for and uh the Old Testament prophets are elsewhere referred to as evidence. Romans 15 15. 4. Actually, we could read. Does someone want to read Romans 15. 4? I feel like this verse is especially um especially um pointed at this exact topic. So for whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction. That through perseverance and the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. So that is the use of Old Testament prophecy. That is How he he'll refer here later on that it's that they were there to serve you. The prophets were there to serve you, and this is how they served you Right. And he said the prophets the prophets prophesied and they searched and inquired carefully. So this is um this is where there's a little bit of a a difficulty in interpretation in interpretation there. Uh if I go back to here You'll see that the most common interpretation is inquiring what persons or time Okay, but the the the the actual word person doesn't exist. It's a Greek word, it's tina. And That word can mean what or it can mean who. And so most translators will refer to who as in what person. Maybe A little easier way to read it would be what what time or what circumstances of the time. So other other people might also say, you know, what time or circumstances In in any case, it's it's uh maybe a little bit more of a academic note. It it still carries the same weight or meaning. Uh but the idea here is They were writing these prophecies down. So you get Daniel. Daniel's visited by an angel. And he hears these amazing prophecies. And Daniel's response is like, okay, win. Win, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. He's coming. Okay. He's coming when? When is he coming? Where is he going to be at? What when is this start? What what's the point? Isaiah writes in Isaiah 53, this magnificent prophecy. Right? He was stricken for our transgressions, right? By his stripes we are healed. And he's going, wait. Wait, wait, win. I I need this savior. I I want this savior now. Win. When is he coming? And they were preoccupied and they were searching the other scriptures and reading each other's prophecies, trying to figure out What time or what manner of time or what the person doesn't matter. They wanted to know whatever they could know about this moment. They were consumed with it They were yeah, they were they were just preoccupied with this great revelation Right, and they proclaim the sufferings of Christ and the glory to come of Christ. And this is, by the way, a good note for you. That there are multiple prophecies throughout Scripture about Christ. Everything that He would do, all of the works that He would do Everything that he would and Christ fulfilled them all. And uh there's a note here, and I I can't remember what the math is. Someone may be familiar because I've uh it this has been kind of published before, but It's like the odds of this happening or like of one person fulfilling each piece of these scriptures is something like one in one hundred billion trillion or something like that. Like it's almost it's completely impossible That it could happen except God. Right? So when people come to you and they're like, you can't prove the Bible, that stuff You can whip open Daniel 7 and go, oh really? Because if I read this prophecy, I can show you what the day he arrives into Jerusalem Oh really? You think, well, how about we read Isaiah 53? You go to a Jewish synagogue, they don't talk about Isaiah 53. They don't want to hear about Isaiah 53. This was not in my plan, so this will probably uh drive me a little late, but I'll figure it out. It's worth the read Uh MacArthur's um MacArthur does a sermon. Uh actually it's I think it's three sermons on Mails. If you want to be edified, really just look this up, because it's incredible. His unpacking of this scripture is is one of my favorite things he's done. Like it's it's truly remarkable. So just so you know, you can I don't know if it's on YouTube or maybe for sure you can get it on the Grace to U website. It his unpacking of I Isaiah fifty three. Uh and I'm gonna jump down um to We'll just start from the top. Who has believed what he has heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant. And like a root out of dry ground, just a just a nobody. Just a weed. Just unremarkable Just an unremarkable person. He grew out like a young plant, like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look upon him. He wasn't particularly beautiful Notice this is in past tense, right? So he's writing this in 700 AD or BC, but he's looking ahead. Right? No former majesty that we should look at him, and he's talking about it in past tense. And no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, as one from whom men hide their faces. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. He came. He served. He loved. Other prophets tell you the miracles he'll create, the things that he'll do. And we rejected. You rejected. Nobody should ever be so proud as to say, if I was one of those Jews on that day. I'd have been saying take him down because you would not have been saying take him down. You'd have been saying let him hang. You'd have been saying crucify him. You would have been in that crowd. So don't for one minute think that you're so special that you would have not rejected him too, because you rejected him. But he was crushed, or he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. Peace with who? Peace with God. Right? Peace with peace with God. And with his stripes, we are healed. He was beaten, whipped. Those whippings healed us. He took them for us. He propitiated our sins. He took our penalty on his shoulders. Any other way to read that? Because I can't see any other way to read that. 700 years before Christ walked the earth Anybody want to talk to me about the inspiration of scripture? Because I'm gonna pull this out and I'm gonna ask you who else this could have been talking about Right? If not this, who else? And why is it in past tense? Why is he acting like it's already happened? It's a good question, tell-ha And we like street sheep have all gone astray and have turned aside every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, he was afflicted, and yet he never opened his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that's before its shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away, and for his generation, who can who considered that he was cut off, he would die He was cut off. The Hebrew there is he died. Seven hundred years. If not Jesus, then who? If not Jesus, then who He was stricken for the transgressions of my people, and they made his grave with the wicked and with the rich man in his death. Uh MacArthur goes on in that in uh I I just think a priceless comment that it was like God couldn't stand to see his son suffer any more in dignity. At that moment, he completed his work. He raised him up. He raised him up. Though he had done no violence, there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. God chose to crush him. He has put him to grief when his soul makes an offering for guilt, so he was a sin offering, a propitiation. He shall see his offspring, so he was cut off, but he shall see his offspring. He will be resurrected. Seven hundred years. If not Jesus, then who? And the prophets were Isaiah, who history says was sawed in half inside of a tree, he had like the worst ministry Isaiah did. And he was told he had to go and preach to people who he was already told were going to reject him. It was his mission to give prophecies the Jews would reject. Tough ministry. Anything about preaching the gospel and how hard it is to preach the gospel to someone who might reject you, I'm pretty sure they won't throw you in a tree and cut you in half Pretty sure that won't happen to you. Maybe it will. I don't know. But that's a tough ministry. Right? But uh he's searching the scriptures In my time, when will this happen? He's amazed. He's amazed. And they didn't fully understand They didn't fully understand. They saw, they were given this word by the Holy Spirit, by the way. I could go on a whole thing about the inspiration of scripture on this. They were writing down words they didn't understand fully And these weren't, you know, Isaiah was a very educated prophet. He was considered one of the most educated of the prophets. Daniel, also, very educated prophet, didn't fully understand. But you do. Right? You do here in 2021. You can look back and go, wow The Holy Spirit through Isaiah wrote that? For who? For you. For your behalf, on your behalf to serve you. How great is your salvation? Do you spend your time going, wow, God? Because the prophets did. The prophets did, and they didn't see it as clearly as you did. You get to see the fulfillment. They had to write it down. Wondering when that fulfillment was coming gonna come. And they proclaimed the sufferings of Christ, and they proclaimed the glory of Christ. Isaiah, actually let's do Daniel 7 on that one. Um I didn't even write the exact I'm going the wrong way. Yeah, it's like right in the middle of it. It said you wanna read it? Uh sure. I kept looking in the night vision for the behold with the clouds of heaven, one like the son of man. coming. He came up from the ancient days and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion, glory, and kingdom that all the peoples, nations, and men of every language might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. Wounded for our transgressions Everlasting dominion. Wounded for our transgressions. Everlasting dominion If not Jesus, then who? If not Jesus, then who You ain't gonna find it anywhere in history. If not Jesus, then who And reminding you that this is in the context of your salvation This is in the context of your salvation. Then he talks about the Spirit of Christ. This is a terrible visual, so maybe you need to close your eyes. I really hated this even when I was looking Why the Spirit of Christ? Uh and by that I actually mean why the terminology spirit of Christ. Did anybody catch that when we read it? Like that was different from what you normally hear The Holy Spirit or the Spirit of God. You hear that frequently, but you never, you only in one other place where you hear the Spirit of Christ And then the question is, well, what did he mean by that? Because clearly you can say that the Spirit of Christ is a reference to the Holy Spirit. But what exactly does that use of the word mean? It it's just an interesting thought. Like, Peter, why did you choose that? Why did you choose that? So it's used in one other place in Romans 8. 9. Uh and I'm gonna run a little short on time if I don't hurry up, so I won't read that. I was gonna read it, but we'll we'll skip ahead a little bit. Uh and it likely means that it um i they came from Christ. So there's John sixteen, seven through eight. In other words, it for Christ goes, but then comes the helper, right? When I go, the helper comes. Okay, so the i in the sense in that sense it proceeds from Christ. And then it also it witnesses to the to the prophecies of Christ. It's a witness of Christ. So that's kind of the context that that terminology is meant, the Spirit of Christ. But it's definitely a reference to the Holy Spirit. So let's not get hung up on, you know, there there's people who will go into like modalistic ideas and stuff like this. Just forget about it It means the Holy Spirit. There's clear references in Scripture to exactly what the Spirit of Christ was, like you know, there's Romans 8-9, and then also the idea that it came from Christ. And that's that. And then this is also something that that um and this is what messed up my visual because I was listening to John McCorner on this and I wanted to get some of his stuff in here because I thought it was really good. That salvation is the major theme of scripture Okay, if you think about the major theme of Scripture, what's the first theme that happens in Genesis 3? Right? We fall. God's response, I'm going to send someone, he's going to crush the head of the snake And there's a way of reading scripture where, and and this is kind of also in the context of what the prophets were doing, you can see these little hints, little blips. They start off in Genesis as little blips. Like a radar. Beep. Beep. You see Joseph beep. Big beep. Right? And then As you walk through scripture further, you see increasing clarification. When is he going to come? In Genesis, you learn It's going to come from the line of Judah, right? Judah will hold the scepter, Genesis 3. Or Genesis, not Genesis. Uh anyway, yeah, so uh that's uh Jacob's prophecy, right? Jacob's prophecy. Yes, it is, I think. Anyway, Jacob prophesies that you know he tells Judah that that he will have the scepter, so the king is going to come through Judah. Right? And then you hear further on down, in the line of David. Okay, in the line of David. And then from there it you get more and more and more and more specific All the way up to Isaiah 53, where he's literally talking about the life and resurrection of Christ. You have Psalm 22, Psalm 69, I had this written down somewhere, but you have all of these. Messages from the Old Testament that proclaim in increasing clarity who Christ is, so that by the time Christ is born, the last prophet Does anybody know who the last Old Testament prophet is? Kind of a quiz question. Who? Who was the last Old Testament prophet? That's in the Old Testament books, but who was considered the last prophet? John the Baptist was considered the last Old Testament prophet. Uh I think I have that reference in here. And what does he do? He proclaims this is the Christ. That's him. I'm not worthy to hold his sandal. That's him. He's the one that takes the sins of the world away. That's him. That's the end of the prophets right there. That's him. That's him. So the prophets coming. He's coming, he's coming, he's coming, John the Baptist, that's him. Right That's him It was revealed to them. Uh that uh apocalypsis is the same root word as reve revealed is the same root word as revelation. I don't know why I thought that was important, but I put it there so I said it. And uh uh diakonon is the same root word as deacon, which means servant, so it means to serve And the last piece on this that I'm going to finish off with the prophets is that their faith was forward looking. Our faith is rear view mirror. Their faith was forward looking. Our faith we look back, their faith they look forward. Okay? So they had a forward-looking faith, but they were serving you. Their purpose was to serve you. And then I just love this to kind of put a A top on this is Daniel 12 8 through 13. If someone wants to pick that up. Actually I'm right here anyway, so Wait, that's no that's no eight. I did it backwards. I heard, but I did not understand Then I said, Oh my Lord, what shall be the outcome of these things? He said, The angel tells him, Go your way, Daniel. For the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end. Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act wickedly And none of the wicked shall understand. But those who were wise shall understand, and from that and from the time that the regular burnt offering is taken away, and the abomination that makes Desolate is set up, there shall be twelve hundred and ninety days. Blessed is he who waits and arrives at the thirteen hundred and thirty-five days. But go your way till the end, and you shall rest and stand in your allotted place at the end of days. Daniel's amazing. You hear his heart win. God win. God win. And it's way long away. 1335 days, those are weeks of years, and you and you're talking way out in the future. Now he knows. It's way far away. But that's okay, Daniel. Go your way. At the end of days, you'll be there Anybody want to tell me how the Old Testament doesn't teach about heaven or doesn't teach about Salvation through faith. Don't tell me. It's a brief conversation in my book. Because my book says that. Right? It's a brief conversation. Serving you. Those guys were serving you Do you look forward to your glory the way Daniel looked forward to his glory? Do you look forward to your inheritance? Let me say it a little bit better way. The way Daniel looked forward to his inheritance How much value would it bring in your life if you did? How much rejoicing would there be in your heart for a Lord that went through all of this for you? How much joy. And it was in the things that have been announced. And I said this a couple weeks ago, and I'm going to say this again. This is not a message for the unbeliever. If you're an unbeliever, there is a whole different message that you need to hear. If you're an unbeliever This is not your inheritance that we're talking about. And if you're an unbeliever, there was not the prophets serving you. They weren't there for you. The wicked will never understand. Daniel just told you that. The wicked will not understand. They won't. Why? Their hearts are closed. And maybe Maybe you're sitting here and maybe you're just getting by and maybe you got a drug problem, right? You get drugged at Sunday school, drugged at church Drug-to-home fellowship, drug to these events with the church, and you're just dragging along with your drug problem Maybe that's you, maybe that's your life, and maybe you just can't wait for this to be over so you can go home And spend your week. Maybe there's something that's so more preoccupying for you, and you could care less about the things of God. And if that is the case, this is not your message. You need a different message What message do you need? You need the gospel. You need the one that the apostles had. You need the one that the apostles carried. You need the one that talks about a Christ who died for you. Repent in your sins. Turn from them. Come to Christ. There's no other way. That's the message you need to hear. Repent and believe and be saved. So I wanted to take a minute to unpack the Evangelion, the good news. And I just chose the Roman road. Look, an encouragement here is for people who are believing to be talking to people who are unbelieving. Because your purpose here on earth is to carry the good news. Right? I mean, we weren't just all meant to sit in this little huddle where nobody was paying attention and hope to avoid Being a spectacle. We're elect exiles of the diaspora. We are to live a life as examples Right? We are to live proclaiming as elect exiles of the diaspora. If you're not doing that, you're not doing your job. And so there's a hundred different ways you can preach the gospel. I I just jotted the Romans road here down, uh admittedly not from memory, because I normally use a different method, but But if you are not preaching the word, here's an encouragement to you to go preach the word There are people who need to hear your message. There are people who need to know the prophets. There are people who need to know the Holy Spirit. There are people that need to know these things. And it's up to you to tell them, and it's up to God to choose to open their hearts or to not open their hearts. You don't have to turn them You're never going to turn somebody for Christ. That's a completely misbegotten thought process. Your job is just be faithful. Just be faithful. Just do your job. Just do your job. Because that's your job, is the gospel. Just an encouragement in that. Someone will can we roll through these? Maybe one person get Romans 3. 23, and then one person get Romans 6. 23. Someone want to take Romans 5. 8. Some of us can just interest in his death. God demonstrated his own love for us in this and while we're yet soon. Here's Christ's night for the ungodly. Romans ten nine is if you confess with your mouth that Christ is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead and you will be saved in Romans eight nine and There is now therefore price to I like to add the the uh Romans 1, 4 in that, just because I think it gives you some perspective on as it pertains to this as well. I just would read that real quick. And was declared to be the son of God in power according To the holiness by his resurrection uh according to the spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we've received the gif gift of grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations. The resurrection, which declares Christ Right? The resurrection which declares Christ to be the Son of God in power So that is the evidence, right, that Christ is who he says he is. Christ did what he said he would do. You know anybody else who's been resurrected? Because I never met them. I've read stories about people who've been dead for like five minutes and then they come back and then, you know, whatever You ever know someone who's been buried for three days and come back from the dead? If you find that person, then yeah, maybe we can have a different conversation, but But Christ's resurrection authenticates, it stamps his sonship, right? It stamps his position of power And just again, reflect on that. Reflect on who you are in Christ and and do you know, do you believe? Have you confessed? Is he Lord to you. Because if not, this is not your message. Right? But if so, you need to tell others Right, you need to go and you need to tell others, you need to proclaim. And then finally, the salvation upon which angels long to look. Have you ever thought about the fact that angels cannot experience your salvation? Has that ever occurred to you? Angels have never been, well, the ones that are lost are going to hell, right? Those who have fallen are going to hell. There's no redemption for them. There's no chance of redemption for them. You have a chance for redemption. If they haven't fallen, they were never saved. They never had the God of the universe come and live and die and be born again on their behalf They can't experience what it's like to worship by faith. Do you ever think about the uniqueness of your position? That you are privileged to worship the Lord in faith You're privileged to worship the Lord in faith. And it's hard to worship the Lord in faith sometimes, right? It's hard. There are times that that's its own trial, the strength of your faith, but it's your privilege to worship him in it. When you die and you go to heaven, when you leave this earth and you go to your inheritance, you're going to worship him in knowledge. Now it's veiled, then it'll be unveiled, right? Then you'll worship in knowledge. But for right now, for this little time Though you may be suffering through various trials, you rejoice because you worship in faith. But not just any faith, a faith that's protected, it's covered by God How about that? This God created an entire universe to put you in it This God created an entire universe, knowing that you would turn away, knowing that you would reject. Knowing that you would become his enemy. And this God of the universe chose to make you his friend. Chose to love you enough to give you his very best. And to reserve for you in heaven his very best How about that? The angels, they don't have that. But you have that The angels long to look at it. The Greek there is like peering in, like looking closer. It's emphatic. They long to look. Their desire, that longing, the desire. In other portions of scripture is actually a reference to like a sin, but it's the idea is it's emotional, right? They are completely consumed by it And when one sinner comes to repentance, there's rejoicing. Luke 15, 10. Rejoicing over you. The whole heavenly host takes the moment of pause for you For you. And they long to look at it. Because you are gifted with a very precious, very special gift. You are given a blessing that no other creature is given. You're unique Do you think about that? Because I'm going to tell you, I don't think enough about that. But I'm going to start Do you think about it? I mean, do you think about it? How amazing this salvation is How great this salvation is. And I think it's such a wonderful way to cap off this first section of Peter. And just carry this away with you because now we're going to go into a a different now he's going to begin exhortations. Now he's going to begin telling you who you are to be, what your calling is. Now he's going to go into these other things. But take a moment to reflect on this first part, where he talks about how amazing your salvation is and how precious you are to God. And so just to cap it off, God's grace is demonstrated in the gospel. God's most precious things are given to his enemies. The shed blood of Christ. An inheritance into the kingdom of heaven. And this is the focus of your joy. This is the focus of your rejoicing. Blessed be God, worthy of praise, praise Him. Blessed be God, worthy of praise, in this you rejoice It was the preoccupation of the prophets, it was the work of the Holy Spirit and the wonderment of the angels. That's your salvation. Isn't that good? Do we have a good guy? We have a really, really good God. You know, John MacArthur at the end of his, actually it was the beginning of his sermon on this. He's talking about um you know sometimes and he he talks a lot about salvation and he's kind of unpacking it And he says, you know, I talk about the salvation of God that is provided for us a lot, he says, but I think about it a lot more And he says it is an absolute impossible thing to plumb the deaths and find the ceilings on the realities of the glories of our salvation. I think it's a really great bookend to put this this first part away. You're never going to get to the end of it. You can meditate on it every day from now until the day you die, and you will never see the end of the glories of the realities of your salvation. They are deeper and wider and more wonderful than you could possibly imagine. And when you go to heaven, they're going to be deeper and finer. And more wonderful than you can possibly imagine. Let's pray