And they have a revelation from God, but they knew it wouldn't be accepted if they weren't an apostle. But it's over there because it's in a context that we can't wrap our brains around. He kind of flips his lid in about 62 A. That's not actually true with Nero Disgusting Man. You can't tell me you're right and I'm wrong, or that there is a truth and I don't know what it is, or my truth isn't the right truth. I variously abused them or harmed them in some way, deprived them of something, threatened them vehemently with various things, all horrible. And I'm going to actually read you the verses. So again, a lot of verbal, right? We're going to go out in the woods and camp for a month and you're going to see nobody but me. And the thing fulfilled is Christ, and that is what's in you. And it just keeps building it. And when she finally has her eyes open to it, she has this experience like at the end of Job where, oh Lord, this is too wonderful for me. You have the right to do that. from God. She just needs a little time to write the second epistle. And so on and so forth. dif you might say that differently, but I'm gonna say Pliny. Oh come on, you guys are familiar with this passage? I know it's shock shocking. Because it's it's cathartic to me to share my outrage to you. And I'm gonna just mention three to them e three of them to you quickly. to be speaking about a time of specific and severe persecution in Turkey. So it it's junk. Sixty four? And lining up and literally confessing him as emperor. He would have been steeped in this Greek philosophy of it. We get from a historian uh uh I mean in a larger work, I'm just f excerp excerpting it. soon enough. It was 18th of July to try June. hootin' and hollering and and kicking up dust. Right? started a program over there, uh actually died in the midst of that. uh says Domitian cruelly persecuted Christians in and out of Rome. Okay, and so that's what why my I'm adding this last piece. uh uh early 100s AD. Christianity had grown to such a level that the temples were empty and the animal sacrifice trade was gone. And then the other one is that growth of the Christian Church. We don't know what was going on there, but clearly there was suffering. I'm not minimizing it or maximizing it. And he gave them customs and traditions that automatically caused them to clash with everybody they met in their immediate area. An inheritance, by the way, which we're we're supposed to be discussing. in in verse 4 to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. in this world. So much time talking about being cast out of the garden. you too. I'm a liar. Well what a fantastic time period. and exclusive testimonies and an exclusive law and an exclusive confession of God and God alone above all things. According to his great mercy, he chose us to be that. How you grew up and where you're going and how much cash is in your wallet and how much debt you owe and all those other things. Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. But all this shame and all this indignity and all this stuff that's happening for a young person in this culture, you you need to stretch a little bit to understand how hard this was for her Um I need to share with you if I'm gonna teach through Peter and I know I'm gonna pick up a cadence with Frank now every other week, and if I'm gonna teach through this, um y you oughta just know my biases. Surprise here, I believe that the author is the person identified in verse one when it says Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ. uh particular business or government or anything else. So meaning somebody that took those words, took those sermons and kind of crafted them on their own, faithful to the message and the speaker, but crafted those and put those down. And it was the idea that some good was done uh uh through a lie. for the wrong thing when you're doing anything wrong in order to get a chance to do a right thing. sixty-four right after um the Great Roman fire. And Christians wouldn't do. um on on Peter, just on Peter. And uh then you you are free to make your own assessment. time to spend that you know all that study time to to get it right. or not and and then all the wheels came off and went upside down and he became one of the most defiled people in history to tell you the truth. Uh Caesar Augustus, the great Caesar Augustus, who reigned for almost uh fifty years, Tiberius on the end of that one, but uh kind of a golden age for Rome in Jerusalem uh and was just about actually to send a a Roman uh force into Jerusalem to make them begin you know, uh dynamic royal family 'cause he just liked to spend time with his books and learn philosophy. to go live there it was considered uh um a great way to to get very rich and very wealthy and very powerful. If you didn't have a real station in Rome, but you were kind of that, you know, middle class layer, um, you know, the people that were established didn't want to leave their established power and and and authority and and money. And and Christians were standing separate from that. I don't know how many people in this room. In October 13th of that year, he began burning Christians in his gardens while he dressed up like a charioteer and rode around like a nut job in his own garden. That was their ethic. throw you out. you know, rebelling against the Roman Empire on top of being monotheistic and exclusive about their claims to knowing the one and only God. And then, you know, the big G's. Domitian saying, Oh, look, I'm doing what you like, right? I think I have this Christian problem under control because all of the business, all of the market that came from animal sacrifice in the pagan temples has been restored. Christians no longer exercised this amazing bloodletting that was occurring in the pagan temples in the surrounding areas. And all the animal trade is done with. Maybe even probable suffering, but not actual suffering. So that's a kind of suffering, but it allows you to live for the rest of your time. Okay? Servants were actually suffering under unjust masters. Peter is addressing a group of people who are in the midst of suffering, and he says, entrust yourselves to the Lord. firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world and after you have suffered a little while. And the previous verse makes it a very personal attack. We've been quoting uh is it Thompson? And we had some discussion about this in a previous week out of Exodus 24. strangers in the land. And form a well-ordered society with everybody else around you. Because it's important to understand that that in fact is how he chooses us, the circumcision of the heart rather than of the body, as he did with the Old Testament. The basic admin of the scriptures were the basic needs of life were attended to. And despite the fact that I want to say that how could they have ever missed that from a day-to-day basis, you know, collecting manna every morning? is who I am, for sure. Not all is vanity, but a living hope. Once you're his, you're his. And it feels impersonal, like a pawn. just makes so much sense. strong foundation and and and and three and four are like the next layer up getting better the right and and um three and four five and six sorry I lost count right and To ensure that you make it through your exile, this is in verse 5. It's always the response to God's activity in an individual's heart when they finally really get to see what's going on. Uh I don't mean you're gonna die this year. It's not the kind of grief where somebody drives a nail through your hand. of his people that believed him and remained exclusively true to him during their wandering is their exile And there's good scriptures later on in the Bible that say exactly that. Uh hopefully I I survive. to be the best in the New Testament. uh the quality of the Greek in in Peter. There are about 13 different ideas, uh arguments, if you will, about why Peter, almost said Paul, um and I'm gonna keep doing that by the way. the richness or the uniqueness of the Greek words. justifiable. There's no justification to do wrong to get a chance to do right. under Nero. Peter was there, that he did suffer under the persecution, that he was martyred. matter. And then I'm going to also share with you some of the internal testimony, which to me is much more weighty, some of the internal testimony of Peter itself. First Peter a little earlier in Nero's reign. was pretty much limited probably to Rome, although there's very little record of it in Rome. exclusive God and his exclusive truth and his exclusive demands on our lives. As a deity or a god, that just kinda happened because he was such a great man and because they were already a pagan culture, so it was easy for them to transition him into that role of uh cities of from this time period all over Asia Minor, particularly covering all the main cities that we have here in verse 1 You you should be getting this strange feeling, like, huh, that's starting to get close to home. We can't sacrifice to other people. I'm not saying that there was no persecution at the time. And I'm sorry to my small group people I know have been doing this with you in Colossians 2 about hyper-contextualizing scripture, and as a result, the evil one gets to come in and put scripture over here and us over here, and we admire it because it's scripture. And what I object to with all these authors and commentaries and academicians when they apply this specific I want to share my study with you and I want to give you a chance to evaluate the mirror of my argument. And I want you to evaluate it. His nephews rule about emperor things, he drew the forces back from Jerusalem, he allowed the Jews to kick the idols back out of the temples and their places of worship. And luckily, Nutjob went off in sixty six AD and started a a Greek uh in Greece area And it was fun to watch the bloodletting for a while, but the fun wore off. He was busy, and as a result, a lot of that persecution in Rome settled down because the people didn't have a stomach for it. in in that area, right? Everything about Judea offended the Romans in a sense. Titus, in particular, was the one that was responsible for the fall of Jerusalem and the Temple of Jerusalem in 70 A. Both worship one God with one truth and one set of requirements for his people. But gee, those clashes look a lot like our clashes, don't they? eighty one AD through ninety six, and he reinstates emperor worship, starts off good, goes completely nuts. He's notable in that one of his subordinates, um, Tacitus He uh wrote a tremendous numbers uh a number of letters uh to Tacitus, well, to Trajan, but he sent them to Tacitus. And then he finishes the letter with this really short, like an aside. Right? on first theater. If there was a program of persecution against the Christians, and my my answer is we would not have. necessary. you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example so that you might follow in his steps. It's very general. 416, yet if anyone suffers as a Christian. does not seem like burning in the garden or execution in the circus. For to this you were called. Satan looks to make you stumble. But the suffering here that's being talked about by Peter is not the suffering against, you know, caused by governments or societies or anything. Remember whose you are. You are chosen exiles. But they got to your strip out of the life. Of the imminent presence of the Lord in those people's lives. But at a minimum, it remained until the day after they entered Canaan when the mana stopped. Walked with them. Be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, not some sovereign God ordaining things from before time began, according to his Crazy, wise will. And this promise of an inheritance that's to come, being kept in heaven for you, which, by the way, you are being guarded. It's a particular word that was adopted for Christian use to magnify the rejoicing of the whole heart and soul as a result of God's direct activity in a person's life. If necessary, and I don't have time to teach through this, but the if necessary part is if God finds it necessary for you to suffer for a short period of time When even though it's refined, and uh just a quick thing, so many commentators if you do some homework will tell you that this is that kind of fire that like, you know, Christians being burned at stakes and Christians being burned in their homes. This directly aligns with a half a dozen Old Testament passages where the Lord describes himself as the refiner of his people. Where he says he will take the fire to his people and refine for himself all that which is not useful, even as he did in those forty years of wilderness wandering. and never, ever allow anything to get in the way of that. It's conspicuous in your family. um you know the Syriac area, if you will, and then of course down into Jerusalem as well. particularly no modern communication, no modern uh transportation, for one evangelist to have been able to And most of them do that so that they can prove that Peter didn't write the book. Most books that you open up uh will will either whitewash over whether Peter was really the author or not, um, much like they did in Ecclesiastes, by the way. to the book of Peter. you know, spiritual in any way, but I think it's again it I suggest to you that it's important in light of verses six through nine, which is actually what I'm supposed to be teaching on this morning. And I think it's because uh Christians and Jews are fairly unique in the singleness of their God, right? And uh so it was a popular thing to do. A little aside, starting at about 300 BC, the Greeks began to formalize a philosophy of tolerance. Right? You are messing around with our well-administered empire. Say why are you specifying Rome? A silver star. It's when they speak against you. One endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. As a matter of fact, I would argue that the lion's chair of the verses we've discussed relate to the persecution we get from society when we stand conspicuously against their religion. And we dealt with the frustration of that in Ecclesiastes. To that frustration. Of the program of tolerance. Chosen to be outsiders, chosen to be without rights of citizenship, outside of the promised land. Blessed be God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Like not having citizenship, like feeling foreign. uh who you you uh read about in some of the other uh earlier books of the New Testament, uh who is a highly educated, highly wealthy individual, uh wasn't either his secretary or amenuens. Back to something closer to the nineties and hundred time period under an emperor called Domitian, who had a formal program of uh empire-wide persecution of Christians. Then there was an emperor named Caligula. Uh he forced for the first time emperor worship. Fairly fundamental Greek philosophy being pushed out from Rome into the rest of the world. At the instigation of Crestus, which was a Roman barbarism of Christ, because the Jews at Rome caused continuous disturbance at the instigation of Crestus, he expelled them from the city. were often celebrated with all sorts of pagan sacrificial rituals. And if I'm wrong, then you're free to prune whatever it is you see fit before the Lord to prune. So he he flipped his lid in 64 A. They were looking for ways to get rid of Nero. uh other than Judaism, you Christians other than Judaism, if proselytized. systematic program of persecution at varying degrees from that time for the next uh hundred years or so has uh an extensive exchange with a governor or some sort of ruler over Asia Minor, the very cities that we're studying right here. And the persecution was so severe. I will argue that this is the kind of persecution that's very much plays itself out in very real ways every day, but it's very much on that spiritual plane. Whose are you? Enough history. And here he's talking about one that's unfaded and imperishable and undefiled. Without citizenship or the rights associated with it. But I you know what I love? To overflowing. for for a little while. Because I just wasn't sure I could get a hold of it. That who spend the time of their exile walking in their father, sustained by him, exclusive to him. Uh all of it is is just so infuriating to tell you the truth. There is there is no justification outside of Machiavelli, who didn't write anything edifying as far as I know. And I'll justify that with something that did happen in history, well, according to my timeline, about 50 years later, that shows that that's not how it works. Peter into uh about that sixty-two A. And then Domitian picked it up about 40 years later and tried to do it again. Claudius came next. And even in his letter after he you know tortured him, you would have expected him to play it up to to Trajan, who did have a a general rule of like, go ahead and persecute Christians. The internal testimony of 1 Peter is even more interesting. Grudum does a really helpful thing. Cast out of Israel. This global phenomenon of reciprocal acceptance? We were strangers. Then it's then okay. But you should go study it. Sharing himself with his people and removing all the rest because it hurts us and because it's not good for us and because it's not somebody writes it under another person's name because they're the student of that person or for whatever reason. successfully accomplish what seems to be the growth and maturity of a church in Turkey at this interval is absolutely amazing. On top of that, to have it occur in the presence of specific and severe persecution in this region against Christians is also a bit of a stretch. uh obese to him. 37 to 418 date. He did start a tremendous amount of Roman colonization, which wasn't new, but he kind of amped it up. He built uh Roman cities and populated them with people that he exported from Rome It's an honest question. Philosophy being pushed out into the rest of the world. And as a matter of fact, under Claudius, you see an interesting example of this. In this what? Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. program of severe persecution to the people of Peter is that they stick it in a bubble off to the side It's inconsistent with the text, first of all, that's what I mostly object to. It takes point episodes in history and extrapolates an entire context from them. He was consistent with the philosophy, the Greek philosophy that we know that the Romans adopted in order to make them successful in their world domination. You know, I I don't know where they got them from, although it reminds me of some passages in Isaiah. Uh I I'm not minimizing that, it was horrible. Exclusively God's and no one else's exclusively required to walk conspicuously, Saul and light, before their God, and to demonstrate. He wrote a particular letter about Christianity in this region, um in the And what he says is I've got this Christian problem. Because I wanted to understand what this Christianity rebellion was about. And Pliny, Pliny, Pliny, whatever, was wary he was going to end up with Roman troops to figure out what happened to our money? indigenous program to persecute Christians. But he didn't. Verses 1, 6, and 7, which is the subject of our lesson this morning. That are being executed on a regular basis. 414, if you are insulted, again, if, and it's just an insult, for the name of Christ 39, 14, and 16. My heart, my soul, my life, my effort, my prayers, my money, my pride, my objectives, my He chose them to be a separate people. Tolerance. That's what he chose you to. They died not being allowed to enter the promise. Perfect. The promised inheritance. Not yielding to the syncretism of the world Constantly challenging their own thoughts and their own hearts to put Christ at the center of all things. And then it may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. The evidence that we are doing that in our lives is an overwhelming rejoicing that is conspicuous in all the world. Or just numbness, or boredom. And depending on what region of it it is, it's either about 200,000 square miles of geography or 180 square But we are not today under some sort of empire-wide persecution that includes execution and burning like candles in in the president's garden And I'll only add one more caveat before I stop beating the dead horse here and move on. And uh we know he's pretty much a liar here because under Domitian, who he was also in power under, he he actually enjoyed persecuting Christians because it let him write psychophantic letters to Dom context, but according to the truth of Scripture, just to be clear. Irrevocable choosing that he does. And I don't know why I have a problem in my throat. And uh it was actually called reciprocal acceptance, because there was some argument about what the word tolerance meant, which makes for interesting readings but would bore you to death. Reciprocal acceptance in about 300 BC. Somebody else had another comment, but I didn't hear it. It's completely consistent with scripture, uh, history, and scripture. Not no recorded systematic program of persecution of the Christians and Jews. Under persecution that is not recorded is terribly severe. And here's where I said I'm so excited that any of you that were in the Ecclesiastes class, the Ecclesiastes class are now here. Right? The dwelling presence of God. And and the three intermixed, by the way, right? And each of you has an exile experience that is unique based on who you are and what your family is like and what job you have and Thank you for putting up with this lesson. Because he was right there at the region that shoots over and has a commerce connection, if you will, with Asia Minor and the whole rest of uh Europe. And so they they write it under this other person's name in order to get all these stodgy old men that decide what's canon and what's not to use their revelation. Right? Well, what happened? You're you made a ruler. Meaning the people that just, oh yeah, that's what I am. Egregious persecution that we're led to believe is the subject of first Peter. Of tolerance, of non exclusive truths And you will spend your 40 years of wilderness wandering here, outside the garden, in this world under the sun. So, rather than see persecution in Claudius' colonizations, I want you to see the spread of this Yes. I I feel like it's overly academic. Also horrible, not shown to be flippant. You say, well, why is that significant? Rome needed taxes. So potential suffering, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 passages. Who was causing the suffering? An example of this is the nation of Israel. And you know what's really exciting to me about this? When the food from the land began to sus came and began to sustain them. Well, since about the seventies, so the last fifty years, I guess. Is that what he said? That's possible suffering. 4. But if he doesn't come for a while, you will all die to enter the promise. By various trials. And that largely focused on uh his desire to be God. Why bore you with all that? And I I don't want to just wave my hand at it. They were an offense to the entire world in that they were one of the only religions at the time. A gold star, maybe a six-pointed gold star, on a lapel and gets marched off to a camp someplace. Pliny or pliny, whether you're English or or plenty if you're French, but uh depending on you know what continent you're on you might Yours. It's the crooked instead of the well intended straightness Well I I defy you to find a single word in scripture that uh validates that kind of thinking. Um and by the way, it's it's junk throughout life. Uh I I don't think it fits. From the day we were cast out of the garden, and God knew who his elect would be. Nobody ever the the basic needs of Laman's perfect. And when I first read that, I was like, that stinks. How are you doing feeling blessed by your Father? And so here he reflects on it again. And where she basically just finally understands what God has done through all this hardship in her life through this I'll say unwanted pregnancy, right? A direct considered worldwide persecution Oh wow, let's answer it. So pastors and commentators require severe persecution and specific persecution against Christians because they want to move the date in which this was written. By the way, I just it doesn't matter. And I painted that picture because it creates a context for the next few verses. How are you doing with this very exclusive truth that God's choosing of you for that exile, that doesn't mean that there's not sin and things involved. In this you rejoice. Spend some time to reconcile that with the thoughts and feelings of your heart. There's good existing uh it wasn't quite from that period, you know, but within the lifetime of people that would have been able to witness those things, there's good testimony that says that Or just not address it at all, and then they will immediately begin talking about severe persecution. So they they interpret Peter in light of this, you know, Christians being burned in in uh Nero's garden and and uh you know death and racks and and executions and torture and all the rest of this stuff. And it's easy. You you don't even have to parse it. How are you doing with the evidences of your episode? Starting in October, he began an amazing program of persecution against uh Christians in Rome, and that's where you get the stories of him lighting his garden with burning Christians and things like that. But they pastors use or pastors and commentators, scholars, uh need to see persecution here in Peter because they want to move the date of Peter. All religions were good, all ways of life were fine. I think uh I think Peter probably died in sixty-four, maybe sixty-five AD. If you're interested in a small high power Susin's foundary, highly recommend that one. It's conspicuous everywhere. Know exactly what it is, and know that it was specific and deliberate for his fatherly care over his children. So there's a few things that are interesting there. 19. That is perfect. Colossians, we talked about this in small group on Thursday, says that Christ is your center. Right, right. There's no reference to a specific suffering there. It's the solution to the frustration. These are easy questions, guys. He cared for their basic needs and he did it every day. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, forty years. Uh so I I don't mean to be flippant about it. But you did it because I have laid up a canon for you in heaven that can never be taken away. So there were temples built to him, but there was no requirement there. I love the forty laughing at me. Again, really funny sentence structures. So I want to share some of my biases with you up front. And so you'd get this middle layer in Rome, and they would go populate these colonies, and of course they became the aristocracy. How how how did the Romans take over successfully so much of the world for such a long period of time? Too many. I might be wrong. Do you realize the day after they left Egypt, the cloud and fire showed up? Sixty four? He was actually the uncle of Caligula. That's what we see here in 5, 9, through 10. No place that you go will you be a citizen. I have a in my notes. You had a nice coat. Let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator. Because it was fairly isolated. How many times has Israel fallen under a bad king or a bad power or something else, right? To a living whole, for an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. The therapy one is uh a lot of people will argue that there's a a noble lie theory argument here, and it was used in Ecclesiastes actually too. The third one is much more relevant to what we're going to talk about today. Claudius kicked him out. That was their salvation. Right? They're in my notes. It's not specific suffering. Elect exiles. We were in a land that we were not intended to be in, that we would never be at home in, that would never be made right, that would never be put into accord with what God wanted and what God had It's conspicuous in your church. And so what I'm trying to do there is say that yes. All the dates are in my notes, I'll post in the notes. And if I'm right, that should make the the thing that grows out of this soil, the study that grows out of this soil, that much more meaningful to you. Um what what is what is particularly awesome, like in a really good way, about the wilderness wandering period. And uh all but one of them I think tries to assign the the severe and specific persecution uh People need to go find some something better to do on Sundays than listen to me. So we really think he he probably didn't have any problem with it at all. He categorizes the references to some sort of persecution or suffering in Peter in two categories, possible suffering and actual suffering. I'm just sharing with you there's actual suffering in 419. Satan looks to deceive you. And that should dictate the course of your action. I say crazy, I just mean like more than I can understand. So like they had the fire and the cloud and the tabernacle, you get Christ in a more personal way than they have. He generally you tried to minimize it. So, sure, persecution, reviling, evil for evil, but whoever it was that was being reviled and being done evil against had the opportunity to bless those who were doing it. A lot of verbal abuse. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, we could spend several class periods on that. Don't ever read his history, it's totally unedifying. So chapter 3, verses 9, 14, and 16. And we've been having fun with that at home. So much time talking about how that what was made crooked will never be made straight again until God remakes all of the earth But there's a specific manifestation of that truth that played out. Three different examples of that. I mean they they reevaluated every year and for most of our demographics it dropped this year by a year. He was an an uneducated fisherman. So the the quality of the Greek seems immaterial here in in my mind. I'm doing my best to not cough on it, I'm sorry. Is that right? Collaus built a lot of these cities. D. So I think sixty-two is more likely. So there was a uh a syncretism that was encouraged and allowed, right? So according to my timeline, about forty years after um 1 Peter was written to Asia Minor. Taxes come through trade. Yeah, in this current season that you're in, in this you rejoice And uh so they went through three or four of them in the course of I think less than two years. And Peter immediately turns to this overwhelming blessing of the Lord. And your program may change with your sins, but you're in the program. You know what you get to walk in your exile with? I mean I can because it's awesome and there's so many good things to learn, but you don't need to to get the understanding of it, the fullness of the understanding There's different words for that. I will try not to make the next one so academic. He was a nut job. and in October we are absolutely sure that he started a Rome-wide persecution of Christians. Pliny only persecuted them, what looks like maybe for a couple of months, and he apparently filtered out all the confessors from all the professors. Let me give you an example of this because I'm going to run out of time anyway, so I've got to speed this up. God cared for his people in a daily way, in a very fundamental way. You must be a conspicuous people with exclusive truths If necessary. You have been grieved by various trials. I'm saying that wasn't a program, right? D. I'm a Christian because that's convenient. The devil. And Peter is described as uneducated in Acts four thirteen. I'm trying to help you understand what the context for verse 6 is when it says, in this you rejoice. And that's because the the normal circus maximus thing had gotten burned. If we are to believe scholars, academicians about 1 Peter, that this was written in the mid to late 60s, maybe even as far as the 70s. No longer will you be able to fit into that conveniently In this, in what? I and I mean right, if you agree, you agree. D. Not only was that there, it it was actually a demand of the Roman Empire because it kept the peace. A bunch of less than one year starting in January 68 AD, December 69. That does not rise to the level of an official program of persecution against Christians in Asia Minor. Rob Thompson Rob is your husband's name Rob? So you're gonna help me with my therapy. This is one of my biases. Sixty four eighty day? Why is it that over this three hundred thousand square mile area, all the temples are empty Do you notice how those are all if, if, if, you might, maybe, right? Let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator. Keep your hoop. People in the heart of Rome began to say we can't worship other gods. So we could appreciate Peter if it's in that context. If you ever read those stories, it was horrible persecution, it was a horrible loss of life. He wants you to think you are yours. And so some of that has to come in because it does help us to understand it, but I I don't I don't think we need to overblow that too much time frame, which is earlier in Nero's reign. And if you think about Roman colonization, it makes sense. He didn't really care about Christians. 314. The devil is looking to consume you. They were in Egypt. But when he chooses you in that fashion, he chooses you to be exiled for the remainder of your time. What's what's particularly fantastic about that wilderness wandering period? I I I had an opportunity for totally different reasons, unrelated to this lesson, but I talked to one of my sons about this the other day. There were temples built for Augustus, but he generally discouraged that. In 64 A. So 66 to 68 A. Uh Pliny the Younger, uh, in addition to being a psychophant I'm persecuting all these Christians. The column of fire rested on the tabernacle in the evenings and so on and so forth, right? Um first let me give you my bias on authorship. Get lost. I don't think I am. 212, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable so that when they speak against you, there's no there's no execution there. And that word, if you just trace it through, it occurs again in verse 17. Um and and so people say an uneducated man couldn't have done that. Not only was it encouraged, and by the way, all of if if you're with me, if you're doing what I was praying about at the beginning, But I also feel like it's the it's the root and soil of First Peter. That was what made Rome stand. If you haven't already noticed that, there's a lot of society verbally abusing the people, the Christians here. Um and I'm gonna show you a little bit based on just some of the timeline of the emperors, uh which I realize is more academic than than uh And it was causing a row in Rome, right outside Claudius' door. But it was localized, it was specific, and it was a result of these people, by the way, getting out of their lane as far as And he describes life in Asia Minor. Again, I'm just trying to give you the flavor, the foundation, right? The tested genuineness of your faith, which is more precious than gold, which perishes. And I am 100% confident that that praise and glory at the appearing of the revelation of Christ is God's praise But I'm trying to get in the right direction. July. They were tired. One, despite the fact that he persecuted Christians because it endeared him to a cruel emperor, he had no local Somebody's defaming Christians. How are you doing with that in your exile? And he says basically I didn't really find anything that was that significant in it Uh Emperor Emperor birthdays, if you will And uh so I've uh a bunch of them have been denounced. Chosen exiles. Yes, you were chosen as excised. I love the 40-year wandering. And this does reflect on Peter, so I'm not totally off mark. Through your exile is to ensure that you enter the promise. So that's the only reason to me that statement even makes any difference at all. And by the time Claudius came around, because we know who he studied and who he wrote about, Now, for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure Resist the devil. Satan looks to confuse you. And so Titus went in and destroyed it. You will be marked. The filler of fire, the column of cloud, and the tabernacle itself. They got to walk with the it was like a, you know, hey, you you you're the bad kid, but rather than punish you by putting you in your room There are two categories. You will die. He's building this. It's conspicuous at your place of work. After that it gets fuzzy, whether or not he's buried there or not, we don't know. I'm just a stupid engineer. 4. What a great how how that cuts to the heart. And he chose a people, a conspicuous people, for his own. In this exile that you walk in, that's this huge blessing from God. It doesn't mean he couldn't speak, and as a matter of fact, because of the area that he was in, he would have grown up bilingual, at least, if not trilingual You can take it and leave it. Um I'm I'm gonna argue for sixty two, mostly because he needed to write second Peter, and if he died in sixty four, which I do think is good evidence for that, then he There was never any law. And it lasted for about two years, long enough for the Romans themselves to lose their appetite for it. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, that's a ridiculous statement. 37 through 41 A. They were sustained off of God We are going to work on our relationship. But even when he says he's doing that, it says, according to the foreknowledge of God, we were chosen to be foreigners. So Caligula was his nep nephew. Go someplace else. God brought them out. That word keeps occurring here. That word is used in the Mary's Magnifica, and I'm not being Catholic, we actually call it that. 18th of July said the 23rd of July is how long Rome burned. It seems like it's an ancillary statement. From the people that actually said, we cannot confess anybody except for Christ as our Lord. But he's we're supposed to be discussing this inheritance that that they uh get Two of them uh are significant to what we're gonna talk about. Peter died used to be very commonly accepted 67. D. 12. Keep your faith. Um so as far as we know, the Roman force never moved in. But rather than just stand up here and be a Bible thumper, I want you to understand that it's also inconsistent with the history that we have. I would not stand here and speak to you with this degree of passion if I thought I was wrong. He could care less about Christians. 314. No place that you go will you any longer be allowed to fit in with the society and the culture around you That's all we know of his persecution. Trade was being threatened by the fact that Their shoes miraculously did not wear out. So Roman Emperor starting in uh Um Domitian shows up in eighty-one through ninety-six. So we know he liked persecuting Christians. When he spoke that to a Jew, they would have immediately thought of the land of kingdom. Um rather than see persecution in that, um, and I'm stepping on my toes for later, but uh s , he burns Rome for five days. I don't mean that his will is crazy. The word used for grief here is always describing an emotional response to a difficult situation. Um and so I want you to see it because actually it's it's popped up more and more commonly in textual criticism uh over the last July of AD sixty four If you don't, you don't. And not surprisingly, providentially, the Lord came in and said, We're done with you. D. Right? You elected me to what? It's just not the right approach. Um and that's not terribly relevant except that it casts 221. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh is ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh. We spent a lot of time talking about the sovereignty of God and election through salvation. So elect exiles. Uh it was like, well we need a ruler. Now I I get it that he uses men as agents There's no verb in this first verse, by the way. And then he took them to this promised land It's it's literally like verses one and two, big wide And not surprising, because in the last months we've been in here, we've talked about it a lot. Um Very good administrators, that's right. And they wanted to go back to that because tolerance was their morality. Do not repay evil for evil for revil or reviling for reviling, but on the contract on the contrary, bless And here in 1 Peter is the address. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope. As long as there was an orderly and well-administered empire, you could do anything They were described as bloodlettings of animal and of men and of women and of people in general. he was so occupied with foreign wars he didn't have a chance to get into too much trouble So why would we have this amazing growth of the church in Asia Minor over only 40 years? And what is Satan trying to do? The basic on my list That's the earliest it could have departed. Uh I I think Frank thinks that Peter was written in Well, what are these trials? They had been taught tolerance all their lives. Um But But the date for that is 81 AD. I got this from Grudham's commentary on He took them in the first day, as near as we can tell, in that first day to Mount Sinai. They got yes. The one thing that he did do that everybody's like, oh see, Claudius started the age of persecution is at one point in time That was free. Like being in exile. He just kicked him out. For good or for bad. So starting in about 66 AD, that that tempt back down. What do you mean proselytized? Guaranteed. So exile and God's loving fatherhood over you appear again Um the quality first argument here is that the quality of the Greek is generally believed You know you're on the wrong path, you're using the wrong reasoning in the wrong way at the wrong time And if I don't get in the right direction, I'm going to screw up verse six. We are not under empire-wide persecution. Those clashes don't look like somebody that gets up and puts a silver star, which we've seen this happen. Okay, that's there. I think most of them won't shock you. But a little history. Uh heavily of course in in Jerusalem. He generally officially dismissed any uh any formal He didn't have a Christian problem. I really appreciate you indulging me this morning. So it's not surprising that he had language skills, but it's it's really surprising Resist the I certainly don't have it right. Not so with Caligula. He just cared about economics For this for to this Or frankly, even the accommodation to be allowed to do what you think is right And it didn't go away at a minimum. In either case, it is an immense landmass The claim is inconsistent with the data. They they did. Christ. And because that good was done, the lie is uh Uh he wanted people to call him uh holy God and Lord God. How did the Romans take over so much of the world? D. Nero started out actually as a good emperor, believe it or But I do not want to be responsible for you just going, Must God said it And by the way, it even says, so that you might follow in his steps, so right? Okay. D. There was not only was the philosophy being pushed out that you know all all truths were equal, if you will And so you see a bunch of Jews scattering across the empire at that point in time. Other than me. And the aside is, but the good part is Actual suffering. 4-4. You will be different. Again, no time to discuss, but the various trials there are literally the grief there is literally emotional grief. How are you doing with the evidences of your exile? These are variations on the noble lie theory. So much so that I have a stack of commentaries at home. It's not execution type suffering. Satan looks to make you tolerant in ways that you should be exclusive. Once you understand those things, verses six through nine, just It may not happen to you. Nero comes on the scene, 54 A. Clearly some persecution, localized to the Jews, localized in Jerusalem. We've been quoting him all week. He'll change that around and add a spouse occasionally or a friend or a you know a girlfriend or boyfriend or you know whatever is relevant for you. We'll rediscuss that when we get to chapter 5. We spent so much time talking about that curse This is what I'm right about. I'm gonna call it Turkey, rather than list out all those hard to pronounce names, right? His actual name was Gaius. Monotheistic and exclusive. And they began to get tired of this concerted persecution. The historian Eusebius, who has quite a volume, That's a general principle. It reminds me of what we're in right now. As an overarching theme, it was forty years of this Pastors and commentators require Peter Talking to Miss Air at the beginning, I I screw things up every day. He cares about taxes. They got they got stupid just like we get stupid and forget that God sustains them every day. And what was it? I was talking to Jonathan Aram the other day, life expectancy dropped uh by a year for most of us this year Wow, that was a hard word. That's where the fire actually started, had gotten burned. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 27 BC to 37 A. Uh forty one to fifty-four, he was kind of an academic, a a nerdy guy. He said, get out You have a coat. I don't well don't need to be foolish here. It's conspicuous in your neighborhood. That is an important thing, Demon Peter, and needs to be paid some attention to. So that that's that's what I'm doing here. Just I can't comprehend how amazing God's knowledge and will is And it's just, it's amazing. We live in an age of tolerance If necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. Your God the Father is the one that elected you according to his foreknowledge. And if you call on him as I have to stop there, but I want you to know I studied that passage really hard right at the end. And Frank explained that well. If you didn't have a you know a real s But I I think that that's the best I can say about that. I'm just trying to get my lawn dart in the right direction, right? He never encouraged the worship of him as a as a uh I do not want to be charged with Other than that, he reversed Now, again, if you look at the history, this is Christians and Jews 2, 18 through 20. Confuse you. You will walk the world You know what's super super exciting to me? God chose you to be this people that cannot help but run afoul. Know what he called you to Whether they're thoughts of frustration or grief or unbelief or fear or doubt Is that it casts Right? But it's not us. Then Vespasian and Titus took over. And here he's promising something, he's promising an inheritance that's different. They would bring you in and just add your gods to their gods, and your society to their society and your temples to their temples. You give me the ruler. That is not what this looks like, generally. It's just a whole bunch of things strung together to create a context. It it doesn't really When they malign you 5, 9, through 10, resist the devil Right? And it's a silly example. One of them is so outlandish to me and gets used so many times in other books of the Bible, I just want to share my outrage with you. And so you'll find But here he's like, I don't I don't know what to do. This syncretistic You can't tell me that. I've gotten a a letter denouncing them from several places, and so I've rounded all those people up and And Christianity had grown to such a level, this is also a necessary but derivative truth. But you he wants you to believe you're yours. Stupid shoes. Come on, this is so weak said. He passed uh a law and then began to move idols into the temples Um Trajan shows up in 98 through 117 A. He shared that testimony with us last week about his dad dropping him off of college and then every time he turned it back he said How many times have they been He's a fisherman, right? And that hurts, by the way, but doesn't rise to the level of specific The character of your life should be that like Christ, and Christ suffers. So, enough with the Noble Life Theory. We know that he did it. It was horrible what happened to God's chosen people None of you get out of this unless the Lord comes again. So for forty years, God's presence It's if necessary. Resist him. And I just love this. I think there were three or four emperors that like So clearly some there. You are chosen exiles That God will give praise and glory to his people. Check it against every thought and intention of your heart. He had an economic problem. Now, I gotta hurry, as if I haven't been. It's not specific suffering. Right? That is what I said. Three particular amazing manifestations But look how Peter turns this. And now I'm ready, with no time left, to teach verses six through nine. So there's no risk. So this noble lie theory where somebody um So we get all these really interesting insights. It's not burning in Nero's garden type suffering. He doesn't specifically call that out in this verse. That's one I just wanted you to note here. I don't care how you feel in this circumstance. You want to know who he wants you to think you saw? Um because the Jews at Rome caused continuous disturbance So what did he do? They are an exclusive people. D. We may be There's a And the word that she used, by the way, doesn't occur outside of Biblical Greek. So I think it's seventy-five now is life expectancy. We're not exactly sure when it stopped. You know what we get to do during our exile? One or two of them may annoy you, and we'll see how that goes. D. Instruction to servants with unjust masters. It's an imperative kind of statement. More recently we believe it's actually , you had Augustus. You were no good. So everything about Jerusalem And I apologize for the dryness of it, but but not for the exercise itself. So that was gone He called them out and separated them It's not in Peter, and I may be making this up, so I'll confess that to you. I don't again I'm not trying to make light of something that's very important He fills you. Nobody quite fell asleep on me. And there was some That is the conspicuous He he wasn't a man of state or finance or , he's pretty good for a little while. We have uh multiple historians that recorded the event, the dates. You screwed up, you're not allowed into the inheritance right now. I don't have time to share all the verses with you now. Based on what we just read, every one of you is in exile within. I can't remember how Caligula came in. So there's always clashes. Satan looks to sift you There's no reason at all to believe that uh Silas For some reason he really targeted that area And that's that's a bit important as we talk about this, right? That was the inheritance. It's consp I'm apologizing a little bit for the nature of this lesson He would have been right near that Persian area well as well It is never right to do wrong to get a chance to do right. And so that's that's really my motivation here. They became the upper crust I'll come back to some of the specificness of the wording, but that's if Uh that uh that persecution was He didn't he didn't round them all up and kill them Frank spent an entire lesson on that. According to his great mercy, he chose us to be that. And he was busy, so he didn't have a chance to set up another program There's no sort of And that way you can go, I totally disagree with his biases, and so I think he's wrong, right? So there's there's nothing that says that didn't happen. Other than that Now we've seen that happen. But there it is. Not what we found in Ecclesiastes. He was out pretty quickly. That is outside of us. But I want to share my research with you. Christ suffered, you're going to suffer too They had a shadow of the thing that would be fulfilled. I but that's not probably the right characterization of it. We will spend no time at all on it. Um Uh y you should probably resonate with those names Not gold and treasure and silver, but basic needs of life. And I took two young women and I tortured them. Conspicuous in your government office, it's conspicuous in your marriage It's it's basically what we call modern day Turkey This is a tough problem. I I I can't get it right because it was two thousand years ago and I don't have enough What what did you say, Mindy? You know, so there's a hierarchy, Pliny's down here, Tacitus It only took him a couple months to reopen animal trade. Of reciprocal acceptance Where did our tax base go? Uh send me send me the bill and I'll pay you for the therapy session. And of course this was something Jews wouldn't do. Clearly there is suffering in view. I I looked. Blessed! That's the possible or potential suffering. Um there are almost thirteen different arguments for why Peter didn't write this. As a result, a lot of the studies, by the way, are going to focus on the We know what that looks like He says, resist the devil. I don't care how somebody else feels about you and what they say about you. You'll notice he only reigned about five years, four years. So there was a considerable thing of you know there was tolerance. That's not my point. I've I've blown my schedule But that's perfect. That doesn't suggest You would have expected him to play up the whole Christian persecution thing. I couldn't find that exactly He spent all of his time studying. Um I don't want you to trust me Bold underline If you're a Christian, you recognize that you don't get derailed from God. And uh And here in three So Here we go. I'm glad he did. If you're talking to a group of people It's like slander. As a matter of fact, you're going to die in the wilderness. As a matter of fact, we know that happened with other books of the Bible. After he chose them to be exiles. D. Who's the enemy there? This monotheistic We do not know what it is. I'm not even Southern, but I'll play that one. But there's another one that's even better. , so he rules a good long time. Lord, please be He was somewhat of an embarrassment to this No such thing We actually know what days it is. Okay The manna. Thank you very much.