So today we're covering uh first Peter four uh verses one through six. And uh the title today uh is called The Triumph of Suffering. I should also maybe say the Triumph in Suffering. Uh But we will uh kind of unpack that as we move forward. New computer, very sensitive. I didn't even mean to do that, so it just changed. So uh can someone uh read Chapter four verses one through six. If you have it open in your Bible or if you can even just read it up off of here if you want, but uh would somebody like to read? Go for it. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So, as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for eating passions, but for the will of God. But the time that is past suffices for doing the wheel. What the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, compassion, drunkiness, orderies, drinking party, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. aligning, but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached, even to those who are dead, that though judgment, sorry, that though judged in the flesh, the way This is the make one of the most difficult callings uh in 1 Peter. Uh it it's uh we'll get into it some more, uh but uh this is a high command. This is this is Christianity one oh one. This is what you must be if you intend to name the name of Christ. This is how far you must go. Second note, there's some interpretive things that I also kind of will get into today. Um I mean w what does he mean when he says that uh those who have suffered in the flesh have ceased from sin and skipping on down to the gospel was preached even to those who were dead, well what does he mean by like by that. What what does that mean? Uh there's a lot of commentaries here that that jump around all over the map here. You get some things and you get other things, but when you just read the plain language of scripture and you read it the way it was in the comments. context and the proper interpretation, I I could only come away with one uh one takeaway from this. And uh for me it was uh it it it makes me think about Philippians one twenty and twenty-one. Uh it is my eager and expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now, as always with Christ, will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For me To live is Christ and to die is gain. Are you ready? Are you prepared? Are you capable? Of standing strong, standing firm when suffering comes. Are you really, really willing to give your life for the gospel of Jesus Christ? Can you do that? Is that in you? Uh you know, I mean what just back up a minute. What what do people you know when somebody dies You go to their funeral, you go to the their friends, their family, their loved ones. What do you what do you say to those people? Like what do you what what comments do you make? What's the most common things that you hear? Anybody Wanna add They're in a better place. Oh they're in a better place, yeah. Yeah, they're they're in a better place. If you're a Christian, you say, oh they they've gone on to glory, right? Uh yeah, so they're in a better place Um the idea that there's something beyond where we're at now. Uh what do you tell people when they're really sick? potentially terminally sick when when when you see them, what what do you what do you say to them? It's open, you really it's for discussion. What what do you say to somebody who has stage four cancer? I think it depends on whether or not you know if they're state, because then that changes the whole complication. Yeah, definitely it it definitely changes the conversation if you know that they're saved. Uh how about we pretend that they're not saved for just a second. And then maybe we'll do saved afterwards. But if they're not saved, what do you What do you tell 'em? Should tell them the gospel for the thing. Yeah. There's a level of urge their only hope. Absolutely. There's a level of urgency as a Christian that you want to communicate uh to this person the gospel of Jesus Christ because you know what what why why would you why the urgency? Because we're dying and there is life after death even if you're not going to heaven and it's supposed to be because if you're not saved and you die, what happens? Go to hell. Right? Is there any two ways about that? Is scripture unclear in that area? Is there anybody who reads something other than what I read when I read scripture and it's says to those who are unbelieving, they're bound for hell. Right? They are enemies of God and the and and God does not let his enemies into his heaven. He makes his enemies his friends through the gospel, right? He makes his enemies his children through the gospel. But if you come before him unbelieving, that's that's your option. You go straight to hell. There's none left, right? But what if they are believers? Then what do you say? We've had this discussion in our small group and how uh sometimes we like to talk about reverence eight twenty is that it uh about God using all things together for good. Um and sometimes uh we some of us are saying we don't want to hear that, even as believers. It's so difficult. But but you don't you don't wanna know the the good news. You want help for the right now here now. But that's a verse that you often closed. Yeah, Roman yeah. Romans A well yeah there's also you You know, the y you the the praise you in the storm. You know, you're gonna encourage the believer to kind of continue along in the faith, to continue to pray, and you pray for those people, you help those people, right, because they're like members of your family, so you bring 'em food. or you help their family members, or you do whatever. It's um it's it's what we do as Christians, right? Has anybody here ever known a person who's been martyred for the faith of Jesus Christ. Does anybody here know a person who died for their faith? Oh well yes I'm talking okay that's in scripture, but I'm talking personally known. I haven't personally either. Um of course it wasn't all that long ago uh when uh I forget what the name in Lebanon and in Syria and they were executing Christians, they would go into their homes, they would pull them out, they would write this symbol on their door and they would slaughter them in front of their doors. Um certainly there's many in China who've been perfect. Persecuted for their faith. Certainly there's uh you know uh throughout the centuries uh there's been persecution after persecution after persecution. What do you say to them? What do you say to a person who is in the midst of extreme persecution? What do you say to that person to comfort them? What do you say to them about their calling. You tell them 1 Peter chapter 4 Verses 1 through 6. That's what you tell them. This is, uh, as one commentator noted, a message to the Purple Heart. This is the message to the ones who have been asked to go and stand and name the name of Christ in spite of suffering. tough message. It's a tough message. It's hard to uh what do you say to people in those moments? How do you speak to people in those moments? And we've had so many uh in the past. Uh Athanasius uh at the Council of Nicaea battled the Arian conspiracy. Uh conspiracy, I'm sorry, Arian heresy. Um and uh and uh he was victorious in the Council of Nicaea, right? So he walked away from the Council of Nicaea and they had said, Okay, it's it's it's not homoosiasis, homoousiasis, he's one substance, he is God, Jesus is God, the matter was settled. But was that the end of the story? In fact it wasn't. Arius would go on uh Arius would go on, he was a skilled politician, and he would worm his way into the ranks in of Roman emperor, the Roman uh politics, and Athanasius found himself in Alexandria battling this heresy battling this heresy and and at one moment uh he was called before men and he was told, Athanasius, do you realize that you are fighting, that the whole world is against you? And Athanasius said, I shall stand then against the world. Because he knew what Scripture taught. And he would not back down. Martin Luther died of worms. Told, will you recant? Your statement that salvation is by faith alone. And Martin Luther said, Here I stand. I can do no other. My conscience is bound by the Word of God. Are you ready? Are you ready for that? Mentally ready for that? Are you prepared, as we talked about two weeks ago, to make a defense? To make a defense To put forth a word when a word is asked, to stand in that moment. Are you willing to join all of the those who were martyred before us. And it's it's easy and and I guess that maybe if you know so I it sounds very dark and very heavy and it is, of course. But I I think the thing is is that sometimes as Christians we will say one thing and act in another way and and I think the mental preparation and the understanding that this is who we really are called to be can sometimes be eye opening. Eye opening not necessarily in how we speak, because most people who are Christians would say, oh yeah, I'll die for the faith. But eye-opening if they reflect inwardly and ask themselves that question. What if someone takes your child? Puts them under a gun and says, if you don't deny Christ, I will kill your child. What will you do in that moment? How will you live in that moment? What will you say in that moment? Are you prepared? It's tough, isn't it? It's tough. You know, we um Well, I guess that's down the road here, so I'll I'll I'll move on. So that's really the big idea, right? That uh this is Peter's encouragement to those who are going to endure suffering. In particular those who are going to endure great suffering. Because that's who he has in view. People who are going to endure suffering even to death. Frank, I I had a comment. Just in in terms of like our day to day living, there's um I usually take practice opportunities to engage with people. in my neighborhood spiritually. And it's kind of random people that I'll uh when I'm out exercising and so I'll ask them if they have a church and if they know the significance of Jesus, why it was necessary for Jesus. to die a cruel death and and then uh be raised. So it's it's a practice opportunity for me and maybe God uses it in a person's life. for for eternal purposes. But I do I do find it's a it's a way that we can ramp up in giving a defense. And it's it's interesting, it's a challenge to try to give a a credible um answer for their their questions about what about this and what about that. So it's not a it's not a life or death situation as described in Peter, but it Um it's a way that anyone can just get some experience in giving a giving a defense and to have some scriptures memorized so that that helps helps students to guide the answer or the conversation. Um so I I wanted to add that's a that's a practical way of ramping up and Yeah, yeah I I think that's really good. I I I would even go as far as say It's not, you know, practice quote unquote, but it's you know, you never know who you're speaking to or when you're speaking what word that will give or fill into them. So I think that's that's really great. Um I'm gonna piggyback kind of on that. How many people in this room are Christians and have given the gospel. Hopefully everybody raises their hands. How many people have actually given the gospel of Christ to unbelievers? Raise your hands. Go ahead. Raise your hands. How did that feel in that moment? Were you nervous? It's kind of frightening, wasn't it? You don't know what the reaction of that person is. And there's always this kind of barrier, you know. Uh so How many people okay just keep your hands up for a minute, how many people have given the gospel to complete strangers Okay, so a few of us I think in some ways when you give the gospel to complete strangers it's a little bit easier in the sense that there's no emotional risk, right? There's i y when you're giving it to them you're like okay Okay, this guy can think I'm an idiot, this guy can call me names, this guy could whatever, but at the end of the day I'm gonna go home and the consequence level, let's say, is a little bit lower. But how many people have given to someone in their family? or a very, very close friend. Risk level's a little bit higher there, right? Risk levels a lot higher there because then you have the potential to affect your family life, affect your your um your dealings with people. P How about people at work? Have you given the gospel to people at work? Raise your hand if you have. Again, very risky. It affects your livelihood. What if you give the gospel to someone and get fired for it? Is it easier to give the gospel to someone who's unbeliev uh who you've never met? As the risk level increases, I guess as I'm saying, what's happening in your heart? Okay? What's happening to your adrenaline? Is your heart beating more? Is it more fearful? What about if you're giving the gospel to someone with a sword in their hand? I can imagine. You've done this? Oh my gosh, I gotta hear this story now. mind and if God really loved humanity why would he have allowed the least to die? And I was, you know, talking to me and he said I said, Okay, what is your name? I'll pray for you first. Don't even pray for me. Well really grieving and that was the fourth time I really fight something like a blasphemy and I was shaking. I was dragging a heart to pass 'cause I couldn't drive. I I felt it to my bones that I've never seen something like that, but I pray for praise for me. Incredible story. Thank you for sharing that. So one person with the s one person with a sword in their hand. Go ahead. the young girl who faced her pillars and she gave them a dog bowl um before she was and um that I just remember thinking looking back it's such incredible things. Yeah, the the the testimonies there are incredible. It's something we'll we'll unpack as we move along, but yeah, you you're right. Those testimonies then become incredible right incredible testimonies that you have because they they stood. Yeah so um yeah so keep all of that in view. We're gonna go ahead and and move forward but um Uh verse one, therefore. Since therefore Christ has suffered in the flesh, and y we know the rule, right? Anytime you hear therefore you gotta know you you gotta find out what the there is for. So you're gonna look backwards, right? Uh hopefully we've we've said that about fourteen hundred times throughout the course of this this uh class. Um so what does Peter then have in view when he says, since therefore Christ has suffered in the flesh. I mean, just plainly speaking, uh he intends to present Christ as an example, right? And how did Christ suffer in the flesh? How did Christ suffer in the flesh? Well he suffered in in a couple of different ways. Practically, he suffered unto death, right? Practically he could suffer unto death. And you can refer back to three, I believe it's verse eighteen, yes. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but Made alive in the spirit. So when you go to that verse, and of course um I I actually should have noted this earlier, so Scott's going to teach it verses eighteen through twenty-two next week. Uh there's a bit of a schedule change. We had the skipping week. Scott couldn't teach this week, but he had already prepared this lesson, so I allowed him he will teach this next week. So I'm going to cover these verses only in as much as it pertains to the current verses that we're going through. Uh and then Scott will deal with the weightier issues of what on earth does he mean when he preached to the spirits in prison and he gets to have all the fun with that exegetical um uh difficulty. So uh But i here in verse eighteen he says, For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. spirit and there you see how did Christ suffer in the flesh. And since it's therefore, this is exactly what Peter has in view. You can also flip back to uh chapter two, verse uh twenty So again See Christ here is being presented as an example. He's being presented as an example of suffering as he was in the master's passage. It was an example of extent. To what extent does a slave submit to his master? Master, to what extent does he submit to those authorities? And here, to what extent are you willing to suffer? But he's bringing that out. So there's two aspects here The extent to which he suffers unto death, and also the extent to which His suffering brought triumph. Did you catch that in verse eighteen? Did you catch that in verse eighteen? For Christ also suffered once for sins. the righteous, that's Christ, for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Did you catch that? His greatest moment of suffering brought about his victory. His greatest moment of suffering resulted in his greatest triumph. Because Christ suffered in the flesh, you sit here today reading his word Because Christ suffered in the flesh, because he died for sin, because he bore your sin, you've been called. That would never have been possible had Christ not suffered in the flesh Did you get that? And then he says he says uh going back to verse four. Arm yourselves with this same way of thinking. Arm yourselves with this same way of thinking. Uh what was Christ's way of thinking? Can someone read Hebrews two twelve? Saying it, I will declare thy name unto my brethren and the name of the judge, right? Things called unto the Hebrews? Hebrews? Two twelve? Twelve I'm sorry, twelve two. Did I say two? I was just checking you guys. You guys were like Hey, just read it. Looking at the teachers, we offer a thing for our thing. This for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despite him the same, and he sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So why did Jesus Endure as it says, endure uh endure the cross, despising the shame. Why did Christ do that? What is the what does this what does the verse say? For what? joy that was set before him. A couple of weeks ago we talked about how to live a good life and see good days. Right? To have joy in your heart, to have peace in your heart. Why? How? By by serving your Lord by living righteously. Right? Here is exactly what Peter has in view. Christ's way of thinking was because of his obedience to God, because he was obedient to God. And he understood that what lied before him beyond the suffering, beyond the shame was triumph. It was his ultimate triumph. His result, the result of his suffering was his greatest triumph. The result of his suffering was glory to God Right? And then Peter goes on to say, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. There's a lot of different interpretive difficulties with this. There's a lot of very good Bible scholars. Ones will say, well, you know, once you've proved That you're willing to stand for the gospel and you've suffered for the gospel, then You're you're declared, so to speak. You're declared to the world as to to what what the metal is that you're made up of. Let's let's say it that way. What you're made of in that moment, because you were willing Athanasius wasn't uh martyred in that moment when he stood up, but everybody knew what he stood for, right? Everybody knew who he was, and then they'll go on to verse two and say so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. And they say that is him explaining exactly the point that once you suffered in the flesh, it's like you have raised up your level to the world around you. The problem with that, the the problem with that is is it doesn't quite fit the context. Right, how did Christ suffer? What did Christ mean when he said he suffered? What did Peter mean when he said Christ suffered? When he said Christ suffered, he meant Christ suff How do I know that? Because I can read three eighteen. I could read two twenty And I know that's exactly what when he says Christ's suffering, it's exactly what he has in view. He's just said it. He's just said it. So there's a difficulty in saying, well, it's about having been persecuted. for your faith, that you and maybe there's an element of that that's true, by the way. So I mean I think if you walk away with that interpretation, fine. Okay, I'm not gonna beat you up over it. It's just it doesn't fit the context. And it doesn't allow for maybe it allows for that range, but it doesn't really hold into view what I think Peter has in view here. I think what Peter has in view here Is that if you die, you cease from sin. Right Who is there to harm you if you do good? That's verse 13, 23, 313. Now, who is there to harm you if you're zealous for what? is good. Verse 3, chapter 1, verse 3. You have an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. Right? Set your hope fully. Set your hope fully. Verse, I think it's verse four. Verse four. Set your hope fully. I'm sorry, that's actually further down. Set your hope fully on the uh praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Right? hope fully on your ultimate salvation when you go to glory. That's what Peter is talking about here. Right? And now he's talked about suffering in the midst of trials and you know be prepared to have a good defense. When somebody asks you your witness, your testimony, to keep it clean, to live an excellent life. Why? So that when somebody reviles you, you can put them to shame Right? And now he's talking about those who have suffered the ultimate price. You see how how that comes about? So then you say, well, well so what does he s mean when he says, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God? What does that mean? Well, let me ask you the First question, how much do you hate sin? How much do you hate sin? I mean Peter's been talking about living an excellent life and doing these things and longing for the pure milk. How much do you hate sin? Maybe we don't hate sin enough. Maybe we just don't hate sin enough. And the comfort of warm cars and warm buildings. Maybe we don't hate sin enough that the notion of ceasing from sin, maybe that doesn't sound like a good enough reward. Maybe we just need to hate sin more. Right? And that's what Peter's talking about. If you live your life contending against sin, contending against flesh. In previous classes I referred to, Peter refers to it looks like a mule, right? body is like this mule and it just doesn't want to obey and you have to beat it into obedience. And you spend your life preaching the gospel, living the ministry, having a life that is honoring to God, and for that you're going to be persecuted for that you're going to suffer and for that you you say Lord come take me away whenever you're ready take me I'm here I'm for you I'm submitted to you You. And I hate sin, but you battle sin. You hate sin, but it's stuck in you and it won't go away. When does it go away? When does it cease? That word cease, by the way. is the same word that's used when Christ stills the water in the lake, when he calms the waves. He tells it what? He says, you know, he says, stop, and it stops. That's the word. It just stops. When does sin stop for you? I just um make sure I'm understanding the entire flow of thought here. And what you're saying in certificate is. You're saying that we need to have the mindset of Christ in us so that we are prepared even to give our lives and sacrifice for the gospel. And then he's saying in verse two, But even if you do not pay that final price of being killed for your faith, this is how it affects and impacts your life. This is what it will look like moving forward from verse two. Right, exactly, exactly. So that's that's exactly the flow of thought. Thank you for for stopping us there a little bit. Does everybody get that? Is that clear how this is being stated? So suffer as Christ. If you should suffer unto death, you cease from sin. You go to glory. And if you have that in view, then verse two, verse two makes a whole lot more sense. For the rest of your time. That's the actual Greek. The rest of your time, the idea of being on earth for this time, your sojourning on this earth. Exactly what Peter's been talking about For three chapters. Right? You are an elect exile of the diaspora. You stand out. You're called into this holy life. And you're to live this way, to be an example, right? So for the rest of your time as an example on earth, cut out the human pain. Passions. Right? If you have this attitude so as to live for the rest of the time no longer in the flesh, or no longer for human passions, but for what? For what? What does it say? But for what? For what? It's okay. For the will of God. Right? For the will of God. So yeah, absolutely, 100% what's in view here. If you have the right attitude about your life, is that not painted all over scripture? For he who loves his life will Surely lose it. Right? Christ says, They hated me, they will hate you. Right? Romans 8:5. For those who live according to the flesh, set their minds on the things of the flesh, but for those who live according to the spirit, set their minds on the things of the spirit. Is that not a common command in Scripture? This is a very practical way of bringing this this idea into fold. It's a very, and I love this about 1 Peter. Okay, it's a very practical application here. Alright, look, you guys are going through suffering. He says you're gonna suffer, suffer well. Don't suffer for doing bad things, suffer for doing good things, live an excellent life. Carry on an excellent life. Right? And if you live a good life, who's going to harm you? What can you do to a Christian? What can you take from a Christian? Frank, I I have to admit that it's it's easier for for me to be a a critic of someone else's walk with the Lord. And Um like even my father who passed away three years ago. It's like okay, now he is he ceased from sin. Um but yet he I felt confident he was a believer. But still there were just wrong priorities and so I could see that in another individual or I could see it in this person or that person. But because I'm a fish swimming in water, I it's hard for me to critique my own uh Yeah, uh i i i it that's um thank you for that that's a that's an excellent testimony because I think everybody shares that. Right. I mean I think if you go back to chapter three verse eight When he talks about having unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, having a tender heart, having a humble mind, when he talks about those things as being essential to the elements of being a Christian, the humble mind is, you know, as John MacArthur said, that's one of the That's the most important of Christian attributes. Because if you can't smell yourself, you can't fix yourself. Right? So the humble mind is essential to it to attaining this hate for sin. Because if you're honest with yourself, if you're really honest, I mean I know, look, in your prayers, be honest. Honest with yourself. What are you really? What are you really? Do you serve God with all your heart, all your mind, all your soul? I mean look, I try and I fail. Like that's just true. Okay, so if maybe that makes me a bad teacher or whatever, I'll go sit down. But the reality is in my prayers, the first thing I always confess is, I'm sorry that I don't put you First in everything that I do. And I struggle to put him in that place and I struggle to keep him there. And and I think if you're honest with yourself and you look in your heart, you're gonna find the same problems because you know what? You got sinned too. How do I know you got sin to? Not because I'm judging you, because that's what the Bible says. And the Bible's true. And it says you got sin in you. Right? So if you're honest with yourself, if you're humble in mind and spirit, and you're really looking at yourself, you're going to find out how far short you are of this. How far short you come to that and in those moments, you have to be honest And if you're honest enough with yourself, you're going to start hating sin. It will become the thorn in the flesh that you just want to get rid of and it never goes away. And when you hate sin that much, when you hate sin that much, The idea of going to glory and ceasing from sin sounds like an awfully good idea. You understand what I'm saying? That's what Peter's saying. That's what Peter's saying. And when you have that mindset, you will live the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. when you have that mindset. So how do you how do you get that mindset? What are some of the ways, I mean this is I'll open this up for discussion. What are some of the ways Maybe reflecting on on what sin did to Christ. What did sin do to Christ? Took his life. Right? He had to die to bear your sin. Christ didn't have. He never sinned. Murdering Christ Murdering Christ was the single greatest injustice this world has ever seen. Do you ever think about that There has never been a greater injustice than the murder of our Lord and Savior. You ever think about that? Like have you ever stopped and hmm. He did nothing. Nothing. Nothing. And I I know when I think of these in my meditations, I I think of all of the great injustices, millions of people that died in Russia, millions of Jews that died in in in you know, is that injustice not greater than the injustice of murdering a perfectly innocent man? Answer, no. Murdering Christ was far worse. The creator of the The universe took on flesh and came to us and we murdered him What could be more unjust than that? Right? What could be more unjust than that? And what caused that sin? Yep. Frank, wanted to answer your question about um how we what are the means of that we can become sanctified or grow in our sanctification. One I know For me one very underutilized means is relying on the church uh relationships of rapport with church members, whether it's a small group or members in our family to actually be humble and ask, okay, where where do you see where I'm not doing what I should? Uh just being very humble and inviting that type of But to but to have to build the relationship we're for and to actually do that initiate that in other people to um so there's the opportunity to give give input and for iron to sharpen iron. Yeah. Yeah, then maybe that brings out the second thing I would say about how you learn AIDS and think about what it's done to you and your family. Think about what it's done to you and your friends. Think about what it's done to you in your life. Sin destroys everything. Sin destroys everything. You are dying because of sin. You you You have you have a death sentence put on. You don't know when the execution date is. But man, you could stand up and you could walk out these doors and boom fall dead. I don't care if you're one or a hundred and one. You don't know what When. You just don't know when. But you're gonna die. Why are you gonna die? Because of sin. Why did you lose loved ones? Why did you have loved ones who fell away? Why did you have loved ones who Won't follow Christ in spite of your pleading with them. Sin. Sin You should hate that sin. If that doesn't i i if if looking at the fact that sin killed Christ is not enough to hate sin, then just look in your own lives and see the destruction it's caused. Just see the way it has wrought your life in directions unknown, untold. Everybody has pain. Everybody's had pain. Go ahead. Well, I want to well, also with my kids to think about and talk about what it is to Israel. Because for thousands of years Israel was getting The right access to God. This is what the Messiah's gonna be like. This is what the Messiah's gonna be. I'm sending my Messiah, Messiah, Messiah, Messiah But because of the sin that they were entrenched in, the Messiah came and they missed it. Mm-hmm. And so in a same way, in little ways, the sin that we're not just like assessing in our own lives is stopping us from hearing God and from community with God. Yeah, absolutely. The worst possible situation. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, a hundred percent. I I agree. It's uh it also stops our communication with with God. So it it murdered Christ, it's destroyed your life, and it keeps you from God. Go ahead, Ron. I start. There's also another side to that pancake, and uh it's really brought out in the um in the parallel passage in Paul, which is Romans six, one through fourteen. And um you really brings it out by saying, for if we have to become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this, that our old self was crucified with him in order that our body of sin might be done away with. So that we would no longer be slaves with sin, for he who has died is free from sin. Just exactly what Peter's saying in this passage. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ having And raised from the dead is never to die again. Death no longer is master over him. So the death that he died, he died once to sin. But the life that he lives, he lives to God. Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive. to God in Christ Jesus. So therefore you have not only this idea that you're dead to sin, um, but also there's this life in Christ. And so I think we have to always have a balance of those two things. Um a focus on the fact that we do have sin and that our sin nailed Christ to the cross, but also we have life in Christ. So um I think we need to have both. We need to have this this real idea of hatred for sin, but also a love for Christ and life in Christ and this fact that you have have um this opportunity to live life of Christ. Um so and it comes it comes out later in Romans two, Romans chapter seven and Romans chapter eight. Paul's struggling with his own sin in Romans chapter seven and then Romans chapter eight, who will save me from this body of sort of yeah. So yeah, I I think um and we'll well actually we'll get into this in the following because You're right, you're a hundred percent correct, right? Those are parallel passages here. Th the fact of the matter is I I wouldn't say that it's the the other side, I think they they're kind of intertwined with one another. The more you hate sin, the more you're going to love. Christ. Right? The more you turn away from your flesh and live for the will of God, the more you look forward to the author and finisher of our faith, right? The more you you you want to grow crucify the flesh in you, the greater your appreciation for the one who crucified will who was crucified will be. It it's I I think you you called them opposite sides of the pancake. I didn't mean to suggest that you thought they were separate. Um but For me the connectedness in those things is is I I I believe specifically how Peter has this in view with respect to suffering and even unto death, right? So that's why I want to just clarify that a little bit. Um I saw someone else with a hand Okay. Maybe I didn't see someone with hand. See? I I guess a little bit. I don't know what I'm saying. Okay, I thought it was you, but I wasn't gonna call you out unless you uh interest well I guess but uh It's like in Deuteronomy, it's like God was telling um Moses to have the law read like every so often so that people can learn through your gut. So I guess just reading the Bible. Yeah, yeah, I mean Yeah. Um I'm just thinking about it for you. Okay. Yeah. Um Yeah, so I'm gonna okay, so looking ahead, uh going on to verse three, since Rob is pushing us and so is the clock, so we're gonna We're we're gonna move forward. For the time is past, p uh Peter says. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Uh and and maybe I would rephrase that to say For the time is past for you doing what the Gentiles want to do. What your life before Christ is past Your life before Christ has passed. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, lawless idolatry, you get this list of things. The the painting here and by the way just as a matter of of uh understanding uh context within First Peter, these passages here clearly point we this question came up last quarter, but I'm gonna bring it up again. Again, because I think this is this is one of the passages you would point to with this. How do we know that Peter is speaking to Gentile believers? One of 'em is this list. Okay, one of 'em is this list. This is a list that would be typical of the Gentile world. Okay, so your time has passed that you were doing these Gentile things. Right? Your time has passed that you were living in this way, and these people are living like animals. following along in their passions, living in debauchery, uncaring, unfearing of the sin in their life, of the things that have gone on. They are just existing in as in enmity with God. They are the opposite of what is holy. They are the opposite of what is holy. And you You don't do that anymore. That is not who you are anymore. And then this brings up what Rob was talking about. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing. comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. So so, you know, again We hate sin. We live a life in reflection of that idea that we are willing to suffer and die for Christ because you can't take anything away from us. And now he says this time is past. And then he says, with respect to this, with respect to this, and now he's going to get back to what we were talking about a couple of weeks ago. In verses uh thirteen through seventeen, when we talked about uh who is there to harm you for what is good uh what is what is good, but even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you'll be blessed. Have no fear of them or be troubled, but honor in your Christ in your heart Christ is Lord or uh Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defence to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Here again he's bringing. this idea back to fold. So look, they think it's strange. ESV says surprise, but doesn't really carry the full weight of the Greek here. The idea here, the the word is zenito, to be astonished at. something that is so strange. It's really curious. It it it emo is this word zenito, it's where we get the the root word of xenophobia. Just to give you kind of some idea of the the the level of of emotion that this idea should present to you. They they don't just they're not just like, oh whoa, that was shocking. No. They are they are astonished. I I can't believe this. When I first put my faith in Christ, um I had a a really, really good friend. Uh his name was Cameron and we we went through high school together. We were we were buds, you know. Um we were lockstep buds, you know. Uh we did role-playing games together, we you know, traded comic books, we collected comic books together. Um I mean we were we were really good friends, you know. We traveled, we were on drama team together and we went and we did drama together. We I mean we were really good friends. Really, really good friends. Um very close friends. And uh um I'm not gonna get too much into my testimony, but you know, I was very much anti-Christian. Very much anti-Christian before I came to faith in Christ. And so when I professed Christ He was astonished. I I remember seeing him for the first time uh after having professed Christ and um you know and I was I was a new believer and so I was just so happy to share like the gospel and I was like I couldn't man I everybody who talked to me I just I didn't let me tell you about this. Oh man I just open this up let's look let's read this. Erica will tell you I I was I was I was crazy about just trying to find whatever I I didn't care what The context of the conversation was. I just bring it in. You know, it was annoying to eat dinner with me because it was all I would talk about. And here's Craig Cameron. And he looked at me and he said, You have lost your Mind. You are crazy, he told me. You have lost your mind. And I don't even know who you are anymore. And he closed the door. He walked off. He's done. Friends for years. Best friends for years. He didn't want anything to do with me. He was astonished. He had an emotional reaction. And he He maligned me. You've lost your mind. You're crazy. You're crazy. Bam. Done. But I didn't live in Ponch's Skelatia, Cappadocia. I didn't live in sixty four AD. I lived in, you know, two thousand and what was that? Two thousand two, something like that. I I didn't I didn't live that I I live now. And so he slammed the door and walked away, wouldn't talk to me. We talked a little bit years later, but um here the emotional reaction was, persecute them. Here it was you know wrap them in blood and throw them to the lions. Here it was go ahead. Oh, well you wanna interrupt. Oh go ahead. Go ahead. So I remember when we did missions in Kenya and that was the weight that we were teaching those children because a lot of them were coming to the camp during the days, but They were gonna be going home for my grandma. And I know that we you did and Caden and myself had long conversations with children who um didn't know the Lord in the camp, but then they didn't know what they were going to do when they were Mm-hmm. And I think that is the same as if they were there in sixty four eight D. Yeah, and and um that's actually a a really good I I I would have used that as an illustration 'cause I think uh Um what was the name? There was a a a specific girl, um, and I cannot remember her name. Um but she you brought her to faith. It was oh Peyton, I'm sorry, you're right. Peyton brought her to faith. Peyton, nine year old Peyton at the time, brought her to faith in Christ and then she was immediately struck with terror because her family was Muslim. So you know I put my faith in Christ and I'm just happy and telling everybody she put her faith in Christ she was happy for two minutes and went oh my goodness I gotta go home. And when I go home I gotta tell my dad When I go home I gotta tell my mom when I go home what's there? What's waiting? Yeah, so that's a brilliant brilliant example. Thanks for reminding me of that. I I I again um Zanito, to be astonished. And they're astonished because you don't want to live the life that they live anymore. You hate that life. You loved it two weeks ago. What's your problem now? Man, we went out drinking last week. We went to this place last week. We engaged in debauchery that week. How can you now look at me and say you don't agree with doing it? You did it for 30 years. Two years. Right? You've done it for the what has changed? I refuse to accept it. You're going to come to me and tell me that now all of a sudden you've had a change of heart. And you don't want to do this? Well, I'm going to malign you. That's the response of the unbeliever. They're going to malign you. Christ says, if this world hates you, know that it has hated me before you. If you are of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. You align with Christ They will do to you what they did to Christ. You say you love Christ, you say you stand with Christ, they will do to you what they did to Christ. Are you ready? Are you ready? Are you ready for that? I don't think he says here I mean I can't find it. Maybe maybe it says some of you A selected few, they'll hate a selected few of you. The rest of you, they'll love you. But there's gonna be some of you they hate. It doesn't say that. I I I don't yeah, I don't see it in the text. He just says, If the world if you were of the world, the world would love you. But because you're not, the world's gonna hate you. I don't see any exceptions that apply to that, Christians. There's none. It's not there. You won't find it. The world will hate you. Does the world hate you? Does it? But they they will give an account. Apo Didomai. To reconcile, to render a word, to balance the scale, if you will. Who does that? Who do they give an account to? Ledger's about to be balanced. They don't know it yet, but their ledger is about to be balanced. Their ledger is about to be balanced. You're required to give a word, unbeliever. Who are they required to give a word to? Yeah, I mean it's it's right there to God. The God in judgment. They will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. Question. Is there anything more certain in life than death? No. There's nothing. You can actually avoid But taxes if you want. They say no, doesn't taxes, but you know what? You can actually kind of avoid taxes if you want. There's some people that do it. Rich people who have great lawyers can do it. You know, non rich people can do it. But But death is is a near certainty, right? Unless you get caught up into the clouds, you're gonna die. And when you die, what's gonna happen to you? You're going to give an account. You're going to give an account. You're going to either be found in Christ or not in Christ. And every one of your deeds will be broadcast. Cast before the Lord. Every single thing. Is the Lord omniscient? Is he all knowing? Can he bring up every single thing, things you've long forgotten about? When you were three and took a toy from your sister. Hit her on the head. I mean it starts right starts right there. Right? But everything. One hundred percent of your sins and someone's gonna bear it. Someone is going to bear the weight of those sins. God will judge those. Sins. God is going to judge your sin. He's either going to put that judgment on you, or he's going to put that judgment on. Christ. Either Christ bore your sins, or you will bear your sins. Are you capable of bearing your sins? I mean, do you really think you're going to go before a holy God? You really think you're going to go before a holy God and God says your righteousness, your greatest righteousness, the very greatest things that you do, they are like filthy rags. Filthy, filthy rags. Don't bring them to God. Don't bring your greatest deeds to God because those two are filthy. Your righteousness is like filthy rags before the Lord. You really think you can stand before an omniscient, omnipotent, all knowing, all seeing, all powerful, all present God? You want to go raise your head up to that? It's probably not going to go well for you. I mean, I'm not even going to say probably, it will not go well for you. You have no hope there. Your hope is in Christ. Your hope is in Christ. I'm gonna run out of time. So we'll give so uh God's judgment is righteous. And here in view what Peter really has is is kind of Revelation 610. Like he's saying here for those who suffered to death in the faith, right? He's saying to them, look, they will give an account Do the martyred saints care? Do the martyred saints yearn? The whole earth yearns. The whole earth yearns for the coming judgment. Right? Revelation 6. 10, they cried out. out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth How long? Romans 8. The earth groans. It's stuck bearing you. It's forced to deal with you. It doesn't love you, it hates you because you are cursed. And God has given it to you as grace and mercy But the earth groans. It longs to be destroyed and renewed. It looks forward to the judgment because it stopped dealing with you. It's kind of harsh. Also what Scripture says. So six. And this is why the gospel was preached. For this is why the gospel was cre preached, even to those who were dead. That though judged in the flesh the way by men, actually, the the the ESV says the way people are. But though judged in the flesh by men, they might live in the spirit according to God. They might live in the spirit according to God. Um Um this actually brings about the the John MacArthur says the reason that he felt this was put there was an assurance To believers. These are people who preached the gospel, raised up spiritual children, and those spiritual children were executed. And they died. And and you know from scripture that there was some trepidation about those who had died, because i in the early church everybody had this view like Christ was coming quickly. We don't we don't maintain that one, we do. w we should be maintaining that view that Christ is coming soon. Uh we don't do that enough, and that's a whole different discussion for another day, but but in their minds Christ was coming tomorrow. But these people had died What's going to happen to them? They died. We were waiting for the Lord, and the Lord He hasn't come. What happened to those people? I I know they were believers. And Paul and Thessalonians explains to the believer they're going to be raised up. going to be raised up. And Peter here is saying, the gospel was preached to those who are dead. That's why they're in glory. They have ceased from sin. They have ceased from sin. Bearing glory. Because though they were persecuted for their faith, though they were fed to the dogs, though they were beaten to death, though they were beheaded, though they were somehow martyred, That was the judgment of man. The judgment of man called them criminals. How do you get crucified? What's the Roman law? Why do you crucify somebody? They're criminals. You crucify a criminal who has no legal rights. That was the Roman edict. That's how it worked in Rome. Slaves could be crucified for just All kinds of stuff. Right? They crucified Christians. Why did they crucify Christians? Because they called them criminals. Common criminals That's what they were accused of being. They were judged according to man. But who was there to harm you if you were zealous? for what is good. If God is for us, who can be against us? To live as Christ To die is gain. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with this same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has been. As ceased from sin ceased from sin. They are living according to the Spirit. Go ahead. Frank, is is it any biblical axiom that we if we are believers that the only judgment that um all all of the sins that we're going to commit in the future, that those are attributed to Christ. And but what the cost is, it's the loss of reward. And and then also a loss of blessing in this life. So I guess there's two there's two costs. So i yeah, I I I don't have time to unpack that. I I think it's actually a really good question. So I don't wanna you know, but I I mean we're I think we're out of time unfortunately. Maybe thankfully. No, i it's actually a really good question. Um and I don't want to just leave it hanging. Uh other than just to say um yes, uh, especially how you interpret your blessings in this life, right? Your blessings in this life and the ability to serve the Lord. Right? If um if you're given an opportunity to suffer for Christ Christ, you're blessed. Right? If you're given an opportunity to give the gospel, you glorify God. If you're living your life in view of Him, and everything that you do, and all of your reflection of your life is Christ in you. in you right and there's nothing good in you but Christ in you if that is the the conduct and the th th then then you will be blessed. Not financially, not you know a and I know you don't that I'm I'm I'm certain Yeah, I'm certain you didn't mean that, but I just to clarify for the for the sense that that the blessings are you know and and the prizes are in glory. You don't live here, you live there. Your inheritance isn't here, your inheritance is there and that's where you're headed. And there is laid up for you a crown. And there is like Yeah so yeah, just to just to say I didn't think that that's what you meant, but I felt like yeah, just for the purposes of making the point. So okay, so we're we're out of time, so let's let's pray