Please be careful. But you can pursue the depth of that academic or height of that academic exercise, depending on how you want to take that metaphor. uh which really took up the majority of my time trying to understand them and why and where and how and um I'm gonna give you the historical view, uh which has been the one that has been prevalent really probably since the uh fourth century. Please don't get used to that phrase. We're going to reread verses three through seven. Not a morbid hope, not a boring hope, not a dead hope, not a you know a mundane hope, not a useless hope, not an ineffective hope, but a living hop to help you see the fire of God's word on his altar. How about that niggly grief or frustration that you have been carrying around about your role in life, your relationship with your spouse, your ability to interact with your children, your I mean fill in all the books? In two hundred eleven through three seven, Peter recognizes that you're calling to be exiles in this world and to conduct yourselves as citizens of the kingdom of Christ. Because I know how bad it is. And now I want to flip to Peter's testimony. Haven't you always heard that you're supposed to suffer for Christ's sake? Did it mean that they just needed to keep themselves occupied while they went through this difficult time? Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. All you did was sit around and go, Oh now we know. What sort of stupid lie is that? He didn't say you because thankfully Greek has one of those y'all type words, right? And they have their primary views, and we won't even discuss all their variations. So he offered the gospel to a group of people uh that lived at a time when the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ was n not had not happened yet, and so he went back and he gave them an opportunity uh And it was the dominant view until the latter fifty forty years of the twentieth century These three Apocrypha were found in uh a a single place in Ethiopia, or from the Ethiopian church. Their their desire, as near as I can tell, is to be as faithful to the exegesis of God's word as they possibly can be. Because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. And let him be your dread. And I'm told making this up, right? And after three days rise again. First twenty seven three thirty two. Rightly so. Yeah. what Solomon might have called the life under the sun, and the greater, truer existence we have eternally prepared in which a few, that is eight persons, were brought safely through the water. Peter's own experience in Acts five forty one. All right, morning everyone. It is always able to be felt, always able to be interacted with, always able to be experienced in ways that are meant to be meaningful to us. Disciplining and you know, being a brother, being a sister, being a father, being a grandson, being a son, whatever sorry. to make them dynamic, to keep you from being disillusioned and discouraged, wearied in your walk. Extremely difficult to understand. in the New Testament. Do not bow down at an altar with no fire. People, I'll say people rather than churches in Asia Minor to remind us that this isn't to categories, it's to individuals that confess Christ as Lord He wrote it to people. the last four weeks. it marked here, the centrality of Peter's own testimony in these chapters, then th then you really miss the the heart of the fire, right? or previously and then how that really qualifies him uniquely to write to us in the way that he's writing to us. Um there's some good stuff for us there and I want to bring it out. Now whether you want to talk about the power of God guarding the hope itself, or whether you want to talk about the power of God guarding you in your hope to make sure that you achieve it, or whether you would like to apply God's power to both of those contacts, keeping you is honoring to him. And he's trying to ignite a fire in their life that brings them through those difficult times until they receive the fullness of the blessing. the Lord God in your hearts. have a defense of your scriptures. with the world. At weird hours in the cold. Peter and he says, Do you love me? in scripture, but that's ultimately what he does say in that passage. Oof, I do not know the man. of suffering in Peter's theology. Ah, not us. after Christ's resurrection, Peter had gone back to fishing. And you know, you know the story, right? Before which Christ was yanked, and out in the courtyard of which Peter denied Christ those three times I love that. of what God did, and a joy to be counted worthy to suffer for the name. Peter and Acts five is what happened in Acts chapter two. um to uh uh uh to prize we receive the indwelling Holy Spirit and the the old man is dead, the new has come, there's there's all kinds of theology that Paul Gosterope this thing John goes through. The bottom line is we're a totally different person, right? to get Christ not to go to the cross. of you in that transaction as well. fire ring and I stand very close to it and it's effective for addressing the purpose for which I built it. disappear that fire I would say is is ensuring that that that's a genuine a genuineness with a genuineness of whatever. Probably not what February has in view throughout this throughout this epistle. for sins. used in the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, in the Septuagint translation of Leviticus when describing the offering required as payment and atonement for sin. took all the shame and guilt of all of his life before the Holy Spirit, and he realized that God took care of all of that, and there was no point in living after In the redeemed world. To suffer as a testimony for the glory of the Lord, even the way that Christ did, for the people that he's having patience on. View one is not a view that anybody really holds today, uh, except for um some Catholics. God the Father until the fullness of Christ came. uh or Clement of Alexandria, uh which is credited with with the Jesus descended into hell business and uh origin in the uh in the late second century AD. Uh nobody was particularly comfortable with that, and so uh you get the historical view. You know, w where the different things that you've heard or maybe think you know about this passage fall. are now in hell. Right? uh which in historical literature was often called the harrowing of hell, right? Most notably. the the normal man in the time when Peter was preaching or teaching would have thought about these discussions. And is therefore informative to us. commentaries that he dealt with. Starting in the mid-1980s, the Augustinian view was really deemed no longer credible. whether there's a fire on it or not. It doesn't say he stoically, you know, put another notch in his gun belt, right? All kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. and wives and husbands that were clearly wrestling with submission issues and love issues and authority issues and slave issues and society issues and government issues and tax issues. that affects every area of what they think and they say and they do and they feel. relate to my lesson or at least to my own heart as my own heart interacted with uh these studies over the last mm I've probably been working on this off and on for four weeks now. biased toward male roles for obvious reasons. each week with no fire on it and talk about the truth and see no effect in it, you harden your heart. it is that we approach the altar of God's truth like an academic exercise, which it it is. So that I do not know for certainty what Peter means. But if we miss the fact that Peter was communicating to a group of Christians which he intended to encourage, and as a matter of fact, uh it it's a little a shame this was after your lesson last week, right? So I introduced the difficulty of the passage. going to be in the analysis of the passage side. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. we're God's speaking to our hearts. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. Well, never mind. conduct in a world still dominated by the curse of sin. Because Christ is your Lord and because you named him as Lord, and that standard of conduct will set you outside of the paradigm of paradigm of norm normalcy, if you will, in this world. Regard the Lord as holy and let the flame of his truth burn brightly in your life so that when you are interacting with the world, it's alive and real and relevant and perceptible. Exasperation almost in his voice he said that's in scripture. Somebody in the room's like, What's pleasant about your argument? And he began to teach, this is Christ, then, that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed. the necessity of suffering in the plan and perfection and work of Christ For your accent betrays you. And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times, and he went out and wept. Is that a guy ready to suffer? He was willing to give up and to portray it all betray it all immediately. And there's the whole conversation between Jesus and Peter. flame of God's truth finally was kindled on the altar of facts and hopes that were in Peter's mind during that entire time of teaching that Christ did. Peter now gets pulled. And when they had brought them, they set them down uh excuse me, set them before the council, and the high priest questioned them, saying We strictly charged you not to teach in this name. As leader and Savior to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. Talking about lost versus saved and the fire is the conviction of the Holy Spirit or the fire like a passion of I really believe the Lord is sovereign, I'm going to do this with rejoicing uh uh The willingness, with a w what's the fire? Fundamentally the work of the Spirit in the life, our lives. by the word of God and by the work of the Spirit, that are exhorting their people to conduct themselves according to the standards of the new man. The answer is yes. It it w I feel like we make things too spiritual. Narrow that down to the specific reason for which I've said it here. He got that understanding as though he were ever going to pay or undo or mitigate the shame of all of those experiences before it. Suffered once for your sins, and it is done. either some event in your life or some consistent walk in your life that you've been struggling with. Never something we can say. Justice immediately and you see uh a little bit of this, I didn't make that up, right, or try to be moralistic about God's word there. of his plan for those people will come. other things. preaching to and what did he preach? I hope. interested to find that there was a lot of uh I don't want to say difference of opinion, that's not right, but just um how the different views had kind of been synthesized together into a lot of the conversation that, you know dead. the gospel through or by the Spirit of Christ in order to convert the unbelieving world. with the women of of Earth and had powerful giant children. For when I am weak, then I am strong. incorporating me into his grand purposes and his patience for other unbelieving people work in the encouragement of believing people. natural consequence of you living with your life set aflame for the glory of the Lord. in first Peter three, six. Um truth thing the truth, which in my biases, which I'm I'm happy to confess to you, always relate to the nature of God and his work working out. It numbs the mind. is an altar to know God. after a Sunday where you expected a flame of fire and found a cold altar. And we can pursue it and arrange those stones on that altar academically in the greatest of perfection. and have their lives set on flame by that truth, so that they would burn brightly for your glory. Who is Jesus Christ? people, pastors, commentators, scholars that you would care about. really toward the very end of the twentieth century. in a place where you are secure in the inheritance and the hope and keeping that hope in its fullest sense prepared for you in heaven. May be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. we can test our faith and find it satisfying to never have to fear probing into and pushing upon and thinking critically about the things that we have from Christ. It's the tested genuineness all the way through of what we have in Christ. Unless you think I'm through an abstract and philosophical there, what I mean there is my faith is sufficient to handle my very real challenges on Monday morning. as to whether or not I'm able to secure those hundred and thirty-three million dollars worth of opportunities. And this isn't, you know, like testimony hour or like feel bad for Scott. There will be all kinds of sufferings across the way. life you you know the the habitual drip in your life it leaves you at best numb in whatever area is being dripped upon and at worst callous A little bit. But his love of me as an individual and his care of me as one of his precious sons and daughters apparently doesn't extend to this area deeply personal and the other one is so deeply uncomfortable, but at least it's out there. pin into my heart every time they do it. You will be blessed. But in your hearts regard Christ the Lord is holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. But in your heart's regard, Christ the Lord is holy, is how apparently it's translated in the ESV. It's still a dead altar. Look at all these great truths that fit together so nicely in your altar. For you are not setting your mind on things of God, but on the things of man. in our thinking about ourselves before the Lord. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you mean. I'm just like you. in Matthew chapter twenty six by Acts chapter five, we had already had Acts chapter two, and then you go back to Acts chapter two, you have the Holy Spirit and Peter is on fire and preaches a great sermon in Acts chapter two immediately. through twenty-two. Right? Where he denied Christ. And with that said, let's dive in. A word that recur occurs once, basically, in the in the corpus that it's mentioned. Right? I'm the guy that drives to work in the car in the morning and remembers every sin I ever committed. It's like Peter's confronting that right here. Your suffering is not intended to punish you for a sin that Christ already paid for And confront your sufferings with boldness, not with fear and trepidation, thinking they're a result of what Christ has already accomplished on the cross. For you, the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. And then he said, Bring us to God. Well God is exercising patience today, which is why you will suffer in this world. And you say, well that that's really hard when you're at work and everything else. 319, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison. slight there was a possibility of a hundred and eighty different exegetical combinations of three hundred eighteen C through three hundred twenty. To try to be faithful to the exegesis and fit together some meanings. And was the dominant view till the latter half of the twentieth century. And that what Peter is trying to do here is show that Christ exercised total dominion over the fallen world w when when he did this. mid forties, 1940s, right, just after World War II, uh a a tremendous work. The suffering caused by doing right is always counterpointed by the blessing we receive from God. Right? 1 Peter 4. Do not be surprised when trials come. It's all through this passage. 3, 14 through 15, which is an adaptation of Isaiah 8, 12 through 1 Peter 3, 14 through 15, is an adaptation of Isaiah 8, Which makes all other fears pass away. I do. the texts that we s you we um Frank started last week, but if we forget that it's connected to those, that Peter is speaking to a group, uh a very diverse group of people, by the way, in a large Said my prayer in what I just said and so I'm asking you to be gracious to us. kept in heaven for you, who, by God's power, are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. I think we often come to that and we go, well that means God is testing the genuineness of our faith. That God refines us and tests us, that He is active in purifying us, right? things that we have from Christ. we need those to come in to some extent. the things in your life that you know are there. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will than for doing evil. Not not in riddles, right? on those first few verses, right? putting off the old man, putting on the new man, right? of of of seeking out and being genuine about your calling and what they're saying and that you're you're actually looking for that faith and building that faith up in you, preparing your mind, those kinds of adjectives that you continuously use. if you pop open any um do any amount of study in this passage y you will meet with uh um uh just a mountain of scholarly work on the topic. and people that just don't. uh the early fourth century and until just after World War II it was really the only view that was viewed as credible. And then a man named Dalton picked that up and said, okay, wait a minute. that is drearily le r uh played out in Stoicism. blessing and to lead us in a conspicuous joy for the glory of the Lord, even in the midst of our trials. That's a singular your. Is founded in the nature of God, his person, and his work. As a matter of fact, if I had to and and going to attempt to create an analogy for it, it's most like a fire A fantastic altar with not a liquefier upon it. in a polemic, an uh an official argument form. Which means he sent Romans and he brought in other peoples and he moved peoples around from other conquered lands to come in. And that you would be gracious to us, Lord, to set our hearts on fire, that this would not be difficult to kindle our lives. It is being secured for them in heaven through the power of God. of the fact that you have been chosen to be citizens of Christ's kingdom. Or maybe even worse, faithless in that area. An altar of the mind and an altar that has the presence of the Lord upon it burning brightly And then the next time we really see Peter is in Acts chapter 5. I wasn't specifically directing it toward any one of those. And so the reason I'm I walked you through all that is I want to be careful not to create some false dichotomy between all God and all man. specifically there is this continuous theme about genuineness. To repent. Of salvation has happened. um which which has that text even in uh their catechisms, at least the ones that I can think of. That's heralding. He would talk to you about the Book of Enoch, he would say that it established a tradition of thought during the time. By high calib the majority of high caliber scholars and and commentators. There's more in my notes that you can read if you want it. Nor be in dread, but the Lord of hosts, him you shall regard as holy. Arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, he says. It's a thing that is visible and bright. And never experience a lick of flame. Area that were not academicians, or or at least not all of them. I'm not sure that it's necessarily the main thrust of Peter in this passage, but that is a supportable statement through Scripture. By the way, you also see how Jesus Christ feels about that when we have no space for that kind of suffering You understand the significance of your accent is like theirs. With this fisherman, carpenter, Galilean group, right? Right? I say it's hard because it leaves me going, Lord, how could I possibly ask you for you know help at work when I've got nothing to bring? And and again, bunch of variations there that if you'd like I can talk to you about later, but uh that's what it is. Century. and about their interactions and and some other things. traditional concept of things about descending into hell and about where people went after they died and about fallen angels and God's judgment. And so God offers us opportunity for that rich blessing and to walk with us more closely than we've ever experienced in another and we eschew it. chapter two now, right? And he intends to lead it like a sovereign king, which we I think we often feel pretty detached from or intimidated by, but also victory over every little problem of our hearts and minds in the midst of it, to bring us goodness and to secure our You gotta go back to a job on Monday, and there are challenges at that job. In either case, in this, you rejoice. A little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials That's significant to me. That suffering is much and maybe even worse than if somebody came up to you at work and said, I don't like your position on sexuality and slugged you. For it is better to suffer for doing good if that should be God's will than for doing evil For a while Peter's altar was devoid of the fire that he needed to enable him for ministry, but the Lord was gracious and patient with him and kept back and came back and came back until that altar was kindled. Yes, Lord, I love you. Christ suffered once for your sins. So repent and bathe in the mercies of God and enjoy the liberty and freedom that they have. That's what Peter is doing. that life and awakening you to this purposeful plan in Christ The soul is these distinct things. in our circles, uh but is extremely prevalent in in many other uh Protestant uh religions. We are to conduct ourselves during the time of our exile with the fear of God, first Peter one seventeen. To know, ask me. And so please be careful about that. So that's how I'm going to run through this. It's that word hot pox there, that occurring once. Other places are more dramatic about the suffering we will experience, more definite about the uh experience of suffering. And we remove ourselves from those opportunities. I'm a little intimidated by it, but I very much enjoyed it. But even chapter three, fourteen, fifteen, and seventeen, select excerpts. And brings light and warmth. Thirty one to thirty three In Matthew twenty six I think that's kind of where i my thoughts go when he says the fire that the fire on the altar so to speak. Um no one was comfortable with the implications of this verse even very early on. up into the warmth of your truth, up into the goodness of your truth. Right? But turning and seeing his disciples, Christ, he rebuked Peter and said, get behind me, Satan. That mostly what I was re was that was mostly what I was trying to reflect on here. Do you see the strength of the encouragement in those first few words as Peter is speaking to a group of people that are about to go through suffering? Unless you missed it, yes, I'm very influenced by the experience on Mount Carmel. God isn't working. That's the difference between an academic altar. There there is one incident with Peter between John chapter twenty-one and Acts chapter five, and that's in Acts chapter two. You've got lost people in this church that you sit next to in the pews. This will be the subject of our next several weeks of study, and actually I said that, but I you know it's it's backwards now because of the order, right? Leaves you conspicuously outside of the world that you live in. And then in verse 40. Uh which which I actually don't agree with. And what I also know is he intended it for their encouragement. I'm going to give you the modern view, which has really just come about in the uh uh twentieth century. But when that catches in your life and you burn brightly for the glory of the Lord in the midst of all those experiences, trusting God as you are, it brings a tremendous glory for the Lord. We would never do that. But every New Testament letter, epistle, gospel, everything that we have in the New Testament are the people whose lives have been inflamed Peter makes sure his readers don't dismiss this as some grand but vague truth. Suffering is not a sign of God's displeasure. Show us what you have in your word for us to encourage us in the lives that we live. I can do my best, but I cannot control it. No, with a betrayal of the kingdom that he was called to. Do not satisfy yourself with the rearranging of intellectual stones until you can rehearse the gospel forward and backwards and say your theology catechisms up and down. All of the Lord and all of you. I have learned over the last ten years or so that there seem to be two types of people, people that really struggle with every single sin in their life And I cannot control some of the largest rick risk factors involved in whether or not I'm able to secure those opportunities or not. That's fantastic. Christ also suffered once for sins. So that he could bring us all to God. And that that really comes I'm not in 1 Peter. It is the current majority view. Why we find 1 Peter 3, 18-22 so difficult to interpret, but we do I shared with my small group. But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than men. So he's a totally different man after he has the Holy Spirit. In his time, the herald of righteousness. 14 says, if you are insulted, if you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. And obviously the analogy falls apart quickly because it's an impersonal thing. It's this kind of tested genuine faith, it's this kind of courage that Peter is encouraging his people. Do you love me? So he made a great work that was really influential in opening up Peter in people's minds. And the three principal uh variations on that theme are that he proclaimed the gospel, offering an opportunity to old testament, uh I'll say believers, to repent and be saved. And when they had brought them uh servants of the um of uh uh high council, so just for the record, the same council It's not effective toward the end that we intend it or that we desire or that we need. And and so that's the best I've got given the the time I have left. He wrote it to people with lives like ours that need to see you and know you and be drawn up into you and be warmed by the truth of your fire. in theology uh ascribes to the the newer view uh that just popped up toward the It's a reminder in Scripture, it's not a useless title. In 3. Not scripture. Eighteen hundreds? Or made up lies about you and reported you and created a a fuss in that regard, a public embarrassment and public hostility and all the rest of it, that I I'm not sure which is worse, to tell you the truth, because the one is so But Peter knew something about suffering. Just prior to him speaking these very difficult passages. Did he proclaimed victory to the righteous dead? How real is that blessing to you? But whatever Christ did on the cross and after the cross, He proclaimed victory over our lives, so that He sits as a sovereign God over all of it If you show up on an altar that is meant to be an altar of truth, and there's no flame on it, it hardens the heart. Um I'm gonna start off with a weird statement, um and it'll hopefully become apparent apparent why I make the statement after uh we get going There's a a great hope, with all those interesting adjectives associated with it, that is being kept for you in heaven, that is ready to be revealed in the last time and is being guarded through the power of God. And brings them to the shore and and and feeds them. And I'm trying to challenge you, don't be okay with that. 318B, the righteous Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Stern look. This view was principally advanced by Augustine against origin in the fourth century All these issues he's been talking about and giving instruction on. Do you love me? I'm not trying to drag you through this to make it painful. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living whole You can lead somebody to a well-ordered altar any day of the week. You've got to understand who it is that's saying these things, lest you just feel like some guy's standing up there and going, Well, come on, you're going to have to suffer. Go ahead. One time, singular. What Christ did for me should motivate me to serve Him in like manner and to have compassion for others that are where I was. Jesus descended into hell. I think I already mentioned to you this is not a view that we would hold to, I think Um 2 Peter two five uses that exact same word, noun form, to describe Noah uh preaching Have no fear of them, nor be troubled, but in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy, right? And he's bringing them together, which they always must be. And the worst thing I can possibly think to do to you, even as just a teacher, right? Not in parables. Through seventy-five. It is this same apostle that is writing these words of instruction, instruction, exhortation, and encouragement to us in 3. There was a um the the book of Enoch, the three books of letters of Enoch, which are in the Apocrypha, were discovered in Ethiopia in the 19th Okay? This strikes at the heart of the issue. What I know is there's very little explanation here, and so Peter's audience clearly understood him in a simple and direct kind of way. Mark eight. And the next major heading, at least in my Bible, is Peter's Sermon at Pentecost, which drew in such an enormous response. 3, 18, first part, for Christ also suffered once And we're in the midst of that time of God's patience where He suffered for the unrighteous. He's saying it's not this thing that you were this rat race, this dermal wheel that you were stuck in down here, the end of which was futility. That's the argument that's being made there. Through a series of things. That the truth of Christ is like a hot fire on the life of men 8 through 419, Peter confronts the inevitability, so this is the passage that we're in. Says loud smoke. And I don't know if I Oh I do. I'm going to call you to good life. He proclaimed victory over the fallen angels that are referred to in Genesis that intermarried. I'm not saying any of those things. I have this mental picture now in my head of him striking a flint. And Christ, again, Jesus said this plainly Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, I do not know the man. 2 Peter 2. But even and then 1 Peter 3:14, even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. I'm going to run through it reasonably quickly. That's how that that passage starts. He's he's and then after after Pentecost he's, you know, boldly preaching and he's rejoicing and being persecuted by the the the Jewish rulers and he's a totally different That's not what Paul is doing here. I'm trying to make sure you see the the very heart of this author's life. Your life and my life. You gotta go back to a home at the end of this, and and I'm hoping that most for most of you that's not that's not a discouraging prospect. That's your opinion. After a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, certainly you too are one of them. Is that a guy willing to speak to suffering of any sort? There's there's clearly that notion. That was discovered. I have about a hundred and thirty three million dollars worth of opportunities flowing through my hand at work right now. And you have no defense for that. He's now before that very same body that he was so afraid of previously. Right? Now now we know. I I and I I can't describe to you too well the people that don't because that's not me He suffered for me as one who was God's enemy. And it creates stressed conflict. And so Christ descends into hell. Is that right? First Peter four, twelve through thirteen. And Peter is writing to encourage believers in the midst of that. I'm going to focus just to you know give you the high road here, I'm going to focus of the three views That's not what Christ came for. And just a few hours later, this. Notice that the fear of man is in opposition. That when you do that honestly and empowered by the Holy Spirit to open your mind to the truth And there is no fire by self effort, there's only that fire through the work of the Spirit. And to the degree that there's old books on it with you know final paragraphs that are like, isn't it awesome we figured all this stuff out? He said it plainly. So the fire, are you talking about believers in general can go forward with the fire or without 318 C. Praise the Lord that He's merciful and keeps persisting, right? It is ultimately satisfying. It's active and alive. Um I'm gonna walk you through the three different views, the three different uh ways of understanding the most difficult part of this passage. God's providence and sovereignty at work because we would never impugn that Do you love me? Not a long time in the interim here. That's that's a great question. And so I I don't I don't I'm not trying to create any sort of a distinction between those at all. Well, I'll come meritoriously and then God will bless me. So that's that's how that Noah flare comes in there. Um and uh in in fact it has not been a view that has been heavily held to even throughout history, although it is a very old view I'm I I need to skip it so that I can get to the application which I have like five minutes for. Martin Luther wrote about this, and you'll see the quote if you have my notes. Pre Holy Spirit and post Holy Spirit. Yeah, I'm actually happy to take it up with you afterwards too. Not only this week, but every week. From people in warm churches. And Christ comes and does a work on that altar, and the next thing we see is the bold proclamation. But I also just love the fact that it it easily supports the idea that That's not my point. Cold for me, I gotta go up on the roof. But I won't know. I am going to, but fast. And so what actually is needed for an individual life in order to regain that fire? 5 clearly makes Noah the herald, which is the same word that's used here in 1 Peter 3. And one of the dangers of studying God's Word in the way that many of us do, particularly in churches like this one that are are big, rightly so by the way, not criticizing it, on exegesis, the danger of And another scholar wrote, even among today's interpreters, this passage has the reputation for being perhaps the most difficult So I'll I'll uh make sure I note those for you. There will be the sufferings that just drip on your life. Just to be clear, what's in scripture and what's not. That's the the incident. I may be wrong. And here's the reason that that Rob brought up a good point about the for those of you that are studying Colossians with me You each have a need of fire in your life in ways that I can't possibly understand. It's worth doing this exercise lest you think I'm creating a dramatically pleasant argument and not actually speaking to scripture. Do you love me? And when they had called the disciples, called in the apostles, excuse me, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. Which is a fancy way of saying that it it just occurs once. So he did use that plural pronoun there. These men are attempting to be as men and women, by the way, are attempting to be as faithful to the exegesis of God's word as is possible. Do you fear man or God? And the inevitable reality is that there will be suffering. And the scriptures aren't particularly insulting about that or critical about that. Not vague. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Uh a a daughter, a sister, a granddaughter, a grandmother. Then a man named Selwyn wrote an exhaustive commentary in the Do you have that mindset of Paul? And then look what happens. The first view says Jesus descended into hell and preached to those who perished in the flood. But what scholars have done is they've said this would have been the Jewish Christians must exchange the fear of others for the fear of the Lord And the distinction there is the work of the spirit in our lives. And my response is so what? So a very difficult passage, but the passage is in fact grounded in a really solid context. Well that thing that my son is doing, it just undoes me. With a guy with four chins. He says, Yes, I love you. Just so you know, it's all for your children. I'll just tell you that flat out. Then I see the hand of God most in my life, caring for me, leading me, directing me My point is the the passage that we're reading in this genuineness of our faith and its relevance to my life is something that secures me in that situation. Strikes it again. That's the difference between an academic altar, a scholastic altar, an altar of opinion Won't even be called a Galilean, yes lest it it associate him Uh Selwyn interacted with Peter directly. And it says that during Christ's ascension Yes, Lord, yes, Lord, I trust you, I believe you. I I'm not gonna give you a satisfying answer. Christ went and harrowed hell, invaded it, if you will. Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him Do you love me? I can't answer you for your life because I don't know exactly what your particular struggle is. You never have any merit to offer you for redemption, and you never will have any merit to offer you for redemption. Um I want you to have the information. This is an area, you may say to yourself, where God doesn't care Is that Uh Matthew twenty-six, I don't know if I'm going to read this whole passage of sixty-nine Yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring this man's blood upon us. I'm going to call you to your life in Christ, and there may be suffering in that life, but just so that you're clear while you're going through the suffering, Christ So I'm trying to walk you through these just so you can kind of identify That's all I'm trying to do here. How about you for the challenge you're having at home in your marriage? And I've done my best for about seven years to pursue those particular opportunities. Those things that when you think about them, they require you to take a deep breath and then step forward into because they challenge you and they grieve you and they weary you And that's why that passage starts with with, but sanctify. And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. And now we begin this terribly difficult passage. Again, I'm skipping over a lot of details, but the primary view was put forward by Augustine in the fourth century I'm trying to impress upon you the heart of the man that wrote this, lest we be lost in the exegesis, the difficult exegesis. We go out to our our land and y you a lot of you have heard about it because it's dominated our lives for the last few years in many senses. Very specific here And a lot of other things they don't have time to elaborate on the metaphor for. But being put to death in the flesh, made alive in the spirit, not referencing the dichotomy of man taught by the Greeks that saw the material body and the immaterial. He's more referring to what Rob reminded us of earlier. Could be the sixteenth century. We already read that in 1 Peter 1. Cold stones organized in the most perfect of manners, the best of arguments. To a degree when you see no flame on this on this altar. All of what we will accomplish in Christ is a result of God's grace and God's gifts and God's spirit and God's truth and God's Word. It it it's a word you know it's a word that we use in a fancy phrase. So that was in about the nine mid nineteen sixties And what's in view is a blessing and thanks thanksgiving. It's mesmerizing. You know in your heart intuitively intuitively, if not polemically, that an altar with no fire is an altar to no God, and that's that's how you start your week. He knew something about suffering in the face of the Lord. Peter learned that the fear of man leads to conformity with the world and utter denial of Christ. So a hapoxlagamanon is a word that occurs once in the in all of scripture. That he proclaims fine. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, but rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled And on that last one, right, I I gave you my metaphor for that, I won't repeat it. You don't just love, you have to earnestly love. Ever. I'm going to approach this pretty simply. Just to keep Julie amused. Our Lord It is never disappointing. Because He is exercising patience on a lost world, then the fullness And then in this view, there is no descent of Jesus into hell. Fire is an impersonal thing, and God's Word, God's truth is not impersonal. That that's supportable from scripture actually. Is that at all satisfying or did I just leave you feeling more unsatisfied? I hate the clock. They were struggling with those. Some of them would have been. Even if it's just a wearisome of weary wearisomeness of it. I don't know what the answer is. This is good. Yeah, just to make sure that's not a private conversation, which I totally agree with, by the way. It's not what Peter says. They can actually do that in Greek. Can't help but wonder how many of us remove ourselves from opportunities for that kind of rest and blessing because we're just afraid to suffer. There is no spectrum here. Well play it out for everybody though, don't say really case. He He's drawing out the impurities in our lives and making us uh into something that It's the world that's attacking us, as opposed to that thing my spouse keeps saying, that just drives a I memorized it in the KJV a long time ago. So do you see the continuum of ideas there in Peter? Do you love me? Do you love me? And you really see that in Peter's life. So, you know, we see Old Testament believers being called faithful, for instance, in Hebrews 11, so but they still didn't have Christ and for some reason needed to be separated from God. 2 Corinthians 12 10 says, For the sake of Christ, then I am content with weakness, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities It concerns me a lot. Look how perfectly this is assembled. And so think about suffering like this. And none of them say what, so what? I I can't get there. I'll I'll not steal my thunder from the next page. And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders, This man was with Jesus of Nazareth. Right? John Twenty One Not of that flag, not of those people. You know, another campaign badge. And it hardens your heart and it wearies you. And it's hard And it's really most of 1 Peter 4. An altar with no fire. Right? I'm trying to get you a mental image here, right? I uh I think it's a fantastic question. And I emphasize those pronouns because they're emphasized in the passage. It is fundamentally holy and thoroughly and satisfyingly an academic exercise. Alright. Um the idea that Christ descended into hell and uh and that there was a second chance for people to get saved that had lived their lives and died and and uh He intended it to be useful to shepherds and teachers and farmers and servants and slaves I'm a small company. And then those things, when you respond to those, when that when that fire catches in your life and by the way, I love it Let him be your fear That's A P P. And I say that to say that he certainly isn't suffering in the uh in the food area. You know that I do or you know that your work in my life is more important than any confession that I can make. Please turn this. And I will also tell you that their attempt And so I hope that you will walk away with that in some regard. I know we complain a lot about that here because I get called in to do HVAC maintenance a lot here. After even being cautioned only a few hours earlier that there would be a betrayer. No, with Oze He's bringing them together, and he's trying to teach them how Christ is in all and through all in the midst of those circumstances. Which is different than a pastor. There are so many parallels between what is pe what Peter is writing to these uh I don't mean that you know the majority godless scholar thinks this is true or that is true, but the majority of conservative scholars And so you see him hating the theology of suffering. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. There is no part Christ the righteous suffered We will discuss three. In either case, more modern, more recently He would say he thinks it's still the Apocrypha and it's not inspired word of God, but that it provides at least a historical context which we do not otherwise have. And he picks up on this book of Enoch and synthesized some arguments as well as doing a tremendous job bringing in the larger body of conversation Peter then spends one uh verses uh chapter one eight through two ten describing the requirements of your holy conduct as a result. These are the requirements of your holy conduct. All that suffering is included in this. Your suffering will not buy you any more redemption. He proclaims victory to the righteous dead and a release from prison. Fear God, first Peter two, seventeen. Every week. Um because I just don't have the time to do it is really ultimately my my response. Uh but even their view um is fairly new, probably popped up in the mid eighteen hundreds, the the way they use this passage to talk about purgatory and some That really comes from that later context there in 20, because they formally did not obey when God's patience waited in the days of Noah while the Ark was being I rehearsed these because I think actually I talked to like Pastor Gabe and some other men that are well studied. And there will be consequences if I lose all hundred and thirty-three million dollars worth of those opportunities. And yet so many of us name the name of Christ and go to church week after week and maybe even we're faithful in our devotions and there's no warmth. And I pray that we would have hearts that are looking for that, are hungry for that, are active in pursuing it this morning. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake. And then we're gonna end uh with what the hopefully the fire part, the application part, right? And any one drip is in and of itself insignificant. And a little flame popped and then expired. Um the major pieces of this view seem to have been advanced by Clement of Alexandria in the second century Dalton limited himself to focusing on the theology and traditions of this particular topic alone. But if you show up to an altar We know of I think at least six new colonies that he built in this area during this time. Give us good wisdom this morning from your word. Though now for just a little while, I added just. Leaves you as exiles, foreigners, in your immediate circumstances. And immediately the rooster crowed, The unbelieving world. It's a life that has some suffering, maybe by the way. Look what happens with Peter's life. But when he said Christ suffered the righteous for the unrighteous, he said he suffered for you the unrighteous. Next view too is that Christ preached through the agency of Noah in Noah's time. It's warming. I love that phrase, the tested genuineness of your faith. That that same construction for sins that where it says for sins is the the way it's used is the same that is used. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't get rid of persistent sins or be apologetic for sins and repent and do better. Now I waste my time to say that because this passage we are about to study is is extremely And the modern view, uh, strangely enough is actually the majority view, and when I say majority view, I mean the majority view of Which one was impetuous enough to draw a sword and whack an ear off? Uh and the third thing that he might have preached when he descended into hell and preached to those who perished in the flood was that he proclaimed final judgment on the wicked. But we know that during the reign of Claudius, the Emperor, right before Nero, the count his colonization efforts in this particular region were were amazing. That's a big number. 21, 1 through 19. And how does this thing called Christ and religion and Jesus play into all this? And you do it in a way that's damnable. Yes, Lord, I love you. Right? Whether it's the drips of life or whether it's the major persecutions and sufferings of life, do not be okay with those things. Christ's crucifixion and resurrection changed the way the coming of the Holy Spirit changed the way Peter's You see a little bit of that later in the same passage when he talks about Noah, the patience of God during the days of Noah, and how frustrating that must have been. And then like I said, we'll identify the historical and the majority view, and I'll see where I get after that. You either fear man or you fear God. A wonderful text is this, a more obscure passage, perhaps, than any other in the New Testament. And then I'm gonna just do a simple analysis of the passage. This has a bunch of different variations on it. And so everybody's now in this third view And it is not abstract at all. He's confronting the inevitability, or the inevitable reality, of living with conspicuously God-hondering conscience. It's just well we know. Y'all. I'm in the midst of the circumstances, or I must be in the midst of these circumstances, because and then you fill in the blank with It doesn't say any of those things. But Peter says if this will happen, it will be punctuated by blessings and rejoicing and thanksgiving. See the parallel with Jesus' teaching in Matthew five, eleven through twelve Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all Now with that said, let's pray. I'm indifferent. It's it's Romans five ten Apposition. It is never dull. Well why should I expect to bring anything And he referenced Enoch and he synthesized some of this argument. But I will tell you it is how Those are some of the sufferings that he's he's encouraging his people to walk through And I want to bring that encouragement to you today. The exiled world Distinct above all, through all, the one that is to be feared, outside of which nothing is to be feared. The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree. Your children are born lost. Through a a series of uh different events, uh but uh two I'll say three most. And what they do is they describe a a bunch of events uh uh from Noah's time about fallen angels They may not be true. You started that last week. I hope you will take that away from this passage. More precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. I'm so afraid, I can't even stand to be recognized as a Galilean. But the worst thing I can possibly think to do to you is take you through the academic exercise that I've very much enjoyed, by the way, over there. I apologize. It rather refers to this earthly existence, what Solomon, those of you that were in Ecclesiastes with us, With all the academic excellence that's available in all the world. But Christ comes to them. It's not y'all, it's you Um there is no descent into hell of Christ in this view. How suffering as a result of our regard of Christ as holy leads to sinless conducts conduct. So I'm going to stop there with a concluding statement. Whether that's in humanity or in creation or in his providence, all truth stems from, derives from Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard and a servant girl came up to him and said, You also were with Jesus, the Galilean. It's cleansing. You you miss the nucleus of what's happening here. Acts chapter 5. The pre Holy Spirit, Peter is a woman in Coward, he's you know he was trying And we seem to be okay with that. If if that's not genuine, then it's just uh it's just a an intellectual exercise and that is absolutely Right? It's never suffer because, you know, that's what we do and that's how we identify ourselves. There will be frustrations, there will be annoyances, there will be little sufferings and big sufferings. Well Acts Chapter Two, of course the Holy Spirit. Well, you're not righteous, but He is asking you. It says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Um most specifically Look look at Peter. If you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening, then you are children of the covenant that was spoken to women. This altar of Peter's, not mine, by the way. Called to be exiles, living in an exiled world, here's a standard of conduct that you are called to. And that time it maybe exploded a little bit and then did the same thing it did the previous time. I it's unclear w what that meant. You have a need for the truth of God to warm and shape those experiences, to bring life to them. But in either case, actually I'm not indifferent, but wouldn't argue with you about it one way or the other. It says he rejoiced. Set opposite to regarding Christ as holy. I could use categories about parenting and wiving and husbanding and working and leading and Um but again I don't want to make too much of the stones on the altar here. But I really feel like that's what you see there. Presbyterians being uh uh in in my mind first and foremost in that regard. And it gives you nothing for your life. What sort of heresy is that? I do not impugn these men by telling you that they're just making it up because it's cute or 'cause they want an altar of academics That's first and foremost, I think, in Peter's mind. It is never useless. But there are more superlative quotes even that talk about the difficulty of understanding this passage. Think about the blessing that is accumulated through suffering, verse 14. They basically say that it provides a context or a view into what the I chose you to be exiles in this world and be a part of my kingdom. In your name I pray. What does it mean? All those unbelievers And they seem very happy to discuss the three major viewpoints of verses verse three eighteen. So for instance, MacArthur would say this, just to give you an idea of the caliber of man that might say what I'm about to say. I mean, we we've actually heard a lot of that, haven't we? Correct. By the way, not invalidating what you said. I I don't want to suffer. And I uh some decisions will be made, not by me, regrettably, How about that that niggly twelve through thirteen, which is interesting to read. In this you rejoice Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in. Absolutely. Whatever Christ did. Lord, I pretty much Christ's blood is being blamed, if you will, on the high priests. Can I do that just for just have a second? And I I don't mean that profane, in a profane way, I mean it in a scriptural way. If you have no fire on your altar, you will never Right, all you gotta do is turn to Acts chapter two and look at your headings. And my response is, it's not awesome because there's no flame on that fire. Rejoiced that he was deemed worthy to suffer for the name. 19, by the way, proclaiming Okay, fine, Jesus descended into hell and preached to those who perished in the flood, but who was he And that's the difference I I see between Peter and John twenty one. He died and suffered for us that he might bring us to God by putting to death. It's a great pronouncement of victory of God and the truth of God over your It is never mundane. Over the course of a day or a week is insignificant. You're not on the spectrum. But the the point I want to make to you today, and this really does Absolutely. Amen. This holiness that we're to live in is the fear of the Lord. You you you s and I'll I'll try to make that more real. 18-22. I am not exactly sure And that's kind of the dry part of the lesson, the academic part of the lesson in many regards. He he didn't have the Holy Spirit in John chapter twenty one, he didn't have the Holy Spirit This is where things get hard. It was picked up and popularized by the Apostles' Creed, which we don't use But there are challenges in that home And to get that context, go ahead and open to First Peter chapter one. The particular caution that I was trying to render is If you pick up commentaries, uh hop hox legominon, it's a a A hundred and eighty different combinations of ways to fit things And uh you know leads those people to be with God now that uh the fullness of the So I want to s I want you to see what's in view in this suffering. And so I want to remind you what Peter's testimony is in this passage. I gotta believe. I'm not going to read this all. But I am gonna an answer you in brief. And don't you want the patience of God upon them? Because in some senses it's the foundation of the the It's the same thing for each one of us. And then the servant girl says, Wait a minute, aren't you one of them? Did that mean they were dissolved and they thought it was all garbage and went back? For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. The name Peter never specifically says it's going to happen. And that kind of started a a a shift away from this traditional view. A fire with no altar is a fire to no God. I don't know if that's even a word, I don't think it is. Christ suffered as one who was completely righteous. This is the historical view. It disillusions the heart. If you do not grasp the significance or even I as I have So he he recognizes that and draws that out and describes that. And I say that because I got to believe that Peter What happens if God had set aside his patience and required And you know in your heart, if not It is ne never irrelevant to your lives. And it will create opportunities for confrontation. All of God. We go out to the land and I get cold and I build a large fire in the It says, do not fear what they fear That the the fire of God's truth affords. Well, you know from the story, right? Good. Um The part that is meant to uh affect our If it's no fire upon it. This is the passage about after. This is fine over here, but look at all this. And as a matter of fact, you want to look at that passage where he goes to And the third time, do you love me? Found to be found to result in praise. Here's your standard of conduct. Our Lord Jesus Christ. Go. One scholar calculated that all those So that's that's ultimately their claim. God exalted him at his right hand. The coming of the Holy Spirit is the heading. I want to get to the part where where we're You understood that was the I'll see you give me just a It's suffer because that is a a And I have my own bias if you want But summed up over the total of your life. Notice how similar this reads to pass And yet He demands all of God. We have been building for those for many years. Absolutely. And I was interested. A diverse group of people. And again he denied it with an oath. Um it has been around since That's not what I'm saying. Within the context of P So one within the context It is not a a life Not I, Lord, not I Noah preached. But that step And he exhausted You see him hating I was trying to See the passage. I'm going back into Um that's all He says if. First Peter three And with exactly That's not But