But uh what are we uh we're we're talking today about 1 Peter. Uh again, 1 Peter. So we've been in, I think we're in week 17 or 16 of this. We've been walking through 1 Peter. Most of you are aware of that. Now we're in chapter 3, verses 8 through 12. And I'm just going to go ahead, if everybody wants to open up to that, I'll go ahead and and uh read that. Uh I'm reading from the ESV. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you are called, that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever loves wife and see good days, let him keep Keep his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer that the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. So open up. Happy New Year. I'm sure many of you, I I know I did, I know we we talked about it at dinner last night. So what what are your New Year's resolutions? Anybody want to share? I know, you know, I I I'm fairly typical. Go ahead. Go ahead. Anyone else want to share? Go ahead, Dayton. Yes, you have to learn how to walk from the ground. Yeah, we we broke your leg right before the new year, so now Glory to you, you get to learn how to walk all over again. So yes, uh anybody else? Minimizing and simplifying my life, getting rid of all the quarter and the extra That is also mine, so it's one of mine, so I I end up with several of these. That's one of yours to read through the Bible? Yeah, that's a real common one as well. Losing weight, that's a that's one. Uh exercising more, I know that's That's one of mine. Uh that is also for me. Um drink more water. I'm just going through a list of the most common New Year's resolutions now. Uh but why do we have New Year's resolutions? What's the purpose of them? What are we trying to do when we look at ourselves and we want to make adjustments and we want to look ahead and do things differently in the next year and so we have these results. What what's the fundamentally what's the purpose? Yeah, to to progr to progress in life, right? To to get better in life. Anyone else want to add to that? Maybe yeah, go ahead. Trail in life. Yeah, get back on track. Um what about what about just having a better life? What about having good days? Yeah there's a uh there's a thing on the uh C. S. Lewis Institute website called an annual spiritual checkup that I do every year and it's all these different areas of your life and it looks back over the last year and says how did you do in loving God, how do you do Loving neighbor, uh how do you and and it has specifics, how do you do specifically in loving your wife, how do you specifically love your kids? And there you go, like like a CS movement oil change. It's the C. S. Lewis Institute. The C. S. Lewis Institute. There's an organization called the C. S. Lewis Institute. And you can go to CS Lewis Inst And if you Google annual spiritual checkup, it's a whole whole inventory of all these different areas of your life. How did you do in the tribe the previous year? And it sets you up to uh to set a plan for the next year based on how did I do and what were my weeks for the previous year. Uh I'm just always found helping to go through that annual spiritual checkup. That's cool. Things like uh what did I what did I do to uh help the poor this year? Uh all the all these different areas. That's really great. Great. Um that's that's that that's interesting. So the C S. Lewis Annual Spiritual Checkup on the C S. Lewis Institute. I like that. Uh Peter Peter is going to tell us uh and the big idea of today uh uh obviously is how to love life and see good days. So that's the root. That's what really Peter is trying to get to here is loving life and seeing good days. And then he's gonna tell you how you do that. He's gonna give you a uh a a spiritual checklist, let's call it. And he's going to say that it's going to start with maintaining the right attitude in life. Having the right attitude in life. And then he's going to go on to tell you that loving life and seeing good days requires that you have the right response to life's events when life comes to you and life affects you and impacts you. How do you respond in those moments when you're in duress or under struggle? How do you handle those situations? And then finally, Peter is going to tell you that loving life and seeing good days requires you to submit to the proper authority and to submit to authority for the right reasons. So that is the the big idea of today is how do we love life and see good days? This kind of happens to work a little bit with the New Year's resolution, so that's great. Didn't time it that way, but that's the way the Lord timed it, so all the better. And those are the three things. So I think before we start, because you know of course anytime you start thinking about loving life and having good days. I always see, you know, the picture of that smiley guy in the white suit, you know, oh, you gotta have your best life now, and you know, and and so it always brings some kind of bad notions in my mind. So I want kind of start off with um wha what does the Bible mean when it says to love life? I mean certainly as Christians we have plenty of reasons to love life, right? Certainly as Christians We should love life. There should be good days for us. We should have some vision of good days. But what is what is what is what does the Bible mean when it talks about having a good life? What is the word How don't we start with that? Because every time I think about living the good life, uh La Vida Dulce, I think is the way they say it, uh in in my mind there's this idea of this swooning materialism. You know, I I immediately my My mind comes to things like the Kardashians or you know, these you know, Hollywood movie stars or rock stars and they're you know in their bands or they're you know with these really decked out, you know, travel bands and stuff like that. like that and I think you know just crazy empty living. Right? Just crazy empty living. That that's the way that's what the world views as having a good life. What does the Bible say about having a good life or loving life? I mean, certainly if we want to look to the things of the world, uh we can ask Solomon, right? Because in Ecclesiastes he he goes through the whole thing. Ecclesiastes 2, he says, For of the wise, as of the fool, there is no enduring remembrance, seeing that in the days to come all will have been long forgotten. How the wise died He's just like the fool, so I hated life because what it is what is done under the sun was grievous to me, and it's all vanity and all a striving after the wind. And Solomon had been. Access. Right? Solomon had wealth, tremendous wealth. And he had women, so he could fulfill every of those desires, he could fulfill every material desire. desire. He sought all wisdom. The Bible called Solomon the wisest of men, right? And yet, under the sun, earthly living? empty, vain. See, loving life, it's not about indulging in the pictures of the flesh. It's not having your best life now. It's not about that. Or conforming to some let's just be honest, idolatrous idea of what life should be and what you should look like to be appealing or whatever, whether you're a man or a woman, doesn't matter. It's not about conforming to the ways of this world because you're never going to be content with what the world brings and tells you will make you content. You're never going to ultimately find a good life pursuing vain pursuits. You're never gonna do that. I mean think about Bill Gates. Bill Gates is what is he, sixty years old? At 65 years old, the guy's net worth is greater than 122 countries. And he's still working. Dude, I'd have been quit long. time ago man I would not have even been I'd have been like who cares about Microsoft? I'm on my way to the Bahamas, right? Because he doesn't have just enough money for himself. He has enough money for a thousand generations. 122 countries. And he's not content. He's not finished yet. How much is enough? Well let me tell you, if you're striving for the wind, it's never going to be enough. You're going to keep filling that bucket full of wind, you're going to keep filling that bucket full of vanity, and it is never. Ever, ever, ever going to get full. Right? So what does loving life, or having an excellent life, if we want to get into the Greek and start doing a little interpretation? What is having an excellent a a a fulfilled life look like? What is having peace in your life, contentment in your life? How do you How do you have a life that's characterized by joy, like we're called to have in Philippians? How do we have a life that is more than just temporal things? Literally waiting to be forgotten. Go ahead. It's about how you prioritize every single day of your life. Uh if you always put God first and it didn't get you What in you first. Then everything else will fall in place because then you fulfill your highest calling. And then your family and your kids, when you prioritize your life in the way that God asks you to prioritize your life. It'll make your life easier. Yeah, prioritizing your life according to God's standards. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, I I like to add what Erica says not just making him first but making him the focus of everything you do, even the mundane, the routine. So he's not just first to start the day, he's first in why you're helping someone. while you're cleaning the toilet, while you're you know, helping someone, just it's uh having a kingdom focus. Having a kingdom focus, yeah. I think also an attitude of gratitude because it's easy to to put God first and everything's going well and to um celebrate. But in those moments of difficulty, you know, really taking the acceptance that um it's his will and he will work all things out for his good is his will. and it's not about self. So um I think also putting that into perspective will also allow you to be joyful in all situations and enjoy life no matter what comes to you. Yeah, I I think that's also very important, having a kingdom focus. Foc having a heart of gratitude. And I think uh we talked a little bit about that several weeks ago, but having a heart of gratitude goes a long way towards having a life of joy. Um go ahead. I was just gonna say from from verse twelve that it's being righteous and and he talks about what that righteousness is in the previous verses, but also the other thing in there that we I think we usually miss is is having a prayer life. You know his ears are open to their prayers. I mean that that pre that presupposes that you are praying. Yeah, I think an active prayer life is fundamental to having a good life. Absolutely. Go ahead. I think it's also important to remember that Christianity is a key sport. Uh it's not an individu I mean, it start you have to do your own individual work, uh prayer and uh cultivating your own spiritual gifts and exercising your spiritual gifts and graces. But those spiritual gifts are for a purpose and it's to edify the body of Christ, build the body of Christ. Uh Ephesians four fifteen and sixteen to speaking the truth and love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head Christ, for whom the whole body being fitted and held together by whatever joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for building up of itself in love. So it's uh your own gifts and and graces, but to apply those to the object in a team way. Yeah um fellowship with with like minded people. Fellowship with with um with fellow believers in Christ. Um it it's hard enough to find I'll just say this and then I I probably have to get moving forward, but I think we've got most of the idea. It's hard enough to find good fellowship with uh fellow believers. There's gonna be struggles with that because we're all human and we all sin and we all fall short and when you open your heart up to people sometimes it's gonna get trampled on. I mean that's just a reality, right? It's hard enough to do that with fellow believers. It's impossible to do that with unbelievers. If you're out in the world not looking for fellow believers to it, and I don't mean We should have relationships, right? We should have friendships, but I'm talking about close, intimate, friendships, close personal friendships. You know, the Bible says don't be unequally yoked. Don't get into business deals. With non-believers. Don't get into marriages with unbelievers. And the reason for that is because if you're unequally yoked, if you're a believer and you follow the Lord and this person is not, the closer you get together, the harder it is. becomes. Right, that's just a reality. So yeah, fellowship with believers is is another thing that's absolutely important. So so I think we've got the idea. Um having a good life is really about having a fulfilled life life, a content life, and that means, you know, it it means putting the Lord first. It means having a kingdom focus. It means having a good prayer life. It means having a heart of gratitude. Finding other believers to to enjoy and and and share life with, right? To to break bread with, let's call it. Uh and so that's yeah, I think we've got the idea here. And then we're gonna move on and we're gonna go through now Peter is gonna take this approach and he's gonna give you again attitude Attitude, response, and authority, right? Just remember those three things. Attitude, response, and authority. And I before I get into that, uh and I'm going to focus a little bit because I I have this sliding here. I wasn't a hundred percent sure where I wanted to put this, but I I figured I I would say this up front. Um there's some interpretive challenges in First Peter, in this section of First Peter. Okay, we it starts in chapter two, verse thirty. thirteen when it talks about submitting to the government. And it gets even more difficult when we get to masters submitting to sl or or slaves submitting to masters even if they are not uh good masters, right? So You w you you were to submit and you were to submit completely and you were to submit even if that master was unjust and he gave reasons why for that. And then it gets even more difficult because then he starts talking about what's going on between you and your wife. What's going on between in your most intimate relationship? And the answer is you submit there too. Right? And the heart of it was submitting to every human institution. This is us first and foremost to make sure that when we talk about submission, that we understand the proper view of Christian authority. Okay? What is A proper view of the Christian authority that we are asked to submit completely to. Why does the Lord ask us to submit to every human institution? And then you start reading Commentaries and you get bad answers, or you start listening to sermons and you get bad answers, or different answers, or mixed answers, and it can be very difficult to understand clearly what the Bible is trying to say when it talks about authority and what is the view of Christian authority. And it's actually fairly simple, which makes me wonder why sometimes we get so tied up. But really, the view of authority from a perspective of Christians is that all earthly forms of power, all earthly forms of authority are inherent from and derived from God. All authority comes from God. And then there's lots of proof verses for that. Can someone open up Daniel and read chapter 2 20 through 22 and then someone read John chapter 19 verse 11 and then someone pick up Matthew chapter 28 verse 18. So who's got Daniel? 20 to 25? Yep. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever. To whom belong wisdom and mighty. He changes times and seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. He reveals deep and hidden things who know. knows what is in the darkness and the light dwells with him. So he sets up kings and he takes out kings, right? Who puts kings in their place? God puts kings in their place. Oh my gosh, we can get into all kinds of sticky business with that. Did God put Hitler in place? That's a tough one, isn't it? That's a really tough one. Tough one, isn't it? Did God put Hitler in place? Certainly God gave him the authority. Did God tell Hitler to do what he did? Did God tell Hitler what to do with that authority? Authority? No. No. But did God give Hitler the authority? Yes. Did that authority derive from God? Yes. He put that king in place. And then he took that king away. That's tough. That's tough. That gets really tough. Boy, I I sure would like some more answers to that. Who's got John nineteen? Mm-hmm. answer saying you would have no authority over me at all unless they have been given to you from above you who delivered me over to you I think it was it he's speaking to who's he speaking to here? Pilate. Where is he about to go? To the cross. The greatest single injustice in the history of the world. Truly the execution of a truly innocent man who had no flaws, no sin, the Lord of the universe crucified. Who gave Pilate that authority to commit that injustice? Who gave it to him? God. Came from God. And then the all-encompassing He's got Matthew twenty eight, you got it? And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. All auth uh all authority on earth. Oh I'm sorry, can you read keep reading? I I It should have been eighteen and nineteen, I believe. Oh, okay. Eighteen through twenty here. Okay. Um and Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son. and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And I am with you always commanded with you. So all authority under heaven and earth is given to who? Jesus in Christ. And Jesus is God. God. Therefore all authority is given by who? Is granted by who? God. That's pretty straightforward, isn't it? It it brings up a lot of difficulty. And it's a difficult thing to reconcile, especially with our, what is this, 21st century mind. Okay, it's it's hard to understand this looking From the perspective of of a a society that lives in democracy and votes and has a say and can have speech, and then looks backwards in history and sees tremendous injustice and to know that God put those people in authority. God put Pilate in authority. God put Hitler in authority. Did God ordain for them to do what they did? Did did did God tell Hitler to go kill Hitler Was it 10 million Jewish people? No. That evil? Who does that evil belong to? Satan. Hitler. Who was judged for that? Hitler. Who was judged for the crucifixion? Who was judged for making that decision? Everybody involved, right? Pilate. Pilate said, okay, crucify him. He had to stand before God. Ironically, had to stand before Jesus. Right? So submission to that authority. Submission to that authority. is submission to God. It's out of reverence and respect for God. 1 Peter 2. 13. It's the first thing he says at the beginning of this. Submit into authority as unto the Lord. As unto the Lord. And then he says through 21 and 23 how complete that submission would be. He said, submit the way Jesus. Jesus submitted. Now, let me take a step back. Is it biblical when experiencing injustice? to seek a higher authority? I'm in a situation and I'm having injustice committed on me, a co-worker, maybe my boss. In in in the in the workplace or maybe in the home. I'm being abused. Eric is very strong. That was a joke. I'm being abused An injustice is happening to me. Can I appeal about my injustice? Do I have rights in Century Twenty-one to appeal to a higher authority? Yes, you do. Paul did it. Paul did it. What did he say? Uh-uh. This is a kangaroo court. I appeal to Caesar. Take me to Rome. So Paul did it. Did Paul tell slaves that they should? In 1 Corinthians, we read this verse last week. What did he say? If you can become free, be free. Right? So can you use the law? Can you appeal to higher authority? If injustice is happening to you, is the Bible calling you to live submitted to Chronic injustice where you have valid recourse. I think that following due process is still submitted to the law. Exactly. Exactly. And so for those who I know the mask, so maybe nobody here. Submit appealing to a higher authority is still submission under the law. Exercising your legal rights is still submitting under the law. law. Should you do it appropriately? Yes. Should you follow your laws? Yes. Should you go in a way that the law allows? Yes. We are not uh what what's the word from uh uh we we are not in civil disobedience right we're not gonna oh I'm not doing that I can't obey this speed limit this is injustice That I have to do 15 and it miles per hour on the freeway here. I'm gonna do thirty and I don't care. We don't just disobey the law because it's unjust, but we follow due process. Do we have that recourse? Yes, does the Bible allow it? Yes. What about following your earthly authority and disobeying your heavenly authority? If God is in charge, would God ever ask you to be able to do that? Ask you to disobey him. No. That doesn't make any sense, does it? Like it doesn't make any sense. If God ordains something, if God puts an authority in place, he certainly didn't intend for that authority to override him. Therefore, if you're being asked to disobey Uh now my screen. There we go. If you're being asked to disobey God, you don't follow that. uh wife. You you can't look at your husband who's cheating on his taxes year after year after year. You can't look at your husband or your family member who is engaged in some kind of sinful, significantly sinful life behavior on and on and on, and just say, Oh, I'm submitting. I'm just submitting to the situation. No, you are a Allowing for the disobedience of God. Right? So a wife doesn't have to k continue to be beaten by her husband. A wife doesn't have to continue to you to watch her husband adulterize or or commit these things, you're not stuck in that place. You have recourse. But these people that Peter was speaking to, these slaves, had no legal rights. They had zero legal rights. Zero. Your rights, your your legal rights were whatever the master said, you do. And if you don't, you will be punished. If not by your master, they can hand you over to the guards, and the guards will do it. You get caught stealing slaves, you're going to be crucified. That was your rights under the law. when Peter was speaking. A wife took on the religion of her husband. A wife was not allowed to have her friend group. They weren't allowed to Go do their own thing, they were required to be with the husband's friends and the husband's society and the husband's family and the husband's group. Very different thing. And so when Peter is speaking to wives here, know that some of the wives he's speaking to are wives that are converted to Christianity, have followed, are now in Christ, but have been in the world. have a husband who's pagan. Very different context. Very different context. And husbands who came to Christ They've got wives with drug problems. They're getting drugged to church. Right? They're getting drugged to service. They're getting drugged to communion. They got a drug problem. Problem. Deal with them in an understanding way, Peter says. Be the gospel to them, he says. Wife, be the gospel to this husband. Be the gospel to this wife. Right? So that is very much in view. And anyway, so I beat this up and I'm going to run out of time, so I'm going to get moving. But what I wanted to talk about was and the interpretation. challenges in First Peter are to understand that that A if the law provides recourse for you, you are free to work in within the law and submit it in the law as as as you as you felt led to. And you shouldn't continue to submit yourself unnecessarily to injustice where clear, godly alternatives exist. And you cannot use these Versus as a way of covering up or allowing sin within a home, within a family, within a society. Okay? You cannot do that. You cannot allow uh those things to happen. That is not what these verses are speaking about. Right? You have legal recourse. So there's a a fundamental difference between Some of the things that Peter says and some of the things that you say. Now, the opposite side of the interpretive differences is also there. You cannot make what is descriptive in the Bible, i. e. , e. the human institutions that Peter is speaking into, right? The Caesar Caesar, the governors, the um the slavery, right, the the the society, the way that that wives and husbands were in legally in society. You cannot take the description of those things and make them prescriptive in 2021. That's not what the Bible does. The Bible speaks about human institutions in in something of uh a stand back kind of way. It doesn't endorse it, the human institution, and it doesn't oppose it, but it Instead focuses on the individual masters, Christian masters. They had rules, didn't they? How they should treat their slaves. They were to treat them with kindness. to treat them well. Don't beat them. Don't mistreat them. Treat them well. Husbands, deal with your wives in an understanding way. Love your wife as Christ loves the church. You got a different set of rules, Christian husband. Right? You got a different set of rules, Christian wife. You got a different set of rules. Christian slave, you got a different set of rules. Christian master. But outside of that, the Bible doesn't condone an institution. Nor does it promote an institution. And that's an important thing to remember. It's really important to remember that as you go through some of these interpretive challenges. Because slavery Is not like modern-day employment. It's just not. It's just not. Are there some applications that you can take away from the way that you should behave in the workplace from first people? Peter, yes, there are. There are some reasonable applications you can take away from that. But is that everything that's there? No, it is not. Because there in that section about masters, he's talking about complete submission even into the first time. people who are injust because that was their plight. This is where you're stuck, this is where you find yourself, this is where the Lord puts you, this is how you behave. And that's the application that you should take away. This is where you're stuck. This is where the Lord puts you. This is where you submit. This is where you glorify God. Where you are at. Where you're at. Can you move from where you're at? Yes. Do you glorify God in that place also? Yes. Right? Where you are. at. Okay. So, interpretive challenges. Now the interpretive challenges will be to get through all of these verses in a really quick way. So starting back to verse 1. Uh ESV says finally. Verse eight. Yeah, starting in verse eight, ESV says finally, and ESV says to sum all up. To sum all up is winner winner chicken dinner for me that's the right that's the right translation. It means considering everything that I just said. And then of course he's reflecting on verses 2-13. Through 3. 7, right, about what we just talked about. But remember, too, in some sense, that verses 213 through 3. 7 is a reflection of how we live as priests in this society, right? Because immediately before this he says that we are priests, that we are to be building uh be built up as living stones, if you remember. So the living stones of course being the church, priests being The people who are priests we're at. So while it does specifically carry the weight between 213 and 37, it's summing that up. Know that 213 through 37 is really an extension of or an explanation of the discussion that immediately preceded that about being priests, a about being living stones, being built up in a temple. Okay? So again Our witness. Our witness and our ministry on earth as elect aliens of the diaspora. You were put in this place. You prayed for the Lord. Lord, you confessed your sins. Now you're a Christian. Why didn't God just snatch you up? Because you got a ministry. You're a priest. And he's turning you into a living stone. And he's putting you in a church, a group of people. Who are living stones being built up. And this is how you live in government, in the social institutions of slavery, wives, husbands. But now he's taking it even further. saying, okay, in case you're not one of these, this is the heart of the message here, to sum it all up. And actually in this particular verse there's No verb. The verb is actually not in this particular verse in Greek because it's carrying the weight of be subject to. That's the verse that is the verb that is consistently repeated throughout. 213 through 37. Be subject to every human institution. Be subject to your masters. Right? Submit to your wife or to your husband. Right? There be subject. To sum it all up, be subject to. And he talks about all of these institutions. And the focus is on Christians' relationships to non-believers, but it includes Christians' relationships to believers. This is how you live. Right? And we could talk about specifics between the church and non-believers. The emphasis here tends to be more on how we behave towards non-believers because the people that Peter is speaking to if you recall, are experiencing injustice within their society, right? They are they are being persecuted. And there's growing levels of persecution at this time when Peter is writing to them. So it's important to keep in mind that this includes our relationships to non-believers. To sum all up. So I okay, then we'll go to. And then he's going to give you four points. To sum all up, have the right attitude. And within attitude is four points, right? The first thing is have the right attitude. And then there's four things that he mentions about having the right attitude. No, I'm sorry, five things he mentions. about having the right attitude. Four of these, by the way, are words that are completely unique in scripture. John MacArthur makes the point that it's almost like he's got a new vocabulary. So uh it's the only time four of these words are actually used. Uh and I I don't remember maybe I read it down here which ones are which. But he starts off saying, have unity of mind. Right? That that's the way the ESV calls it. Have unity of mind. The word there is homophone. It means having the same mind, literally, unity of mind. And we should have unity inside the church. That that term homophone can also have uh it's also translated in the NASP and I believe the NET as harmonious, live harmoniously. Okay, because it's having the same Or living harmoniously. It can carry kind of the same weight. And the idea here is within the church we should have a unity of mind. Outside of the church we should live harmoniously. Okay? Uh this hearkans twelve sixteen through eighteen. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be ha haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. And The sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. That is essentially what Peter means when he uses this word. That is essentially the idea of Peter's meaning behind this first word. And by the way, this is a really frequent call in Scripture to have unity. It's mentioned in Romans here, verse chapter 12. verses four and five and then what I read sixteen through eighteen. It's also in First Corinthians chapter one. Uh it's in First Corinthians chapter three. Again in Ephesians four uh you have the same call. Jesus calls for the same thing in his high priestly prayer in John 17, immediately before he goes to be crucified. He he re asked the Lord for unity within the church. And Peter mentions it in two photos. five when he says we're being built up as living stones together. So this call to unity is also in Hebrews. You can go through. It is frequently found in Scripture. And why is that? Why do you you think unity is so important inside the church? Anybody I gotta drink a little water to get my voice back. So everybody wanna Exac yeah, it does. It shows we're all living under the same authority. That's that's true. That's very, very true. Very much in view here. I'm s uh okay. You raised your hand and then someone over here So let's go you and then back over here. I was just saying, I mean, if everyone's doing what Peter's been describing, then you can actually say, okay, people that are looking at questions are actually going to see a uniform pattern of behavior across the group. as opposed to oh this guy things you do in okay and then those folks are there are doing something completely different what's going on. So are Christians like him or are they like that? Yeah, yeah. Um yeah. There is in a sense you're trying to maintain maintain the witness of others as well. Right? Yeah, I think that's a really good point. This person is living life, submitted to authority, being a good Christian, all it takes is one bad apple, so to speak. Remember I made the comment that if you fall, you will be a stain on the wall of the church, right, to unbelievers, and they will all point to you. Right? They cannot wait to see you fall. else someone was it you I didn't I I heard the voice. I did one body so the body fights against itself it can't function. Mm-hmm. Yeah if a body yeah a absolute we have a ministry is a body. We can't have body parts going all in different directions. I think you mentioned that as part of living a good life. Go ahead. And that's a really good point, yeah, because it reflects the Godhead, right? There's unity in the Trinity, there's unity in the church. Um there's um an interpretation in Ephesians that refers to these parts where we talk about the household rules and and all of this that which is found in Ephesians that it's a quote unquote fractal, which means every time you break it into smaller parts it still retains the same shape. And that's that is an image which is projected And portrayed in Ephesians, it's also appropriate here that that unity of mind is about showing that same unity within the Godhead that the Godhead also has. Um Frank, just as a a practical um the the um the carrying out of unity the the command from Peter is specific to a trip a local church uh because it would be hard on a you know practical sense to have unity um across many churches. So it seems like it's it's really fleshed out within a local body. Yeah, I think here specifically he would be talking especially because like in verse 1 where he's he's pointing to specific churches within the the Asians. So yes, that's true. But I think maybe to take what you're saying and extend it, living in a unified By weight doesn't mean we always agree with each other. Right? You're gonna have disagreements within the local body, you're gonna have disagreements between churches, there are gonna be doctrinal differences between individuals, there may be doctrinal differences between churches. churches, but having a unity means that you proceed about and discuss those things and resolve those things in a harmonious way, right? That you don't you don't let you don't air out your dirty laundry. You don't throw your clothes out on the lawn. Let's put it that way. You know. Um, go ahead. Um Yeah, I was just thinking that also unity would be in um not that it's not that it's the most desirable thing but also in our execution of church discipline. Yeah. Absolutely. That there is a process by which we follow, that we have these discussions, that there's a unified agreement within the elders, within the board that this person should be discipline for this behavior to bring them into conformity, hopefully, with the rest of the body of the church, right? Uh yeah. Well that's that's also really good. Um part two, be sympathetic, he says. Soon pathos. It's funny, I had a conversation this week about this particular thing. Uh it means to suffer alongside. It means to suffer alongside, literally, soon pathos, to suffer with So to suffer alongside, to come along with. Christ says, I if if you want if you want to be a Christian, follow me, right? Pick up your cross and walk. That's you know, it it's to suffer suffer alongside, sharing the sufferings with others, specifically as it reflects to the church, suffering with fellow members within the church. They may be suffering a particular persecution. be there for them. When when they struggle, when when we have problems, we bring we bring food, right? That's maybe the good news. When you're a Christian and you get sick, somebody's gonna bring you food. Right? Hopefully. Right? And maybe they're gonna bring you a lot of food, right? Because they're sympathizing. They're suffering alongside. You know, that's an important Christian virtue. Very important. Outside the church, it means having sympathy for people who Are suffering through problems associated with their sin. Right? Let me just say this because it's a bit of a bone for me. You cannot Preach the gospel to someone you don't love. You hear me when I say that? You hear me when I say that? If you don't have a heart for a person Do not preach the gospel to them. Don't do it. Instead, go to the Lord and pray for a heart for that person. Don't say a word. Don't even open your mouth until you can earnestly look at that person or those people and desire for them to receive the word. And that means having a heart for them. Because otherwise you're going to give the gospel in anger. And how good is that going to sound? Oh, you need the Lord! You disgust me. You need the Lord. I don't want whatever you're selling. Right? I don't need that message. You know? What I need is someone who has sympathy for where I'm at. When I need is someone who has sympathy for my pain, my struggles, my hopes, my fears, my falling short, the destruction of my life. And when you have sympathy for that, you can preach the gospel. Right? Christ wept for sinners. That's what he uh gives us just a counter is maybe uh um I think that's probably in general true. However, um the prophet Jonah is the counter exactly. I mean Jonah did not have a part of the people of Nineveh. the God and said God's words out of an angry mouth or out of a mouth with no heart for those people. But God's words transformed those people without Jonah, without Jonah's attitude. being right. Mm-hmm. His attitude was wrong all the way up to after he'd given the announcement he's up under the the Wii and God's And he's hoping they don't but they reject. He's hoping they reject, yeah. He's up there hoping that the ball of fire's coming. down on and uh and God teaches them a lesson. But as Jonah's Jonah preached the word of God with a bad attitude. And the word of God was powerful enough to save those people anyway. Yeah. Yeah. And and I think that That's a fair counterpoint, right? Like I mean, the the flip of that is yes, g God worked through Jonah in spite of his heart and then God disciplined Jonah. Right. Right. God believe anything. I mean he he dressed the attitude. Yeah. And so it's absolutely a fair point that God can work the the word of the Lord never returns a void. Right? So the the the contra argument to what I just said is that y you can pick up the Bible and read it and if the Lord wants to use you for that, then the Lord will use you for that. So it's not that God cannot use a heart that doesn't have sympathy. What I'm telling you is that the Lord will use a heart that has sympathy, that a Lord will use a heart that's prayerfully given. And that is the the heart with which you should approach it. Uh and and that is the heart with which you should if I says it's a good counter because it actually clarifies the point I think very well. Can God use it anyway? Absolutely. God can use it anyway. But what are you called to do? Right? You're called to do. God, you know, the Lord says if you have a grievance with your brother, settle your grievance. Right? seeking and having sympathy for you. We cannot be proper priests if we do not sympathize with our our our people that that we're ministering to. Right? That's the whole point of Christ living a life as a human so that he may sympathize. That's Hebrews, right? Um uh Hebrews four, four fifteen. I know I had it in here somewhere. It's four fifteen. We have a great high priest, right, who who who sympathizes with us. Uh and that's what we're called to be. Um is and and that requires us to have sympathy. Attitude part three. Brotherly love. The Greek word is Philadelphoi. It's where we get the word Philadelphia, which I think is kind of ironic that Philadelphia would have the name brotherly love. But I was waiting. I thought that was going to be funny. That was not funny. My my joke was bad. The idea of loving in an unselfish way. Right? The idea here is love in an unselfish way. way, especially towards people who are close to you. Meaning people in the church, right? Meaning with family. Meaning people who are close to you, that you interact with frequently in your daily life. And there are obvious applications in the church, but What if you have family members who are un unbelievers? How should you treat them? You shouldn't cast them out. You should have brotherly love towards them. You should love them. You should have a spirit uh uh uh an attitude of unselfish love and that attitude should be in the church that attitude should be in the workplace that attitude should be in your home uh Matthew five you You have heard it was said that you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your father who is in heaven. That's the attitude there. Um that's the the notion there. Part four, be compassionate. And I'm not gonna pronounce the Greek word, but it it's like splag. I'm gonna try splagnon. Splagnon. means literally means have strong bowels. It's kind of weird, right? But the Greeks believe that that the Greeks and Romans believe that the emotions, you feel them in your bowels, that you feel them them in your guts, your your heart, your liver, your kidney, i in your in your bowels. And it and the idea here is a very strong word, and it means to have a deep, heartfelt compassion. Here rendered In English, be compassionate. This is where we have a deep motivation to pray for the lost. Right? This is where, as Christians, we should have compassion. passion on a fallen world. I always get really frustrated and my I have my my perfect example of this is First Baptist Dallas. Two weeks before the sermon, Two weeks before the sermon, big letters, why being gay is not okay, a deliberate intent to incite people. Against the church. No. Not necessarily. Well, two weeks before? Two weeks before he and he got. what he wanted because he had a crowd there at that time. He got what he wanted. He got what he wanted, but his crowd was angry. His crowd wasn't prepared to receive that word. They just weren't. Instead there were signs, they were picketing, they were they were fighting. Y you know you're making me think of one thing real quick, the both of you. Um what I'll say is to to make sure everything you say is beneficial, identified to the church. So so like the way he was doing it wasn't beneficial. But like you say, the people came angry, they all they weren't already weren't gonna listen to him. They wanna protest. Mm-hmm. So because it wasn't beneficial, then that's exactly my point. Is it okay to preach why homosexuality is not okay? One hundred percent. Absolutely agree. But do you do it? without compassion. That's my point. Thank you for that. That's my point. Do you do it without compassion? No. People who are stuck in that sin are stuck in that sin. It's an it's a grievous sin. And it's a powerful sin that forces them away an entire lifestyle away from the Lord. How do you reach those? People if you don't have compassion. How do you reach those people if they disgust you and they make you feel terrible or yuck or you want to reject them or outcast them? They're already looking for a fight. Go ahead. I'll make one comment about this. My son is um not a believer and I I think someday he will be because of his heart. But one of the comments he made to me one time which really stuck with me He again is not a believer, but he heard a comment by somebody who he believes very fully and who is Christian about how they hated in some way it didn't say it quite that way, basically saying they hated somebody who was gay. who he knows and they know very well and he he's not gay, you know, but he he said to me, he said, How can they say that? And how can I believe in Christ? When I hear people who are Christians sing about this person and I said to them, I said, Well they first of all we're speaking wrongly. I said, There there's no love I said, I love that person. I know the person. I love them as much as you love them, as love as much as the other person who who made comments. But they said it in the wrong context and the wrong way. She said that to me two or three years after that comment was made. So when you think about, you know, how this affects you know people who are who are non-Christians, who are trying and struggling to believe, it lasts a long time. It does. long time and he was very grievous about it. And I have never heard that from him. I mean I speak with my son every day. That's a really great point. You had something you wanted to say? Well I was just gonna read this because I think it's appropriate. James one twenty seven says real and this is in the ESE version. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this. To visit orphans and widows in their afflictions and to keep oneself un. Okay. There you go. Can you I'm sorry, can you read that again? Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep one To keep oneself unstained from the world. That was the the part I wanted. I wanted to say that exactly the way the verse read, so that's why I asked you to repeat it. To keep oneself unstained from the world. But but that doesn't mean that we're not in the world, right? So that's where we have I mean I think that verse is really appropriate here because it talks about having compassion for those who are suffering while keeping ourselves unstained from the world. And again, I'm gonna get I'm gonna hit on this point. Because I wanna I want I wanna bring this about. Having compassion for the lost doesn't mean becoming like the lost, right? But when you don't have compassion And you're preaching sin and judgment without compassion, imagine how a non-believer is going to receive that. Now, there's an aspect where we can say, hey, look, if we're Again, what we said before. Can God work through Jonah? Doesn't have sympathy, doesn't have compassion for these people. He wants to see fire rain down on them. But he uses the word of God. Does the word of God return a void? No, the word of God never returns a void. However, however, we're talking about you. We're talking about you. And how can you be effective if you don't have compassion for the lost? That's gotta be your New Year's resolution. Jesus is the our example in in this and every other way. And and when he when he confronted the woman at the well, he obviously had compassion of cared about her and he also did not shy away from confronting her sin. He confronted her sin in kind of a compassionate way. Uh and he He says, You get your husband. Mm-hmm. And you uh have a husband. That's right, you don't have a husband. You've had five husbands and the man you live with now is not your husband. And he said very well that uh you don't have a husband. So he he I mean he put her sin right front snack dab in front of her face. But he did it in kind of a um he didn't do it in such a way that he he said, y y you you filthy sinner Yeah, that's exactly stone and stone to the death. That's what the law said to do is stone to the death. Yeah, and and my notes that was actually a proof text, right? That yes, it's a great point. How did Jesus confront sinners? You can do a a a a whole study on that. I'm sorry I cut you all we're we're gonna run out of time. So I'm gonna get the last of the attitude in and then if you wanna hear the rest of this you come back next week, I'll figure out a way to work all the rest of this in, but we're not gonna get it all done. Um part Five. Be humble minded. This is another one that's it's uh unique to scripture. You don't see it anywhere else. It's tapinfrone. It's a con it's a conjunction. of two words, tapenos meaning be lowly or weak, which is found frequently in scripture, and phone meaning mind or spirit or heart. So have a humble mind or a humble spirit or have a humble or meek heart. Uh however y the yeah it's it's translated in scripture mostly as humble minded. Uh MacArthur calls this the most important of Christian virtues. And uh so I probably ought to have left a few more minutes with this. Um But uh so I'm just gonna to sum up. Um number one, you can't ultimately confess sin if you you don't have a humble heart. How are you gonna recognize you know th th there's a a term for that called olfactory fatigue. You can't smell yourself. Until you can have a humble heart or a humble mind, you can't smell yourself. You can't look in the mirror and see where you need to be a better man. Or you need to be a better woman, or you need to be a better worker, or a better y uh person in society, or a better husband or wife, or child, until you can smell yourself. You can't grow. You can't fulfill the command, be holy, for I am holy, until you can understand how unholy you are, begin to try. understand how unholy you are. And that takes a humble mind. And if you can't humble your flesh, I 100% promise you your flesh will rise up against you. If you don't know how to humble your flesh, it will get you. It will bite you. Sin is crouching like a roaring lion, right? You don't humble yourself, you don't humble yourself. your flesh it will rise up against you. And then there's of course the Philippians verse in chapter two, verse three Do nothing from selfish or empty conceit, but in humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important. than himself. So you're commanded. Christ himself uh uh Christ himself humbled himself, took on the form of a servant, took on the form of a slave to accomplish his ministry. Paul says in Corinthians, when I am weak, he is strong. John the Baptist says, I must decrease so that he can increase. Right? So be of humble mind. Uh and uh yeah, then I got caught 'cause I still have I got a long way to go. That was one verse. So uh but that's okay. We'll figure out how to get all of this rolling in together. Um even if we have to We adjust the schedule to do it. Next week we'll cover the second half of this. So let's let's pray.