So we start a new section in verse 4. I spent the whole last week uh reintroducing it. I ended last week with um Holy conduct filled with joy is the duty of your royal priesthood. That's how I summarize this next section. And just reading it quickly, it says, As you come to him, 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 4, as you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as so just Loved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. So Amencia begins a new section here in which Peter uses a series of Old Testament texts. to show uh and by the way for all you scholars out there um that take a pre-millennial view uh One of the foundations of that premillennial view is uh that we expect the Lord uh to fulfill his promises to the nation of Israel in a peculiar way. And in some ways distinct from the church. That's a foundational thing. I'm not going to touch on that too much, but I did want to throw that out there for some of you that Have those kinds of thoughts, I guess, is what I'll say. There's a really interesting uh this is a really interesting passage that interacts with um some of that uh eschatological thinking there Uh so see what you think as we go through it. Again, not coming back to that, but I did want to toss that out there to you. So Peter begins a new section in which uh he's gonna use Old Testament text to show that the New Testament believers, the church has come to possess all the blessings of Old Testament and Israel, but in greater measure. That's a general summary of about six different kinds, the statements, the same kind of statement in about six different commentaries. So I didn't make that one up on my own, by the way. But you'll see that here. In two, but it's broken up into about three sections. In two, four through ten is an indicative section, not an infinitive section. It's an indicative section These things Peter is telling us are true about us because of what God is doing and because of what is true about God 211 is also an indicative statement, but this time it's it's Peter himself. He says, beloved, I urge you, right? That's You know, that's not an imperative. He, you know, there's nothing for you to do there. He's just letting you know that he's urging you in it. So we have indicatives about God. We've got an indicative about Peter in 2. 11 and then 2. 12. We have an imperative. Um Which is pretty easy to see there, right? Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. Um and that's the culmination of those indicatives leading up to that point. So with that said, let's just dive in. It starts off with as you come to him And a couple things to notice there right off the bat, who's him? Jesus. Did you say that? I'm sorry. By the time I looked there as many words moving around. Yeah, so here it's indefinite, meaning there there is no reference Right? At least in this passage, right? As you come to him a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen and precious, on and on and on. There's no reference to Christ until verse five So nothing in verse 4 at all. So you gotta look back actually. And when you look back, it says if indeed you have tasted the Lord Tasted that the Lord is good. And last week we talked about this being a reference To Psalm 34. I might get this wrong. I think eight. It's thirty-four. I don't got I might have gotten the verse wrong. Um And further, any of you that are good scholars will note that in Psalms, this is one of those drop cap words, and it's actually Yahweh. In the original text. Why is Yahweh significant? Yeah, a little more specifically. It's the covenant name of the Lord. And just to flesh that statement out a little bit. What what's why is that important? That it's the covenant name of the word. So I think to the It's a particular name that had in mind a covenant relationship. Super cool study you can do there too, but no time for that. Um so here, this is the reference. Him is here. Alright? So as far as we've gotten so far, and by the way, totally right. Jesus Christ. But as far as we've gotten so far, all we know is that's a reference back to Yahweh. And we don't yet have an association in this text between Yahweh and Christ, but we're going to get there So you're you're you're dead off. She's totally right. You're totally right. It dawned on me. I kinda left you hanging there. It's like, no, no, that's the right answer. Uh but you don't have it quite yet. And actually as it gets built up I thought it was kind of exciting, which is why I'm kind of dragging it out here a little bit. Um there there's there's not a uh the the doctrine of the Trinity is definitely in scripture, but it's not bang bang bang like so many other doctrines are. But You get to see a good piece of it right here. Um, as uh Peter interacts with the covenant Lord, the covenant God Yahweh, and then Jesus Christ in in reference to um This cornerstone, this living stone. This phrase is a particularly unique phrase, this coming to him part And it's used generally in three different ways. It really is most literally translated drawing meter. And in this case two and I'm going to use Yahweh again just to give you uh a clear sense of that and and again, right We're gonna find that Peter makes uh a one-to-one correlation between Christ and Yahweh. So there's there's no guesswork there at all. Drawing near to Yahweh. In in uh this is best evidenced in about three different ways in the Septuagint It's evidenced or often translated, excuse me, drawing near to hear God Speak also in the Septuagint to offer sacrifices Um and then about seven times actually in Hebrews. It's uh draw near to worship. Now just For those of you that track such things, and I never know who that is, but just be careful. Um in English this looks a lot like an imperative. draw near together. It's actually not, although it does have a a sense of that here. This is a participial phrase, which just means it has this verb sense to it, right? And and it it's it's basically understood. The verb takes this action that drives us in this direction. This participial sense is like Overarching it. It's intended to be also accomplished either as a condition for this or as a result of this or as a causative effect. It's intended to interact with the main verb But it's not. So I just want to be careful here. We're still in an indicative section. This is not the command here. It's actually understood in what Peter is saying, and that's really what I'm trying to do for you to get to here. In Peter's mind, this is the understood activity of these people. Right? To draw near to the Lord. To draw near to the Lord in in worship is all through Hebrews and I don't think specifically in this passage. So I just wanted to give you some sense for that drawing near activity. I also, I don't know if you remember, but I draw a graph on the board, which I've actually had an opportunity to talk to several people about this week, kind of interestingly. Drew a graph on the board, and I put dead instins. Out here, I put born again here, and I put final salvation Here and my whole motivation last week was to try to get you to understand that you were saved For a reason that so many of us camp out here. Born again, everything's done, it's all accomplished, it's finished. And I tried so hard last week to give you this idea of born to something. Um and I you you would I've now redrawn that graph so many times because I keep running out of room. My my most recent rendition of it you know is this mess in the middle of the page with all these annotations, right? So I'm I'm really enjoying getting some latitude out of that Um but I guess what I'm trying to get you to say here is that in Peter's or what I'm trying to say, get you to understand, is that in Peter's mind, he's talking to us About that period in our lives. Between the time when when the Lord with in Christ we are buried in baptism and raised to new life in his resurrection, from that time forward, we are now alive in Christ. And we are to be drawing near to him. And it's the understood theology of Peter here. Okay. Let's touch on some of the stone metaphor. Um We could spend weeks digesting the commentary material on this. We are obviously not going to, but I want to A living stone rejected by men In general, we're dealing with and I'll post my notes for you. In in general, we're dealing with a body of Old Testament and New Testament passages. The New Testament passages, there's really seven primary passages. There's the one that we're working on here in 1 Peter 2, 4 through 8. There's Peter's words in Acts 4, 11 through 12, where he also speaks directly, and as a matter of fact, we're going to go there in just a second, speaks very directly about this use of this living stone metaphor There's Christ's own work in Matthew, Mark, and Luke that draw this out where Christ actually takes the Old Testament passages in Psalms and Isaiah, which I'll mention to you in a minute. And he associates them directly to himself. He says, that's me. That stone that was talked about in Psalms and in Isaiah, that's me. And Christ claims those in in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. All of those passages in the Gospels, principally quote from Psalm 118, which is one of the ones that Peter is going to talk about here. in just a few minutes. And then Luke, the Luke passage actually ropes in a little bit of Isaiah and a little bit of Daniel as well. The next passage in the New Testament is Romans 9, 32 through 33, and then Ephesians 2, 20 through 22. So there's about seven passages there in the New Testament. uh that rely heavily on this stone metaphor. So I just want to spend at least a little time to try to get a sense of what is being talked about there. So we're left with The indefinite hymn earlier, which was then Yahweh, because of the reference to 2 verse 3. Which was a quotation out of Psalm 34. So I I want to know a little bit more about what's going on here, why is it modified by this? And who are these people that rejected him? And it's not difficult to find if you turn over to Acts. It wouldn't actually hurt to do this because you can look at the passage. Acts 4, 11 through 12. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you. So who's who's the stone? So again, don't have to promise you I would just spend my time like basically teaching you through it as opposed to trying to do all the application, but Mind-blowing here, in case you've missed it, Yahweh is Jesus. I know you all knew that, but it's cool to actually see it. This Jesus is the stone. Does anybody have any confusion about what that might mean? I love it when the scriptures are simple. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by what's the next word? You. You. Who is being spoken to? Actually that's an unfair question unless you've had to unless you zoomed back and read the passage Peter has just worked a miracle. He gets called before a council. You'll see in verse 9. On the next day, so he's done this miracle, this uh council of people, you know, the religious leaders are all upset. They call him before themselves. On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem, with Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of the high priestly family. So who is he addressing here in this? Who's who's here? Greece. Yeah, religious leaders. Not just religious leaders. These were in theory the covenant. People. I guess what I'm trying to get at here is I want to be very careful that you do not stab your conscience with this idea that, oh, he's talking to those people out there All those unsaved people out there, well, sure, sure. By definition, if they've rejected the foundation stone of salvation, they are unsaved. But you understand who his audience is, right? People that worked hard to be religious. It's going to be a recurring theme as we go through this. Please do not let yourself off the hook too easily That doesn't mean that you don't consider this passage very seriously and soberly with all the relevant conviction and go, praise the Lord for breaking my heart. That I did not reject him. Right? I don't want anybody walking out of this room lost, stumbling over this rock, right? That's not what I'm going for. But I hope you'll realize The tremendous privilege it is to be one of God's people. There are a lot of people in this world naming the name of Christ that are stumbling over Christ. And I'm I'm um I'm cheating here a little bit. And I'll tell you why. If we have enough time to look at any of the passages in Isaiah which don't look probable If we have enough time to look at any of the passages in Isaiah, these people are stumbling over Christ because they're afraid. Because they have an enemy at the door, because there's a crop that withered in the field Because there's a king on their throne that is not their king, and they do not like him. And there's a society out there that scares them, and there are taxes that are too hard to pay And there's a disease, maybe COVID, right, that's plaguing their nation. It's not COVID. But leprosy, or I mean, fill in another one, right? There's only some disease. And instead of sticking to the rock, the living stone, they have determined to find a way to address those fears and doubts and sorrows And the tumultuous life that they live. And they've tried to find, they're going to find a way to do it themselves. And because God's way doesn't make sense to them, they're willing to claim the inheritance over the dead body of Christ. Right? Isn't that what these people did? We want the kingdom, Lord. We want God to sit on the throne of Israel. And cast out the Romans, and we want all the covenant blessings that you promised us in the Old Testament. We want all of the blessings All of the goodness in Christ. We believe that God is real, and we demand that He satisfy His covenant with us. And we will kill Christ to do it because that doesn't make sense to us What do you mean, bow the knee to Nero? What do you mean, tear this temple down and just love God with all your heart What do you mean my rank as a high priest isn't good enough to get what I want it to get? What do you mean I might have to sell all that I have to follow Christ? Okay, what did I do? First Mike walks into the room to audit me, and then Pastor Gabe sneaks in halfway through. Did I really biff it last week? I didn't think I did Oh yeah, please. It looks like this uh, There's two options. It's those who are drawn near to Christ and those who rejected them. There's not really a third. You're totally right. So one of my redraws of the graph, and I'm not going to labor it all, but I put born again here And salvation here. And there's a branch right here And there's a really cool couple of passages, and I wish I had more time to see my notes. Sorry, it's not on this branch. It's right here. And it's what you do with the rock that is Christ. And oh by the way This is judgment. In the context of this passage, it's shame. In the context of this passage, this is See if I can find it real quick for you. Radiance of joy Which is the uh Christian Standard Bible translation of the psalm 34 passage where it says, if you have tasted that the Lord is good. And it goes on to talk about if we have faith in him and if we obey him. And if we look to him without turning aside, this is what our faces will look like. And they will never show shame. That's actually in the text. I paraphrased it only a little bit. So you're absolutely right. There are only two alternatives here. And you begin to get a little bit of that at I'll say the implied conviction. I don't think it's implied. I'm just leaving There's a little bit of this conviction. Are you here, drawing near to God? Or the opposite. And by the way, if we if we get there, I want you to see the words like Stumble, trip, although it's a very literal translation of one of the words. You will see that in your X. And crush. Is uh this this one comes out of the Luke passage on um that refers to Christ's system Basically says, you will come to me here, or you will come to me this way, and if you come to me this way, I will crush you. And it's it's uh it's a reference all the way back actually to the Daniel. passage that I mentioned to you in the in the Old Testament. Thank you. That was good. Um So who's the living stone? Well, it's clearly Jesus. We saw that there in 411. Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you. The builders. Now that's important because that word shows up again in the quotes, right? He says, by you, you, the builders. Again, I find that very convicted. Right? Builders of what? Well, the builders of the temple. Or the builders of God's work, if you want a more general reference, right? But what are these people in s in general trying to do? And and again, you know But uh I'm I have to abbreviate my language or I'll never get done here, right? But what are these people trying to do? Well they're trying to build something for God Right? So again, be careful how far you distance yourself from the challenge here, right? If it's always those people out there over there You must notice that Jesus is interacting with, and Peter is interacting with people that are building something, at least purportedly, for the glory of the Lord. Think to yourself passages like, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And did we not do great works in your name? And he says, Depart from me, for I never knew you Right? Who rejected God? Well, the very people that were supposed to be building a house of glory for him, a house of worship for him. Rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. It positively identifies Jesus Christ as the stone, and it positively identifies the high priesthood as the ones who rejected the stone. And then, as I mentioned, this is supported absolutely by Jesus' claims in the gospel. And if you go back and read Matthew 21, 42 through 44, or Mark 12, 10 through 11, or Luke 20, 13 through 18. You'll see that that's exactly what's happening there. Jesus is interacting with, I'll say, the religious establishment in order to show the perversity Of their religion, the corruption of their religion. Peter will interact more directly with it in verse 7 But here in verse 4, he introduces by allusion Psalm 118, 22 through 23, which serves as the basis for six of the seven references to Christ as the stone rejected. In verse five it says, you yourselves Oh, so we can do this one real quick. What do you think it means living? Why why why does the stone get modified with living? Yeah, I did. Yes. Um so specifically Right? For any of you that want to know why this is an important part of our confessional statement, right? It's that he's a resurrected Christ. And that becomes more important in verse five when he talks about us also being living sons. We are in what state By the way, spoiler alert. We are in what state here in our redemptive walk with the Lord? Dead. We are dead in our sins. Here we are made alive in Christ. Right. Well we also tied it right to the beginning of the chapter of one three where we talked about the living hope and then it Works me through the living words, but kind of a a running description. Stop looking at my notes. Or reading the same commentaries that I am. Yes, that's exactly right. Um so I wanted to pick up on this one, right? This is not a dead stone. This is not a stone that you put in a wall, you place it there nicely and you admire it for the next four decades of your life. Oh look, my stone is a in the temple school. You laugh. You laugh. Relax, Minky, come on. You laugh, but how many of us adopt that kind of thinking to some degree? That there's no mission in our lives, no imperative to what we're doing. How many of us struggle with pointlessness or purposelessness or you know Motivation, or I don't know, fill in the blank. How many of us struggle with that? But you were made alive in him in order to be a living work In other passages, which we definitely don't have time to cover, it's this ongoing sense of constantly building. You are constantly being built up into It's not one stone in one wall at one time in one work. You're a living stone. And he will use you in what wall, in what worship, in what service he deems best. For your good and for the good of his people. What a big statement if we thought about it. We don't have time to think about it because, you know, clock. But what a big statement. So it's a living stone because he was resurrected, and because he was resurrected, and because he took us through that same process, we are also resurrected and now sit actively. Working with Christ according to his will, Him being our Lord, by the way, since we talked about that earlier. The one who affects his will on this earth and for that to come through his people. Because that's how he chose to do it. So you yourselves like living stones You like living stones. Kind of covered that already in verse five. Angela already stole my thunder with the first Peter one. Three passage that it started off with, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. To a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. And then Colossians two twelve through fourteen uh really says a lot to that same effect. Um Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead, And you who were dead in your trespasses in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. Um being oh sorry. You yourselves, like living stones, I'm in verse five, are being built up as a spiritual house. Are being built up as a spiritual House. Who's who's doing the action here? Yeah. Yeah. It's not you. It is Christ, right? The indicative, right? This is what is being done in your life, being built up as a spiritual house. And he goes on to really describe that in a couple different ways. He describes it in terms of a a holy priesthood. Right? What does this mean? Well, it it means that we're a part of a holy Here in verse nine, Peter appropriates his own This amazing promise of God in Exodus uh nineteen. Maybe he'll think I'm well you probably all do think I'm nuts. Don't don't answer that question. But this is awesome. The Lord has just Freed his people from Egypt. Right? This this peculiar people, he's drawn them out. He's about to do all this phenomenal stuff where he gives them the his covenant name and he gives them his commandments and he makes them his people for all time and he gives them these tremendous promises about what they're going to be in Christ And the privilege of being gods. And here in Those verses that I can't find right now. In verse 4, it says, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now, therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. And here in Peter, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he applies that to us. To be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. And in verse 9, a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. Do you see how he stitches the New Testament believers right in there with that first promise in Exodus 19? And then he began to communicate, and what I love about that is the promise came, and then he communicated his Ten Commandments. Just like the graph, right? He he didn't He didn't give them the law here. He gave them the law here. And then told them to walk in it all their days. I love that. I love that. Now there's there's some nuance there that needs to be discussed, okay? But just looking at the chronology of Exodus, he goes there, he brings them to Mount Sinai, he brings them out of their captivity, he makes this amazing promise to them And then he gives them the Ten Commandments, and then he gives them his name, and then he makes them a peculiar people, and then he guides them through the wilderness And then he draws them out into the wilderness for four years to make sure they know exactly how good he is and who he is and how he will provide for them. I love the chronology there. And I love that he assigns it to us. Peter does here. Offering spiritual sacrifices, the best thing I can do to help flesh that out for you is to look at Romans 12. If you don't have Romans 12, 1 and 2 memorized, shame on you. If you get nothing else from my lesson today, it should be shamed for not memorizing Romans 12, 1 and 2, which I have a really hard time reading out of the ESP because I memorized it in the KJV I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God. What is good and acceptable and perfect. What is your spiritual sacrifice? To present your bodies holy and acceptable to God. Philippians four eighteen and Hebrews thirteen sixteen have very similar things to say as well. So it's not just Romans One author said, faith manifests itself in coming to Christ for life. I love that. Faith Which the Bible is very clear, right? We are saved by faith, born again by faith. Faith is coming to Christ for life. Yes, that that follows the uh same pattern of the living, living hope, living soul, living sacrifice. That's obviously until kid, uh but we're called good sleeping home for you. Living stone, which is an anomaly, living sacrifice, another anomaly uh of the same thing. That's right Um two six So he makes he makes this amazing claim in four and five. He basically takes all this all of these amazing promises that were made to the peculiar people that were God's people, this nation of Israel, these Jewish people, and he he assigns them all directly to New Testament believers. And what he's going to be doing in six and following is he's basically going to say that the warrant that I have for doing that is found in all the Old Testament scriptures. For it stands in Scripture. And any book you pick up will tell you that that word drafty or scripture appears, I think, 62 times. May have gotten the number wrong. But I think 62 times in the New Testament, and with one exception, I believe, it is universally accepted to encompass the scope of the Old Testament scriptures So even though he's only going to quote a few passages from Isaiah, Isaiah, and Psalms, three different sections, right? He's basically saying the proof For me to assign you to this peculiar relationship in Christ is found in all of the Old Testament. And then he proceeds to give us three examples. His first one is in 6, it's Isaiah 28, 16. His second one is in 7, it's Psalm 118, 27-23, and his third one is in verse 8, it's Isaiah 8, 14 through 15. And he takes on this really interesting progression. The general flow is from those that put away their, as one author called it, their practical atheism. And their pursuit of pleasure and the fear of the world, and they pursue believers Excuse me, they pursue or believe the foundation rock that is laid in Zion. Isaiah 28, 16 is written to this nation of Israel that God is really rebuking. He's actually challenging them. He's like saying, you know, you did this and you did this, and they're like, well, how did we do that? And he basically goes back to him and he says, I told you to trust in me and me only. And you choose you chose to make treaties with Egypt You chose to try to buy your way out of out of trouble and and to to set up your own government in your own way. And y you just chose to do things in your own way because you did not trust me. And so that's why the one author calls them doesn't matter who it is um practical atheists. He's like you name the name of Christ. For heaven's sake, I'm talking to a high priest. As a matter of fact in that passage Isaiah is actually saying, you're a group of high priests that are drunk with the pleasures of this world. And he literally pictures us a bunch of men in a feasting room vomiting all over the table. I'm not making that up. Like that's in the passage, okay? So I'm not just trying to be vulgar here. But he's talking to religious people. As a matter of fact, he's talking to people that are naming the covenant. They're calling God Yahweh. But the way they live their lives. Looks like the rest of the world. You trust in the same things that the rest of the world trusts in. You feel about your identity the same way the the rest of the world feels about identity Masculinity, masculinity, femininity, gender identity, racial identity Fill in any other identity you want. You approach those things in the exact same way the rest of the world does. Through rationalism, the kind that the world is interested in, by the way. I think serving Christ and obeying Christ is extremely rational. But it requires some knowledge that's not available to the rest of the world So the flow starts. That first quotation in verse 6 is him talking to this group of people, and he contrasts them with those That do not stumble over the rock. He says, You, I have laid a stone in Zion, and all of you that turn to it will be saved. That's how he starts. That's his first quotation And then he moves really in the next two, so as you said, there are two choices. And that first section of that first quote is people that are born again and then live their hope out. And reach that final salvation. And the next group of people he talks about are the ones that stumble over the rock, and that's the Psalm 118, 22 through 23, and Isaiah 8, 14 through 15, one. And these are the ones that reject the foundation stone. And if you just look at Luke, and I'll hit eject after this so that I can respect your time. If you look at the Luke passage twenty, seventeen through eighteen So he's quoting from the Psalm 118 here, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. That's the Psalm 118 passage Everyone, verse 18, everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces. And when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. So when Peter is trying to explain to us really the way things are He goes back to the Old Testament, he draws those passages forward, and he shows you that there are two groups of people, not three, not four, not the Jews and the Christians, and the Gentiles, and the super religious and the less religious and the And the worldly Christians and the unworldly Christians, and the sanctified ones, and the unsanctified ones, and the holy ones and the unholy ones. He says there are two things that are spoken about in the Old Testament All of the Old Testament, and he confirms them through the message of Christ in the Gospels. But there are two things. And they both relate to what you will do with that stone that is placed in Zion. And you either set your hope in it And live that hope out every day as you progress towards the final salvation that is promised of you, that is hidden for you in Christ, in heaven, by God. You will either do that or you will stumble over that rock And to me, in our day, stumbling looks like that harmless, fearful skepticism that so many of us have. Is God's word good enough for fill in the blank with your immediate emotion? With your immediate circumstance. Is God's word An anchor for my soul when I feel like is God's son an anchor for my soul when I experience and I'm not being lit Been here long enough, do enough youth groups, have enough people come talk to me. There are some serious, serious injustices going on in many of your lives. People have hurt you People have disrespected you. People have continually ignored your need for fellowship and for compassion. and for fill in the blank. Those are real. I I'm not dismissing those for a second And we who are God's people ought to be seeking justice for you. And we owe you an amazing apology. An apology I don't even know how you begin for not coming alongside you better in those seconds. As a matter of fact, many of us men have let other men in this church bear an unbelievable weight of sin. Because we don't have the courage to just get in your face and tell you to cut it out. Stop being. Can't use my next two words. Yeah. Somehow those other two words seem more appropriate in that context. You can be a person that finds an anchor in Christ for those times. Or you can be a person that stumbles over you. God's word is sufficient to save my soul, but he can't handle my rebellious child. He can't handle my heart that longs for a thing that God does not seem to be supplying right now And I have to have it. I have to have that thing my heart wants. I have to have healing. I have to have, I don't know, solution the left, right? And we stumble. And we stumble because God's words not good enough Because our face is not set on the rock that is laid in Zion to a degree where it manifests itself as a beaming, radiant joy. Which Proclaims the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. That's verse 9, by the way, here in Peter. Just if you wanted a little loop back to Peter again. Which are you? Right here, sitting here after I've yammered at you for an hour But then will you please promise me to ask yourself this question just one more time on Monday morning? When you start homeschooling, when you get ready for work, when you're at work When that first thing that comes into your day to discourage you shows up, will you just stop for a second and go, what am I doing with the living stone that is Christ? Am I responding like a living stone? Or am I responding like one who stumbles over him? Just promise me you'll ask yourself that question at one time, please, on Monday. Do you have anything, Father?