So we'll hit the that first word at speed uh by the we time by the time we get there. So let's let's read it, I'll make a few introductory remarks and then we'll hit it at uh the speed I hope that it is honoring to the Lord Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Dalacia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bystynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable. undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who, by God's power, are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor as a revelation of Jesus Christ Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you, in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit, sent from heaven Sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. And now our new passage for today and really the next couple of weeks. Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you with the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things, such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. The passage goes on really the whole um part of this goes on to verse 25, but uh I'm gonna stop at sixteen. Frank's gonna pick up in seventeen next week and go to I think twenty-one, but I'm not sure. Um and then I'll finish up the the section on the the third week in in Yeah. Um so a little bit more reading for you just so I can keep moving in. I've summarized the first twelve uh verses here in my notes from the things that you've already heard. Um And I'm going to read through those real quick just to make it nice and clean and concise. Otherwise, I'll get carried away. We want to share additional insights to you. Verse 1: God chose you to be elect exiles It's both the election, which is an adjective for the noun exiles. God chose you to be elect exiles. To live and be treated like strangers in a strange land. That's what he chose you for. 1 through 3 entirely expand on that to say, but you were exiled by a living and loving Father who redeemed you from your citizenship in a cursed land And you're a slavery to sin and law, according to his great mercy. What I'm interacting with there is that contrast, who wants to be chosen to be kicked out of their own country? Who wants to be chosen for bad duty? Right? For miserable responsibility, for bad service, for death, for child, for persecution, for awkwardness, for estrangement. For social outcast, right? Who wants to be chosen for those things? And it's easy to lose track of it, and yet Peter seems to be consistently interacting with that by going back to calling God the Father. It was your father that did this. And he did it through the persecution of his own sons. He did it through a costly thing that demonstrates his passion for you, his superlative passion for you. His passion for you and his election for you was of sufficient value to him to hang his own son on a cross. I cannot spend too much time on that. I I can easily spend too little, and I'm in fact going to do that. But I cannot spend too much time on the priority of that statement. It's that father With that loving kindness, with that purposeful intention, with that view of what he intended for your life, that he was willing to spend the highest price To execute the greatest cost, to cast the depravity of you onto the holiness of his son In whom he was fully united and fully pleased, in a way that marriage should be a good reflection of, but we're too selfish to get it right. So what marriage should be, by earthly analogy here, I don't want to be careful with some of you, it may be a little more scholarly. But by earthly analogy, what marriage should be in its perfection, they had God and the Father, God the Father and God the Son had in their unity, and it was that that God the Father was willing to. sacrifice or surrender or spend maybe is a better word because he didn't fully surrender it or sacrifice it. So maybe spend is the best word. It was that which he was willing to spend To choose you as elect exiles Verse 4. No longer to the utter and exhausting frustration over the everyday vanities of life, which we went over so well in Ecclesiastes. No longer Are we citizens of a country where the only end is exhaustion and frustration and emptiness and futility and vanity? Every day, by the way, summing up into a life of everydays. No longer citizens of that country, but to a living hope A living confidence, a living expectation, a living assurance, and a definite purpose. What's the definite purpose that God saves us for? It's right there in those first couple of verses, i. e. verse 2, if you need a prompt. What was the purpose for which he made us elect exiles? According to the foreknowledge. Yep, it was according to the foreknowledge, but for Obedience. If we lose that, we're going to lose some of the strength of the holiness discussion that we're about to have. Okay? This is not a disjoint thought. The holiness part in verse 13 and on is not disjoint from that opening statement that he made about the grand purpose of God for which he spent so much. And reward. Obedience, verse two, and reward, or inheritance, verse four. Verse 5, exiles like the Jews. He chose us to be exiles, and if you want to know what that looks like, like the Jews were. for forty years in the wilderness, exiles from land and rights, and from the anchorage of property and claim and s and self or society or any of those other things But not exiles from him. As a matter of fact, you are exiles to him, even as the Jews were in those 40 years. You will come and you will know me. I will not allow you to satisfy yourself on anything other than that which is truly satisfying, and that is me And he would walk with them for those 40 years in the most conspicuous and amazing and in my mind envious ways that he ever had. I I I hope this doesn't reflect on me badly, but I'm old enough and I'm tired enough. If the Lord said he was going to take me out into the wilderness and walk with me in the visible way that he did with the Jews for 40 years, and then I would die. I would say, amen, when do I go? That is the exile you are called to, but yours is 72-ish years. I did a little homework. Life expectancy drops. I think I've shared this with you already. Life expectancy drops during twenty twenty one by a year. You already know that Or at least you know it intuitively. So it's not seventy-six anymore. I think it's seventy-five. So seventy-five years And even though he's not there in the fire, in the clouds, even though we can't feel the warmth of him over the tabernacle or the temple. that tabernacle, sorry, at night, uh when we set up our camp around him in the way that he told us to do after following him all day long and receiving our morning food from him and our evening food from him And the sustainment of our shoes, I think was something that was mentioned uh the previous time I taught. Even though we don't walk with him in those ways which we envy to see him in tangibly, he is more with us today than ever before. Because his son has made a way. His son has rent a veil. Lots of fancy theological sounding words, but there is a reality beyond these words Or behind these words that is ultimately important for us. And if you are feeling lacky, I don't even want to explore how because I don't know enough of you well enough, or maybe I would Poke a spot. I don't want to be poking with some of you. But if any of you could say that there is anything lacking in your lives then this introduction already should be helping you to understand the importance of 1 Peter. Yeah, I'm not making good time here That's what our exile is like, walking with God like the Jews did in the wilderness for four years. That's what he chose us for. And in some senses I can have a fit again. I've studied soteriology. I I get it In some senses, your salvation was just the opportunity to choose you for the exile that he then intends to walk with you in for the rest of your life. Those of you that are walking around with your card that says I got saved on June sixteenth of nineteen seventy two or whatever it is. By the way, I was just born that year and not in June. So don't pick on me yet. Those of you that are walking around thinking that's the end, the goal and the end, have it wrong. I cannot say that forcefully enough, despite how it may offend people. You are wrong. He chose you to walk with him in exile. And the means of doing that was to create a bridge to him Through Christ. And that's your election. So for those of you that get stuck on the election part and wave the election flag and celebrate the election part, fine in one sense. But get on with the journey. You're like celebrating the fact that you got to stand at the starting line. Or or maybe even hear the the pistol shot. I get excited about this. I'm sorry. I don't want to be in the loud. You guys can hear me anyway. I have a huge mouth and I don't need to raise my voice. I apologize. That's the beginning. Get to the end. Win the prize. Get the goodness. Be in the race. Have the exhilaration of it. It's good. For any of you that don't feel exhilarated by your lives, and I mean the good exhilaration and the bad exhilaration, right? It's all there But for those of you that feel bored in the midst of your lives, you're probably standing at the start. Going, wow, dressed like a runner. I looked like a runner. I was allowed to enter the course like a runner. Somebody said I was allowed to be here and run the race Run the race, for heaven's sake. You might notice that's a real common analogy in the New Testament, by the way, don't you? S Strengthen those weak weak your Hebrews, right? Strengthen the weak knees. Run the race This is not the exile of Sennacherib, the Neo-Assyrian king that exiled Judah, or Sargon II, the Assyrian king that exiled Samaria. Right? Those are big exiles. We even call it the pre- and post-exilic era of the Jews. Those are big exiles. They help us understand. What does it look like when the world exiles you When the world lays claim to you. Well, I'll tell you what it looks like. It destroys your culture and your religion and your people and your identity It causes or calls you to be synthesized with the cultures and religion and philosophy and thinking and actions and worship And goals, and purposes, and meanings of a culture that is not yours How much like sin that is. Right? What would Satan love to do? Keep you in the exile that is yours as a result of the curse. From Adam and Eve. He would love to keep you in that exile. And while he'll offer you all sorts of passions and goodness to remain in that exile, you will end up with nothing at the end of it. And that is the great joke of Satan. The great deceiver. Here's all this wealth. Here's all this passion. Here's all this identity. Here's all this. I don't know, you fill in the blank for you, right? You're your own best preacher, your own heart. Other than Christ and the Spirit itself, right? Meaning I can't do as good a job as your conscience will do in your own heart. And he'll offer you all those things, and at the end of your life, he will laugh over you because he has deceived you and left you with nothing. It is not an exile like that. It's an exile to God, in God, for God, with God, about God. And it invests you with every good thing. God will also dance over you, it says in the Old Testament, with joy, except when he does it. The blessings will be flowing from him, Malachi 3. 10, in such a way that you will not be able to contain it. You will not be able to believe it. What an irony. What an irony. We're afraid to live as exiles to God, to live as exiles in the kingdom. from which, or as a result of which, we will receive all blessings beyond that which we can ask or think. And instead, we remain in the place where we're exiled from God, a different type of exile, if you will, which is guaranteed to deprive us Of even the meagerest warmth. And verse 13 is just blunted, and it's blunted in a way that to me is offensive. It was all this momentum of these first twelve verses. that are meant to carry you into that bare floor in verse 13. And so I hope you won't begrudge me these long words. Ten and twelve, and then we'll get there. It is this exile that is called salvation in verse ten This is so important for expanding your view of the blessing of salvation, and I harped on this a minute ago with the race analogy. Not a once for all rescue, leaving the one rescued to the remainder of their days. He didn't pull us out of a pit, brush us off, and pat us on the back, and send us out of the light. That is not the kind of exile or or rescue, excuse me, salvation. That we receive. But an exile of walking with God in rejoicing, obedience, and refining trials. This is the good news of our salvation. Not the half good news that is the redemption receive on the requal blah The redemption we receive on the cross, but the full good news of being rescued from the pit of our sins, the pit of hell, the pit of our grave in sin To God permanently. This is the grace given to you that was foretold by the prophets and secured by the sufferings of God's own Son, Jesus Christ. Therefore Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ by being sober-minded. and setting excuse me by preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded. I'll get to why I Read that in an order which is probably, I know, is different than most of your Bibles since most of you are using an ESB. I would also just like to be a little bit picky about some wording here The therefore in your Bibles would would truly be better using a more archaic word, which we do not use so much. much anymore and that is wherefore instead of therefore. You say is there actually a distinction? There is, I checked. Therefore means in consequence of something, in consequence of that. This thing has happened, and as a result, there was a consequence. Okay? So you can say as a result. And when you're uh and then I'll read you the wherefore, then I'll say what the distinction is. Wherefore means for that cause or reason. So let me let me pay attention. A little tricky, but it's obvious. Therefore says as a consequence of that thing, this is a result. Wherefore says, for the cause or reason of that thing. Now I I played it out. Physically with my hands. Where did I end there for? On the result or the cost Therefore, ended up in the result. Wherefore focuses your attention back on the cause Right? And it's it's it it I'm not like you you're obviously not going to die and go to hell if you don't say wherefore instead of therefore in this verse, right? But I I I I will tell you that consistent with the passage We're to be looking at the cause. Not the result as much, right? The result will come from the cause that is presented us. And so uh and and I'm not on my own here by the way, many commentators took this up, which is why I went ahead and started doing some looking uh looking up of the words because I was like, yeah, I don't really see the difference. Wherefore does a better job focusing our attention on the cause for reason while therefore draws our attention on the result? The cause indicated in verses 1 through 12 are what are most in view here. That he chose us as elect exiles Through the means of salvation for obedience is the cause. All those things that God did is the cause that form the foundation of the imperatives that follow in verses 13 through 16. Alright, I think we've discussed this before, but making sure we're all on the same page. There are voice tense mood with uh a lot of different languages, but particularly in Greek Okay? And the voice of something says, is this thing is this thing something that you are doing, basically, or you need to do Or is it something that you are receiving as an action? So are you doing the action or do you need to do the action or are you receiving the action? That's the voice of a of a Greek verb. Okay? And it can be indicative or imperative So let's start with the easier one. An imperative verb says what? Which of the two types of uh voices is the imperative? Come on, louder, louder. I'm I'm light screaming up here. You gotta be loud enough. I can't I'm ringing up here. I can't hear you. Uh I'm sorry, hold on just a second. Would you say inherited Uh what you I'm just not sure what you mean by that. Well, you you compare therefore and wherefore A at one being the result and one being the cause. So it seems that your analysis for the other The other two would be similar to the same rationale and reasoning. So just to make it sorry, I haven't finished my coffee cup yet. Um I asked Which voice, meaning whether the actions being done to you or the re actions being done by you is the imperative voice, and you said inheritance, I think. Right. So Were you re reflecting on the achievement of the inheritance is what you were going for? I gotcha. I gotcha. I'm sorry. I'll drink more coffee and get back to you, try to be smarter. Okay. What did you have? I'm also saying that your appearance would be to ask different Yeah, as a mother you should be very familiar with the imperative voice, right? When you stick your finger in one of your child's noses, I mean On the tip of the nose. Oh, this is not gonna go well. Lord, please. Yeah. Do that. Do this. Make this be so, right? That's an imperative. What's an indicative? What's an indicative look like? It's funny, in a lot of senses as a parent, the indicative conversations you have with your children are the serious ones. They're the ones that like you're Your life needs a little adjustment here. I'm going to sit down and give you a bunch of indicatives. They might end in an imperative, but they start, the foundation of them are the important indicatives They're the things that are true. So I can go to you and I can say, Maria, I believe these things to be true about you. And then I share with you whatever those things are that I believe to be true. When we're talking about indicatives and imperatives of scripture, we're talking about them inherently in light of the fundamental truth, the fundamental veracity of who and what God is and what His Word says. An indicative is something that's told you it's true. It really doesn't matter what you do. It's just true, whether you like it or not. An imperative, especially in the New Testament, is often the result of the indicative, and it's what you need to do. Amen. That one I got. The indicative of what God has done for us in Christ is what we read about in those first twelve verses, is always the basis of the imperative, how we should live our lives. That's a direct quote out of one of the commentaries. And I just want to make sure you heard that right. The indicative is always the basis of the imperative, but there's a way to flip that on its head. We like to approach the indicatives in Scripture and worship those. Look how beautiful this thing is. Look how great it is. Without wanting to be negative at all, the beauty of the Catholic Church is a perfect picture. And when I say the Catholic Church, I mean like literally they're physical buildings And and their uh liturgy. I just use the wrong word. Uh and their liturgy, I think it's beautiful. I think it's amazingly beautiful And I've been to churches all over the world. That's like indicative without imparity. Look how wonderful these truths are. But you get up and you walk out of the room, you walk out of the church unchanged. You walk out no different. Then he walks in. God's truth is never like that. God's truth is constantly intending to collide with your reality. which is a false reality, and bring you into the truth, to draw you into exile unto himself. And we have this switch here. All these indicatives, wherefore imperative. And the first imperative verb in 13 is actually not preparing your minds. That's a verb form, but it's not the verb here. Or being sober-minded. Verb form, not the verb here. First verb that occurs in this is a strongly imperative verb. And it's set your hope, your assurance fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Go back to my race analogy. Don't be so excited about the fact that you're I mean I gotta be careful here, right? It's a lot to be excited about to enter the race at all. And if you're a young Christian or a young person that's just come to a knowledge of Christ, there's a lot of celebration to be had that God has qualified you to be in the race. So I please be careful what you hear here. Hear H-E-A-R, hear H E R E. But that is not the end. And if my sons name the name of Christ at an early age, what they have And submitted to obedience in baptism, which they have, and get up and demonstrate uh some sense of Christian discipline, Christian discipleship in their life lives, which they have And yet walk away, or let that cool, or do anything other than to continually be consumed more fully by the glory of the Lord and his obedience and his truth, then it's a great disgrace. It would be, in my mind at least, and notice I said my mind, it's a greater abomination had they not named the name of Christ. That's what it's like when we read the indicatives and do not respond to the imperatives. The tree must grow up once rooted in the foundation that is all we know of God's sovereign work in election and redemption. It must grow up, or it is not a tree of God. It must surrender to the imperatives, or it is not a tree of God. Because the the truths that we are rooted in, the indicatives that we are rooted in, necessitate response to the imperatives Set your hope fully on the grace that we've brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Be excited about achieving the end goal by responding to the imperatives that we have here in this passage. By preparing your minds for action and by being sober-minded. So these are participles that Even in English we have participles, it's just a noun word that can be used in a verb form. Okay, that that's really That's a little too simplistic for some people, but it's good enough to get us through this class and have a full understanding of what's being talked about here. Once our minds are set on the fact that we must obtain the goal, that we must respond to the indicatives, that we must follow through in obedience to the imperatives. then the means by which we do that we are ready to to receive. How do we do that? Well we get off the starting line in our complacency there and we prepare our minds for action And we we be sober minded. Preparing your minds for action is literally girt in the Greek is literally gird up the loins of your minds, which doesn't really mean much to us today. It's a very uh arcane way of saying that The meaning is simply that they used to wear uh baggier robes in a hot, arid culture, you you want the breeze to flow liberally, right? So you you wear baggier uh clothes, you also want it to stay out of the sun, you also wanted to prevent um Uh dehydration, right? And then the more you sweat and the you know the the more that fluid leaves your body, the the worse things are. Um and and so you wore those baggy clothes and this is literally it's all through scripture, this this phrase pops up all over the place. It's literally the idea that you know that you are about to prepare yourself for action which your normal attire is not appropriate for anymore. And so you bind it up between your legs and everything else, you wrap it around your waist, you effectively make for yourself a pair of pants or britches or shorts or I I don't actually know what it looked like Hm, actually I do. Um I always thought I'd spend enough time in the Middle East. I've seen people do this. Um you know, it looks kind of silly, but it works. And their legs are free and they are prepared for action. And that's what we're called to do here, but in our minds. And I need you to start understanding that this is first and foremost a way of thinking about something. A way of understanding something That this is the that thing in you that is most motive, I'll say, in your actions We we might call it the will, but I gotta be careful because it that collides with a bunch of goofy philosophy. But whatever that is, where it identifies you. I am this way because, and then you tell me why, right? Because I believe this, or because I think this, or because I feel this Right? This girding your mind is interacting with that piece of you from which every decision in your life flows Every value statement, everything that you do, everything that we would fall generally under the moniker of volition, if that word helps you a little bit. stems from this thing that he is uh Peter is saying gird that up and be prepared for action By the way, you look stupid when you're like in reality, when they when they do it, they look kind of funny. They look like they're wearing diapers. Not gonna lie to you. Right? Not the point. The point is the preparedness. The point is living in a reality that says God has called me to action, not to stand to the starting line. Could perhaps be a reference to Israel's departure from Egypt in Exodus 12, 11. They were to eat the Passover meal with their belts on and their shoes on and standing up and ready to go. They were about to be exiles, if you will, from Egypt. And so cool, and you'll see this come in a little bit later. Where did they first go? Sinai. And what's special about Sinai? God showed him who he was. God showed him who he was. He met them. He descended. They were afraid. The mountain shook and burned. For days and days and days. He had to cordon it off, lest he have to kill you for stepping on that which was holy. You get a bunch of intersection of themes here between Exodus, the Jews leaving Egypt, and this topic we're discussing here. Perhaps it's a reference to that. Another uh commentator's name's Clowney. Um O W-N-E-Y, in case you were wondering, helps us see the picture better by referencing a passage in Luke 12, which you should turn to. Luke 12 35 through 48. We don't have time to read the whole parable, but in verse 35 it says, stay dressed for action And keep your lamps burning. And then he proceeds to tell a parable about a uh a master of a house that leaves his house in the care of other people, and he goes away to uh wedding feasts, and when he returns, he will assess how the people that kept his house did. And he's basically saying, you stay dressed for action and keep your lamp burning because you don't know when I will come back. And when I come back, there will be a wrecking. It's the exact same phrase. Stay dressed for action is the exact same there as it is here And verses 45 through 48 tell about three different types of servants, all bad by the way, but three different types of servants that stay in the house. But if the servant says to himself, verse forty-five, My master is delayed in coming, and begins to beat the male and female servant. So he's literally abusing his authority in the home Because you know the master is not here. He's he's delaying coming. And to eat and drink and get drunk, the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and in an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces. Now What does that mean? I don't know. I mean I scream it just means you'd carve them up into little box and put them in a hole someplace. In either case, super bad. Like whatever you want to do with that, and by the way, people try to explain it away, but whatever it is, is super bad. You don't say I'm gonna cut you into little pieces and mean anything other than something really bad I want you to notice this is a servant in the master's house. He is talking to people that name the name of Christ. He didn't say he was talking to people who were sovereignly elected and redeemed. We believe better things of the people that God elects and redeems. But they're in the house of God. They're in the house of the master. And they are not sensitive to the fact, like they're told to in 1 Peter, by the way. They're not sensitive to the fact that the Lord is coming soon and they are to be busy about the master's work. That there's a goal, a purpose, an end. And he will cut them up into pieces and put them with the unfaithful. And that servant who knew his master's will, but did not get ready, so he knew his master's will But he did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating. Now that's a little bit encouraging in that he didn't get cut into pieces and put with the unfaithful But I don't know about you, but I'm not looking forward to a severe beating from God. And if all you're holding on to this morning Is that, well, you know, one way or the other, as long as I'm not in hell, I'm good to go. I call that a fearful seeking after hell. I hope that your salvation is something more than that. But the one who did not know, this is the third type of servant, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. So if you're in that category, I would encourage you to grab your books, stand up, and walk out now and not come back. Do not come back to church because you're sliding toward at least the beating guy, if not the hacking guy. I again hope that that is not you. Well I'll just and I've actually had And I don't think she's in this category, but it always makes me think of it. I have actually had uh a woman who's walked with Christ for many years. I believe that I will be in heaven with that woman But the most awful thing I ever heard her say was, I I don't want to get involved in all that theology stuff. I want my faith to remain simple. I I don't care about the rest of that. All I need to know was and she she rattled off two or three things. And I was appalled. And that was 25 years ago, and I still feel indignant about it. I still remember where I was, what she was wearing, where we were sitting, what time of day it was, what we were talking about when she said It was it was so appalling to me. I thought, Lord, please don't ever let that be me I think it gives us a good picture of what this means to gird up our loins, the loins of our minds, for action. Do not dismiss the uncomfortable language in this too readily. Right? We read these passages and we immediately go, sovereignty of God and election Both are true. Both are completely unequivocally true But don't save your conscience when the Lord is busy trying to prick it. That's a sin Matthew 7, 21 through 23, there's people saying, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? Did we not cast out demons in your name? And he says, Depart from me. I never knew you. Are you is it Franklin that carved up his Bible? Jefferson. Jefferson? Are you like that? Oh that's time when she've got an election thing. I love that. But that verse that says Lord, Lord. That doesn't seem consistent with the sovereignty of God in the election, and he cut it out of his Bible. Is that you? 1 Corinthians 3:10 through 17, the fire will test what sort of work each one of us has done. And I think we read that and we're like, yeah, but at the end of the day, we got it anyway. I do not think you understand God. Have you read the Old Testament? I understand that we're in a new covenant. Say God. He was trying, no, he was explaining who he is. He was explaining the amazing privilege of salvation. But he is not a schizophrenic guy. And he has never tolerated people of half-heartedness. You are all in or not at all. Every trial in your life is every every trial in your life. I don't care if it's a stub toe out of the hardest ones that we can imagine. The ones we all cringe at when somebody else tells us the story and we know that we would not be able to bear up under that same burden, and only by the miracle of God's grace will that person survive. Right? In the full spectrum of those trials, God is calling you and drawing you into Himself to a full and unavoided heart. Fully fixed on him, fully satisfied in him, fully built up in him, fully encouraged in him, fully walking in his strength And then carrying through being sober-minded and right away we're like, wow, don't don't get drunk or don't drink. Well Brutom is a a theologian you should all know of. He's written systematic theologies and we've talked to his ethics books at church and he's he's a pretty cool guy He writes in his commentary on this, he relates drunkenness, and this is this is good, by the way, it's consistent with the other commentaries He relates drunkenness to any kind of mental intoxication, and all he means by that is anything that is in your mind that numbs the reality of what should be in your mind or distracts you from it So he describes it as any kind of mental intoxication. Many of the commentators talk about it as a lethargy, a mental lethargy, a mental tiredness, a mental complacency. For any of you that have any experience with alcohol or people that have uh misused alcohol in particular or even potentially used it correctly, it has a A calming effect, right? You're not supposed to be calm about Christ You're not supposed to be complacent. You will die before you achieve the goal. Do you hear me? And the breathlessness and the rage of every muscle as you sprint toward the goal On that last day, with that last breath, will be the work that is tested by fire to see if it was useful for the glory of the Lord. You know that is the testimony of the full scope of scriptures. You know it is. Laziness of mind, third thing, any kind of mental intoxication, addiction which inhibits spiritual alertness, and I'll come back to that in a second. Laziness of mind, which lulls Christians into sin through carelessness. And then he goes on to describe some of those addictions and some of the some of the laziness habits as career, possessions, recreation, reputation, friendships, scholarship. authority. Are you living a sober-minded life? Or are any of those things in the dot dot dot that necessarily follows them, right? The ellipse C's that could end up adding your personal laziness, your personal intoxication. Give me just a second, I think. Are you adding to that In any way that slows you in your race, that that deadens the energy and the pain with which you run your race, Ms. Air. Yeah, you think you've got sober sober. I think it's Idols. Idols? Idols. Yeah. You you just say idols, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yep. Totally agree. Anything that changed your mind Always is that fun? That's exactly right. Seeking satisfaction in anything other than Christ is an idol, and it is not being sober-minded. That's exactly right. And then in my remaining few minutes we get into verses fourteen through sixteen and I I'm gonna be short, but I I wish I could spend the On this. How in the world am I going to do justice to the holiness we are called to as the holiness of God is in any short amount of time. In the imperative it tells us to set our hope on the grace that will be brought to you. And that just strikes me as like, look to the future. a future hope. But it feels like this is a call to the present. Can we just talk through that Or if I we can talk over lunch. Yeah. We can, can't we? Um you're you're totally right. And I did spend some time on it for that very reason. But the long and short of it it is that the inheritance only comes To those that finish the race, that run in it today. And we know from both Peter and Hebrews and James and Corinthians and so many Romans. We know from so many of those other places that the reason the Lord says run beyond the point of exhaustion, beyond the point of bleeding in your race for Christ or your boxing match for Christ. The reason he says do that or can demand it of us is because he also says, it is my power that is in you that accomplishes those things. And the best way I can say that you see that in this passage here is the whole part where he calls you to become an exile in him and with him. Everything about that exile Is provisioned by him, is is uh in the light of his presence And as a matter of fact, the only sure way to be able to run that race and achieve that goal. It is to stay in that presence. We deprive ourselves of the very means by which we could accomplish obedience the moment we do not fully live in the exile that Christ has called us to. The Apostle John does a similar thing talking about this idea of what we're going to be, but but what we are right now in order to get to where we're going. 1 John chapter 3 says, beloved. Now we are children of God. And it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears, we will be like him, because he will we will see him just as he is And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. So that's the idea of our hope now is fixed on him, on Christ. And we don't know exactly what we would need, but if we're fixed on price now, we'll get there. That's excellent. That's what John is saying. That's excellent. Thank you In fourteen through sixteen, the be holy get back there real quick. First Peter, here we go. So we had that passage in thirteen. The primary imperative verb was uh set your hope, and then the two participial phrases, preparing your minds, being sober minded. In 14, we have a similar construct, and that's why I read it to you differently. The imperative verb comes as at the middle of 15 or end of 15 where it says, be holy in all your conduct. As obedient children. And then there's participial phrases there again, or participles, right? be uh be not being conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. And so you get that same sense there, the imperative is be holy in all your conduct. Um it says, you shall be holy, for I am holy. Uh that's a quote out of uh sixteen there, and it's actually from Leviticus, we think is from Leviticus 19 too. the exact same words used in Leviticus nineteen two uh in the Septuagint. Uh so we we think that's where he was quoting from But I want you to notice that's not a futuristic you shall at the end of time be holy, for I am holy. It actually kind of interacts with Angela's uh question about you know like time and now, uh the the words that are used there are uh of a a strong imperative now. It's the expectation that you will be holy now. And that you will continue to be holy into the future until the Lord draws you home and reveals that which you will be, which we do not quite understand yet. Leviticus 19 is in the center of a section of passage, uh a section of scripture which is called the Holiness Code, and it's all these rules uh about um holiness. Specifically for the priesthood. And you'll notice there's a nice symmetry there in 1 Peter 2, 5, and 9. We are called a holy priesthood in 5. And then again in nine, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possessions. So it's Interesting that Peter goes back and references this passage which was talking about the holiness of the set apart ones, the priesthood, those that could approach him by the way in the temple, those that could come near him, but those that were called out conspicuously. And what did the nation or tribe of Esa Eli what did the tribe of Levi not get that the rest of them got They didn't get landed in. They were always exiled in some sense. Really cool, isn't it? I love scripture. It's so cool when you finally see it. You're like, wow! In Leviticus he says, speak to the entire assembly of Israel and say to them Behold. Oh excuse me, be holy, because I, the Lord your God, am holy. And that's actually in a context in the scriptures that are talking about the strange fire that um Nadab and Abihu offered to God. You don't get to come your way. You don't get to come your way because I am a holy God. And you must therefore be holy too. And that holiness, I'm running out of time. That holiness always comes from our experience from God, the wherefore part, the cause part. The cause is God's holiness and our experience of that holiness. Not the result as much, which is what we think and what we want and what we do. I'm going to skip over some of the discussion of holiness as a word group. It's interesting to me that uh Leviticus is really all about talking about what's holy, what's set apart to God, and therefore what must not touch the common or the profane. Right? Because this thing is holy, it cannot touch that which is unclean. A priest can't walk through a graveyard. A priest can't touch defiled food, right? You can't touch defiled food and then be clean So it's it's always this constant separation of that which is set apart for God and that which is common or profane. But the metaphor changes in the New Testament somewhat without being unfaithful to the call to holiness And Paul takes it up more than anybody else. In 1 Corinthians 5, 9 and 10, Paul tells the Corinthians to be separate from the sexual of the immoral and impure. No shock there. But then he goes on to explain or to say that he is not talking about the sexually immure oh sexually immoral and impure of the world. For then we could not live in the world at all. And I don't have time to develop this, but there's a whole sermon there, by the way, about how we treat people in our midst that are struggling with sexual immorality. This better end soon, or I won't make it. But that's not the point of my lesson today. The point of my lesson today is to say: do you see that the Lord calls you to be holy in the midst of a common and profane world? That's what it means for you to be excised. You are not at home. You are not in the place where society is conformed to the standards of holiness that God requires. You are an exile, and you are intended to live that conspicuous. Exile life in the midst of touching and bumping and doing business with and exercising community to some degree with the common and the profane. But conspicuously distinct. Conspicuously set apart For the glory of the Lord, as his possession, his prize, his bride, his servant, whichever one of those, and they all come right out of scripture, but whichever one of those really resonates best with you, take that one. It's it's an e one author said it's an extremely important reorientation. In Christian experience The holy is not kept, whatever reason my spell checker keeps making it hold, and so I'm like, that word doesn't fit. The holy is not kept rigorously distinct from ordinary life. In our Christian experience today, versus what it was back in the Old Testament period. Instead, the essence of holiness is a dynamic expression of the divine. Dynamic expression of the divine with the normal or within the normal processes of daily life. Does that characterize you? A dynamic expression of the holiness of your God, Father, Exile, King. A dynamic expression of him. In the midst of the life that you live. Do you understand that there is something I want to be careful with this? Because I've known people, I've known a lot of people that have used this Do you understand that there's some sense of if the world doesn't treat you differently, there's a problem? If if the world cannot see and be abraded, abraded, not upbraided If the world cannot see and be abraded in some sense, careful, by your conspicuous set-apartness For the Lord, we might have a problem. You might have a problem that you should consider. Holiness always has the idea of being set apart for God. That's the normal definition. But it also always has the idea of being set apart in God's presence. Since 1903, Mount Sinai called them to be holy, but man, he descended and spoke to them and interacted with them and provided for them, had mercy on them Leviticus twenty one seven, the priests in the temple were set apart as holy so that they could come and be joined with him to make a a a temporary, a shadow of the bridge that Christ would then bring to make finally on the cross. Genesis 2. 3 and Exodus 20, 11, the seventh day of the week, the day of Sabbath, set apart. For what? Set apart to be with God, to rest from everything else and be with Him. Your holiness is a standard of conduct which you are absolutely called to. But your holiness is also the privilege of entering into the presence of God and walking with Him. And staying with them as you walk through this life. And as I say that, even in my own heart, I I I confess to you, I struggle. God is so good to me, and I struggle with complaining. I know it sounds stupid to you, but God has gotten a hold of my heart in a strange way over the last few years, and it feels as bad as any sin I've ever committed What's the point of that, Scott? The point is I can walk according to the do's and don'ts in my life So I'll say reasonably well. I was trained to be an obedient person and a disciplined person. I've committed enough sins that cause me enough Serious sickness in my mind and heart that I got a lot of roadblocks, a lot of barriers put up to those kinds of sins. But God didn't call me to be just set apart like you know some snow-driven thing sitting over in a corner. He called me to be dynamic in life without what he does. And part of my problem, part of my complaining, I am absolutely confident is the fact that my failure to live this To the fullest, this dynamic life removes me from the presence of the Lord that I could otherwise enjoy. Or the fullness of the presence of the Lord that I could otherwise enjoy. And you see how that feeds itself? How are you doing? Read Isaiah six today. I wish I had time to go over it, I just don't have time. Read Isaiah six, that first part of the passage. That is a definition of holiness in the scriptures like no When Isaiah sees the Lord high and lifted up, and here's the angels calling, Holy, Holy, Holy, and his first response is, I am a man of unclean lips. And his next response is, Send me. Make me a dynamic testimony for your glory. And there is no thought of him or his ability or his capacity or his anything else, just I'm a sinner that needs to be saved. Touch my lips with the coal of your holiness. And enable me to serve you in all of life. And then flip over to Luke 5, 3-11 and read how Peter says the same words as Isaiah when the Lord comes and reveals his glory and majesty to him through fishing. And he says, God, that man who is unclean. And God is so gracious, he says, you will no longer fish for fish. But you will catch men for my glory. And when I think about what I long for for my sons and for the people in my small group and for the people in my church, I have to say with Peter, Lord, I am unclean in all that I do. Please make me be one that can rescue people. He does the rescue. Right? I just throw the net out in obedience. Please make me the one that is useful for that. What a horror to stand before God and know that I did not test the net out when God asked me to And as a result, had to watch my sons fade away. Or my small group fade away, or people in my small group fade away, or some of you out there. What a horror But God is good. He calls us to a better exile that he will walk with us in. I had to say that because I couldn't end on that bad note. God is good. And I hope that you will be Prepared in your mind for action before you even walk out of the store and sober-minded in your thinking all week until you get to be renewed in the truth of God next week by whatever messages He brings into our lives. Lord