Alright, you should all well pairwise or whatever, you should all have a half sheet of paper. That's actually going to be most of the content of my lesson today. In an effort to try to abbreviate my lesson today, give you guys a break. All I did was annotate the half sheet that you have. So I have one sheet of notes. Having said that, I really enjoyed my study, so we'll see how this goes. We are actually in chapter 2, verses 4 through 6 Um well actually four through ten. Um I I was given four through six, but that doesn't make any sense Uh it only makes sense to work through uh four through ten, so that's that's what we're gonna do. Um you do get stuck with me again next week, so I promise that uh I will uh hit four through ten with some earnest But we are really going to just lay the groundwork for that today. And I'm solicitous of your prayers. When I mentioned that to Angela this morning, her first remark was, you're too much, scatter. Sounds like wow, that's a generic to start the morning with. Um so hop hopefully hopefully you don't feel the same way when we're uh we're done today, but I'll do I'll do my best to share with you what I think is the good treasures that I've discovered not only in Peter but in the larger context of God's word this morning. And uh I hope that you'll be encouraged in Christ. I hope that you'll be convicted in Christ. And I mostly hope that this sticks with you through the week, that it's something that you walk into work with on Monday or walk into your life with on Monday that actually has some uh transformative effect on your life. I I just hate, I hate strongly, uh the idea that we huddle around uh this thing, this book we call God's Bible, and we nod and affirm it and we say all these really great things about it and then we walk away from it and it's like it didn't happen, right? It's like It's like a a half good meal. You know, it's it's good while you eat it, you thank the Lord for it, you might even say something nice to the person that cooked it, but you know, six hours later you're ready for the next one Um and there's nothing left from the previous one, right? You're not gonna go back and praise it again. But man, God's word is not like that. Every word is meant to transform our lives, right? Um And so I just hope that you'll be bearing with me. If I screw that up, you'll be clear, that's my fault. I screwed it up. It's not because his word isn't good and transformative. And I hope you'll hold me to that, and I hope you'll hold yourselves to it as you study his word. Let's pray and we'll get rolling. Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for how much I have enjoyed your word in this study. Busy schedule, lot to do, hard to squeeze in my study time this week, uh and yet it was rich and satisfying. And so I just prayed that I would Share that as best as you enable me with the people in this room, that it really would transform my life, Laura. Everything about every promise in your scripture, even the ones that promise us that we will walk in persecution, also promise us that we will walk in the fullness of God poured out into Christ, living in us, securing and guarding us until that final salvation all of which is meant to be for your glory. And I always understand that to mean your goodness, because that is what you spoke about when you showed yourself to Moses. It was your goodness. It was the chief attribute of your unbearable glory that you revealed to him. And so I just pray that we would remember that you are good in all that you do, and all that you are, and all that you have for us. Be with us this morning, Lord, as we study your word. In your name I pray. Amen. So uh I'm gonna read the passage to you. The end of the section that Peter has been working on is in the first three verses. of chapter two. And I don't know that whether I need to get better resources or just be smarter, but uh I specifically remember Frank saying last week he saw no interpretive difficulties in this passage. I didn't even teach verses one through three and I spent three weeks studying it because of all the interpretive difficulties that I I found with it But it's the end of the section that we were just done with, and it leads immediately to the new section that begins in four. And four seems almost like uh you know somebody sideswiped us or T-boned us. It it abruptly appears to change topic. So I'm going to pick up into one. I'm going to read down to verse, I'm actually going to read to 12 because it's all part of that section and it will help tee up your thinking for what's to come And then we're really going to go back and figure out what makes sense that leads us into verse 4. So with that said, it says, put away all malice, by the way, a bet better word would be wickedness there. Put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander, like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up to salvation. If indeed you have tasted, if the Lord is good, a quotation out of Psalm 34, as you come to him, a living stone. Rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house To be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, and he's going to begin three quotation of three Old Testament passages. For it stands in Scripture, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe. But for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobey. Please notice the conjunction of ideas Believing and unbelieving and obeying and disobeying this entire passage and in fact the larger context in Scripture make very little distinction between the two. As a matter of fact, they make them dependent on each other. There is no such thing as manifesting your belief without obedience And everybody manifests their disbelief, their unbelief by their disobedience And it's why I uh am able to confess so many of the things that I confess to you about what a rotten sinner it is that when I stand up here, because I understand that even the grumbling that I participate in during the course of my week, because Things don't work out the way I want them to at home or at work or in society or wherever else. I I see that grumbling, because there's so much in scripture about grumbling specifically, right? I see that for what it is. It's unbelief. And that makes it horrific. That makes it scary. Praise God for the forgiveness that we have in Christ. They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. And then For those of you that think you're pretty smart about eschatology, here's a passage you need to chew on for a few minutes. These next two verses, excuse me, this next verse is directly out of Hosea. I said two because it's two separate statements that are out of two different parts of Hosea. But they're out of Hosea and they're they're to the nation of Israel very directly and very specifically, and yet here they are applied to us, the church, the body of believers, a group of Gentiles and Jews alike. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And if you have read Hosea at all, that that just let that marinate on your mind a minute minute, right? Hosea called to marry that prostitute bore the several children that were named not my people and not my loved ones or or not my family, right? So so much of a picture there played out in a real life and out of all of that desperation and ugliness, which by the way looks a lot like the world that we live in today, out of all of that God's people are called and and redeemed and and brought close to him. Um I wish I had more time to spend there. Um I'm sure you don't wish it because we'd be here all afternoon, but uh marinate on that this week before we actually get to it. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners, that's just ring a bell from previously in Peter. I urge you as sojourners and exiles, that which we were chosen to in the first verse, to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when you speak against so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. It's a ton of good stuff there in that passage. Thank you for indulging me in the reading of it. Now we're gonna go back. I want to understand I get I I get um verses one through three. Um it would actually be better and again I I I love literal translation, so I I make no complaints about the ESV. It's It's my Bible, right? Uh but uh this is one of those cases where a little translation kind of messes it up a little bit. The active, the imperative verb uh in verses one through three, which are the conclusion of the entire previous passage, are long for the and I'm just going to use the word in Greek because I'll tell you why later, uh the the logicon um milk, the pure logicon milk, and I'll say of the word, although that that's not actually in the original language at all So that you may grow up into salvation. Now that into salvation part is what I want to spend some time on this morning so that we can build it into verses four uh four through ten, being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. So let's go back and look at the infinitives we've covered so far in the first part of Peter. And so you see this on your side, you've got uh two blocks of bullets, or you should have two blocks of bullets The top block of bullets are the infinitives. These are God's uh of God's plan, excuse me, these are God's work. An infinitive just means a statement of fact, right? You you don't need to be involved in it. I can come up to you, I can make a statement of fact, it can be true. Whether you believe it or not is your business. Whether you participated in it or not is your business. That's all I mean by the word infinitive, right? Just Just that's all I mean, right? It's a declarative statement that doesn't require you necessarily interact with it, but nonetheless, in the context of scriptures, it's a declarative statement that is true It's not open to debate or argument. It's not open for your you to make relative to your situation. It's true. And the infinitives of God's plan that we've been given in Peter so far are that you are elect, chosen, exiles, scattered, or dispersed into the world. That's in verse 1 of chapter 1. Right? God's got you where he wants you, as an exile, a sojourner, a foreigner, a stranger, scattered, not all humped together, isolated from the world, but scattered into the world. He made you to be born again to a living hope, which should be underlined in green. And I'll stop here just to tell you that everything underlined in green has a future sense to it. Everything underlined in green is looking forward to something that has not yet happened. It has not been at least fully realized. Right? And that's important to understand I said fully realize. But it's also important because it establishes a context for how we view all that Peter is talking about next. Not just as an incentive in the past. He talks about being born again. And for a lot of you in the room, that's us as a thing that you would consider to have happened in the past. But the entire context of that being born again is for the purposes of looking forward to a great hope. And so all of Peter is in this place. Very little time is spent in Peter just here, other than to establish it as a foundational truth. And while lots of us ain't like to hang out here, it's convenient and exciting and encouraging to hang out here. It's a wrong place to hang out in Peter Here is talking about all that happens between here and this hope. Said differently in another place, and we'll cover it, salvation. Now I I hope that at least a few of you you're looking at me the right way. So I mean actually you're looking at me like I'm crazy, which is what I kind of wanted in this sense A lot of you might feel strangely about me putting salvation on this side of the board instead of this side of the board. But I just put it where Peter put it. Right? And I'll try to demonstrate that to you through the underline, green underline sections on this half sheet of paper. And not that you have a green marker, but I did forget one. In the second set of bullets, first bullet, setting your hope fully on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That should be green underlined I apologize, I just missed that one. All right, but that's looking forward to the whole But right here in verse 3 of chapter 1, 3b, of chapter 1, he says, born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now I'm going to incorporate some of Hebrews here. And uh so I'm going to introduce it here. I'm mostly going to leave it alone. When we get to the imperatives at the end, I'll return to Hebrews and start weaving that back and forth with Peter. But if you'll flip your Bibles to Hebrews 11. 1, this is a passage, you all are going to be, I mean, you're all very familiar with Hebrews probably in general, but this is a particularly familiar passage. I I don't like boring words. I don't like boring words. Boring words to me are words that we use all the time that mean very little to us. Spiritual is one of those words. I actually Can't stand that word. I've been editing it every time I find it in scripture. We say, well, that's that's heresy. It's actually not It's actually not because there's only really one Greek word in the New Testament. There's only one Greek word that legitimately translates, requires me to translate it as spiritual, right? And it's really easy to detect. It's that that again, I'm not a Greek speaking person, so I'm not going to try it, but it's that pneumaticos word, right? The one that sounds like breath or air Right? Like or like pneumatic, if you know if you need an English word, right? That's the only one that actually requires a rendering spiritual All the other places that we render it spiritual is because we're trying to get at the meaning of the actual Greek in some other way. We're trying to make a statement. And we're usually folding in a bunch of Greek philosophy, which most of us aren't terribly familiar with Like ancient Greek philosophy that most of us aren't terribly familiar with. And so at the end of the day it becomes a useless word. I hate that word. I hate the word testimony. What do you mean testimony? What does that mean? Don't use the words. It doesn't mean anything. Tell me what it means. Hope is another one. I hate that word. That's right up there with spiritual Means nothing because we don't think about what it means. Hebrews 11. 1 gives us a little bit of context for that Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. So, what are two characteristics of And I'll grant you you can be pedantic about this and argue with me. And you would be right. But if you'll be a little accommodating. What are the two words that are used to describe hold in this first sentence? This wasn't meant to be a hard question. Conviction. Conviction. Not seen. Uh also not being seen. Assurance. That was the other word I was going for. It's it's the con it's the assurance of things not seen, or conviction of things not seen, and the assurance of things that are hoped for. Right? God Does a work. I don't have a chance to have any hope on this side of being bored again. Dead in my sins, cursed in my nature crooked and unfixable according to Ecclesiastes, right? Man is fundamentally crooked and will never be uncrooked. My word Right? And then this happens. And now I have an opportunity to see this Now I have an opportunity to hold on to an assurance of a promise. Now I have an opportunity to walk in the conviction that there is a reality that I do not fully see for as long as I walk this earth. And so all things are made new in Christ. Of course. How can we want to tell you what you do? That's a good question. What was the question? She said, how do you want us to interpret words that I hate but I use? That's a good question. Um I I will do my best to define those words as I use them. I'm going to continue to use them because they're right here and it would be confusing and it would actually probably be concerning to a lot of you if I constantly was adding my own words to the scripture as I was reading them So I'm going to continue to use them, but I'll do my best to try to define them for you here. In this context, hope is a strong assurance And a strong conviction. In things that are not yet seen and have not yet occurred. A living hope, right? One that why why why why add the adjective living hope? Somebody help me out with that. Why do you think Peter adds the adjective a living hope or a living assurance? With other votes that client okay say again, I'm sorry. Okay, you added an aspect of reality. So for living, you added an aspect of reality. Sure, I think that's there. Okay. Ongoing. This both of these imply I I think something very basic by the way, not hard. Uh a hope is specifically in a person. Uh uh. Also for sure, right? It has to be based on and I'm gonna use the word Lord here because uh I'm also studying Colossians And I'm heavily influenced by uh the way he tells us to act actually the way he tells us to act and live because we said he was our Lord. Right? He specifically calls that out. So I think that's fantastic. A a growing aspect of all these are sneaking up on something so fundamental that I just wanted to say I feel like I'm asking a grade school question here. It really is kind of a grade school answer, but it's so important to this. For it to be living, what does it have to do in our lives? Breathe. What does it have to do? Breathe. Breathe. Breathe. Is she saying breed or breed? Oh okay. I was like Breed. Oh no, my British spell checking is getting me again. Okay. I have a British spell checker on my computer at work for some reason and I can't spell in English anymore. I'm thinking uh are you are you going towards like it's something that has to be lived out daily? Yeah. I I I just super fundamentally, right? It kind of has to be alive, right? How do you get evidence alive? And that's where I thought you were going actually when you said breathe. It's it's basically that thing that you have to just keep doing, right? It's gotta influence everything about your life. Right? If you lay down and stop breathing, well you're not living anymore. It's that simple, right? You lay down for too long, somebody's gonna come over and kick you or poke you or do whatever it is they do to make sure you're still going. It's actually got to be acted out. Um it's a living home. You are made to be born again to a living hope, a living confidence, a living assurance, not a desperate one at all. And I just can't help I we were up talking to my brother the other day at in Pennsylvania, he's not safe. And I told Anthony, I I got to a place in the evening, I couldn't wait to leave actually, which I don't usually feel like that, but he was just so angry and so drowning in the things of the world, uh the what they're teaching at school and the race tensions and the LGBTQ tensions and the And the political tensions and he was just he was just drowning in it and to stand there was so uncomfortable. It i it just was so depressing. Um and I even said that to him at one point in in time in the evening, but We don't walk in this life surviving like that Our hope is alive. And it allows us to engage in every one of those aspects of society, by the way. It allows us to engage in that with a sure confidence And a complete conviction as we walk toward the salvation that will be revealed in the final time Your faith is contrasted, your faith or your belief, or your hope, is contrasted with unbelief in Hebrews 3. So flip over there. I'm not going to read you the whole thing. It's really 3. 6 through 413, but we're going to cover some of the other Hebrews 3 passages when we get down into the imperatives. This living hope, this living faith is contrasted with unbelief. Now I'm going to start at verse 6 and just read a teeny few excerpts here, just because it hopefully will show you maybe why I'm doing this if you're wondering. Hebrews 3, verse 6 says, But Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house. If indeed, notice the conditional, if indeed we hold fast our confidence, looks an awful lot like one of these words, doesn't it? We hold our confidence and our boasting in our hope. Right? That's what we're called to You say, well how'd you get there? Did you notice? 1 Peter 2, verse 4 says, As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a Spiritual house, by the way, that's that's that nomadic ghost word, so it's the proper translation there. Um a spiritual house. Well what what does that mean though? Okay, it's the real word spiritual, I get that, but what does it mean? And how do you be how do you be a house of breath? Like, what does that look like? Well I think you get some example of what it means here in Hebrews 3, in in the same kind of words as Peter's using. And we are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. Verse 14, For we share in Christ if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end. Right? Our original confidence happened here, firm to the end Then we're in his house. Anybody want to take a stab at what it means to be then we are in his house? In in 1 Peter we're going to talk about bricks and stones and cornerstones. Does it mean we're we're built up as a temple and we should do our best to make this building look as grand as possible and the people in it, you know, perfect architecturally? Do you think that's what it means? We fear from Rowland. For sure. For sure. This idea of being in his house in in uh Hebrews 3. We are his house, if indeed we hold fast our confidence. So what does that mean to be in his house? And certainly to to be in and and as a matter of fact a very good Old Testament reference uh was the idea of being transferred into his house always a sign was was always a sign of this in the Old Testament. So you read through the Psalms and you'll often see planted in his court They talk about uh like a tr like a tree planted in his courts, and it's the idea that he's transferred us into his temple, where we otherwise could not be. Right? So that that's actually a really good reference. I I think there's Again, something more elementary here. To be part of his house. What does it mean? To be chosen. To be chosen, for sure. For sure. Absolutely. To be nice. I hadn't actually thought of that one. Yeah, but for sure. Absolutely, right? Again, why I don't know why I didn't think of that, right out of Colossus. Uh so yeah, perfect Again, something more simple. Yes, but I'm not I'm actually looking at the same part of the same thing like the side part of my house. He talks about inheritance in 1 Peter. He talks about sonship or daughtership, if you will. Right? All of those things are true. All those things are wonderful aspects of being part of God's house. But most simply, he's just talking about that part of my family. Strangely, I mean my oldest son's sixteen, so I've been a dad for sixteen years, but I I guess as my I start to think more about my son leaving the house, I start to think more about well what does it mean that he was part of my house Right? Um and as I think about how hard I am on him uh at home, I think to myself, what is what does that look like to him? And I always think to myself, I hope he can see That I am hard on him, that I'm I'm doing everything I can to train him up in the best way that I can. But underneath all of that is the fact that he's my son and it's inviolable It's inviolable. And the treasure I store up in my heart for him is inexhaustible. And and this from the guy that gets angry about everything, right? I confess that to you was a couple weeks ago, right? I'm emotionally stinted. I have I have one response to life. I get angry And yet and yet the uh the love I have for him is inexhaustible. I say him but both both my sons. I just did it in the context of my oldest, because he's the one that'll be leaving soonest Yeah. We are his sons and his daughters. And as a result, it puts us, even as my weak heart, my weak being is able to say those things about how I feel for my son. How does that look when the father is inexhaustible in his love? Right? True to the core. You're beginning to see a little bit of what Peter is going to be getting at when he talks about us becoming part of this house. And the metaphor just gets expanded when he when he drives it into that priesthood. And again we're we're not going to get there today, um, but I'm just trying to give you some idea why I'm trying to build this up so that you see the fullness of what's actually being talked about. In verses four through ten in First Peter. Did that one next bullet who by God's power This is verse five, first Peter uh chapter one, verse five, who by God's power are being guarded Through faith, by the way, I didn't add that to the thing, but it's through faith for a living hope for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. When when is the salvation going to be revealed? Yeah. Go back and study your scriptures a little bit. It's not universal. But as I've been studying this, I went back and and kind of checked myself as often as I could think of it And you'd be surprised how many times this is not called this. This is called made alive, born again. Resurrected. Made new. New creation. This has many phrases to describe it. Rarely, again, not a universal statement, so be careful. And I'm not trying to teach a new doctrine here. I'm just trying to establish some connectedness. I'm trying to make clearer some things. I'm not trying to create something new. The salvation is yet to come. Or at least the fullness of the salvation. Now I want to layer on some Colossians, lest some of you think I'm going crazy here, right? Colossians talks about it in terms of the thing that is already true. Correct me if I'm wrong, guys. Some people in my small group working through Colossians with me. Colossus talks about it as a thing that is already true, as though it were already a reality, being hidden with Christ in heaven, to be revealed at the last time. And I think that's a great way to put it. But I uh you know, so it it doesn't make you feel like you're you're pining after this thing that you don't yet have. Notice it's God's power that guards that salvation for you until the end here Right? So I I hope none of you are feeling weak in this. I hope that you are feeling the full obligation of bowing the knee to Christ as Lord. Of being raised new in life. I hope that you will wipe away any sense in your mind that it is something that you look back at other than as a beginning As a commissioning, as a as a birth thing. And this is the fullness of the obligation that we have in Christ, the obedience that we have in Christ, the life that we have in Christ, the usefulness that we have in Christ, the opportunity to serve and glorify God in these things. Where is next week in this line? Is it right there? Is it right there? Monday You see that Monday is is is on its way here, right? And I say all that to say that We don't have time to do it today, but if you even looked at Hebrews 3, what does it say? If you don't hold firm the assurance, conviction, of the hope that you have in Christ That's not what God did. That's not what He created when He created you new here. All those created new in Christ hold firm this conviction and run to the end. And when we deviate, which we do, Two passages come to my mind that are most encouraging. The first was in 1 John, right? When we sin, we have an advocate with the Father. We have an opportunity to wander off this and get pulled back as a result of the blessed forgiveness that we have in Christ. And the other one is, he is faithful to train and to discipline us. Right? He he is actively keeping us on this trail Who by God's power are being guarded for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Verse 5. If necessary, you will be grieved by various trials. so that the tested genuineness of your faith may be revealed at Christ's return. That's an infinitive. It's not an imperative. It didn't tell you to do anything It just says this is true. What will be revealed at the final time? When you realize the fullness of the salvation that you have in Christ? What will be revealed? Genuineness of our faith. The tested genuineness of your faith. Where does the test? Wipe away all my silly annotations. Where does the test happen in this diagram? Well, someplace between here and here. And does that infinitive make it sound like there are any of us that will stand? Here without the tested genuineness of our faith? No. I don't see that there. It does say, if necessary, you will be grieved by various trials. So I think some of us may have to go through those times of trying, and others of us will not necessarily But the tested genuineness of your faith is not part of that condition. You will appear before Christ with the tested genuineness of your faith. Again, establishing something about this future expectation that we have. We are living a life created new, made alive Only able to do because of all that God has done in us and is doing in us, traveling toward here ambitiously seeking the salvation that is yet to be revealed, when we will be revealed to Christ with the tested genuineness of our faith. That's verses sixty and seven, chapter one, Peter. While you wait for Christ's return, during this period when you do not see him, you rejoice with Joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining that's an ongoing thing, the outcome of your faith Obtaining the outcome of your faith. Again, do you see that future-looking, that forward-leaning aspect of all that we're reading about here in 1 Peter? Obtaining the outcome of your faith, your salvation. The breath of life is the word that's used there. And it's distinguished from the body that is dissolved in death. That word salvation there. And it's in verses eight and nine. So those are all the infinitives that are in 1 Peter, all that he told us about being born again, about serving Christ, about traveling to the final salvation through the course of our lives About the different things we talked about along the way, the tested genuineness of our faith. All of those things are infinitives. They're just true. And then he transitions to the imperatives and he says, therefore Prepare your minds for action. Have alert minds or be sober-minded. It's the idea of being fully awake. Prepare your minds for action. Have alert minds, setting your hope fully on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I love how people say, save by grace. And I say, that's true. But notice the grace to be revealed in the final as well. How much grace will be poured out If I read 1 Peter very literally, when we stand before our Father, who is an impartial judge, and will judge each man according to his deeds. I need a lot of grace to stand there. And God's grace will be poured out for me. It was secured by Christ. It was promised to me in the rebirth. It will not be drawn back. It is not at risk because it is in Christ. I didn't say you. Was it you? Okay, sorry. Can we say um salvation is And I cannot see that link on that shot. You cannot uh well I apologize. I was trying to make faith belief and hope reasonably synonymous. They're not exactly synonymous, but there's a very reasonable link between these three. Which are all looking forward. All with assurance and conviction, all looking forward to that final fulfillment that we are promised in Christ. Um So you set your hope fully on the grace to be brought to you. And notice that this life is fundamentally characterized by where did it go? Nope, nope, I'm gonna hold on to that thought. Um that was verse 13 that I read you. The the uh the imperative was prepare your minds for action. Have alert minds. Set setting is not actually imperative. To do those things He says you must set your hope fully on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation. In other words, you are not ready for action here on Monday. Right? I'm commanding you to be ready for action there. I'm commanding you to be wide awake and think about things in the context of who and what you are in God. But you cannot do that If you're not looking there. Do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. Don't go back and live like you did here I mean that that seems pretty simple, right? But your life is to be transformed, Romans 12, 1 and 2, by the renewing of your mind. Sounds a lot like what we just said here. Right? Not anything like what we did here. Well, again, those of you that were in the you know Ecclesiastes with me, you know, right? This is under the sun thinking You know from from here back. Don't don't live like that Don't sorrow like that. Don't grieve like that. Don't be bored like that. Don't be idle like that. Don't be afraid like that. Don't try to satisfy your soul on the unsatisfying things of the world like that Don't be victimized like that. Be holy in all your conduct, verse 15 And here I'll resort back to Hebrews three, two passages. Hebrews three thirteen through fourteen says, but exhibit Exhort one another every day. This is in the context of being built up as his house, right? We are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence. And our boasting in our hope, and then these other things follow that as as trying to amplify that thought. What does it look like to be his house and to hold fast our confidence of this end Salvation? Well, exhort one another every day, as long as it called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. You see that? A lie trying to constantly creep in. A lie that is constantly trying to get into your mind and your heart and your soul. I I just have to ask you this. Are you a melancholy person? Are you a sad person? Are you are you a a a person that's afraid? Are you a person that is really anything other than overflowing with the joyfulness of what you have in Christ? It's a good litmus test to figure out whether or not the deceitfulness of sin is working its way into your life. Because it's an acceptable sin. We make it acceptable to be discouraged, depressed, despairing, defeated, confused, afraid, annoyed, indignant. Fill in a bunch of those emotions. But it's not the joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory as an infinitive. described our lives in Christ in 1 Peter 1, 8 through 9. And so for me it's just a good way to say, Scott, how are you doing? I I had a mouth full of grumbling this week or or maybe I didn't. Maybe I controlled that aspect of my life, but I had a heart full of grumbling this week. Or or a heart full of discouragement. Can't tell you how many days I walked back in the door after a full day And I just feel discouraged. And I'm not trying to throw myself on a pike here, right? But I am trying to recognize the deceitfulness of sin in my life so that I can be honest with the Lord Because he says if you're faithful to confess your sins, he is faithful to forgive you of your sins and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness and to teach you a better way. How are you doing with the deceitfulness of sin? I I I I don't know anything about women. I'm busy trying to live with my wife according to wisdom and knowledge so that I can build my marriage up, and that's hard enough. I certainly don't have time for how other women think about things. But what I hear when other women talk to my wife is there's a lot of struggling about identity and about purpose and just a bunch of stuff. Do you realize that you as a woman have the unique capacity to demonstrate The glory of God in a way that no man ever could. You in your womanhood have that capacity I know that because Genesis talks about the need for both male and female to be according to the image of God. And I gotta believe, because God made you what you are, I gotta believe he intended A lot of things about your life. Again, I'm being vague because I I'd speak like a fool if I tried to be specific anyway, so I'll just be vague and let you get mad at me for that. Can can you take all of the things that are a part of of your womanhood and actually just hand them to the Lord? Or have you allowed the deceitfulness of sin to sneak in and talk about how there's something incomplete about you, there's something not good enough, there's something not purposeful enough, there's something not Involved in the world enough or professional enough or attractive enough or I I don't know if you fill in the blanks. I again I don't know. Have you believed the deceitfulness of sin? You guys are already thinking tons of thoughts. And if not, come see me afterwards. I'll give you my list and you can tell me whether or not you think it's it's reasonable. Exhort one another every day as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin, for we share in Christ if indeed we hold our original confidence Firm to the end. Hebrews 3, 13-14. And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest? But to those who were disobedient. So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief. Did you see what he did there? They couldn't enter the rest because they were disobedient. So they didn't get to enter because they had unbelief. Did you see what he did there with unbelief and disobedience? Hebrews 3, 18 through 19. Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, 1 Peter 1, 17b. Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. Do you see that? He's talking about this whole time in here. Fear of what? Fear of standing before the Lord is a judge. Right? An impartial judge. Standing before our Father is an impartial judge who will judge all of our deeds. Right? Hebrews 4. 1. Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. You see that? Failed to reach it. While not identical, this does express the same sentiment as our next imperative Conduct your s oh, I copied it down, sorry. Conducting our fear throughout the time of our exile, right? That's also, you know, we spent a lot of time on that in the first Peter passage. It's what we were chosen to, to live in that exile. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. That's uh 22B. And in Hebrews 4, 11 through 12, it says, Let us therefore strive to enter that rest. You hear all this in Hebrews 4 striving that we're doing? Real effort here. Strive to enter that rest so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience, for the Word of God is living and active. And I hope that you will remember that we were just there in 1 Peter He was talking about loving one another from a pure heart. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart since you have been born again, right Love one another with a pure heart since you have been born again, because the Word of God is living and active. Same is here in Hebrews. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience, for the word of God is living and active. Hebrews 4, 11-12. And then long for the pure logicon milk that will nourish you to grow up into salvation. Again, do you notice that future lean? Nourish you to grow up into salvation. If you have tasted that the Lord is good, which is a quotation out of Psalm thirty-four. And I keep using that Greek word because there's a tremendous amount of argument there. I can't even remember what it says in the ESV now. What does it say in Two, two, three, three. Pure pure spiritual milk. Ugh. Bad translation. Very common bad translation. The word has a root in, you know, logos, the word. It takes on a form that basically means the spoken word. It only occurs one other time in the scriptures, and it's in Romans 12, verse 1. Where in the ESV it still says spiritual, but if you have it in, I think the New American Standard, certainly in the KJV, because that's how I memorized it, it says reasonable. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, right? Demonstrating your reasonable service. Again, I don't remember exactly what the ESV says might say spiritual worship. Everybody seems to agree that it this logicon milk, this pure logicon milk, des definitely is founded in the Word of God. Nobody seems to argue that. Some some say the written word of God, some say the The spoken word of God, but that to me is immaterial. It's the word of God. But there's some argument there, and the and the argument seems to be over the fact that this word is trying to to draw a vivid Distinction that is meant to motivate change. Don't desire food That is not good for strengthening you to pursue this final end. only crave, and by the way, the imperative in that word in in that passage, in uh 2, 2, 3, 3. It looks like it's put away, doesn't it? If you look at uh chapter 2, verse 1, doesn't it look like the imperative is put away? So put away. Well it's not. The first imperative verb that, and by the way, uh verses 1 and 2 and 3 are all one sentence in Greek, right? It's one of those phenomenal Greek run-on sentences. The first imperative verb that occurs is in verse 2 when it says, crave or long for the pure logicon milk. And it's basically the putting away part is do this strong verb in putting away all these other things. You're supposed to crave the strength of God's Word, the preaching, teaching, written word of God. So that you can grow up into this final salvation that's promised you. Mention one final thing and then I'll give you a summary statement and we'll be done. Verse 1 it says, put away all malice. And I said the better word for that would be wickedness. The word is actually like kakia. And it's it's actually the name of a Greek goddess that was the goddess of wickedness, basically Um she's the goddess that would come. She's pictured in um a famous painting, uh kind of caressing ears of uh Samson, trying to lead him astray, lead him out of his noble purpose and his noble cause. You know, fat, opulent woman. you know, that's basically representative of temptation, anything that takes you away from that purpose that you have. that purpose that you have. And he says, weave all that wickedness aside. The opposite of that in both Greek philosophy and in the scriptures, the opposite of that word is arete. Does anybody know what that word is translated as in scriptures? Also in Peter, by the way, 2 Peter chapter 1. We're told to add to our faith Virtue. Oh say it out loud. Come on. It's a good answer. Virtue. Virtue. That's the opposite of this word malice Add to our faith, right? Faith is this belief, this hope that is looking forward to the final salvation. Leave aside all things that would deviate you from your course. Leave aside all things and even make you want to think that you should run away from your course. And instead advertising Which when we if we ever get to 2 Peter, which I don't think is even planned, by the way, but if we ever got to 2 Peter, I would have to talk to you about how virtue or arete always has in mind this future goal, this future purpose. And Peter's going to tell you, add it, add it to your faith. Well what is that? What needs to be added to faith? Well I can just stand right next to Peter and say, I don't know, that sounds a little scary to say you have to add something to faith. But Peter said Add virtue to your faith. And I think what he meant was walk in ways that get you there with the least deviations. With a solid rock of assurance, in full hope, honoring God in all that you do, constantly challenging each other to stay the course. Don't look back. Celebrate what happened behind, but look forward In 4 through 10, we have been invited to the incredible honor of being a priest in God's house. One granted the privilege of approaching God, like approaching God. Which has never occurred. Right? Moses couldn't do it, he had to be hidden in the cleft. Dead curtains and shrouds and images and symbols and fog and fire and all this other stuff, right? Nobody's ever done it except for Christ. And yet we are called to become members of his household in order that we might approach him. And in order to give us a mental picture for that, he described it in the only way that he He could do it effectively so that these people's minds could get a hold of it. Not just sons, but priests Right? I think we probably had slouch sons and diligent sons and noble sons and ignoble sons and that metaphor didn't work, but the priesthood that was different And so he switched to the metaphor, yes, in my house, but so that you understand what kind of relationship we're talking about, priests A royal priesthood, like a high priest who gets to come right into my very presence. Picture yourself in this world, an exile with no claim on land. Right? The tribe of Eli had no claim on land. Did you ever notice that? Everybody else, every other tribe got a promise in the promised land, but not them. He said, I am it for you. And you will trust me and me alone. And that's what he's calling us to, as chosen exiles. Picture yourself in the world, an exile with no claim on land, just like the tribe of Levi, walking over the course of your life from the outer courtyard of the tabernacle. To the Holy of Holies. I hope some of you have studied the tabernacle enough to know that there's stations along the way Things that needed to be done along the way. There was an order, a prescription, a ceremony, a sanctification process Starting out here where the sin was and moving in to the Holy of Holies where, you know, only once a year, only under special considerations, only through, I'm sure, quivering prayer. And ceremonial cleaning and sanctification to the priest enter once a year. And even there, he only got to stand in the in the veiled, shrouded presence of the Lord, and yet the Lord calls us, just like Christ, to be a part of his very house and stand in his very presence as a royal priesthood. And that's where we're moving to over the course of our lives. All the means of purification are prepared for you in Christ. But you must use them so that when you reach the presence of God, you will be called a member of God's house, a true priest with access to the true God. in the fullness of his burning glory, his goodness, and his holiness. The call in this passage, these first one and a half chapters of 1 Peter, His holy conduct filled with joy is the duty Of your royal priesthood. Holy conduct filled with joy is your royal priesthood.