When I find specific things that I'm researching or specific examples of maybe stuff that will help you prepare for the class, great example, if you're really interested in a great treatment of this subject. John MacArthur has a uh uh a sermon on Philemon, on the book of Ph Philemon, that was incredible. Like it was really enriching to to listen to his treatment of this particular subject. Um Um and it it adds a lot of color and flavor to a lot of the things that I'm going to talk about today in the class. Also, Pastor Gabe's message last week was really good. He talked about slavery and context, brought a lot of context in towards slavery. slavery in in the Roman era. And so, you know, that that would also be something that if you weren't here last week like me, go on YouTube and you can you can also find that because that was also really good. But as I find these things things I can send them out, I can post post them on the message board. And if you're interested in preparing, if you're interested in in kind of getting a primer for the class that's coming up, then maybe that could help. And Scott, I don't know if you could do the same. In general, I stick to specific uh commentary. So I and I think I mentioned this in the first class, uh there is a um commentary by uh Doctor Constable who's from Tato Bible Chapel in Ta Texas and he has um a complete commentary on online. It's in PDF format. You can go out and get it. Uh it's called Sonic Light. You can just doctor you know, you can Google Doctor Constable and it comes right up and it you can get to it. Uh so I'm using that. I'm also using uh the Expositors Bible Commentary which is um a pretty thick and also somewhat expensive book, so I'm not sure if I would c you know, watch if you want to get it, of course you can get it. But uh I wouldn't normally recommend a a really expensive book and then I also have a commentary from John MacArthur that I'm using. Um so those are my general ones, but if I get something more specific then then I can also post that out and help with the primary Is that is that um Kirk, is would that be helpful for Oh oh and I I was just kind of basing my comment on Pastor Alan Lumley's class in which we had the entire notes. Before we sat down in a chair. So it was and and he encouraged us to actually dig in before we got to class so that our minds would be ready. So that it was just a thought. Okay, okay. Yeah, I just wanted to bring that up as a as a as a discussion point. Uh a little bit of a different normally I I put uh slide up that talks about like the big idea before I I show the verses, I'm actually going to do this in opposite order today because I want to present the scripture. go through the this is uh kind of my observational breakdown of of these verses. We're doing uh first Peter chapter two verses eighteen through twenty five. Um servants be Subject to your masters, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust, with all respect. For this is a gracious thing when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. Now it's really small. Also, sorry about that. For this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. He did not revile in return, and when he was reviled he did not threaten, when he suffered, but continued to entrust himself to the one who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might be. die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you've been healed. For you were like stre like strain like sheep, uh, but now have returned to the shepherd and overseer of your soul. So I actually did Nothing but just cover this verse by verse. I probably could have taken up two class times with this. Um there's a lot here. There's a whole lot here. Uh and it's a very difficult And very sensitive subject because we're talking about slavery. And historically, this verse has been used as a proof text for just justifying slavery in the South in the United States. Uh it's been uh not only used as a proof text uh for that, um it's also been the subject of bad hermeneutics from a lot of people. Uh Pastor Gabe brought this up in his sermon, so if you were there you remember I I I I really liked his comment that when you take something that is a description in the scripture and you make it a proscription in scripture that is a foundation for very bad hermeneutics. And that is what happened in the deep south in the eighteen hundreds. And as a result, even today, uh Uh this text is is sometimes used. I think we talked a couple of weeks ago about how if you are a bad example that that people are watching you and if you have a bad if you become a bad witness for Christ, you will become a on the wall to unbelievers, and I made that point. Let me tell you something else. Bad hermeneutics will do the same thing. And when you have something and you get distributed literature and and things on the internet and things out there that that you know, the Bible condones slavery. Here's all of this stuff and this is how it was used in the past. Well then now all of a sudden you got some splaining to do if you're a Christian, right? You gotta back up a little. bit and teach rightly the Word of God and you have to know and understand the Word of God. So a lot of what I'm doing today is apologetic in nature, just to be completely clear and honest and upfront. A lot of what I'm doing today is to make an attempt in conjunction with what Pastor Gabe did last weekend to also kind of bring into perspective what is Scripture's view on slavery? What is Scripture's view? What is the calling here? And And um and I got into this and I started listening. I was listening to I must have listened to twelve sermons this week. I I was just listening to all this and some of them was were really good and some of them were really bad. of them were really, really bad. Uh there was one uh by a guy named Doctor Chase Utley. I don't know him, never seen him. He's from Texas, so he had a nice Texas accent. Figured it was Texas so I was safe to click on it and listen to it. And was very disappointed, you know, um, with with his his words. Um bec not because he was saying something that, you know, th his his he was just flawed in his his analysis. Uh So we'll talk about some of that today too. But um uh so what I'm about to show you as the big idea, this is gonna be different from what most people consider when you read other commentaries, when you read the the commentaries in the in in out there. There there's a lot of them, a lot of really great um Bible teachers that it but they're gonna come off with a little bit of a different application for this than what I'm showing you here today. But I'd like you to Bear with me, especially those of you who are Berean, and give me a chance to explain myself here. Okay? For me, this example of slaves submitting to and to masters, and really Very specifically, the way Peter applies it in his epistle is about picking up your cross and walking. It's about Starting from your point of salvation, wherever you're at, accepting your circumstances as they are, and following Christ in obedience to him. So when I use that term pick up the cross, your cross and walk, what does it mean to carry a cross? Because this, by the way, this is another thing that everybody misuses in Scripture. It's really common to have people Interpret this scripture completely wrongly. As a matter of fact, when I took a a biblical interpretation class many, many years ago, that was one of the examples that we brought up because it's really common for people to walk away with the wrong understanding of what that means. Having said that, what does it mean to you to pick to carry your cross? This is a question, so. Definitely just uh like definitely welcoming a obedience and you know, putting aside the fleshly you know, fleshly things that you pray um you know um walking by the spirit instead of walking in the flesh. Yeah. I think it's pretty good. Anybody else want to add to that? So in the time at the time, um the crucifixion meant to get something of very humiliating death. So you know, carrying a cross means that you're willing to to kind of bear the shame even though it may be you know imposed on you unjustly. Mm-hmm. Yeah, there's definitely an element of both of those things in in it. Um and I'm trying to f flesh out other comments but I'll just stay for okay go ahead. Yeah maybe um just realizing that it's a broken world, it's imperfect, there's there's injustices, um there's relationships that aren't right, but um as you said to move forward and still follow Christ in the midst of of a broken world. Yeah, so the idea of a cross is what? Crucifixion, right? That's what that's the idea. Crucifixion. Um Uh but what are you crucifying? What are you cruci what's being crucified? When he says pick up your cross and walk, what is he ex what is what is the idea? What what's being crucified? your life, your hopes, your dreams, whatever. Yes, that's right. And I think you're all saying the same thing. I like that articulation of it quite well. Picking up your cross and walking is about crucifying your flesh. It's about beating down your flesh. It's about living in this world in a way where you bear the reproach of Christ by showing your good deeds, by walking your walk, by living your life. And I think the way you all were kind of in that zone and that's kind of what but that's when when Christ talks about picking up your cross and walking, it's about fulfilling your ministry. Right? When you're you are a a an elect, exotic diaspora. I think I've said that about fifteen thousand times over the past what fifteen weeks. Go ahead. Well and I'd like to clarify what I said too. When I say your host in dream, if you change him from a worldly focus to a Christ centered focus. your your new nature is going to take over what I I I I understood that if if yeah so I I I I apologize. trying to say then it was like your best life now, you know, we're gonna No, no, I didn't I didn't expect I didn't take it that way. Hopefully nobody else did. But no, that's not but no i i w w you know it it is about Picking up your cross and walking, when you're born born into the kingdom of God, you are an elect exile of the diaspora. We've talked about that a lot. But you're here for reasons. And we've talked about that a lot. That reason, that reason begins the moment of your salvation. That point is the moment of your salvation. You begin to walk in a new life, in a new way. Right? And you are crucifying your flesh. Remember, we talked a couple weeks ago about laying aside your flesh, laying walking away from your former lusts. Right? Walk away from your former lusts. Purify. Be holy for I am. I am holy, Peter mentions. He he brings out that Leviticus that that that uh verse in Leviticus. Becoming holy and then as an elect exile of the diaspora, you have a mission. Maybe you don't know what that mission is yet, the moment you're saved, but you got a mission. Because God's got you here for a reason. If not, he'd sweep you up, you'd go to heaven. Right? If there was no reason for his child to stay on this This earth and suffer, why would he, as a good father, leave you on this earth to suffer? It makes no sense. So the very fact that you're sitting in a chair today, the very fact that you're still on this earth as a believer, means there is a purpose for you. Right? Pick up your cross and walk. That's how Jesus phrases it. And what I'm submitting to you is the big idea here is That this is probably one of the great examples in Scripture about how us as believers pick up our cross. Under what circumstances, to what extent. To what level? How far must I go, Lord? How far must I go? How heavy must that cross be? What burden should I suffer through for you? And Peter answers it. Peter answers it. So that's my takeaway from this. That's my takeaway from these studies. And I hope to kind of unpack some of that. Um Uh as we go through see if I forgot any of my notes here. Like I said, if I look over there, it's all jumbled up. But here, you're organized. Um Okay. No, I got him. So first I want to back up a little bit and talk about slavery in Roman times. Um Pastor Gay did a far better treatment of this than I'm gonna do. Partially because he did such a great treatment of it. I don't need to do it again. So um so I just want to say a couple of things that are relevant specifically to some of the things that I I want to talk about today. There were sixty million slaves in the Roman Empire. Sixty million slaves in the Roman Empire. It was about 30% of the population. Somewhere between 25, I've heard, I've heard higher numbers, but 25 to 30% of the population was slaves. But they weren't in they weren't exactly in the sense of a slave. They weren't 100% in the way that when we think of slaves, they weren't quite like that. They were considered property. They were considered property. property and they were bought and sold and traded. Okay? It to some extent. Some were. Not all, but some were. But they really, in the Roman Empire, represented a socioeconomic class of people. You were the literally the lowest class of people. So you had no legal rights. Everything all of your rights were all attached to your master. So you had no legal recourse. If somebody falsely accused you, if your master especially falsely accused you, you are stuck and you were subject to what that master said about you because he owns you. And he owned your legal rights. And the punishments for slaves uh were often very different than what than what this what a citizen might go through. Slave caught stealing, for example, would be crucified. The punishment for theft in Rome by a slave was crucifixion. There were other punishments as well, humiliating punishments. They were forced to carry a large chunk of wood around. around their neck. I I I wrote down somewhere I didn't get it in these notes, but uh there was a term for that that was just a way of both causing great pain to them and also humiliating them without actually crippling them so they could still work after the punishment was over. As a matter of fact, um uh I'm sorry, well your treatment was a very important thing. was basically subject to what your master had for your treatment, what prescribed for your treatment. So your range of factors could be quite large. If you had a bad master, oh man, you were whipped, beaten, you could be chastised, you You could be humiliated, you could be treated in a completely terrible way. If you had a great master, maybe you were educated. Maybe you were like a member of the family. Maybe you sat at the dinner table with them. It was completely up. to the master, completely up to the master. So you you could also buy your way out of slavery, but that was very uncommon because normally the ability of a slave to get to make enough money to earn their freedom. If it wasn't impossible mathematically, it was close in a lot of cases, in most cases. In other cases, masters would be generous and they would just grant freedom. Most often Often a slave would be freed upon death of the master. Because you could will the property, but many masters would just free their slaves. Augustus, Caesar Augustus, uh in I think it was I can't remember the year. it was D it was BC uh like forty or fifty BC he had decreed that you could only free so many slaves when you died. You could only will so many slaves free because it was causing an unemployment problem in Rome. So 'cause there were so many freed slaves when people died they were freed and they would walk around and they had nothing to do and maybe they were uneducated and maybe they they were unemployed. And now you had all these poor free people on the street. But excuse me, Pastor Gabe made the comment. It's also true that many people sold themselves into slavery. Because if you had a good master, potentially, if you had a good master, your life would be better than free people. That was also true in the US, right? I mean there was people like in the northern part of the country that were, you know, living in terrible squalor where some slaves in in the south were treated well. I'm not saying all that's a gr you know, that is not to be taken to be general, but it was at least sometimes true. You know, and it was also sometimes true in Rome. And so people would sell themselves into slavery in an as an effort to raise their social standing, right? Their economic situation. But when they did, they signed over their rights. When they did, they lost all legal rights as a citizen. And they were completely subject to their master. Slavery in the church. 1 Corinthians 1, 26 through 28. For consider your calling, brothers, not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. This is one of my favorite verses. By the way, because it just reminds me, yeah, you're you're an idiot. So I'm an idiot. And I'm gladly to be an idiot I'm glad to be an idiot. Not many were powerful, not many were noble of birth, but God chose what is foolish in the world to shame. The wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are. The church was full of slaves. The early church was full of slaves. If they didn't represent the majority of the population, they certainly represent the represented a gross per a high percentage of the population. So it's not surprising that there were lots and lots of statements in the Bible. and commandments in the Bible towards slaves and how they should treat their masters. Think about that. And think about that in any context. You're a slave owner. You have let's say ten slaves, whatever. Maybe you're really rich and you have twenty slaves. And they're running off to some house church over at Philemon's house. Right? They're running off to some church together to gather together. At some other guy's house who's probably quite wealthy. Might that make you a little paranoid if you were a slave owner? Might that make you wonder? Might that cause some level of paranoia or concern or fret? So the conduct of the slave towards the master was a subject of the same. Of deliberation and conversation within the church. It ends up in the epistles. It's very clear in Scripture, right? And it's talked about over and over. And for those of you who um remember me talking about the church, Talking about hanging weight on scripture. You know, I I have this principle of uh of biblical interpretation. So you want to be careful not to hang Too much weight on obscure verses. Right? You don't want to put so much credence on a verse that doesn't have any corroborating verses in Scripture. But the opposite is also true. If the Bible talks about it a lot, it's important. If the Bible spends a lot of time discussing it, it's urgent. It's important to know. And guess what? The Bible talks About slaves and masters a lot. It's not just one verse. It's not just Peter. It's Paul. And Paul says it not just once, but he says it three. times. It's not a small matter. It's not an ambiguous call. Slaves, obey your masters. That's not ambiguous. Every time it's the same exact command. Slaves obey your masters. As a matter Of fact, here's the list of verses that talk about this subject. There are four sets of verses in the Bible that are called the Haustafelum. Word. Someone said Martin Luther create made up the term. I don't know who made up the term because then other commentators said someone else, but it doesn't really matter. It means house rules. So house rules were not just something that Christians Christians talked about it was also something that was in the Roman Empire. There were house rules that were by, you know, Stoic ethics people, Stoic philosophers, there were people for you know different different types of philosophies. So this idea of house rules rules was kind of a thing, and this thing in the Roman Empire, the Christians also did, but they had their house rules. Now some people said, and this is again, I told you there's a lot of bad Hermen. But some people would say that that we developed our house rules as a result of them. But I that's completely false because everything in our house rules are completely consistent with scripture, Old Testament, New Testament. That's a false teaching. The fact of the matter is is that uh that that these in Colossians three eighteen through four one, Ephesians five twenty two through six nine, which I would like to read, if someone wants to open up uh Ephesians chapter 5 and hold for just a second. Titus 2, 1 through 10, which is what Pastor Gabe was teaching on last week. And then 1 Peter, of course, 2. 18 through 3. 7, which is what you're we're talking about part of today. And they always include references to slaves to their masters, wives to their husbands, husbands to their wives, right? And then some of them including with these contains children's behavior towards parents and parents' behavior towards children. They're house rules. They're house rules. How do you behave within your family, within your home? Slaves were in the home. Right? They were in the family. So they they had house rules. Right? Other references to slavery were first Timothy six one. Of course, Philemon is uh an entire epistle, it's only one page worth of of it's not very many verses, but there's an entire epistle dedicated to the relationship between Philemon the master and Wenisimus the slave. And the expectations That surrounded that relationship, because Wennissimus was a runaway slave. Wennissimus, according to Roman law, should have been crucified. Wennissimus According to Roman law, he should have been fed to the beasts. He should not have just been punished, he should have suffered a humiliating, painful death because he was a runaway slave and a thief. But Paul doesn't tell when the Philemon. He asks Philemon to forgive him. He asks for the forgiveness. Philemon to forgive him. Why? Why would he not just say, Hey, I'm an apostle? Philemon, you need to obey. He certainly had the right to do that as an apostle. Right? I mean he's a he's an apostle and he's speaking to a believer. He had every right as an apostle to say, You're going to forgive this man any debt that he owes against you. But instead he appeals to his conscience. Conscience. Instead, he makes an appeal to his conscience. That's an important hermeneutical point. That's an important point in interpretation. We're going to get to some of that. Now can someone read the Ephesians? 522 through 69. Who who found it? Who wants to read? I can have it. Okay. Why? Subject yourself to your own husband as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the Savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be sub ought to be to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. That she might present yourself to the church in all her glory. having no spot or wrinkles or any such thing, and that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands also ought to love their own wives as they have their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church, because we are part of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall be But this mystery is great that I am speaking with reference to Christ in the church. Nevertheless, as for you individually, each husband is to love his own wife the same as himself, and the wife must see it that she respects her husband. Children, obey your parents and the Lord, for it is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise, so that it may turn out well for you and that you may live long on the earth. Fathers do not Your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Slave, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trebling, and the sincerity of your heart as to Christ, not by the way of I service as people pleasers, but as the s but as slaves of Christ doing the will of God from the heart. With good will, render service as to the Lord and not to people, knowing that whatever good thing each one does, he will receive this back from the Lord. And masters do the same things to them and give up threatening, knowing that both their master and yours is in heaven and there is no partiality with him. There's a lot of verses and thank you for reading it. Um I wanted to point out a couple of points here because now we're going to get into some kind of deep stuff. Okay. These are all commands, imperatives. Given to husbands and wives, children, slaves, masters. Every single one of them is based on, because he's speaking to believers. On Scripture. Every single one of them are anchored in the Bible, in teaching and understanding because of Scripture. It's a command within the church that you should treat each other this way. Right? It's a command in the church that you should love, that you should show reverence, that you should fear. You obey your command. That's your job, and that's what you can control. Right? That's exactly what you can control. Is being obedient to the Lord. And the Lord calls a wife to submit to her husband. And the Lord calls a husband to wash his wife in the word. The Lord calls a slave to be obedient to his master and calls the master. To be kind to his slave. Just because that master has authority over the slave does not mean that he should execute it with harshness. No, he's a believer. You execute. it with love. It's an important point. And I want to bring it out specifically because of all of this discussion that I initially said about bad hermeneutics. Okay? And bad hermeneutics just means there's some bad interpretation going on. And so I wanted to take this time, this moment right here, and then if we run out of time, we run out of time. But I wanted to point something out about this. You know, I I'm going to go back to what Pastor Gay said. Taking something that is a description in Scripture and making it the proscription of Scripture is The institution of slavery existed. It just existed. It was a social class of people. The Lord is not going to condemn the institution. The Lord is gonna command men to live inside of that institution in the best way that they can. Hopefully that was a lot of what Scott talked about last week. You honor the king. Why do you honor the king? He could be an evil king. What do these an evil king. Should you still honor him? Yes. Why? Because you live obedient to the Lord. You do your work as unto the Lord. You pay your taxes. You're a good citizen. You're not just a good citizen citizen, you're the best of citizens. You follow the law. You obey. Right? You obey. To the best of your ability, you obey. You're a slave? You lost that you don't have legal rights? You're in a situation where you have an evil master? You be the best of slaves. You be the best. You're a master. You have control over people. You're the best of masters. You're the kindest of masters. Why? Because you don't do it unto yourself. you do it unto the Lord. And if everybody just functioned that way, wouldn't life be so much easier? If everybody just loved According to God's will? If everybody just lived and loved and behaved as a Christian should, wouldn't the world just be great? Wouldn't it be awesome? But there's problem with that too isn't there because I'm a Christian and I love the Lord but I don't always obey him and I try and be the best husband that I can be I really do But sometimes I'm not. And I'm sure if you looked in your heart that you would say, Hey, I try and be the best wife or husband or whatever I can be, but sometimes I'm not. Right? So that's a problem. Maybe sometimes I'd be the best master I could be, but sometimes I'm not. Maybe sometimes I'm the best slave I can be, but sometimes I'm not. So the world is imperfect. And that's also not catching the Bible by surprise because we're not going to get better and better, right? This world's not getting better and better. Right? This is the last time is it gonna be we're we're we're all going to bliss, right? If we just keep walking on near the president is gonna become benevolent. Okay, people are gonna quit being oppressed. Everybody's gonna have food, the world's gonna be a great place, right? That's exactly what the Bible teaches. Nope. What's gonna happen? You're gonna get snatched up. Literally, all hell is going to break loose. Right? You're going to get snatched up, and all hell is going to break loose. That's what's going to happen. The Bible doesn't say things are going to get better and better. The Bible says things are going to get worse and worse. Birth pangs, Jesus calls them. They're going to start like this, and they're going to hurt. And then they're going to become more frequent and it's going to get worse. And it's going to become more painful. Right? Does that catch God by surprise? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. But you are called to obey. But you are called to obey. Another bad hermeneutic. Um people this isn't necessarily okay, I I put this under the list of bad hermeneutics, but this isn't necessarily a bad hermeneutic, it's just maybe an incomplete. Hermeneutic to suggest that that uh that this is really about employment. Right? You should go to work every day, revering your boss, being a good worker, I mean that is true. Okay, that is true, and it's also applicable in this context. It's just not complete. And it sort of undercuts the larger point. He wasn't speaking to freedmen who were poor. And had to work to survive, he was speaking to slaves who had no legal rights at all. You're a freedman. Maybe you're rich, maybe you're poor, it doesn't matter. You're a freedman. You don't like your job, go get another one. Right? You don't like your job. your job? Okay. I'll go find another one. You know, Erica, God bless her, she she had a problem with her boss, she didn't like her boss. She found another job. So it's not like, okay, say and masters if you're not if you're if you're if your master's evil that you you still obey them? No, you go find another job. Here you gotta look let me tell you, your boss is evil, go find another job. You have that right. Why? You have Legal rights. They didn't have legal rights, so it's different. It's incomplete. It's not that that it's incorrect biblical interpretation, it's just incomplete biblical interpretation, in my view. In my view. It just doesn't fit completely into the historical context. Um and then I just think that the greater elements of this calling, you know, every now and then And you just get a great example. Right? How far, O Lord? How far? How far must I go? To what extent? Right? Okay, I have to be Obedient. Okay, I gotta I gotta get rid of malice. Malice is bad, I gotta get rid of malice. Nope, the Bible says all malice. All malice? All malice. All hypocrisy. Now just a little bit. Can I keep a little hypocrisy? Because I really don't like that person. Can I keep just a little bit of strife in my heart? No. All strife. Right? That's what you're commanded to get rid of. To what extent? Right? To what extent? And here, Peter is giving you an example of to what extent must you pick up your cross and walk, to what extent must you submit to your situation? extent must you glorify God in the situation that you're in? To what extent? How far, oh Lord? Because this is hard. I don't know about all wives. I know that my wife has to struggle with submitting to me because I don't deserve her submission. I don't. Why? Because I'm a sinner. And I do bad things. Right? I don't deserve it, but she's commanding. Guess what? Much as I love my wife? Does she deserve to be loved like Christ loves the church? Are there times that she's less than lovely? Never. That never happens. That never happens. Just kidding, just kidding, just kidding. Maybe someone else, but not me. It's a reality, right? That we are called to submit when we don't want to submit. We are called to submit. when it's just not just. It's not fair, Lord. Why, Lord, do I have to do this, Lord? And that's hard. To what extent? Because I'm gonna tell you, if you're like me, I wanna know exactly how far I have to go. I because I ain't going another step beyond that. But how far? Then I realize, oh my gosh, I have to submit a million more miles than I've already done. Right? And that for me is the greater lesson. Just to put a button on this issue of scripture in slavery. And before we get to breaking Can someone read First Corinthians chapter seven, verses seventeen through twenty-four? See I think that more years. Sword drill made me proud. That's my daughter, she just went Oh, dang. All right. Well, me as the Lord assigned you each one as gold as God has hoped. each and this way let them wrong. And so I directed in all the churches, was any man called when he was already circumcised? He is not become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in uncircumcised? He is not to be circumcised. This incision is nothing and uncircumcision. Uncircumcision is nothing. But what matters is the keeping of the payments of God. Each person is to remain and that stay. in which he is called. Were you called as a slave? Do not let it concern you. But if you are also to become free, take advantage of that. For one who is called to be for one who is called as the Lord, as a slave is the Lord's free person. Likewise, the one who is called as free is Christ's slave. You were bought for a price. Do not become slaves of people. Brothers and sisters, each one is to remain with God in that condition in which he was called. Now concerning virgin, I have no commitment of the little chair because it okay. Did y'all get that though? Did y'all get that? I re I I think it's to me this is an important point. Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him. Only let the person If you're a slave, think that caught the Lord by surprise? That you're a slave? That oh man, I'm I'm sorry I saved you, but I didn't I didn't know that you were going to be a slave the next day. I I I meant to do something different, but uh let me fix that for you. If you're A wife when you come to Christ, you didn't get caught him by surprise. Oh, I didn't know you had an unbelieving husband. Whew, we better fix this business. Now you can get away from that. Take that caught the Lord by surprise, go ahead. So you mentioned before that when we're safe, um we don't just leave because we have a mission here and it's much like when you a military defense, you have people in all areas in in all facets working for that same purpose, for that same mission. And Some of those people are the ones that you see on the front lines and some of those people are working maybe behind a computer or behind a desk somewhere in a remote location that you may never see. And I see this as sort of the same thing. If God is wanting Christ is wanting his message to be delivered to all people, he's gonna have to put people in all places. And that would include slaves. That would include in prison. That would include in the higher faces as well. Yeah, absolutely. I think that's that's absolutely true. And in putting them there, recognizing that everyone will be in a different social s situation. So th yeah, thanks. I I everybody catch that was saying that for the Lord to have to for the Lord to have I'll I'll rephrase it a little bit, the elect exiles of the diaspora right I talked a couple weeks ago that maybe um uh Uh I talked a couple weeks ago maybe through there about how everybody was within ten miles of a priestly city in in Jerusalem or I'm sorry, in Israel. Right why is that? Because to have access to those Priests, we're priests to have access to those priests, they have to be near people, right? And as an elect exile of the diaspora, you're a priest. Right? You have a holy priesthood. But you have to be where people are. Right? And that means being in all social situations in all areas. Um you had your hand up. Did no? Uh okay, so uh about the other part of this that I wanted to bring up is that Paul doesn't say you have to remain a slave. Right? Paul's not saying, oh, you're born a slave, you've got to remain a slave. You're stuck there. Tough luck. You know? You you were born into this situation. It's a terrible situation. I'm never gonna deliver you from it. That's not what the Lord says. Sometimes he will and sometimes he won't. I don't know what the situ what your situation is, but the bottom line is you're not forbidden to take advantage of the laws. in the say y you know, it to to change y you don't like your job? Change your job. You have an evil boss? You can move. You can go away. You you don't have to stay there. You should never take away from this, like and this is one of the problems with this hermeneutic that But it's about employees. Oh man, I have this terrible boss, but the Lord says I should just remain. That's not true. That's not true. You be the best that you can be, and if you can get out of it, you get out of it. Right? But until then, you honor the Lord. Until then, you work on as as unto God. Right? Until then, you're obedient. Can you get out? Sure, you can get out. If you can't get out and you have that situation. Situation get out. Right? Couldn't we qualify that system it? The only reason I say that is that ultimately the submission is being called to here is in verse thirteen, which is superior. To the submission or the subjection being called to reverse 18, 1, 7, right? And it's the subjection, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution. And so And ultimately that always means that in this social construct in which Christians live, which will vary by time and by culture and by all these other things, the Lord's saying, When I left you as these exiles in the midst of that social context, I expect you interact with that in a way that glorifies me. It's for my sake. And so the only part I'm asking to qualify here is maybe because of the social context we live in, you have the liberty to go do something else. Maybe the Lord is asking you to persevere there in in an individual sense. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You have to stay because that's your boss, but maybe for the Lord's sake Yeah, I that's a great way to great place to stay. Yeah, it's a t Like I mean you're you're working as unto the Lord. If you're maybe another way to say it is know that prayerfully that's where God wants you to go. Move in the direction that God is asking you to move. Maybe sometimes you are called to stay in the that situation to be an example where there's maybe not another example. I think it's totally fair. Um I think I was trying to make a larger point that that to to be able to avail yourself of the the surrounding laws and principles. Um so I'm I'm glad you asked for that clarification because that is also a very good point. But your ability to avail yourself of the laws around you, that it you're you're a freed person, you're living as a freedman. You're not living as a slave who has no rights. But even still, yeah, to to to a large extent you're really moving in the direction that the Lord is calling you to move. Um but yeah, so that's a good clarification. I just thank you for my my fear there is just that we we leave public schools, we leave government, we leave Then we just become like uh you understand what I'm saying? We're free to do something. Absolutely. And so we just flee all the secular environments that we live in. And that's that's a hundred percent opposite of what Peter's doing here. He's saying, get out of there and you know it's you suggested an even so real radical part here is any of the literature from this period calls slaves property. Peter addresses them as though they have every choice in the world how they're going to behave in the context they're in. Never happens in the Greco-Roman house of Mm-hmm. It always is just these are the rules for society. Here he looks at the slave, the wife, the husband, and addresses them individually as though they have a choice in every regard. So I mean that's that's all of that is in there. Just again fear this a lot. Yeah, yeah. No, we should yeah, we still have to remain the elect exiles of the day. If we all huddle together as you know, the holy huddle I think people call it, you can't you can't live in the holy huddle either, right? Right. That's that's not that's not the right place to be. Alright, so now I have fifteen minutes. If I did a good job of unpacking but no, no, totally I I'm glad you mentioned that. Um but if I did a good job unpacking this first part, then maybe this next part goes fairly quick and fairly smooth. Feel free to stop and interrupt uh if there's a question. Okay? So then we look at what Peter has to say. Servants be subject to your masters. Exegetically point here is this is oikata. Oh wow. This is did a terrible job of copy paste with that. That is not how it should be pronounced. Or this is when I didn't have enough time to proofread everything. A house servant. Okay, now house servants can have a broad range of treatment. I think I mentioned this earlier, I won't beat this to death again. But there's a a a broad range of treatment. Many of them, as a matter of fact, probably a lot of them, if not the majority of them, were treated as like members of the family. You know? Think about it like having a a nanny. potentially. I'm trying to think of different types of examples where you have someone in your home caring for your children, preparing your meals, taking care of you. You know, maybe they they could be even attorneys. They they were house servants as they they they served and gave legal advice. They were very educated people. They could be educated, they may not be. It just depended. So when he says, be subject to your masters, um this you know, this thread and then here's where where where Scott's point actually comes into play. This idea of being subject, it it's weaving verses 213, which is where what Scott just mentioned, all the way through three seven All the way through the house rules, this idea of submission. Submit, submit, submit, submit, submit. I think it's four times in these passages where it's mentioned. Here the difference is he may he makes a specific point to say with all respect, with phobos, with fear, with fear, terror. Why? That guy holds your legal rights. That master holds your legal rights. Respect him for the authority that he presents over you. Is it just that he holds all your legal rights? We can debate that till the end of time. Probably not. Treating people like chattel is just generally bad. But that's not the point. Not the point of whether it's just what's happening to you. The point is how do you respond to it? And you respond to it by acknowledging and working and being in the place that you were. And here I have to make an important point. It's in my notes. Where does the fear of this authority end? Where does the fear of worldly authority? authority in because it does have an extent. When do you not listen to your boss? When do you not listen to your master? When do you not listen to your husband? When do you not listen When when are you when the scripture is very clear about teaching this? When does when does the extent? Anyone want to venture when you're asked to sin. When you're asked to sin. Exactly. When you're asked to do something against God. One of the thoughts I had this week I was going through this is I wonder if slaves in the US who were there were laws against them learning how to read, but were commanded to long for the pure spiritual milk, right? How can you do that if you can't read? Should slaves have obeyed their masters in that? It's kind of an i interesting question. Maybe it's more academic than anything else, but to me I think the answer to that question is No, you better learn to read. You go right ahead and you look you read. And if you get beaten for that, you get beaten for that. The thing is, is that in those cases, know that you are still to be obedient to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to Be punished. That's what Daniel did. Right? Daniel was willing to jump in the fire. I am not gonna burn on my God. He can save me, he cannot save me. I can go in there and burn up, or I cannot go in there and burn up. I don't know what's gonna happen, but whatever it is. I am not denying God. Right? That was actually uh Shadrach, that was a was it Shadrach, Mishak, or Beth, whichever one. Huh? David Bowman Alliance. Daniel goes to the bottom. Daniel I said, Daniel, yeah, yeah. And then then yeah, and then Daniel and the lion's end. When he gets thrown in the lion's hand, I can get eaten, I can not get eaten. God can stop the mouth, God cannot stop the mouth. But whatever happens, I'm not going to stop praying the Lord. Right? That's the extent. You never, never obey your master of this world in disobedience to your Lord in heaven. You don't have to do that. You're not called to that. So not only to those that are good. Yeah, these didn't copyright. Scolioi. Those that are unjust, scolioi. Those that are and just is sort of a light translation. That word means wicked. We get the disease scoliosis from this word, twisted, perverted, wicked. What's the extent? That guy can be just as wicked as sin. That woman can be just as wicked as sin. Do I do I live in an obedient way? Yes. Yes. But he beats me unfairly. Yes. But he treats me wrongly. Yes. This is what I have to say, going back to the previous verse. If you're a wife and you're being mistreated then you have the law y you shouldn't stay in that situation. I'm not suggesting that. But you're you're not a slave, you're a freed person. Right? In this case When you don't have a choice, you obey. You do the best you can. That's a tough call. I mean it's hard even saying it, but it's what the scripture says. It's really You know, but knowing here that Christian masters had a different call. Again, remember the balance. The Christian masters do the same. And stop your threatening, knowing that he is both their master's and yours is in heaven. You the same master? Wait, wait. In the end, I'm gonna be judged On the basis of what? What I've done. And you're going to be judged on the basis of what you've done. Let me tell you something about envy and strife and malice. Let me tell you something. Something about the desire for retribution. God is infinitely more capable at exacting judgment than you are. God is infinitely more capable of punishing for sin than you will ever be. Your harsh words, your malice, your envy, your strife will pale In comparison to the judgment that will be extracted on the wicked and unbelieving, you will never come close to rival again. Never come close to rivaling it. So while you are in that situation, and again, remember, I just want to make the point, I am not suggesting that if you're in a bad situation that you should stay in that situation if it's abusive or whatever simply because you have rights. You have legal rights. Right? There's a difference there, you know, and so we have to make that point. Um and you have resources at your disposal. You don't have to stay in a bad situation. If God is calling you to it, to Scott's point, sure. But if God is not calling you to it, then get out. You don't have to stay there. This is also why Philemon was asked by Paul, not demanded by Paul. Because for Philemon to for Paul to demand that Philemon forgive Bonissimus Which was well within his rights as an apostle, he would have usurped Philemon's legal rights as a master. He would have prevailed over them. So instead, He allowed his conscience, Philemon's conscience, to guide him. Why? Because he was confident that Philemon is a believer. And if he is a believer, then he is a forgiving master. As a believer, then Paul has every confidence that when Wennissimus shows up, thieving runaway that he is, now transformed, now saved, now his brother in Christ, will receive treatment as a fellow heir and inheritor of glory. Right? He doesn't have to appeal as an apostle. He can simply remind Philemon you're a Christian. you've been commanded. Not by me. By God. Right? So for what credit is it if you sin and are beaten Everybody has a story, right? Like everybody has a story of a um a person who is a Christian. Maybe I don't know, maybe not a bit. I definitely have a story. And oh my gosh, I am oppressed for the Lord's sake. My boss treats me so awful. Life is just so bad for me because I'm a Christian. No, you're not. You are lazy. You're a terrible employee and your boss calls you out for that. You deserve to be punished for this. And if you endure it, it's no credit to the Lord. If you endure it well why because you deserve to be punished How are you glorifying God when you don't do your job right? How do you glorifying job God when you're mumbling about your boss, talking about it behind the back, doing those things? behind them, being angry toward them, being envious toward them, being strifeful towards them, communicating it to anybody who you can borrow their ear for five minutes. And that person punishes you that Boss punishes you, you should be punished. You should be. How are you glorifying God in that? But if you don't revile and you don't show envy and you don't show strife, if you pervert. If you you you show your good deeds and you show your good works and they punish you anyway, what are those people going to say? I have an excellent example here. I won't share it because I've put I promised Erica that I wouldn't share her stories anymore. But no. If if you're punished under the context of the law, because you're a violator of that law. Don't then turn to Christ and say, Oh, I'm being punished for the Lord's sake. No, you're being punished because you did something bad. You're not glorifying God with that. Right? You're not glorifying God with that. God when you're punished unjustly. Why? Because the only reason you're being punished then is for the Lord. And you've done nothing wrong. And then God is honored. That's a gracious thing. Right? That's what he says. That's a gracious thing in the sight of God. Harkens Matthew chapters five, ten through twelve. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the key. Kingdom of Heaven. Blessed are you when others revile and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. So they persecuted the Pro For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. You are like him. How do I know you're most like him when you're being persecuted for righteousness' sake? Because Peter said it. This is why you've been called. Christ is the example. Christ is the example. And Christ suffered for the sake of you. He suffered for the sake of you. Hopogramos, that's the Greek word. A template, literally a template that you put underneath a piece of parchment so you can learn how to write letters. That's what that means. It is the template. For you to follow. Christ is the example. To follow in his steps. Right? And by the way, when Christ suffered, what were you? Who were you when Christ was suffering? Did you revile? Did you have hate? Did you have malice? Were you an enemy of God? Were you righteous? Now if you believe your Bible, there were none righteous, no not even one. The poison of asps were on their lips. That was you. You want to point to your righteousness? Oh, your righteousness is like filthy rags. When he was on that cross suffering for you. So is your condition the same as his condition? Was he suffering for you the way you should be suffering for the world? You are the light of the world, a city set upon a hill. It cannot be hidden, nor do people light along. And put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In that same way let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. He committed no sin. He committed no sin, and when he was reviled, he didn't open his mouth. And I have to fly through this, unfortunately. Um I wish I'd left a little more time. Uh I think we've already talked a lot about this, but you know, so S Pilate said to him, Would you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him, You would have no authority over me. over me at all, unless it had been given to you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. Could Jesus have stopped his crucifixion? Think about that. You're in this situation, you've got no legal rights, you can't even stop it if you wanted to. Jesus could have said, I'm done. Any point. I'm done. He did that willingly. His submission was willing. Don't you ever forget that. Don't ever forget that. Because he could have stopped it at any time. At any time. But he submitted himself. He submitted himself. And he himself bore our sins in his body. And then I would love to talk about how this is hearkening to Isaiah fifty three. Here's a you're reading in this passage a firsthand witness of the resurrected Lord. He was there. He Saw Christ crucified. He lived with Christ for years. And he himself wore sins. He was sinless, Peter says. He had no sin. Peter walked with that guy for how long? Never sinned. I mean that is unbelievable all by itself, right? Like, I mean, if you think about it, it was his entire life. And the sh the short period that Peter was there and witnessed, he saw no sin. And he saw him crucified, and he saw him resurrected. And now he's telling you that. And he's pointing to the prophecy that said it would happen. And he's saying. This, spoken 400 BC or 700 BC, 700 years before Christ's birth, seven hundred years ago, God said this would happen. I'm telling you, I saw it. I saw it with my own eyes. And that work saved you. That work saved you, Christian. That work saved you. His submission. His willing submission. His bearing of your sins on a cross all the way unto death. He did that for you. And now you must do it for him. Pick up your cross. And walk. Okay, and I'm five minutes late already, four minutes late already, so we've got to get through this. But what's the takeaway here? You're called to be an example of Christ to the world. We've been talking about that now for what six fifteen weeks, fifteen weeks. Being an example to Christ means that you fulfill your obligations in the world with joy, with respect for your authority. And you work not as unto a man, but you work as unto the Lord. This is your cross. Where you're at today, this is your cross. Pick it up and walk. Pick it up and walk. Obey the Lord. Follow the Lord. Submit to your circumstances and honor God. And when you do that, you will be a witness. You will be a witness. And when you suffer, you suffer for Christ's sake. go running around doing bad things and expecting that you're going to honor God with your actions and deeds. If you deserved it, you deserved that punishment, you didn't honor God. But when you suffer unjustly, for Christ's sake, you honor honor your Lord. And I am sorry, it was five minutes. I try and always try and wrap up on time. Uh but let's uh let's pray and