So yeah, I guess people will still be filtering in, that's fine. Uh but I do want to get started just because um you know like I said I have a lot of material to cover today Uh I I titled this one The Clarity of Having the Right Perspective and then when I turned the PowerPoint on, I was like, I don't know if I love that title or not. You know, we'll we'll figure it out to kind of together as we go through. Hey that'll be like a uh at the end of class we we gotta have a a title for that we should change that the the the PowerPoint to uh but you know just as a fun thing like what would you entitle this? But uh perspective and clarity had something to do with it but I'm not sure the two of them together But that's okay. We shall find out. So um a few notes as we begin. Uh you can find the PDF version as well as the PowerPoint version of this presentation on Hope Book. I did do it today before class Um so I'm feeling like I've already overachieved. I can I cannot uh I don't I can't mess up any worse now. Um but uh well it could go I guess it could go south, you know, from here. But I know I feel like I've already hit my mark though. Yeah, also someone came in and asked if we were live streaming. So we're not live streaming, but if you miss a class, they are available on Sermon Audio. Jen is super faithful to make sure that gets out there within a couple of days. Um so uh if you miss a class or you need to get caught up or you want to go back and and catch one, they're they're all there. So um hopefully you can see that And I'm going to jump in somewhat quickly because, like I said, I have a lot of material to cover. So we've gone through, we're averaging three verses a week. So we're in week seven We're getting to the end of 21 today if everything goes well. Um and sometimes when you are going in such detail It's important to take a moment, to take a step back, to reflect on the broader picture. And so this is also, by the way, this chart here. You can also find on another posting that I did on the Hope Book page that's also available. But I'm just kind of walking through it in the verses that we're taking. the way that we're approaching the scripture to maybe start giving you some kind of broader perspective as to where we're headed. So we're starting a new section today Uh well I I'm sorry, we actually started last week, my apologies, but we're we're in now this the second section of 1 Peter The first section, as we've talked about before, the emphasis was on the greatness of the salvation and the grace that God has given you in saving you. He chose you before the foundation of the world. He gave you his best. He sent his son, right, to to save you. And he's giving you his best. He's giving you a share of his kingdom, an inheritance It's imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. And that inheritance and that looking forward should bring you great joy, right? And you have a love for Him In faith, you have a love for him, though you've not seen him, you love him, right? And and uh you're going to see him one day, but despite your trial Remember we talked about how that was. Redempted history, and they're just in awe at the wonder that that you are to the Lord, that that what He has done for you The grace he has given you, the mercy he has shown you. And he's taken great care and great consideration to paint this picture for you of this greatness of salvation. And of course, he's doing it for a purpose because he's going to a place and now for the first time in the first twenty or in the first uh Twelve verses of scripture, you get zero imperatives. He's not telling you to do anything yet. He's simply telling you about how great your salvation is. But suddenly in verse, I think it's 14, you get the first of four imperatives that he's going to give you over the sections between 13 and 20. 25. Okay, he's going to tell you: set your hope fully on grace. Set your hope fully on the grace that you've been given. Be holy in all of your conduct. Live a life of reverence and fear of the Lord. And finally, love one another earnestly. So these four imperatives make up this next section of scripture, and we're going to kind of walk through it in a little more detail. But I just wanted to show you that this is really Uh at least the way that I'm working through this, this is the the outline for the next section, right? These four imperatives make up the outline of the next section So let's let's look at that. And of course, like uh every good pastor who gives an exhortation as such He's painting the dots to his um he's connecting the dots to his previous work, but um sorry this this next slide. So I get I love it when um I love it when I get to talk Dallas Cowboys. Okay? So it's one of my favorite things to talk about. And when I could talk about Scripture and Dallas Cowboys at the same time, I am in heaven. Like this is as close to heaven as I'm going to get before I meet the Lord. Dak Prescott. I don't know if you know this, maybe you don't follow football. Um but three hundred and sixty-four days ago last Sunday uh Dak Prescott was on a um uh Uh he was on a uh uh uh uh what do you call it? He was on a run. He was running the ball. It was it wasn't uh he wasn't scrambling, it was a designed run As he was coming around, he was playing the Giants, he was tackled by his safety, his name was Logan Riley. And when Logan tackled him, in Logan's testimony, he heard two thuds. The first was Dak Prescott's foot, and the second was his body. And uh Dak sat there in front of 25,000 fans, remember it was COVID, so there's only 50 50% populating, 25,000 fans, and uh began trying to literally pound his ankle back into place. Not thinking that it was broken, but thinking that it had just been sprained or dislocated or something. Uh and even he and the the crowd as he sat there they saw that this was potentially the end of Dak Prescott's career. To back up a little bit further, all through the offseason last year was the talk that he didn't have a contract. He was playing on a franchise tag, which meant his future was completely uncertain at that moment. Didn't know if he would ever play football again, didn't have any guarantees in his contract He was at some certain moment alone. Right? But you can see there All of his teammates, if you pan back a little more, you would also see the Giants teammates surrounding him. The character of Dak Prescott is such that if you don't know him, you want to know him. And he's a natural leader. And uh that's what they always talk about with him. He may not be the most talented of quarterbacks, he may not be the most whatever, but the one thing they say is character and leadership So he goes into rehab and he in his own testimony says, you know, I got to the hospital and they talked about surgeries and the only thing I could think of doing was setting my mind and getting back to playing food Again. Just setting my mind to that. And so he goes through surgeries and he's recovering. And you know, of course, the Cowboys have him in his room, and there's other people that are on the injured reserve, and he's encouraging them along with them. Oh, come on, let's work out together. Come on, let's let's do upper body today. You know, let's let's go. There were four guys on the injured reserve with him All four of them came to spring training in the best shape they'd ever been in. Because while Prescott was recovering, he's checking their medicals. Okay, what are you supposed to be doing for your therapy today? What are you doing? He's he's working through. He's he's all of a sudden taking over their therapy Right? Not only his own, but but his teammates. And people were inspired and working out harder and wanting to be more alongside of him by his character and his conduct And uh on the day before he went to go, he this was an interview that he did. It's on ESPN, you can kind of look it up. Um They asked him, does he think about the injury? Does he think about this? As he's about to go play the same team one year later in the same stadium, what does he think about And he says, uh, I'm not going to be naive and say that I'm not going to think about the injury. But more than anything, I think it would be gratitude and thinking of how much of a blessing the last 364 days have been of going through that and overcoming that and becoming, as I continue to say, a better person and a better player. Pick up your mat and walk. That's the big idea that Peter is trying to tell you From thirteen to twenty-five. You have been given this great salvation It's been given to you. You didn't deserve it. You're going to go through trials because I've chosen you to be an elect exile of the diaspora. God has set you apart. Pick up your mat and walk. You're going to face trials. What are you going to do? Pick up your mat And walk. Pick up your mat and walk. And when you're walking, don't just walk with a heavy heart and your head down. Don't just sit around complaining. Pick up the people around you. Don't just grumble, talk about how cruel the world is and how bad the world is for you. Rejoice that you have a salvation. Rejoice that you've been given a faith. Rejoice in your future glory because your current suffering pales in compassion. Comparison to it. Pick up your mat and walk. That's the big idea of 13 through 25. That is what Peter is trying to tell you. through this. And those are the three exhortations. But as we move into that, I wanted to take a moment, and this is a really messy slide, but I thought this was important to point out Okay, so as he starts with these imperatives, okay, you can see here this is verses 13 through 50 Therefore, and I've I've done the cutting up so it's a little bit out of order, set your hopefully on the grace that will be brought to you with the revelation. Of Jesus Christ, preparing the minds for action and being sober-minded. No, these are not imperatives. These are just simple expectations. They're adjectives that describe a Christian They're called participles. They're describing you as a Christian. Prepare your mind for action. Be sober-minded. Gurge yourself. The scripture says, gird yourself. Pick up your mat and walk. Be holy in all your conduct. Second imperative. As obedient children, don't be conformed to the passions of Your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, uh be holy since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. But the connection now you'll see Hope. Set your hope fully. What hope? The hope you're born into a living hope. You see the connection? You're born into a living hope. Verse 3: Set your hope fully. Verse 13, on the grace, the grace that was to be yours, that the prophets longed to look on. That grace, what was that grace? That grace was the hope and the salvation that you had Set your hope fully on what you've been given, is what Peter's saying here, on the grace that was to be yours, that will be brought to you. What's going to be brought to you? Your inheritance The one that's imperishable, undefiled, and won't fade away. Set your hope fully on a gift that's been given to you, your inheritance. And how? When do you get it? At the revelation of Jesus Christ. Right? Verse 6 and 7 to his praise, glory, honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Do you see how Peter is working through this now? Do you see the connection here? As obedient children, though you have not seen you love him As an obedient child, as a person who loves Christ Don't be conformed to what you used to love. Stop focusing on your past. Start focusing on your future. That's what Peter's trying to tell you here. Stop going back into the muck and the mire and look forward to the glory and the inheritance that sits before you. Stop looking at your former lusts, your former ways, but focus instead on the love that you have for your Savior and your desire to be wholly like Him. Right? But as he who called you is holy, it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. You are called an elect exile of the diaspora. You were called and appointed for these moments, for this life, to live a certain way. You were chosen to do it. You were chosen to be holy. I can't wait to unpack that part. But as we move forward, the next set of verses, same connections, right? And conduct yourselves with fear, number four. Throughout the time of your exile, exile, select exile of diaspora. If you call in as father Who you call as Father according to the foreknowledge of God? You call that? If that's your salvation, you call him Father That one that judges impartially according to each one's deeds, knowing that you were ransomed, the sprinkling of Jesus' blood, you were paid for with the price That Christ was the blood of the Son of God. You see the connections? I'm trying to drive home a point here that he's gone through this whole first section And these imperatives are all based on those first 12 verses. So these four imperatives are fundamentally tied to everything that he set up until man. They're anchored in that. And that's a super important point as we get in as we get further and further. Not perishable with such things as silver and gold, but we heard that before. We heard that in verse 7. A faith more precious than gold, which perishes. Right? He was foreknown. There's that word again, but was made manifest. Verses 11 and 12, when the prophets predicted the sufferings of Christ. And subsequent glories, the incarnation, right? So that your faith and hope are in God, your living hope, your guarded faith. Which is tested by fire, will be found. Your faith and hope are in God. You see what Peter's trying to say here You see what Peter's trying to say? Do you see his point in all of this? Your great salvation results in something. Your great salvation results in something that changes you. If you aren't changed Do you have a great salvation? Maybe something to think about. If you're not setting your faith and your hope fully on what lies before you If that doesn't characterize your existence, if you spend more time with the old ways in the flesh And you spend time loving your Savior, following Him, does that characterize you? It's an important question. It's an important question. And Peter is calling me out. Peter's calling you out. This should be a natural outflow of your love and your desire to please your Father. Who is in heaven? It should be a natural outflow. A natural outflow. Be holy for I am holy. I love this. And I love that Peter uses this. Just to quickly kind of dispel, I mean, we talked about this in a different class, but But this is not replacement theology. This is not Peter saying that we're the new chosen Israel. It's different topic for a different day. I don't want to get too far into that, but it occurred to me as I was working through this that that this is common for people to point to these verses, be holy, for I am holy, and say, ah, see, we're we're replacing Israel. We're the new Israel. We're taking them over. The old Israel is out. We're in. That's bad. That's bad Bible reading right there. That is some bad doctrine right there. Okay, because Paul says God isn't done with Israel. Right? He says, not everybody who's Israel is Israel, but God isn't done with Israel. So there is a different time and a different place where we can have a great discussion about what God's future plan for Israel is. But don't read this thinking somehow this means that we've replaced them. Right? Don't read this thinking that this somehow means that we're the new Israel, and and by the way, everything in the Old Testament now applies to us. There's all kinds of bad stuff that can happen with that But uh that that term, be holy, for I am holy, appears uh five times in Leviticus. The common reference here is verse 45, for I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy. My former pastor always jokes every time Leviticus comes up in conversation He says that's where you always stop in your annual Bible reader. You get the first couple done, you get to Leviticus, and it just, that's it. That's as far as I got. You know, and Leviticus is a tough read. I don't know how many people have read through that. But it's important. It's an important read in Scripture. Because God lays out Clear distinctions between his people, Israel, and those people around him. One of the Ten Commandments is there shall be no idols, right? No idols before God. God does not desire to be worshipped through an idol. Do you ever think about why that might be? Why would God not want an idol of him? Well, I mean clearly as an infinite deity, there's no picture that can adequately describe him, right? There's no statue you're gonna draw no statue you're going to form, no picture you're going to draw that's going to adequately make him known to you So if you're an infinite and all-powerful God, how do you express your glory? Not through an idol, but through the work that you do to a people. For the work that you do through a people. What if you were able to take your enemy And make him your friend. What if you were able to be perfectly just And yet forgive those who have transgressed infinitely upon you. What if you were able to make those people love you What if you were able to make those people desire to be like you? What if you were able to foretell it, document it hundreds and hundreds of years Before it's satisfaction? What if you were able to talk about how you intended to go about it before you actually went about it? What if you were able to say that before you ever laid a single brick in the foundation of the world, you had a plan? You had a plan to show your glory through a people who desired to be holy like you. Now what kind of God? Now what kind of there's no idol that could ever fully express the glory of God. But that tells you an awful lot about the God that we serve, about the God that we worship, that He can do that That he has the ability to do that. That he can make you like that. Then, when people look at you and they see the God that you worship, and they see the things that you do, and they see the way that you behave They may not like it, but they know who God is. They may not want to be around you, but they kind of want to be around you. They may not want to love you, but they kind of want to love you. Right? Because you are revealing The Lord. You are glorifying your God. Be holy, for I am holy. That is what that Command, well that statement means that is the command in Leviticus to the people who were brought out of Egypt, and it is the command that Peter presents before you. This is God's intention for you. And uh as we're talking through that Have you ever thought, you know, when most people when you give them a picture of holiness, what do you picture? You picture some stodgy old Puritan wilding away long hours. Right, shows up in uh very legalistic manner, kind of dull, sort of vanilla I would submit to you that that's the world's way of wanting to communicate holiness, but that holiness is attractive. Holiness is beautiful. If it weren't beautiful, then God wouldn't call you to it because He's calling you to reflect who He is, and He is beautiful. Right? If it weren't amazing, then he wouldn't call you to it because God is amazing and God is calling you to holiness so that you can glorify him in your behavior. Think about holiness for a moment. You know, I always joked um Peyton knows this. It wasn't actually a joke. I I used to tell my my son Uh as he was looking to go date girls. Um I said, well just be careful the girls you date. Because you marry a girl, you might be attracted to their beauty, but you marry Hold on for a second. You marry their mouth, right? You marry their mind. You marry their attitude. You marry everything about that person. Right? And the same goes for a woman, right? When you marry, you might be attracted to the guy, but you married the mouth. You married the head. You married the heart. You married the whole thing. Right? So when you pick a bride, Dylan, to marry Don't just look at outer beauty. Look for a woman who is kind, compassionate, gracious, yet intelligent, one that can help you. Right? One that can advise you, one that can be your true helper. One that can accept your headship. When you marry a guy, make sure he's willing to be accountable. Make sure that he's standing up. That he doesn't check out when the kids get in trouble, when the kids are causing problems. He doesn't check out. Whenever things get hard in the family, he goes and plays on his phone or wanders off. Makes sure he's getting the yard mode Right? Make sure he's doing the things that he has to do, to be a leader in the home. That's the kind of man you want to marry, daughter That's the kind of woman you want to marry, son. A holy woman. A holy guy. One that has reverence for the Lord. And on your bad days, don't love her for her actions. Love her because God told you to love her. And when he's acting like a jerk, don't love him because he's being a jerk. Love him because God told you to love him. Right? That's what a holy person does. That's the way a family should be. You want to hire someone who comes in Dress, you know, shorts, wrinkled shirt, comes to sit down, goes in front of your customers, or does whatever you have him to do. He's lazy Right? Doesn't want to follow instructions, wants more money all the time, even though they don't do anything. Is that a guy you want to hire? You want to hire the person who shows up diligently every day, the person who serves you in the way that you need to be served, the person who follows you in the way that you need to be followed The person who does the things that the tasks that you have laid out before them in a good way. And when you're having a bad day. When you're in a grumpy mood and you say something that is offensive, they're still serving you in that way. Why? Because they're not serving you because you're who you are They're serving you because they love their Lord. That's the kind of guy you want to hire. That's the kind of girl you want to hire. Right? A holy person You know, we were uh at home fellowship last night. I stuck this worship one in here and I was thinking about how we were singing and the doors were open. And I thought, man, I hope someone's walking by right now You know, I just had that thought when we were singing. I said, I just want it be awesome if someone was just walking by and where are those voices coming from? from. You know, I'm used to hearing headbanging music or rap music, but these guys are singing. They're all singing together and it's beautiful It you know maybe we're all out of key, who cares? But right? But but it's beautiful. There's a fellowship there. I want that. I want that. Right? What about citizenship? You want someone who's always trying to cheat their taxes? You want someone who Well, I guess I'll follow the law since the guy's sitting there with a gun, but the moment his back is turned, it's going to be different Is that the guy you want as the citizen in your government, in your country? Is that who you want to be your citizen? No. You want the person that follows the rules. You lay out the rules. Masks, no masks. I'm going to wear masks if I have to wear masks. You want the guy who follows the rules. I'm gonna drive fifty-five. Probably change the subject now You want the guy that I'm digging a little deep there, aren't I? You want the person who doesn't steal You want the person who's not breaking into somebody else's home. You want the person who stands up to defend the government because that's what has to be done You want a good citizen. You want an obedient citizen. Is that who God's called us to be? We're the best of citizens. We're the best of fathers. We're the best of husbands. We're the best of mothers. We're the best of wives. The world may say, oh, that family, that's not a good family. But we're the best. We're the best. And you want to bring an accusation against us, you're going to bring an accusation against us. The best, the brightest, the most obedient, the most serving, the most loving You want Dak Prescott as your quarterback, right? You want him to not just get himself better, make your teammates around you better. Right, make everybody around you better. That's holiness. That's Holiness. That is how we are called to be as the people of the Lord. Amen? Amen. And then he says, conduct yourselves with fear. And uh we know that that's not uh terror fear Right? Because believers don't have terror fear. You don't terror fear your father unless your father's abusive, and our father is not abusive. So we don't have this horror of him So here Peter means reverence and awe. There's Romans 8, 12 through 17, I think, really kind of put a fine point on these next sets of verses. Through your time as the elect exile of the diaspora, if you call yourselves, if you call him his father, conduct yourselves with fear. And in Romans 8:12, Paul says, so then, brothers, brothers, can't speak anymore. So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if you live, if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive a spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of what's that word say? Adoption. We have an inheritance. We've been adopted. Right? Receive the spirit of adoptions as sons, by whom we cry, Abba Father. That term Abba Father is uh It's a tender term. It's a loving term. It's daddy. I'm not gonna call hey hey father. Father. I get mad at my kids. I don't want them to call me dad It's daddy, right? I want to be called daddy, right? Because I just want to be their daddy. You know, dad, that's a little inf it's like, yeah, daddy, dad, what's up? I went, no, I'm daddy. You come to me, you have a bad day, put your arms around my neck. I'm gonna hold you. Abba Father. Right? Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Remember inheritance. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided that we suffer with Him in order that we may also be glorified with Him. The same thing Peter's saying here, conduct yourselves with reverence to the Lord, with fear in the Lord during your time of exile. Right, during your time of exile, knowing that you were ransomed. Look, I want you to know I had great self-control on the number number of Greek words that I present to you this week. There's only one, okay? It's only one and I didn't make it different colors. There's one Greek word And I point it out because it's actually a um it's a compound word. The the root word means to be loosed. Means to be set free. Lutho loutro, right? Is that right? Lutro, I think, is the the way you say that that part of the word. But here the ransom is to be set free by paying a price. And it's it's a term that is really uh used often in terms of slavery during the Roman Empire because there were You could be either a freeman, meaning you were never a slave, you could be a slave, or you could be a freed slave. Those were kind of the three categories with Them in context here that you could be. Right? So maybe you were never a slave, but maybe you owed a debt, maybe uh there for some legal reason, maybe you were born into it, for whatever reason, you're a slave. But Roman law provided you the ability to be freed as a slave. After you perform certain functions, after you pay a certain price, you could be freed. And the content here is you've been ransomed, you've been freed. From what? You are a slave to what? To sin. But you are freed You are loosed for a price. Loosed for what price How in debt were you for your sin I would submit to you that sinning against an infinite God is an infinite sin. Even one. But you don't have just one. You have, especially if you're like me, you have all kinds. And it affects every area of your life. What kind of price Has to be paid to be redeemed from a debt to an infinite God How do you get freed from the bondage of sin? What price does it take to be freed from that bondage? It takes it takes a massive price. It takes a price that you can't even imagine You can't even calculate. Most people can't conceive in their brains a billion. Most people can conceive a thousand. Most people can see conceive maybe 10,000, 15,000, but by the time you're at 100,000, you throw a hundred thousand pebbles or something, and you you can't conceive how many that is Right? A billion, nobody can. You know, we're like uh what is it like six trillion dollars in debt for the government And it's like hundreds of billions of dollars a year just to service the debt. You can't conceive that. That's actually kind of beyond your human capability for comprehending And I would submit to you that it is infinitely greater your sin. And I would submit to you that the price that was paid was infinitely greater, the precious blood of Jesus Christ. The precious blood of Jesus Christ. And now Peter's going to go and he's going to remind you and he's going to talk about Christ. And the uh the magnificence of Christ, he's gonna tell you how amazing this price was. A lamb with blemish or spot. A lamb without blemish or spot. You know it's it's interesting that um statement. How am I doing for time? I got time. I'm just making sure I'm okay. Lamb without blemish or spot. The prophets said, John, John the Baptist. Here comes the Lamb who was taking away the sin of the world. The prophets attested that he was a lamb without blemish or spot. Pilate didn't want to punish him. He said, I find no guilt in this man Crucify him. I find no guilt. Crucify him. Well, maybe I'll punish him this much. Crucify him. The demons. You are the holy one of Israel What do you intend to do to me? You're the Holy One of Israel. What are you going to do to me? Be gone. The demons acknowledged he was a lamb without blemish or spot. Foreknown before the foundation of the world Uh this is a side note from uh one of the commentaries I read and I thought this was really great. You know, when you think about foreknowledge, we always talk about it in the context of of being chosen before the foundation of the world and the great grand grand. Plan. But do we ever stop and reflect on the fact that Adam's sin didn't catch God by surprise? Before Adam sinned, he had a plan Before Adam fell, God had already set about a plan of giving up his most precious God had already set about a plan of giving his very best. Adam, you're going to sin and turn away from me infinitely. But I'm going to redeem you infinitely. You ever think about that? Like I just thought that was kind of interesting because I I guess I had never really reflected on that. But that God knew when Adam fell It never caught him by surprise. Your sin doesn't catch him by surprise. Your sin doesn't catch him by surprise, foreknown before the foundation of the world. And he was made manifest to you. That's a reference to the incarnation. I love if you run through scripture and you talk about When they talk about Christ coming, they always talk about it in terms of appearing or manifesting or revealing Why? Because he was never born. Right? I mean, he was born as a man. He came in an incarnation. Of course, he was born, but he's existed eternally. So his coming in the incarnation is a manifestation of an eternal being, God, coming to live as a man. He was made manifest. to you. And then of course the signifying he was raised from the dead. There is the ministry of Christ right there. Come as the Lamb unblemished, right? Foreknown before the foundation of the world, spoken of by the prophets. Right, spoken of by the prophets, prophesied about, to minister, to serve, to live as a lamb unblemished To come as a man, to die and be resurrected for you For you. How do I know for you? Because I read the end. So that your faith and hope are in God. So that your faith and hope are in God. That's the same faith and the same hope back in verse three Right, your living hope. Right? Your faith that's protected by God. For faith protected by God. And so you have an inheritance. Right? You have an inheritance, you have a hope, you have a faith. God has given it all to you. He's presented it all to you. And you call him father of a father? He's bridged a divide for you that you would be Near him, that you could come to him, that you can pray to him. Have you ever thought about how amazing it is that you as a sinner Can simply bow your head and say, Dear Lord, Father, and that He would listen to that Have you ever thought about how amazing it is that we have a God that that we can approach that way? I mean, that way was made for you, right, by the precious blood of Christ. That way was made for you by the propitiation, the big word, the propitiation or the satisfaction of the sins that you've committed. Paying a price you could never pay, he paid them. And now you can pray to him You can approach him, you can talk to him, you can tell him everything, you can pour your heart out to him, and he'll listen. Why? Precious blood of Jesus Christ. The precious blood of Jesus Christ. That's the point that Peter is making here. You call him Father of the Father Because you've been bought for a great price. And so Peter's exhortation is run your race. And if you go back to the beginning of this, when he talks about girding up your loins, prepare your mind, prepare your mind, gird up the turn there, gird up. I think Scott did a great job of cutting. kind of discussing that last week, you know what that means. You know, um you've got these this tunics that that they they're wearing when they were gonna run a race When they had to move fast or they were gonna go to battle to keep the tunics out of their way, they would gird them up, they would belt them up and strap them and now instead of uh uh skirt we'll call it. Now you've got you know call it pantaloons I guess. So now you're wearing, you know, MC Hara pants, but you've y you've girded them up, right? And you're ready for battle. Prepare your mind. Prepare your mind. Like that. You're an elect exile of the diaspora. Set before you are trials. Set before you are difficulties. Set before you is sin, which you have to sanctify. yourself from. Set before you is the rest of your life in which you get to choose to love him or love your sin. Set before you, you're called to be holy. Set before you Is everything that you need to do to glorify your Savior? Gird up your mind. Prepare for battle. Be sober. Don't walk around kind of aimlessly. It's kind of a funny story, you know. Um my youngest, Sienna Uh she was a um she's a gymnast. I mean she she grew up as a gymnast. And um, you know, she she's used to people just kind of scheduling her days. You know? And um she's it's just how she's grown up. I mean in fairness we as parents Maybe you could have done a better job, but she's kind of flighty that way. She just kind of runs through life, you know, just kind of happy-go-lucky, you know And uh y you if you want her to be on time to something, you better tell her what time it's gotta be and you gotta remind her to get ready and you gotta remind her to get in the car, and you gotta remind her right. Because she's just sort of doing her thing. But that's not how we should behave as Christians. How we should behave as Christians is to be sober-minded to be aware, like this daughter, who's very deliberate, very approachable you know, she's very s I mean I'm telling you, she went to college and all I get are these like requests on the family calendar when her assignments are due and when her thing she's just very sober minded about the things that are before her. Sorry, I know I'm using But I've said nice things for you. So she's I don't know. I'm probably gonna be in trouble after we get out of here. I'm just saying. But be sober-minded about it, right? Be sober-minded. And then we get to all of the imperatives, the four imperatives, and I'm going to go back to this. So set your hope on the uh prepare yourself, be clear, set your s your your hope fully on the graze And then be holy. How do you fight this fight? What fight do you have and how do you fight this fight? By being holy. It couldn't be any more clear what Peter is trying to say here. Gird yourself, prepare yourself, fight the fight. What is that fight? Be holy. Glorify your Lord. In fear, in reverence, in reverence, glorify your Lord. Show the world who He is. Right? I mean if God had another plan to tell the world who he w who he is, you wouldn't be here Otherwise, you know, you'd pray the prayer of salvation and you'd set your faith into Christ and you'd be gone. Where'd he go? Whoa, you know, you'd be gone. What happens the moment that God is done with the end of times? What's the first thing that happens before the tribulation? You're gone. Why? No longer required. Ever think about that? Raptured. Caught up in the sky with Christ. He's there waiting for you. Come my bride. Why? No longer required here. We got other things that are about to happen now. And you're not a child of wrath, and we're about to pour out some wrath, you're gone. Your job right now is to profess that savior. Your job right now, with your mouth, with your feet With your hands, with your body, with your family, with your work, in your life, as a citizen, profess your Savior. Profess your Savior. That's your job. Pick up your mat and walk. Pick up your mat and walk And I keep saying that, but think about that image, right? You had a crippled person standing there. And Christ heals it. He just says, pick up your mat and walk. Not pick up your mat and come along. No, pick up your mat and go tell people what I did for you. Pick up your mat and go rejoice that you've been redeemed That you're no longer in the state that you're in. You're in a different state now because I made you that way. Pick up your mat and walk. The demoniac. What do we call these demons? Legion, for there are many. Be gone. Where do I go? Into the pigs. Off the cliff. Shw Gone. What does he want to do? I just want to stay with you. I just want to be here with you. No. Go tell people. Go Because now you got a job to do. Pick up your mat and walk. Be holy, for I am holy. Live a life of reverence, and then next week will be love one another earnestly. And then maybe the worship thing comes in a little more into play. on that one. But uh so I think we have a little bit of time. Um since I got through it way faster than I thought I would Which is good, I'll take that. And any questions about any of this? Any thoughts you may have? I I should have put questions in the middle of it. I know that I normally try to have a discussion point. So I'll just create one. Any discussion points? Yeah, I'd like to share something. While you were sharing about what Christ has done for us, I was considering that he's given us the point. Spirit. Prior to Christ, the Spirit was separate. It was in the Holy of Holies. It was separated by what they said is almost like four inches of cloud. It's incredible when we think about it. Now the Holy Spirit lives and dwells within us because of what Christ is in it was part of what he asked the Lord. So that's what I think about sometimes if I if I get angry or if I sin, I'm like, oh man, your spirit is And to think about what the high priest had to go through, I mean they would tie a rope around him in case he died, they'd have to pull him out. quite an amazing thing. Yeah, yeah. Amen. That's that's really good. Did everybody hear that what he was saying? That it's incredible to think about the fact that the Holy Spirit's residing in you you where before the Holy Spirit would l literally incinerate you if you approached him. That's a that's a by the way a great sermon within us you know where you can talk about Approaching God with strange fire. If you approach him with strange fire, you know, um it also applies here. You better come to him genuinely. Right, you better come to him generally. Anybody else? That was really good, thank you. When you say that believers are in elect exile with the diaspora, I understand exactly what you're saying, but that word Diaspora, what is the meaning? So the diaspora in that's a good question. Exile and diaspora, but what is the diaspora? What is this image that Peter draws on? It's a really good question. The diaspora within the Bible historically the way it's been it's referenced within maybe more specifically is when the Jews were taking a taken away from their land And you know, so in Israel they went to uh Assyria and in Judah when they were kicked out of the land they went to Babylon, right? And and so we know that in scripture, that was the diaspora. They were taken they were removed from their land. So the image that that Peter is trying to Convey is this is not your home. Right? Your home is the inheritance that you're given in front of you. Right? Your home is somewhere where you're not currently at. So in this case, he's talking to people in Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Bithynia, okay? But to you it's Columbia, you know, Mount Ary, whatever, you know, wherever you live, right? That's not your home. That's where you currently reside. You're in the diaspora right now Your home is an inheritance which is given to you that is imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away. That's your home. That's what you look forward to. That's when you're home. So that's that's an excellent question. Excellent, excellent question. Anybody else? I can tell more stories about my my kids. I think they were Someone better talk before Peyton gets it. She could hit me with that. She could hit me with that crutch. Um okay, well I guess uh anybody have any last comments before we pray and I'm gonna let you go I guess five ten minutes early Nice chance going. I would say I appreciate um the way to tie back in um discussion section. back to the versions before and like team kind of line to line where this same idea has already been introduced and how it ties into the trends that work is Oh thank you. I appreciate that. For me I think anytime you get into where there are imperatives in scripture, it's good to reflect where they're driving those imperatives from. Uh you can I think always go back. If if not always, almost always go back and see where those points are that that it's good to reflect on. So anytime you yeah like they say anytime you see therefore you gotta go see what is there before yeah So it's uh it's a good interpretation technique because then you're going actually back to see the points that are driving the imperatives home So I like to do that also to tie around because I do think one of the problems going so deep verse by verse, one of the risks is that you lose sight of the bigger picture And if you don't take a step back and and just have a reflection on what is happening, you might miss bigger points. You know? So Ba, I appreciate you saying that. And I'll do that the next time we get into a set of imperatives. Okay. Anyone else? Anything else? Okay. Uh Father God. Um