Have no fear of them nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ as the Lord is holy. Our title was uh how to have a good life and see good days, and we talked about New Year's resolutions and whatnot. But that's uh that's kind of how I how how I came up with that. Don't get me wrong, but we have a religion that is not merely ethereal and philosophical. I don't I don't feel like I'm constantly being reviled. And off the next morning we we decided to eat brunch and we walked into a restaurant. The people who live in sin are going to struggle and contend with that sin. If we don't even care that these people are going to hell, do you really believe The young lions suffer want and hunger, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. Are you being treated unfairly in your workplace, in your daily life, in your in your family home, in society? and then take a very passive response to it. I mean all sin does that, don't get me wrong, but in this case it's this a life this is like a life choice that as they progress down that they get further and further away from any notion of of being there for the gospel, of hearing the gospel. Our ideology, our theology has feet and it moves, and it lives itself out every single day in your life. Have I witnessed to anybody over the past year? But it's used four times here between two eighteen and three seventeen, which is kind of closing out those this sets of verses. Um that was when we decided to stay. And and that's, you know, look, we I've said this before, I'm gonna say it again. We are the best of husbands. Right? I don't care what kind of unbeliever you are. Is he going to revile you? You follow me, they're going to do you like they did me. Don't fear persecution. Let's go ahead and get started. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ Have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Yours is a message of peace. uh contributes to our priesthood. Of course, we have the Romans ten fifteen verse, and how are they to preach unless they are sent? But you know, if you cut Peter, he bleeds Scripture. So uh are there h hostilities toward Christians in the current world? Am I loving the family as I should? to homeless people and to to food shelters throughout the city of Denton. He said, You know, I know who you are now. Who is it to condemn? According to the blood of the Lamb. although she's beautiful and I love her. A word is asked for. Blessed be thou, O Father, for contriving this way. Departing from them in any instance, nor for any advantage in order to escape evil, inconvenience, or danger. from thee, my Lord, my Saviour. in everything that we say, in everything that we do, that we may truly have beautiful feet worthy of carrying the gospel uh that you've given us. I was supposed to go eight through twelve. desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit. may be put to shame. the the how we appear, how we present the gospel to the world is through a beautiful life, right? can the local church, what do we do as a local body? idolatrous kind of model of how we should live. and we have a piece. Well, let's just say they got crushed last night, but we won't get into the fifty to twenty six drubbing that my Dallas Cowboys served them up. Um compassionate, uh sphragnon, uh I I think I said that right, uh having compassion for both the lost and having compassion for one another. So we'll we'll kind of jump into that. For reviling, but on the contrary, blessed. It's natural to seek vengeance when you've been offended. Christian loving response where you're like, oh, I can't believe that dude hit me right now. Contrary, eulongeo, to bless, to give eulogy to, that does not mean we kill them and eulogize them at their funeral. Um that oftentimes that you find me quoting from the Sermon on the Mount. Uh I'm not the only one who does this. Don't retaliate, love your enemies. Testament he's always intertwining scripture into his message. person said the verses eight and nine are truly just an exposition of Psalm 34. and not use the money on herself. women took on the religion of their husband. In moments of injustice, and it's difficult for us to understand or to be. The same way Peter is saying that we should, right? when they're suffering in the church, but also suffering y w with people as they are struggling with their sin to to come alongside and say, Hey, man, I'm sorry you're suffering with this. or how I recover, you know, which troubles I've had that Christ has saved me from. And his ears toward their cry. Suffering. Because the Lord's face is against those who do evil. Maybe because I'm trying to get through all the scripture, but comments? biases about it. really a lot more about what were the practical application, what were the practical things that we should we should strive for. for those people. can you reach those people? View of that authority's promise to you, the source of it, obviously the divine source, and let that authority color your priesthood. both with our wallets as well as our um our bodies, right, and our mouths and our lives in the way that we live that out. Uh being humble minded, so to speak. the gospel to an unbeliever. and and whatnot. our previous church, Denton Bible, um we had uh tremendous outreach programs. they would they would uh give donate cattle. You know, the idea was is that we were just constantly trying to find ways to reach the community by giving. We can't just be existing. We we obey the laws. You're right. Not fear be troubled, Peter uh translates it, but the Lord of hosts, him you shall honor his holy. It's really like what what I've learned especially recently, um, going to you know, school and everything, is that unbelievers have a really hard time understanding why we don't want to repay evil for evil or why we don't. for what you believe. Because they can't understand why I don't get angry or why I don't lash out after they say something against my religion. together. And you know, and and and a lot of times I would stop and I would talk with him. tender towards you and she loves you. Did I cover this one all the way? And and it and we've got yeah, so um Apple yeah, let me just let me just get through this 'cause I don't want to stick Scott he's got a hardened up trial. Not the story you tell. Yeah, and then the idea here is that your your character stands in contrast to the one who reviles, right? Um about Christ, the risen Savior, who is forgiving you for all of your sins in spite of yourself, not by any work of your own, but purely by the the grace and mercy of a holy God. one of the boys, just been one of the girls. If you can't live it, you can't preach it. This is in some sense the reasoning behind it, right? Standing with them, standing and warming himself with those people who were taking Christ away to be reviling Christ, and he was just standing with them, keeping warm. I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. our brothers and sisters in history through the past and it's it's kind of a neat feeling to think that you can play with or alongside them in what they've written or said and so I've always been just kind of just kinda like this book, you know. get rolling along. But this one is one that I was reading this the other day. Impress the gospel on my soul until its virtue dispute diffuses every faculty. To give up every darling lust, to submit heart and life to its command, to have it in my will, controlling my infections, molding my understanding, to adhere strictly to the rules of true religion, not the thy patience that has been born with me for so long, and for the grace that now makes me willing to be thine. title today is having beautiful feet. So I have them. and his ears are open to their prayer. I'd like you to if you can unpack that a little bit. say a missional mindset, right? we are to be beautiful to the world or excellent to the world outside of us. little bit of a different kind of spin on this, mostly to to try and bring about the greater point here. How do does that church body reach the lost in our area? walls and you never exit it and you never do anything for the people around you. those things then it would it would allow us to have a good life and see good days. unique word in scripture is a compound word, uh tapen meaning being meek or humble, throne meaning having a mind, so humble minded is how it's done in scripture. Uh we'll go through verse 8. react. Slander back when somebody does evil to you, you don't give them back that evil, you don't give them what they deserve. Um you know, so we talk about, you know, blessed are the meek, uh the humble who mourn for sin, uh to be salt in light. that that that that moves our feet, if you will, compels us to behave differently From what the world would expect us to behave. as a forgiven people, as a broken people, that we can forgive others. idea of your behavior will will bring about the um the notice of others that others will speak well of you also. just like hygienic things and and and things like that. the trial a wife might go through if she confessed Christ and her husband was still a pagan, right? Black lives matter, love is love, this is this and this is this and um uh I can't remember w which one of the girls said, Oh, you know, th they're just trying to accept everybody and I said, Yeah, everybody but Christians ever but but just in the context that it was presented was presented in a way that's hostile to our ideology. We should be sympathetic to those people when they have those moments of pain. around those who fear him and delivers them. Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit. the wicked and those who hate the righteous will be condemned. the verse four. That's a in the Old Testament. that if you are living righteously, if you are being persecuted for righteousness' sake, the eyes of the Lord are with you. active response to it as well. it's to you know those around us. obey this. Discouragement. Yeah, I I totally understand. I have to have uh a brotherly love, a familial love for for members of my family, for people that's unbelievers and believers as well, right? greatest Christian virtue because if you're not busy uh about the process of of being humble minded, you know, I I use the term olfactory fatigue, right? And if you start getting uh self-righteous about how great you are, you are going to see the world from an ivory tower, and that is going to be ineffective for the gospel. aspect of their entire lives. every single day in your life. not engaged in those relationships. Always mindful. Um I think it's in a different slide, so I'll talk about that later. Have a strong passion, an earnest pursuit. for jealous, for I am a jealous God. someone had had uh given us I think it was like five acres of property right behind the church. And they would all kind of join together. Oh my gosh, you know, this is amazing. Uh we had a senior life ministry where we would go in and we would minister to people in in retirement community uh r uh old you know, like uh like medical facilities, you know, um different things and um uh They're terrible. to revile you? of the the first time that we ever went to Denton Bible, which is a smaller church than it actually sounds like. And and they said, Well, you know, you know, a lot of people women come in from uh from your church, you know, and they come in and they have Bible studies in here and he's like, Oh yeah, you know 'cause we have the Bible and he says, Yeah, and they're not kind to our week. That's what Peter is calling us to be. go both ways, right? ultimate judge that has liberated us from hundred percent. Perfect, that was the perfect. do lash out. Christ first in her life. And it was a witness to him. You have one of these stories? This lying thieving person, I won't go near them. really looking forward to that explanation. light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand. Father who is in heaven. in your beautiful feet. That's with Jonah, and then you're gonna sit up on top of the mountain, hope that God tries them, and God is gonna get you for it, for your attitude. what he had just said uh uh uh just one chapter ago. three times. forgiving me for falling short in this moment. Because he's ready. gospel. righteousness by my own doings. excellent um uh blessed service in in what they do in in their interaction. well. life but love life and see good days according to biblical standards, right? was the word there, sympathetic sympathetic, soon pathos, um brotherly love, uh Philadelphoi where the word Philadelphia came from, or the word for the city of Philadelphia who response and we do submit to the proper authority, what is our purpose? So Matthew five thirty eight thirty-nine. week, come to terms with your accuser. That that is lived out in our lives. why would you do this for us? possible to develop a friendship with the person that was most hostile to her. in an understanding way. are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed. Near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. in a in a period of suffering. The Lord is with you. That's verse uh 11 or 13, I'm sorry. your evil and your reviling is going to ever rival God's judgment against the unbeliever and the unbelief when they have done evil to you and reviled you. You think you're going to somehow do better in terms of seeking justice than what God is going to do? look to him are radiant. and close the gates and set the mode out and say, Okay, I'm I'm here, I'm isolated, I'm okay, I won't respond. that that you yourself have been delivered from abhorrent sins should help you to view another's abhorrent sin with compassion. And so it's difficult and if you don't have compassion you cannot reach them. today. Do I show, do I demonstrate fruit of the spirit? Who is going to harm you? best of workers. How can they harm you? uh write that one down. But instead, be prepared. Be ready. I want that. supposed to be. For it is better to suffer, and I know I have to hurry. idea right uh and I came up with this idea of having beautiful feet. Them. Right? on that in the past, but I also know that there have been homosexuals that I've worked with that have stood at my own defense. But we have to live those values out in order to accomplish or be the gospel to those people, you know. lost. and we're living stones being built up into a temple of living stones. Well um you know and I'll I'll just go through the the questions, you know, because I think all of these sort of point back to some of the things we talked about last week. that we were there um ascending to church was that the pastor said that he went to dinner the other day and um someone recognized him and and they said, Oh, you know, you're the pastor that said, Bible and he's like, I was all proud and Yeah, that's me We we don't you know our our kids go to school and they make the best of grades. guiltless because of Christ who does. seven and eight. like this is plain for everybody to see why don't you get them back? sometimes, you know, it's like How could you believe in a God that would send everybody into hell and I just can't believe in that stuff and man you're you know, this you know, I I just I believe that you know everybody's good and blah blah blah blah blah and you know and he's just going on and on and kind of working one day, this is actually after we had gone live on SAP and he was there and we were he's sitting in my office and uh he had just he had this relationship with this girl, he'd just broken up with her and he's heartbroken. But the general attitude and approach in our life is that we love each other, but we put God first. You have that story? By failure. um service and reputation. And who should preach the gospel? But you are the inheritor of a blessing already, and you are to bless the world around you. In our daily lives, like today, sometimes and and I I I made a little bit of this point last week, in in the twenty first century, it's very difficult for us to understand the context of slavery. weekend and or you know, the next week comes along and and that sign is right there as you're walk you're you're driving into the into the Susquehanna University. I will bless the Lord at all times. The Lord and He answered me. Work towards having the right attitude. We have that. anyway. Right, to be made happy. convicted somebody and they came up and they asked you. We we had this we we spent a lot of late nights together. Talk about Christ when your life only reflects not Christ. What is that? another way of saying it in the Greek. We pray for our enemy, we live it out. in a cell with many other that were very hostile. uh Wisp Resort um the other day and or a couple weeks ago and uh just before she got her her surgery we wanted to have one chance for this to go out and have a little bit of fun before that happened and as we were driving He is with you in that moment of suffering. you will be blessed and and here he uses a different word before it was eulongeo now it's mercurian and that means to be blessed by God. you'll be blessed by God. to make a defense, to make an adequate defense. what we're taught and it's not how we act and and it's it's partially because they have all those th anger in their heart and it's partially because there's sadly a lot of Christians that Are you never talking to your sinful friends? Anybody want to venture? A religion that is merely ethereal and philosophical. You know, you're you're a great worker and you're there every time on time, every day, and you're doing a great job and you complete everything that you have to do and your boss can rely on you and depend on you. In your heart, Christ is Lord. Is this your testimony too? In those moments you just decided to be like them. And then I'm just gonna stop on this note and um hope that I set Scott up for success next week. It might sound scary, but to Peter, that sounded like love. Uh it's it's kinda I don't know if anybody's I I I guess a lot of people are familiar with it, but it's a collection of Puritan prayers and devotions. Thanks. But anyway, to going back to verses 10 through 12, Peter cites Psalm 34. And then he and then Peter specifically mentions that his face is towards the righteous The righteous. Do we obey it passively or do we obey it very actively, very aggressively at the same time? Right? In a kingdom, an eternal kingdom, because of Christ. That's where he's bringing this. Now I mean take a moment and think in your own life. What it is this hope that you have. so that you might follow in his steps. We have to be to be excellent. I mean, certainly we have theology, right? Right? You know, and and and that's just one of a million examples. There's a long lane. It's really two separate lessons that I'm combining into one. To speak well of. Yeah, I mean absolutely, right? is to to like to hunt after, to aggressively pursue, to seek out seek it out. Who's going to want to harm you? Acting in eternal grace, thou art both its messenger and its message, lived out on earth through infinite compassion, applying thy life to insult, injury, death, that I might be redeemed, ransomed, freed. Yeah, it's it's there's quite a lot. They are going to hell. They only last like a week, you know. And we we talked about homosexuality last week and it um and I think it's a great example. Do I have a young guy? if you're zealous for doing good. Forget about Jonah. Uh am I actively serving God? Uh as a matter of fact, one time I went in and they had like uh bags of poblano peppers, which I I totally got pepper envy from this because I can never grow like good sized poblano peppers. And and even this way that's like you know and it again, I'm sorry to use this book that I've been reading, but like, you know, she came in front of the courts and they're like, we're about to judge you. But there were ten things uh from this spiritual checklist that I thought were were you know it was a t it was a list of ten things. is we don't have a religion that exists in some ethereal philosophical ideology and stops. No, because you're the best of worker. He just became like one of his accusers. Right? That's the idea that we're we're building up to here. If I could just give an example real fast. How long has it been since I've actively pursued speaking with an unbeliever or prayed about speaking to an unbeliever? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised. I mean I'm sure everybody's familiar with the Romans verse and the Isaiah verse where we talk about beautiful are the feet who carry the gospel of Jesus Christ. Right? That hell is real? What a bunch of creeps, man. I want that peace. And Peter in in in verse 20, in chapter 2, verse 20 and 21, he says, Trust yourself to the one who judges justly. And she's like, It's Christmas and this is why I'm in prison because I celebrate a risen Christ. Everybody but what a Christian believes. But um but the idea here is if you are living life and you are blessing others and you are doing good just generally speaking, who's going to want to harm you? Gentleness and respect, having a good conscience. And then verses ten through twelve, we talk about the right authority. I've worked to demonstrate the you know the dignity of those people as God's creation. You lack that humble mind, you are never going to see how well short you fall. Uh I thought it would be kinda cool. And this of course is a continuous striving, right? We have to be the best of citizens. For it is better to suffer for for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. And beautiful are the feet to have this missional mindset who are who are walking, who are are living and breathing the gospel. Now we're in verse 9. There's a lot of Matthew five in what Peter is teaching. You know, um anyway, so but yeah, excellent, excellent comment. I looked up the spiritual checkup from CS Lewis. I mean, matter of fact, the Bible, all who follow Christ will be persecuted, right? Um and uh and then of course the Isaiah quote Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy, do not fear what they fear nor be in dread. If not, figure out how to get one. Love your enemies. And that context is difficult to understand in the modern day, or to submit to the authority of a government that is an absolute power. The face of the Lord is against those who do evil. They had a a watering program and all of this stuff that they would do and they'd say, Hey, you go ahead and plant, I'll take care of these for you when you're not a available and that was just a way of building relationships with with people and they grew I mean a And uh and he said, You know, it I mean, we want to have 'em in here and we don't want to turn 'em away but but they're not very kind. And if your life is focused on the kingdom of heaven, nothing they do to you, nothing they do to you can harm you. But in in most references in Scripture it has to do with with God's blessing towards you. Be ready. Oh no, I still got Apologia to make an apology. To react. They glow. Do I have an old guy? But they did all this, they grew all this food, they gave it to um food banks and they had their own like kind of food bank where they had like massive amounts of food and they had a cattle ministry where local cattle uh Why would they revile you? But anyway, it's it's it's used throughout scripture most frequently in a way of being blessed by God. And um I think that it only proves more like our testimony when we don't you know what I mean? That's what I want. Yeah. O gracious Redeemer, I have neglected thee too long, often crucified thee, crucified thee afresh by my impenitence, put thee to open shame. Yeah, this this is probably lost, but uh but people that um we interact with who offer them usually good And we started off and we said we had three elements from 8 to 12, having a right attitude, having a right response, and submitting to the proper authority. Am I forgiving others? And then he quotes Isaiah chapter 8, verses 12 through 13, where he says, don't fear or be troubled. And that word, hagiadzo, to be made holy. And and I I spoke with her about it and and she was she was like, No, you're lying to me. And because of Christ, she's obedient to him and she serves me in a way that is obedient to the Lord. If you can't live out the gospel in your walk, how do you preach the gospel in your walk? You were called. The idea of that is that He is watching over you. We talk about homosexuality all the time. He said, But that's not really the point. That word in the Greek could mean begged, can mean desired. The focus here is Peter is is is saying that that the Lord hears you We have a promise. He said, you know, I want the kind of relationship that you have with your wife. That conduct was a witness to him. And she knew that Christmas was coming and so what she ended up doing was saving enough money and she had the early guard go and use all of her money and she made a Christmas feast of chicken and stuff for everyone else and herself. So I'm going to camp out on that in a minute. But it's not because she's so excellent and it's not because I'm so excellent or so smart or so handsome or so witty. And Father, as we have our lesson today, uh help us to achieve this end. Okay, so yeah, ab absolutely. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. Is there evidence of God working in my life? Um I I've heard it, you know, uh everybody should have a a a young guy and an old guy, right? Think about you. Um I think people will probably trickle in and maybe running a little late 'cause of the cold or the the weather. I thought, man, this really fits. If you're out there making your boss a million bucks, is he gonna take you out? Um and then finally we'll end up with the purpose, the purpose uh that we have in in our ministry when we have the right attitude and we have a right attitude. And um but it was just an interesting story to read and I thought it fit in pretty much. Um but then what if they do harm you? I want that joy. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. Anything else to that, having? It's like they're they're warm blessed water um in just in an environment where that's uncommon for someone to to offer a a good Matthew twenty eight. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. And that's that Romans passage, right? Uh and for us it's it's important to note. That's that's kind of the natural sort of way that that many people react when when when they have uh had evil done upon them. It takes them further and further and further away in a very literal sense from from any notion of the gospel than just about any other sin I can That's the the word that that's used in that. Because he's ready. These are simply just for being Christians. Be humble-minded. They have a glow about them. Joy, love, peace, patience, kindness, good. Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? Because they know. That's the word that's used there. Um Oh, I did write it down. Don't fear trouble when it comes your way. And so now all of a sudden you have this this situation that exists where the you've got a wife with a drug problem, right? So if you're earnestly, passionately seeking good, who is gonna want to harm you? We aren't just citizens. Yeah. Um we'll we'll talk more about how I came up with that title in a minute, but just so we know last week we had a review uh or or we we went through I'm sorry not had a review we had we we didn't get all the way through the first sets of verses. So when somebody comes and and reviles you, can you believe this part? Somebody you know mistreats me, uses me, speaks against me, and I'm I'm quiet. Um have you? And I'm not perfect and she's not perfect and we've had moments and we've I mean we've had things, right? And we kind of redefined that and said, No, for us to live life and see good days, it's loving God, it's following God, it's following his commandments. Let those right attitudes color your actions. They would have it slaughtered and just all d put into ground beef. It's not good enough to just show up, check in, check out, leave. Sure. They just keep giving us food. Because you're being slandered, but you have a hope and they don't understand it and man they want to know. Uh having the right response. For this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. You've heard it was it said an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, but I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. So uh taking away from first Peter eight through twelve, just to put kind of a button on that so we can get in to the next sets of verses, uh focus on living according to God's call. And um I mean I had a girl who looked at me and goes, you know, you hate me now and uh and you you have to hate me and and said all these things where it's like, I don't hate you. Right? Eternal thanks to thee, O Lamb of God, for opening this way. And so that's that's kind of the big idea for for this particular lesson today. Are you being falsely accused? And and we already have our inheritance. Right? I want that too. Am I in a ministry? That might have been the most gracious thing that Peter ever heard. Don't leave open offenses, right? I mean we um every time we we go we went to uh His name was uh Melvin. And it gives light to all in the house. He's he's telling you precisely what he didn't do in a moment in his life, right? O taste and see that the Lord is good. At the same time, his face is against the one who is persecuting you. He's got no complaint. How do you talk like that to them in that moment when you talk like that at the water cooler or by the coffee? Um I've been reading a missionary biography on um persecuted women in the church and there was this really cool example I was reading where um this was in uh like Indonesia and this woman was in Yeah. Can't stand the sexually immoral guy next to you. Yeah, you know that person reviled me, but I'll just let God fry them in hell. We just three weeks ago talked about that. Who's gonna harm you? We aren't good wives. Be ready because someone is going to ask you, why don't you get them back? Other times it was too busy we would kinda go through. Your character is the beautiful in your beautiful feet. We have to have a conduct that is excellent. And then of course we only got through the first part. Um and uh you know uh much of what Peter is is starting to build on here is and maybe you've noticed this as well uh And that's what what uh Peter quotes, turn away from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it. Let me get back to it. Am I being fed? We have a living hope. So who is going to hold a charge against the Lord? Um and she she decided one day to keep that and she decided to save it. You know, you may not know that they know, but they know. We pay our taxes. And I got through one verse. What you uh bring is a beautiful thing. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. Live an excellent life. Um prepare your defense. What is God asking you to be? Um I read this Valley of Vision. Um of course we have the Great Commission, but who who spoke that? I'm not talking about Hope Bible church, but as a local church in a place, right? My yeah, they they last maybe maybe two weeks and a good if you're if one of your New Year's resolutions is reading through the Bible in a year you might stop at Leviticus, you know, those kinds of things, right? The point is is that you're a reflection of Christ and you're a reflection of this church and you're a reflection of God and you failed. What can they really do to you? We have to walk, right? So the local church is the sender, right? Right? We live it out. And yet in the face of persecution that seems so black and white, right? That's what we do. And deliver me from all my fears. The Lord redeems the life of his servants. Or are you only ever hanging out with fellow believers? Christ died. What Peter is saying here, and what you should take away from this It's a it's a tough issue. So how about we use this for our prayer today to open up? If you never contact the people around you, how can you possibly hope to preach the gospel if you never speak to anybody? Just maybe a fossil shot of what you said, but I feel like I could sit here and listen to what you said and agree with it according to the scriptures. This is the reasoning, that was the application. Uh am I growing in fellowship with other believers? I mean it's a pretty blank question. It's used also in Romans four, seven, and eight. It is better to suffer for doing good, if that's God's will, than for doing evil. There's some pretty heady stuff in Scripture. Right? Right? Those who look to the Lord are are radiant and their faces shall never be ashamed. Put the scripts. And now he's saying, I'm ready. And so, you know, that's the ultimate confidence, right? Right? Who commands us to preach the gospel? I mean, that's the natural response. And we should have compassion on their fallenness, and we should have understanding and sympathy soon pathos to to suffer alongside our our fellows. Because you need one. We'll pick up on that in a minute. Or or maybe when you're having an argument with a loved one or a friend and they say something that's offensive to you, the the gut instinct is to And these people are going to hell. And and you know maybe I'm a I'm actually very willing to be wrong about this, but I I think the active one is where we fall down a lot. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? That there was a period of time when you were being reviled, and somehow your conduct in that moment shone through, and somehow your conduct in that moment Uh so last week we talked about how to love life and see good days, and we kind of redefined not not love life in the way that the world loves. And we talked about the emptiness and the vanity of pursuing a life, uh, of materialism. Right, throughout these last last week, week before, uh when I taught about this slavery and it I was drawing on a lot of Matthew 5. But are we reviled today in the context of our current society? If I go back and I look at my life, does it reflect godliness? It's not just a kid's song. Like how dare they? We are the best of citizens. Be prepared. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless. So if we want to open up, does someone open up to Psalm 34? Right? It's going to bring them pain. You know, if you can't have compassion on those people, if you can't sympathize with them when they suffer and struggle, how are you ever going to be able to be the gospel for those? Am I doing things in ministry? Um it was it was it was amazing. That's the idea here, right? In Isaiah, it says, sanctify yourself to the Lord of hosts. And that doesn't help your witness either, does it? And they were ridiculing her, they were reviling her, they were um tending to imprison things, right? Be humble-minded. This poor man cried and the Lord heard him and saved him out of his troubles. In that moment, in that moment, you speak forth a word. And in a sense, this is kind of he gives in in the household rules, in the conduct towards society, that's his application. What are what is our our gospel focus? We're the best of wives. Well Melvinette doesn't come for free. So we don't re we don't we don't give back evil for evil because we instead understand that You know, and uh you know there's a sign. But this continuous striving of how how do I live this out? Take a moment. I mean it's in it's Uh or the trial the husband might go through if he confessed Christ and now he's dragging this pagan wife along with him because in that day Am I feeding another? For Peter, he's telling you this. Um what does it mean to have beautiful feet? Right? Your actions are centered about bringing God's kingdoms. It's all up there listed off, right? To cut off them to cut off the memory of them from the earth. The idea is that is an open heart coming to you wanting to know genuinely what it is this hope that you have It's an abhorrent sin to many of us at a a very visceral level. I think I'm faster with my my book my my Bible and the from the book, you know. He went fishing. And if you do this, then you will receive a blessing. And here again, he draws on uh this Old Testament, uh Psalm thirty-four, uh and this this same Who is gonna harm you if you're zealous for being good? And it's imperishable, undefiled. My soul makes its boast in the Lord. The the idea was is that it you wouldn't want to put yourself in a position where your stain is on God. You could actually say, this is Peter's exposition of Matthew five in many ways. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. You pick any sin, uh and maybe it's not so plain, but it's there. But um the one of the first things that that uh we heard in the sermon, um the first I think it was the actually the first day Right. Yeah, right. Um uh you know the the word agathos is a common word. So we decided to plant a community garden and we had believers out there planting stuff and if unbelievers wanted to to come in people from the community wanted to come in and plant, they could plant there. So you're going to be persecuted. Close those things out. We aren't just citizens, right, in this country. And if you live an excellent life, who is there to harm you? You should have one. Make an apology, apologia, to speak forth a word. In the same way, let your light shine on uh shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father. All believers. Peter says, don't return evil for evil. Be be sympathetic. Because you're right But let's go ahead and read 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 8 through 17. We have a belief Come, O children, listen to me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord. So you live righteously. Hey Thomas, to make ready, to prepare. Think in your own life. If you can't live it, you can't preach it. We've been talking about that a lot in First Peter, right? So uh one commentator I I was listening to, I was watching this one actually, made this comment about And it it was like a really poignant example of this reviling and I think it stood out in my mind as, you know, it gave her later the opportunity to share the top Right? I think that's that's 100%, you know, 100% right. Right? Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Are you ready? Christ the Lord is holy, sorry. And there's multiple verses where it talks about this in the Old Testament, but the idea is that the Lord watches over. Uh if you had a New Year's resolution, if you will. But uh and uh by the way, Rob, I thought this um maybe it's a little bit you know uh but it actually can't I mean it's satisfying the spirit. And uh we would you know we'd be working late at night and he would just man he would just come at me I mean we can talk about specifically hope if you want, or we can just talk maybe more general about a local church planted somewhere. Right? That that word that word zealous, zealotai, uh actually zealous is just a transliteration of the Greek word, but it means Am I doing things to serve the Lord in my ha my family home? So uh skipping forward to 13 through 17, Peter starts off with, who will harm you? And uh someone had said that that Denton Bible was the number one supplier of of uh fresh protein You can't be, you're innocent in the eyes of God. You just have to be ready. Uh in putting these together, I was trying to coalesce around a certain idea, uh trying to come up with one, you know, we call it the big That face of the Lord is a term of judgment. I've read it a couple of times. But there's also the one that that charges out of that same situation and seeks to do good, whether it's immediately to the person at hand or whether Who is going to do that? Right? I had a a really good friend. One verse. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? Are you being uh treated unfairly? Have I given the gospel to a single unbeliever all year long? We obey the speed limit. Our kids go to school and they strive to be good students inside the school. Just making sure I got everything covered now since I almost skipped past it. We have to walk. We should have compassion on the lost. And let your actions be guided by Scripture. We're the best of children. So there's another element or another aspect of this, as a Christian, they can't do anything to you. Let it be heard, acknowledged, professed, felt. We only got through attitude. We had a center where dentists would donate time so they would give dental treatment to homeless people, they would give dental treatment to people who couldn't afford it. Um but he at moments would get kind of aggressive about it. What is God asking you? Oh that's that's really good. Um and instead So he was he did his preaching backwards, but but that's okay, um, because he's Peter and he can do that. But not only are beautiful are the feet because they bring good news, but I think kind of what Kirk has is something that I have in view here as They're gospel opportunities, right? None of those who take refuge in him will be condemned. Um I think that's really important. Who can harm you? They're they're watching you, right? All believers, yeah. You are to be light and salt to the world around you. We don't live in a realm of ideology, right, up here in the clouds. Go ahead This is what you do. Let him turn away from evil and do good, let him seek peace and pursue it. Right? Yeah. God knows that. You know, and um and uh you know, who is going to say, Oh, that Denton Bible Oh Kirk, you're totally wrong. And that word uh literally means keep from evil when given evil. You know, I I'm quiet, I'm smile, I'm kindly in return. Who is there to harm you? I mean we have And there are people like great that you have a stellar testimony and they hate that, right? Do you have this story? Who who commands us to preach the gospel? Somebody driving down the road, somebody hits your car, your response sometimes may not be a a Christian. It's a great example because that is a sin that really traps people. Well, that happens all the time, all over the world, that God's elect are being charged. Is that even when the world even when we live in a in a way that's above reproach and the world hates that, we have the Ever everything there is I mean not that we don't believe that Black Lives Matter, not that we don't believe that love is love or whatever. Be compassionate. Um the eyes of the Lord are towards the righteous. It's not going to fade away. They hated me, they will hate you But do not fear or be troubled, because you're going to be persecuted. Oh, unite me to thyself with in inseparable bonds, that nothing may ever draw me back. We have to be out there. Um you know, and it's just for the reason that I've worked with those people for years. We are the best. Everything out of Peter's mouth, everything as you go through it, he is always referring back to the Old Testament. Our moral integrity can't be impugned because the judge of the universe has found us innocent Do you have one of these stories? And yet you see this same sign all over the place and we drive her back to her university every every If you go on online, you'll you know on the Hope Book and the messages I I posted, this you can click on this and go to It is Mercurian is the word that is used all throughout Matthew 5. How do we how do we live that out? We we don't hate our enemy, which is which is what the world does. And how do we deal with those hostilities as Christians in the current world? Those who look to Him Christ came and got him. I'm reading it again through now and I came to uh this one I thought it was kind of fitting for for the day so I th Praise everlasting to thee, O Holy Spirit, for applying this way to my heart. Okay, so in teaching others and obey Christ, you have um uh a a mind towards a missional mind, Uh hopefully it kind of folds together all of these verses in a in a good way. Thank you for for sharing that. So your good works are very much in view with Peter uh in talking about why we submit to authority. I know you hate me. Nope, that's not the way that goes. Your character undergirds the message that you have to give. Help us to just even draw even closer to it. So we're gonna we got a lot to cover today. And as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. We have a belief Right? The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous. Am I living in humility towards God And if you have that attitude, it shows. Take me to the cross to seek glory from its infamy infamy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks for a reason for the hope that is in you. O fear the Lord you his saints for those who fear him have no lack So so Peter's idea here is when you seek out the Lord, he will answer you and deliver you. Right? Uh and I've always liked it because for me I I just I think about connectedness with It was just it was one of the great things about Denton Bible. Maybe you don't have that witness. Right? We can talk about that after maybe class. You know, we believe that Yeah, no I I I do I think and that was unfortunately the shame of of having this over two different weeks because last week was Another important one because we're we're here to lean on and and love and build one another up. Right? Right? But when you're old, you'll stretch out your hands and another will dress you and carry you to where you do not want to go. All believers should preach the gospel. But but that's that's not the heart. We obey our parents. You're going to be persecuted. Because that excellence in conduct assists us or or helps us to I mean of course our love for members of the church are very different from our love towards towards nonbelievers. Um uh and and um uh shoot, I didn't Because I see you and I see the way you look at her and the way you love her, and you're tender towards her, and she's tender. And yet in in my life it it doesn't seem like this example is quite as easy, right? There's a sign up in one of the uh you know, one of the uh the housing units there. Let the humble hear and be glad. So if you are persecuted for righteousness' sake, blessed are you. We have to be amongst the community. And and and I so I guess I'm just saying that I think there's a the caution there is how how do we Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. I think I've told this story before so I'll just tell it really quickly. It's it's part of who we are as Christians. I think that clock is actually wrong and I need to finish up really quick. Christ says, You are the light of the world, a city set on a hill that cannot be hidden. You speak well. That's who we're called to be. Like I know you're mad at me And I was like, No Like I've had people have full arguments with me Everybody's got dirty laundry. Peter has already explained this. But how did Peter learn this lesson? Where are we commanded to preach the gospel? We've talked about that. And I thought it was just kind of instrumental to this point, right? Go ahead. Be prepared. And I'm like I'm not going to It's not what I it's not what we stand for. And then there's the simple message that if you can't live it, you can't preach it. Uh but I have uh as we know from last week a lot to cover this week, so I want to get started and get The word of God never returns a void, but what are you commanded? A a a gathering place for the elect exiles of the diaspora. Uh we talked about having the five things, right? Have a unity of mind. When the righteous cry for help the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles. Uh I sought the Lord and he answered and delivered me from all my fears, those who look at Melvin that doesn't come for free. Um and then of course, uh as John MacArthur says, be humble-minded is probably the single How is my relationship with God? They're watching you. No, I'm kidding. That just means that we speak well of them, right? So a lot there. Well, you know, I have to have sympathy. Your actions are centered about bringing God's kingdom. Am I focused on helping the poor and the disadvantaged? Maybe multiple times you have this story What does that mean? I i it it's actually a good point. Maybe I am, but it's because she puts To Peter, that sounded like thank you for your mercy, Lord. But if anyone slaps you on the re right cheek, turn to him to him, the other also. And you gotta drag her to service, you gotta drag her to communion, you gotta drag her places and you're supposed to deal with How can we preach the gospel? A young guy who they're mentoring and an old guy who's mentoring you. If you're working and you're You're gonna go through life and you're gonna you're gonna suffer reviling, you're gonna suffer slander. Uh how to live an excellent life and how that excellent life uh And I was just gonna, it's a relatively short Psalm, so I was just gonna read it real quick. Um you know this is again, we don't have Um I don't know if it well I mean I guess it's kind of appropriate, but That's most frequently in scripture. Don't want to tolerate having to suffer through the For this you've been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example. Let's let's pray. Right? He keeps his b all his bones, not one of them is broken. Let your actions be guided by the authority. And Peter says, have no fear. And I put Christ first in my life, and I serve her in a way. And it's in Jesus' name. I'm kidding. Christ. God sees that. We get to the point where um we can't smell ourselves. I'm gonna flip back here so I can keep pace. You have a peace, you have a joy in spite of your struggles. Why? No human mind could conceive or invent the gospel. Let me tell you, it's never going to happen. And it should live itself out. Right? You will be ineffective. What man is there who desires life and loves many days, that he may see good? We aren't good husbands. Like we had a few times when he got pretty aggressive about it. I'm kidding. Uh am I growing in my desire to give sacrificially to God? I thought that was my that was my favorite one. There's another element of this which is also in view here, is that Uh don't be angry with your brother, be reconciled to your brother. Do people speak evil against us? So what Peter is saying and using that scripture is And she's like, I've been judged. You can't preach to people if you're staying inside four walks. And then of course being humble minded, uh Tepin Frone, which is a Because we vote, because we have higher authorities that we can appeal to. Maybe you weren't there for them because you just weren't there. Christ preaches it or commands it Right? So, yeah, I'm sorry, let me back up a little bit. And uh I'm sure I've been you know ridiculed for my position We really loved it. Whole lot there. Through a a a service, through a uh uh an active service Uh and we left uh right response and proper authority today. Um so uh starting up Right? Um Because of Christ. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sins. But I wanted to go ahead and read through eight through seventeen. No, there's also very much that involved too, right? So a couple of things I wanted to point out there. How do you tell somebody at work For to this you are called that you may obtain a blessing. Who can harm you? Teach me to secure this mighty blessing. Any questions on any of this? So probably go back to that. Apo Apologia. And um tells him, truly, truly But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. That that term pursue is to hunt If you don't have compassion for people who are sinners, how can We are the best of citizens in this country. You have that witness? This is really just kind of a restatement, a reforming of Um and then finally, last question, how You speak well. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. How's my current standing? Keeping warm. Absolutely. Let me tell you about how I got through my thing. Uh next week he gets to tell you about the spirits in prison, so I'm sure he's Um Peter was the the Bible says Peter was standing Get along with people. And we're not just workers at a job punching a clock. Um Okay. It's having a joy in our hearts. The angel of the Lord encamps Powerful apologetic. That's not how you tell that story. Had to throw it in. God will bless you. That we might uh be more like you. We talked about the emptiness and vanity of the Hollywood and the How do we live out Matthew V? So, you know, those things. I mean, as it you know, it's not a coconut. Amen. Right. How long has it been since I preached? Uh we had a community garden. And um but they were given a small stipend so that they could You know, I I mean in the Septuagint this word is used as uh And um and he's preaching that from the pulpit and he told him Right? What does it mean to have beautiful feet? How on earth could we have beautiful feet if And he listens to your prayers. It just means good works. It's also in scripture meant to be made happy. Your message is beautiful. Like instrumental towards maybe specifically what Scott just mentioned as But it says it is God who justifies, right? Unless you're Jonah, like we talked about last week. Uh and maybe before we get on to Psalm thirty four Why? So m th does everybody have a story like this? I had a really good friend. And it's not because she's so excellent. That's good. Sanctify in your hearts Christ is Lord. Instead, you speak well. But in the moment. Look in your life. Do you think We talked in previous verses about priesthood of the believer. And he talks about do I have a spirit of thankfulness? I walk in there and there's these massive poblano peppers, I was like I've been judged by the Creator. Because they're the best. Blessed are the meek, blessed are the poor in spirit. And in those moments of persecution, So um Unity of mind, uh homophrone. Had to throw it in. They see you. And then he throws a little wrench in it. It shows and it played out. You want to explain that a little more? Try to get my or reviling for evil. That that's the other aspect of that. How do you talk like that when you've just been For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous. I know I'm I feel like I'm doing all of the We're able to build up the wall Anyway, uh Strip me of every pleasing pretense of the world. Let your actions be in view. To speak forth a word when a Anybody else? I have to have compassion for the lost. Um and this is where I, you know, uh But but Peter says on the contrary Maybe more importantly, here the idea. So that eyes of the Lord is towards the righteous. How how do I feel about my relationship with God? Your character is the beautiful Um and last week, of course, our That stuff is there and it's important. I've struggled with my own I thought that was another one. So I I was following that clock. A lot of people see It's very difficult for us to understand Love people. Man, these people are treating you We have good days because we love the Lord. We speak well of them. We were working on an SAP conversion team Uh and he's sitting in there and he said How do they Uh you know, first of all was the God sees you in that moment of salvation. Our morality, You have an inheritance. Right there. Finally, all of you. Even if you are the best. The the service that we give the You don't It affects every I mean We obey our speed limit. Have no fear because Man, I want to know. Right? So I I'm going to give a But I also think there's a very active So uh Uming that We love our enemy. Have sympathy for people. Um we were just That is our goal. Nor do people Uh it's just kind of fun. That's maybe a a We talked about that last week. Affliction will slay. Um So thank you for that's Right? Um and then we were And then uh Denied Christ Glorious Trinity. I thank thee for For whoever desires. Your your your Because I think you're right. And he says, Sanctify. Powerful apologetic. That's Romans four. And he saw that. But you do it. Okay? By failure. Help me. So uh You should be The Lord is nearly. Or maybe Thank you for your mercy. And if we did that You bless. And they were like I mean I think I think How do you Who are you? Um People I That's You know, I uh We are the And I've been telling That's Matthew Do you You know He is there. How are they gonna And this Uh And um Do not It's not So you're Do So Pepe