So two quick I guess I'll call them warm-ups for the class. Uh one is uh because of Peter and uh my small group's study of Colossians, we've been spending a lot of time on the passages that we to wives submitting to their husbands and so there's been some really good discussion in our uh Thursday night small group on that but it has really impressed upon me how difficult we may blatant times in the New Testament. And I'm reminded of that every week when I stand up here, how my poor wife must sit there and go, How can you be so energetic about these things? and then live like that. So praise the Lord for forgiveness um and patience. Um this particular passage uh makes it relevant and you can see the title I have On it there, the reality of the costly Christian calling. And um You know, Peter here gets to a place at this part of his letter where he's really summarizing all that he has said previously. And uh we're gonna spend a a little bit of time uh reading some uh actually from two separate books, uh both by the same author though, both both by Dietrich von Hoefer, who has an interesting testimony. Uh for those of you that n may know him, he died um he was hung actually in a uh German uh prison camp uh just a day before that camp or maybe two days before that camp was uh um uh liberated and um he was a strong Christian testimony in the German church at a time when uh all other And that's not fair. When most of the other uh people that were naming the name of Christ were compromising horribly uh in the name of statesmanship or citizenship or Something. Um he was a phenomenal Christian testimony, but he talked a lot. He was afraid. He was tremendously afraid, if you read his biography, of sacrificing for Christ. He he grew up fairly well off. He was super smart. He did really well. Graduated from college early. Uh rubbed shoulders with some of the top uh academics and philosophers of his time. Um just was a tremendous man, but when he realized that Christ obedience to Christ meant that he had to surrender everything that he wanted to whatever it was that God required of him. He really struggled with his fear fear of man, fear of shame, fear of uh deprivation. And uh I don't know that he ever fully conquered that. That's not clear to me from his testimony, but he got to a place where he put one foot in front of another He refused to stand still and he refused to back up and he refused to hide and he even went back to Germany, uh, to s take on a a position that was clearly going to put him at risk. Um, at a time when he was in either the US or in London, he could have stayed and avoided the trouble. And he didn't. He went back into the lion's mouth and uh and pursued those things. And so in many regards his testimony in my mind is much like Paul's. Uh Peter's, who had fears and had his own ambitions and his own ideas about what it meant to follow Christ. And at some point in time, God, through his graciousness, revealed to him a a different approach, a different plan, and he obeyed it. And so I I just wanna you know if you're like me and uh you know you're thinking about how your kids just used up all the warm water in the shower this morning uh before you got in um despite the fact that they got up like thirty minutes before you left for church and you've been up for four hours. Um or you know just whatever it is. It's it's hard sometimes to warm your heart to the pursuit of God on Sunday mornings. And so I hope to prick your heart a little bit with some reading from From uh Dietrich Bonhoeffer's books as they relate to this. So if you'll indulge me, there's a little bit of extended quotation I'm going to do here. This is from Cost of Discipleship. It says, Cheap grace is the deadly enemy of our our church. We are fighting today for costly grace. Cheap grace means grace as a doctrine, a principle, a system. It means forgiveness of sins proclaimed as a general truth, the love of God taught as the Christian conception of God. An intellectual assent to that idea is held to be of itself sufficient to secure remissions of sin. Remission of sins. The church which holds the correct doctrine of grace has, it is supposed, ipso facto a part in that grace. In such a church the world finds a cheap covering for its sins. No contrition is required, still less any real desire to be delivered from sin. Cheap grace therefore amounts to a denial of the living word of God. In fact, a denial of the Word of God. Cheek grace means the justification of sin without the justification of the sinner. Grace alone does everything, they say. So everything can remain as it was before. All the sin could not alone, not atone. Skipping ahead. Cheap grace is not the kind of forgiveness of sin which frees us from the toils of sin. Cheap and that's key. I hope you caught that. Cheap grace is not the kind of forgiveness of sin which frees us from the toils or the pain or the hurt or the never satisfying work of sin. Cheap grace is the grace we bestow on ourselves. Cheap grace is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance, baptism, or excuse me, comma, baptism without church discipline, communion without confession, absolute. without personal confession. Cheap grace is grace without discipleship. And that's starting to get close to Peter here. Grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ, living and incarnate. It's opposed to costly grace, and costly grace is the treasure hidden in the field. For the sake of it a man will gladly go and sell all that he has. It is the pearl of great price to buy, which the merchant will sell for which the merchant will sell all his goods. It is the kingly rule of Christ, for whose sake a man will pluck out the eye which causes him to stumble. It is the call of Jesus Christ, at which the disciple leaves his nets and follows him. Grace is the gospel which must be sought again and again, the gift which must be asked for, the door at which a man must knock. Such grace is costly. Because it calls us to follow. And it is grace because it calls us to follow Jesus Christ. It is costly because it costs a man his life, and it is grace because it gives a man the only true life. It is costly because it condemns sin and grace because it justifies the sinner. Above all, it is costly because it cost God the life of his Son. at a price. And what has cost God much cannot be cheap for us. Above all, it is grace, because God did not reckon his Son too dear a price to pay for our life, but deliver him up for us. Costly grace is the incarnation of God. Costly grace is the sanctuary of God. It has to be protected from the world and not thrown to the dogs. It is therefore the living word, the word of God, which he speaks as it pleases him. Costly grace confronts the world. us as a gracious call to follow Jesus. It comes as a word of forgiveness to the broken spirit and the contrite heart. Grace is costly because it compels a man to submit to the yoke of Christ and follow him. It is grace Because Jesus says, My yoke is easy and my burden is light, and if you'll indulge me a little longer. We and here it says Lutherans, because that's what um Bon Hofer was, but I would argue it's we Christians have gathered like eagles round the carcass of cheap grace. And there we have drunk of the poison which has killed the life of following Christ. It is true, of course, that we have paid the doctrine of pure grace, divine honors, unparalleled in Christendom. In fact, we have exalted the doctrine to the position of God Himself. Everywhere, Luther's, as in Martin Luther, formula has been repeated, but its truth perverted into self-deception. So long as our church holds the correct doctrine of justification, there is no doubt whatever that she is a justified. Church. He's using that sarcastically, right? The road to faith passes through obedience to the call of Jesus Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia. Asia and Byphynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ And for the sprinkling with his blood. The road to faith passes through obedience to the call of Jesus. Unless a definite step is demanded, the call vanishes into thin air. And if men imagine that they can follow Jesus without taking this step They are diluting themselves like fanatics. And that gets at the heart of where we're ending in Peter here. I have one more quick quote for you from this other book. uh which is Life Together, which is ultimately talking about uh the the privilege of Christian uh community uh but in its right perspective. And I shared this with some men that I was emailing last week actually. So I apologize if you've already read this. It's a quote largely from Martin Luther, actually, just from that book that Bonhoeffer used. It says The kingdom is to be in the midst of your enemies. The kingdom, capital K. is to be in the midst of your enemies. And he who will not suffer this does not want to be of the kingdom of Christ. He wants to be among friends, to sit among roses and lilies, not with the bad people, but the devout people. Oh you blasphemers and betrayers of Christ, if Christ had done what you are doing, Who would ever have been spared? I don't have time to build the argument too much, but particularly in the cost of discipleship. Bon Hopper then turns to Peter's life. And he talks about how Peter originally thought that he could pursue Christ through cheap grace. When that first call came to put down your net and come follow me, Peter thought it was going to be follows the king. To his glory. Follow it the way I imagine it should be. Follow it in victory and in blessing and in royalty and in grandeur. He wanted to serve God in the way that he wanted to serve God, and the lesson that Peter had. To learn over the course of his life is I don't get to pick how this works. Right? I have to follow Christ wherever he will lead. And at whatever cost. It takes. And so there's an extended passage in this book that's then drawing parallels to that costly discipleship directly to Peter's life, and it's wonderful. I mean if you you want to read it m every morning. Right? Just just the first two chapters of this book. I I've read this book two or three times. I was rereading it to to prepare to pull the quotes out, right? I couldn't read the first two chapters. I didn't have time. And and as it was, I I struggled to move on. Right. It's so convicting. Not my way, Lord. Not my way. And so you see, well, for those of you that look at my notes, that next bullet is just you know talking about how I went and tried to summarize 1 Peter 3, 8 through 419 and talk about about how critical to the message was Peter's own testimony as he challenges us to live conspicuously God honoring lives or to conduct ourselves in conspicuously God honoring ways in this world that is Still dominated by the curse of sin. Then we get here to chapter 5 of 1 Peter. And this is the Fisherman Apostle's final exhortation. And I say that because I I think it's sometimes easy to divorce ourselves from the call of Scripture, but just a fisherman, touched by God, don't get me wrong. But that's a credit to God, not the man. This fisherman apostle's final exhortation here in chapter 5, verses 1 through 11, and his final reading in those last couple verses give us three kind of concluding points, if you will. Verses one through four picture Peter reflecting on his own interaction with the risen Christ on the beach. the morning that the events of John twenty one one through nineteen are recorded, right? When when God comes back, uh Christ comes back uh resurrected and Calls Peter and talks to him on the beach effectively about his denial of Christ and where Peter's going next He says, follow me and feed my sheep and give all that you have and all that you are for God's glory. Right? You are going to die. for me. And it's somehow enough for Peter suddenly, when days earlier he wouldn't even stand to be associated with Christ in his hour of need Follow me, feed my sheep, and give all that you have and are for God's glory. And then in verse 5, Peter turns his attention to the larger audience. He's kind of talking to pastors. there, if you will, um in those first four verses, and that's why I say I think it really resonates with Peter. I think he's almost conveying the charge that Christ laid on him to the leaders and teachers that are to follow, that are to carry on um this the m gospel message. And then he turns to the congregation just briefly, if you will, in verse five, um regarding how they should interact with each other, and gives advice to the younger to s be subject to the olders and um for everybody to clothe themselves with humility. And then there's I think slightly disappointing here just the way we break it up with our verses. I don't think the scriptures are disappointing. I think the way we break it up and punctuate it in uh in our modern Bibles is a little disappointing. Y you're you're you're text Tempted to just have verse six follow logically from verse five. And there it there is some association with the theme there, but there's also a distinct break And verses six through eleven are really the climax of the argument there. And so it's it's more appropriate to see Peter saying I'm now finishing my lesson. Let me speak to the leaders and the teachers. Let me speak to the younger. It's unclear to me why he picked you know, picked to the younger, but he had some burden there. Uh let me speak to the younger as they relate to the older, and to all of you in general. And now let me conclude with an appeal to each of you individually. And it's as though he tries to set it aside and draw some particular importance to this this last uh, as I said, climax of it. And Peter summarizes the motivation and message of his letter. And it is, in Bonhoeffer's words, the cost of discipleship. Let's uh pray, and then we'll start looking at the passage. Lord, I don't want to use uh pretty words or a well-crafted performance this morning. uh to do the word, to do the work that your words of truth and the Holy Spirit are supposed to be doing. But I do want to convey in a way that is faithful to you just the importance of these words. And I think most what it know, I know most of what is on my heart is that there are a hundred needs. There are a hundred things or more in the lives of just the small number of people that sitting in front of me did um Wherein we are toiling under the burden of our sins, in big ways or in small ways, but the toil is nonetheless there. And it makes us tired and it grieves us and it makes us frustrated and disappointed and it hurts us and it discourages us and it gnaws at our relationships. And it it it does all the things that are opposite of the peace that we are called to in your most gracious covenant through Christ. And so I just pray that I would be faithful to your words today and that they would be used to free And to encourage and to challenge and to uplift those that hear. I pray all these things in your name. Amen. So I don't think that I have to I don't think I have to make much of this argument here. I I think it's pretty clean. Verses six through seven talk about humbling yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that The proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. And again I said that the danger is that verse five, which i is relevant, ends with, for God opposes the practice. But gives grace to the humble. And and and he's talking about having humility toward each other. And when we think about humility toward each other, I I am assuming that we do not think about that same sort of humility that Peter is calling us to in verse six. that we are to have with God. There's a difference in the humility that we have before God than we have with each other. There's a difference, for instance, if I relate this back to an earlier comment, in the type of submission that a wife exercises with her husband. from the type of submission that a wife exercises with her God. And as a matter of fact, this, in case you missed it or hadn't thought of it, is far more important. And so I have a caution there not to blend this passage too strongly with verse 5 and think that Peter is just commending the general attribute of humility. not in the habit of uh turning scripture into the vernacular and I generally dislike translations that that attempt that. I'm not sure why, but I just feel like when you lower the bar so far understanding, uh you also somehow uh wipe away the discipline of having to focus on on a passage and say, what does that actually mean? Um but I'm gonna indulge in Vernacularizing, which isn't a word. Um uh verse six year And I would do that with this. It says, stop demanding to have it your own way. Turn around, face the one who has all dominion, and put every ounce of hope you have in him, and you will begin to understand the pearl of great price. That would be how I would summarize verse six for you. Stop demanding to have it your own way. In Acts one, six, and seven, Jesus rebukes the disciples. Uh that is a cut and paste error. Scratch that out. The next bullet that was where I was trying to go to. The end of verse 5 there says, God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. Although it's difficult to see in an English translation, it's actually a quotation from the Septuagint's rendering of Proverbs 3. 34. says toward Proverbs three thirty four it says toward the scorners he is scornful but to the humble he gives favor. That same uh verse is quoted in James four six to eight and I'm I'm not trying to run away with the passage here, but I think James four six to eight Actually gives us a nice outline for understanding better what Peter simply says is humble yourselves. And so that's where I'm I'm headed here. I'm trying to flesh that out and give you some understanding of why when I summarized it in my own language, I said, stop demanding to have Have it your own way. James four, six through eight says, But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. God resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. And if you're looking at my notes, you see the sections that I highlighted there that I think inform us about what it means here when Peter says humble yourselves, what's in his mind. He means submit yourselves to God. He means draw near to God. He means cleanse your hands and purify your hearts. And then relevant to the text that we're going to get to in verse 8 where it talks about being sober-minded or not dull-minded. and watchful or alert, you see this double mindedness, you see the key, in many senses, to what Peter thinks is the most important, I'll call it the failing, of the people that he's writing to. Three times in the first letter of Peter, be sober-minded, be vigilant, be watchful, be alert. Three times he returns to it. And then here you see it in James in this same context, talking, you know, quoting from Proverbs 3. 34, this humility that we're supposed to have before God. Cannot be double-minded. People struggle with this, but the purify your hearts is actually explained by double-minded. Right? Purify your hearts, you double-minded. What's the fault that somebody that needs to purify their mind is struggl- uh purify their heart is struggling with? Double-mindedness I don't know where I heard this. I think it was actually in a study of Matthew 5. Um but an author, speaker, whatever it was I read it or heard it, spent some time talking about how uh when Christ calls us to be pure He calls us to be of single vision, to have only one thing in our focus. Um And I think that helps you understand what it means here to be double minded, right? I don't have my eye on God and anything. I don't have my gu eye on God plus whatever. I don't have my my eye on partly what I want and partly what I think and partly in the way that I think it and partly how I expect it to happen and and then at least on Sundays, my vision on the Lord as well I have a single vision. And it's not a foolish vision. It is through the experiences, the emotions, the circumstances of my life It is always looking not around them or not through them it is, right? Through them to him. Scott? Uh Paul does the same thing in Romans chapter 8. He talks about the the flesh as its uh the mindset in the flesh is death, and he contrasts that to mind and spirit. And he he does it like three or four times in a row, he repeats it over and over and over again. And his point is you can't be bold, you can't be double minded. Either your mind is set on the flesh or your mind is set of the spirit, there's no No uh double mindedness in Christ. There's only the mind of the spirit. You have to set aside the mind of the flesh. Dead-ons. And um I'm actually gonna make a reference to Romans eight in the very next point. But I appreciate you actually m n The point I make is actually after like toward the end of the chapter, so it's really good that you showed the momentum up to the the quotation I'm gonna be be using. It it is consistent all the way through, right? There there really isn't a lot of room to wiggle around here. Um What what there is, and it's not cheap grace, what there is, is a lot of forgiveness for a wavering people, right? And so please don't hear me. Please don't hear me say anything other than what you are called to do. And when you hear me remind you of what you're called to do, understand that my heart is actually just that you would not any longer have to bear the burden. Of living a double-minded life. It hurts. It it steals and cheats and deceives and deprives. It is the playground of the great deceiver. Double-mindedness is the battlefield on which we suffer. It truly is Scott. Um James he seems to equate um doubting with double-mindedness in chapter one as it relates to uh praying in faith. So if you're doubting Right. And to not expect that you're going to receive anything from the Lord. Right. And I would argue that this passage Both James and in Peter touch on the marrow of that doubt when it says, casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. We don't actually believe that. We don't actually believe that this life and the next in Christ are things that he cares about so much. And so we think we're going to get involved. We're going to help out. We're going to carve ourselves out a place of peace or a place of goodness or an ounce of rest or an ounce of self-worth or or anything else. We we are gonna get involved and help him out because we doubt Stop saying good things. You're sidetracking me. I'm not going to get done. James presi provides a sort of outline for the meaning of Peter's humble yourselves. He says, placing your life under the mighty hand of God. In other words, Recognizing and confessing God's providential wisdom, and in my notes I've given a list of other passages in Peter where he returns to that over and over and over and over again. You must first and foremost surrender. Surrender to God's providential wisdom, His guiding hand. There is no such thing as a Christian that is not under the hand of God. There's in fact no such Thing is anything, not under the hand of God, but particularly for those who call him Father, or for those who call him shepherd. There is no such thing. And then casting all your cares on him. Because he cares for you. And there's my Romans 8. 32 quote. It says, He who did not spare his own son. And again, this is on the end of that passage that Rob was talking about, that double-mindedness. And I think Paul gets right to the heart of it. And says, I understand why you're double-minded. Because you are afraid that God doesn't care for you as much as you care for yourself. And here he says in the end of Romans eight, he who did not spare his own son But gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Just chew on that for a minute. His own son graciously gave So that he could then also graciously give us all things. And then God's timing. Trust that He will exalt you at the proper time. Trust in his providence, trust in his care, trust in his timing. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. And then just so that you understand that mighty hand, look at verse 11. To him be the dominion. Right? Peter very much has God's sovereign carrying work in mind as he calls us to whatever the cost is of our discipleship. Verse 8: Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Mentioned already, this sober-minded and watchful or alert theme keeps coming up over and over in Peter. It's similar to a theme that's actually consistent without the uh throughout the New Testament, and in several previous weeks, I provided a fairly lengthy I noted one of the notes here from Luke 21, 36 when it says, but stay awake. Being sober-minded or not dulled in any way in one's thinking is consistent, is a consistent theme in the New Testament in general, but in Peter's it's specific. Um in Peter's letter it's specific and occurs in one hundred thirteen, four seven and here in five eight. Here in the conclusion, if you will, the the capital argument. Uh there are some really good passages uh that flesh that out a little bit for us and First Thessalonians five, six, and eight, and second Timothy four, five. And in every one of those cases, um They're talking about being in the last time. Because we are here and the Lord can come at any time, you must be watchful and alert. And so there's just a really good set of studying you could do on that sober-minded word and and then in one of the bullet points I gave you the the Greek and the strong reference for uh being watchful or alert or alert. I had a great time going through the verses in my own notes actually, just verse by verse. How was it used and where was it used? And it was amazing how it was very consistent in how and where it was used by the by the different apostles as they wrote. I didn't have time for it, so I didn't include it all here. Almost all the passages that contain this imperative to be sober-minded are talking about the The first Thessalonians passage uh says, Don't be surprised by the coming of the Lord's day but be found actively pursuing obedience to the Lord. The Second Timothy four five passage um is also in the context of the imminence of Christ's return, but adds that many will be accumulating Teachers that suit their passions, teachers that excuse the complacency and self-pursuits of those in the church. Bonhoefferhofer would say accumulating teachers, teaching, cheap Grace. Cheap discipleship discipleship. Discipleship that says that my circumstances and my feelings, what I want, what I think is the basis, the frame in which I get to picture God. And it's it's completely wrong. I don't know why my my mind often turns to to the women in the room on this one. Um maybe it's just because I I try to I I don't understand women to be very Honest. Um I mean I can hear what they say, but it doesn't necessarily resonate with me. Um But I hear them often and I've said this in multiple classes, I hear them often talk about their identity Um in in Christ. They're struggling with identity. What am I? And and is it Is it good? Is it worthwhile? Is it dignified? Is it valuable And I guess my real struggle with that and and how it relates to this passage here. Or at least in my mind it relates to this passage here, is I I just want to gently kind of go, stop being dull-minded. You are an image bearer of God. When God made all things and said they were good, and there was just Adam he said there was absolutely you won't hear me disagree. She said she whispered not so quietly. Very good. Say again? Not even close. And I and I I don't even hear so well. Um but uh that's okay. It was great. Um Adam and and he said, You know, that's not done. When he made Eve and Adam, he said that the fullness of the image of God was made. I I wish you'd just get a hold of that in majesty for j uh spark He says it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good. He actually says it's not good for the man to be alone and then he may eat. So everything was good except that was not good for the man to be alone. Yeah. And I don't have time to digress more than I already have on this topic, but oh please, just for a second, could you understand that your nature as a woman and then your your redemption in Christ on top of all of it, to have been an image bearer and then have it been multiple And then through the blood of Christ to have that marring undone, so that you are returned in in some senses now already to that image and soon to be fully consummated back to that image. I wish you could just get a hold of that for just a second. And then if time permitted, I've got a whole other list of reasons that you you should you should just rejoice in the majesty of your identity in Christ. In the midst of your struggle to be a a wife, a a mother, a student uh a professional uh I'm filling all the other roles that that compete in your life for time and identity Stop being dull minded. Be alert. See the evil one deceiving, sniping at you when you're unaware of how he's sniping at you and where he's doing it Don't accumulate teachings that excuse your complacency and your self-pursuits. Where are your where are your areas of dull thinking? Where are you believing the myth that you aren't or can't be a part of this active, purposeful, God glorifying walk that Peter is calling us to? This this conspicuous life that you live in a world that's hostile to all the truths that you are in And will obtain in Christ. Is your thinking about children or wife or husband or singleness or parents or some particularly persistent sin or some weakness or lack of giving? Giftedness preventing you from obeying God in the abundance of peace and joy we read of in Scripture Then be sober. Stop being drunk with the foolishness of this age. Wake up. Christ's precious blood was poured out to redeem you from every part of the curse. First Peter 1, 18 and 19. Recognize the reality of the costly discipleship you are called to. Additionally, you have an adversary, an enemy that is ever prowling If uh if any of you have ever read C. S. Lewis's screw tape letters, I I hope that you have a picture of just some of the ways that the deceiver really works to to draw us away from God. And it's always there and it's persistent and it's consistent and and and it's insidious And if you haven't read the book, it's a short book. Just pick it up and read it. Right? Be a reading people, for heaven's sake. Yeah? Accumulate to yourself people that that prick your heart for heaven's sakes. Read the first two chapters of this book. A prowling lion waiting for you to settle into the thoughtless routines of your life, or the unawake idleness. With the apathy with a constant sorrow that just kinda Sets a base tone for your life. I said, We must think of Job here. Satan tried to devour Job, and for a time he was clear in his thinking and alert and confessed God rightly. But when the trial persisted longer than he wanted, We see him begin to confess in Job thirty-two, thirty-five, Oh, that I had one to hear me. Let the Almighty answer me. What was he doing? Calling God to give an account to him for what his circumstances were. Circumstances were. Sorry. Right? Lord, you need to do this my way and in my time. I suffered and I was happy to suffer you for you for a while, but not anymore. So you need to explain to me while I'm suffering. You need to explain to me why I'm having this problem. And he had a long litany of meritorious actions and deeds and thoughts and sentiments that he had rendered unto the Lord. He was he was ready to argue with the Lord. And then through um I don't know whether you say his word name Elihu or Elihu, I've heard both. But in his words in Job thirty five, two, and three, we get another sense of uh what job was saying or meaning uh in the previous uh quotation, it is my right Before God. What advantage have I? How am I better off than if I had sinned I'm not sure I have ever heard somebody vocalize that out loud, but man have I seen people play that out in their actions. Play that out in their attitudes. You realize that's the description of a grumbling heart, right? I cannot be thankful. I cannot be at peace. I cannot stand at this place of challenge and realize that this is a great place of purpose, that this is a place of opportunity. I am not relegated to the sidelines in a meaningless life. I'm set here in a place of trial. For God's glory, so that I might be refined and so that I might be a testimony to God's glory to everybody else that is able to witness the trial that I'm I'm going through here. But rather than be excited about that, I'm not talking about never asking for prayer. I'm not talking about never being broken. Read the Psalms for heaven's sake. David prayed some really uh uncomfortably honest prayers in my mind. I would be afraid to pray some of the prayers that David prayed He was honest with God. And every one of those Psalms ends with, but praise God for, and then he filled in some attribute of God that was helping him think soberly. Not dull about his situation. And I love God's reply. And I've got two quotations here, one from Job 38, 2 and 3, and one from Job 42 through 5, and it says, who is this that darkens Counsel by words without knowledge. Is this dull thinking? Yes And so God says, Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? Dress for action like a man. I will question you, and you make it known to me. In other words, Job, I'm not making anything known to you. I'm God. You make it known to me. And you know this passage. Where were you when Where were you when? Do you sit above the heavens to see all things? To see the glory that I am unfolding in your life? To see the witness of not just your life, But all of those lives that I am stitching together, and these words don't even cover it, but into some mural of fantastic glory for the Lord Shall a fault finder contend with the Almighty? You realize we're the fault finder in that sense, right? When we think dully about God, when we are not alert for the deceitfulness of the evil oneness Prowls on our lives. We are the fault finder. Shall a fault finder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it. And then Job answered the Lord and said, and I love this. Behold, I am of small account. What shall I answer you? The boils on his skin were no different in this instant than in the previous instant when he was demanding an answer of the Lord for his suffering. The friends were all still there. Giving some good, mostly bad advice Nothing had changed about the pain or the circumstances, but he was no longer dull in his thinking, and his watchful eye had now seen the Lord rightly and truly. What shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth. I have spoken once. And I will not answer twice. But I will proceed no further. And as I've shared, I feel like maybe even just last week, right, he ends this This whole dialogue with, and now I have seen these things which are too wonderful for me. Job finally sees clearly In in verses one through six of chapter forty two. Yep. And God restored him. And I I am not a health, wealth, and prosperity guy. Um I do think that I can make an argument even from this passage where it says And after you have suffered a little while in verse 10, it's left totally open. There's no clear designation of the end time, second coming type thing there. He just says, after you have suffered for a little while. And he actually, if you Follow back in previous uh chapters in Peter, you see that same designation. The the suffering is always pictured as short. Again, I I don't want to say more than it is permitted, but I think we do ourselves a disservice, and I think I think I wrote about it. How many of us have some vague notion of a miserable life in Christ relieved only by brief sleep and then death? Well you just looked at me funny, but I think a lot of us actually general we would never say that because it sounds wrong. But I think a lot of us have a view of God As a a fairly miserable life. Dry crusts and arid lands, punctuated by oblivion of sleep And then death, and then everything gets good after that. And yet it says in 10 that the God of all grace, and because you have an image of a small God who is not caring for you in the way that we read about in verse seven. Because you have an image of a small God That God of all grace designation there in Ten means very little to you The God of all grace has called you to his eternal glory in Christ Jesus. Yes, you read of those obedient to God in the Scriptures, attempting much and suffering much, but they also accomplish much, see he. Hebrews eleven. But name one of the people in Scripture that give a testimony Of all that the Lord has done in their life, that have suffered much and accomplished much for God, name one that does not give a word of thanks and a voice of praise and a heart of joy and a heart of peace. Now I got myself out of order there. We were just talking about the Job um coming to the realization that he had become dull in his thinking about who was God and who was good and how good he was. And God finally reveals himself and he helps him to not be dull minded but to be sober minded and to be alert and to be awake to the truth. And as was stated, Job does repent, but he also summarizes his experience as too wonderful. Too wonderful. Verse 9 says, resists this enemy that is prowling around seeking whom he may devour, totally consume. That same word just a few want some word picture for f devouring, not that you need much of it, but I want you to understand that this isn't a little nipping or a you know, a sniping. I used that word earlier. That m that might have too weak of a sense that this word devouring is used when we're talking about Jonah being devoured by the fish. Right? It's a complete destruction. It's a complete consumption. And so Peter says, resist him. Resist the evil one. Who prowls around looking for those whom he may devour? Be firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. Your your circumstances are not useful. unique. I mean the particulars of them may be. But that is just to say that you are unique. And so God allows trials to come into your life that are particular to you. your personality. He moderates or mitigates, as whatever word is appropriate, the circumstances such that he accomplishes what he wants to accomplish in your life So in some senses your temptations and your sorrows and your doubts and your joys, your sins and your wants are custom-tailored to you. And so are the temptations that the evil one brings. But you are not alone in those circumstances. Resist the evil one by affirming your confidence in God's call of you, what you are in Christ, his gifting of you, his plan for you, and his final, unbelievably rewarding goal for you. Resist the lie and the liar, that your suffering is being wasted, is pointless, is not part of God's plan, and is not the very opportunity for purposeful, God-glorifying action. Can you look at whatever challenge that is that's facing you right now and actually say this Is God's plan for my life right now. This is the opportunity for me to walk in humble obedience for the Lord. This burden that I can't figure out how I'm going to carry, I'm going to step into and I'm gonna trust him to carry it for me or carry me through it or however that should be best phrased. It is not finding sufficient resources in yourself to go through whatever the challenge is. That is being dull minded. That is not being humble. I have to be able to have the resources to accomplish this. I I don't. And you don't. And you can't. And God will keep I had a wise man tell me this one time while I was praying with it, and it stung me so bad I almost wanted to get up and leave. But he basically, I I had confessed that I was struggling. with something and in his prayer he basically said, Lord, help Scott to learn this quickly. Help him to avail himself of all the study he does of God's word. Otherwise I know that you're going to send the same trial to him again and again and again until he finally learns. to trust you and depend on you and stop sinning by trusting himself. And I was like, whoa, I didn't ask you to pray for that. I just asked you to give me grace. Like this was supposed to be like help Scott, you know, get more strength. This wasn't supposed supposed to be forgiven for his sinful self dependence. It it was probably ten years ago. I have never forgotten it. By the way, I I love that guy. We still have a good relationship. We go over to pray with him. I I you know we think of him often. Um but it it's stung. Peter's not calling you. To be the depend on your own resources. He asks you to humble yourself. Before the mighty hand of God, so that he can exalt you at the proper time Peter understands that what struggles most in your heart is your care of yourself and your fear that God doesn't care for you enough. And so he says, Cast all of those cares, all of those anxieties, on him. Because he cares for you. Stop being and and then that's though to reflect on all that. Stop being dull-minded. Realize the truth of what I've just told you. And repeat it to yourself. every day in the mirror. The bathroom mirror, the rear view mirror, the reflection of the screen. I don't care what mirror you need to find self-reflection in. But find a moment in every day, or maybe in every hour, depending on the trial you're going through. Where you can reflect on these truths and be alert and realize that the discourager and the deceiver is next to you. I I never and I I'm open to being corrected. Find me a place in Scripture where God uses discouragement and deceit. He allows it, but I I never find a place where he says, Well I went down and I discouraged all these people. That that was that was one. I decided to do. And he's never deceitful. You can be clear that if those are things that characterize you in Big ways or small ways? It your enemy is close. Resist him. One comment? The smile on your face is making me nervous. No, I was um I was looking at the ways in which Peter is saying that we should should cooperate or participate in our own sanctification and it's submit yourself and draw near and cleanse your hands and purify your hearts. And even those are in agreement with what you just said that we can't actually use our own resources to do anything. of those. And yet and yet we're commanded to that that's the direction we should uh head in. But it's not of ourselves. We can't cleanse our own hands, we can't purify our own heart. And we can't and submit therefore to God without without his spirit working on us. So it's it's a I don't know if dichotomy is the right word, but these are like commands to do certain Certain things, but in reality you cannot do the one and you wouldn't have the right motivation for doing them anyway, out outside of God's enablement. Yes. Um verse ten ends so well. And again I I I broke it up in the way that I did it, but I mean that verse starts with After you have suffered a little while and again there's no clear evidence that that's kind of an eschatological end. It just says uh a little while. It could be at the end. It could be Tomorrow, it could be next week. But certainly whatever it is is is completely sovereignly set up set out. That timeline is set out by the God of all grace, who has called you into this eternal glory in Christ. And then in English again we lose a little bit here, but in English there's no Extra words at the end of this verse. It's restore or perfect, confirm or establish or root or um Make unshakable, strengthen, establish. It's literally just those four words. There's no ends, there's no buts, thus, there's no uh extra words in there at all. It's just restore, control. Firm, strengthen, establish. And it's as though Peter is just trying to really root you is a as it were, in all of God's gracious goodness for your life. And then I picture him complete imaginative. I I picture him going from leaning over th the lectern bear with me. You know, staring closely at each person, wanting so much to speak into each individual's life in front of them. And then knowing that the God he serves is truly more gracious than we are dull in our thinking. And lifting his eyes to that great sovereign And saying the final words, To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. To him be the rule. To him be the complete rule. Sam be the good rule. The best rule To him who is the pearl of great price, I trust all of these people that I love, that I know need him in their particular To him the dominion forever and ever. Amen. And because I cannot possibly think of a better closing, I will end there