It's funny, I I don't actually need notes to teach through a lesson. I I write them up for you and to keep me on track and yet I still never have enough time to get through my notes, so I'm wondering why I spend the time to do it half the time. Um Interesting lesson this morning. I'll tell you now that the Lord has actually been doing a series of things in my personal devotions, my personal study time, um and some reading uh that I've been doing. Uh um that make this series of verses much more impactful to me. Particularly in light of um I think I'll say it this way. You might not like it and maybe I'll have to apologize. But um it's particularly impactful in light of the victory that the evil one is having in uh Um the lives of some people that I care about. Um and so what I'm confessing there is I I I may get off track because I feel pretty strongly about uh some of the subject material here. And if I do I apologize. I want to make sure that I encourage you in Christ this morning. I also want to make sure that I convict you in Christ. There is nothing about Peter that is not intended to be driving us into uh uh a greater relationship with Christ, a greater reality in that relationship with Christ. Peter of all men seems to understand what kind of uh challenges we face in the day-to-day And he has written these letters to uh a group of churches, which are made up of individuals, uh, that need the reality of Christ to play itself out and very practical. Ways. And uh I certainly don't want to fail at conveying that this morning. So uh with that said I'll pray and get started. Lord, I um I love uh how this passage in particular forces us to think about what it means uh to love one another, uh not in emotional terms, not in what I'll call spiritual terms or ethereal or ephemeral or uh intangible ways, but in rock solid, concrete, contractual kinds of ways. And I also uh enjoy uh the promise of your blessing upon a people that would love each other in this way. More than that, Lord, I beg that you would give that blessing to us, that we might extend it. uh to the people that I mentioned earlier that have suffered defeat at the hands of the deceiver and the discourager in the last weeks and months and who are still uh suffering under the kind consequences of those defeats or that defeat. Please build us up, Lord, and make us a conspicuous body that shines brightly for your glory in these last days. Give us your truth this morning. Give us your spirit, Lord, that it would work in my heart first. Heart, mind first. In my words, second, and then in the ears of the hearers, thirdly. All these things, Lord, we pray purely by your grace. Amen. First Peter four, seven through eleven. I am in the wrong book of Peter. Read for your first text. I'm going to back up a little bit. read from verse one and then we'll get rolling on the notes. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Whoever has suffered Suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. Ceased from sin. The rest of the time in the flesh for the will of God. The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking, hardness. parties and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. But they will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. And now to our text. Of all things is at hand. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly. Since love comes. A multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling, as each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks. speaks oracles of God, whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Verses seven through eleven really form the conclusion of a section, maybe even the heart, if you will, of of Peter. He spent the first chapter and a half really providing a a summary of where he was going to go. If you um read three and four, you'll you'll find restatements of it or uh initial statements of it in in chapter one in that early part of chapter. But here he's drawing to uh a a conclusion of this section and he's really driving home uh the the I'll say the preeminent points that he wants to make. And more than that, he's not just doing it theologically, he's doing it practically. uh Peter I think is uh interesting then and he often blends those two. The the significance of the theological truth is also the force of its practical imperative all at the same time and I really love that about Peter. I I always read Peter with a mental image of a man with dirty hands smudging the paper, mean dirty work hands, as he's smudging the paper to write out his letter. I I have no basis for that piece of imagination, by the way. As a matter of fact, some would argue that he used uh had somebody else help him because of the quality of some of the Greek, whether that's true or not, I also don't care. But I just picture this this tough, hardworking, practical man. And for some reason that resonates with me in a peculiar tool your way. Um he he he is a man that understands how God plays out in my work a day life and uh and I love that. And so he's doing that here. He's putting a cap on uh much of his theology and much of his practical teaching um as he steps through these verses. Um it's a little unfortunate that we break these up, particularly the order of it. Um I don't want to lose the momentum so you'll see a a page and a half of introduction. I'm actually not going to go through that entire introduction. Uh it's titled The Momentum Leading to Peter's Conclusion. Um and I just say that because there is this force of the argument that's playing out. And uh y you know, you went forward with Frank on one through six, you went back with me in 318 through 22. Yep. Twenty-two. And now we're jumping forward again to seven and eleven and getting jerked around like that. We lose a lot of momentum. But I do want you to see See some of it here. Our sinlessness and I'm gonna stick with that phrase, although some may object to it. Uh I'll try to ameliorate your concerns in a minute. We were told in 4. 1 that we could arm ourselves with this same way of thinking as Christ suffered in the flesh. Because whoever has suffered in the flesh is feast from sin, and now for the remainder of the time that we are in the flesh We don't live according to our human passions, that that sinful nature that's inclined toward um all the things that the curse entails, but instead for the will of God. And ultimately, that is the quintessential Our natures are fundamentally different than the nature of everybody else that is still under the curse. We are not because of what has been remade in us in Christ. Died and been buried, and then through baptism, right? Earlier passage in three, right? Through baptism, through the resurrection that we enjoy with Christ, we are a new thing. And what we will become And for the time being that is being held and secured and maintained and maybe even amplified depending on how you read some of the passages. What we will be is Growing and being amplified in heaven with Christ, guarded for the day when he comes and imparts it to us, when when the full reality of us being made new is realized. And all of that together. forms the basis of our exile. We are exiles not because we carry around some card in our wallets or some passport that designates us as citizens of a different kingdom. We are exiles because our behavior, our culture, our thinking, our loving Our spending, our priorities, our value, our language, our work ethic, everything about us Has been redeemed by the Lord. It has ceased to be inclined toward human intention and is now subservient to the will of the Lord. And and that's that momentum I wanted to to try to get up here. Um I will make a brief comment here and then I'm I'm gonna maybe do something that's unsatisfying, skip a whole section. of my notes. Uh there are many that would argue that there is no expectation that we should lyn live sinless lives i in Christ. That that's impossible, we can't do it, and and therefore we should just put away any sort of notion that that's the expectation. And I I feel fairly pugnacious about the uh about that. Um But let me just say this. Please be careful to distinguish between what you are called to do, what you are expected to do, what is demanded of you. And God's great gift of forgiveness. If and when, or when and if You fail at the calling that Christ has called you to. You are called to sinlessness. And in many passages in the Scripture, you are told that sin has no dominion over you. There is no temptation that you cannot escape. And even in 1 John, which is where people like to turn to, if you say you have no sin and you're a liar and speak not the truth, read 1 John. Walk in the light, abide in Christ, obey my commandments. If you do not do these things, you are not of me. The language in 1 John is strong. And if you wade the passages, this is not a good argument of any sort, it's just trying to illustrate a point, right? If you wade the passages that talk about the utter sinlessness that we are called to in Christ and the priority of it, the imperative of it, the need to fear being outside of that sinlessness that we are enjoined in Christ. Read the sheer number of passages in 1 John, you'd get a heap on one side. And you'd find one or two that suggest otherwise, I'll say. Now, I want to be careful how I say that because those Those other two those other few are the passages that say, and when you sin, you have an advocate with the Father. There is a way to be free of the sin that you have stumbled into and and get back into the light. And it's it's a wonderful passage. It's a passage that secures me. It's it's a passage that I turn to often when I have gone back to that sin again. And I am so discouraged. So I I don't wanna to minimize the merit of that. But I also want you to understand what the imperative is for your life. And I want you to understand how that imperative makes you an exile. And if that exile frame doesn't work in your mind, I'm sorry, but I have to challenge you with this. Are you living the sinless life according to the will of God that you have been called to? If you are, you will live as an exile. And you will find the suffering that's being talked about here, the reviling of the world. Because you don't say the things that are not going to be a good thing. they say and you don't work the way they work and you don't respond to crises in the way that they respond to crises, and you are able to speak the truth aggressively While wrapping your arms in loving care around the people that you're speaking those hard truths to and to the world, that makes no sense. It's like kissing and punching at the same time. They they don't understand it. And so in the midst of that life as an exile, the whole rest of your life that you are in the flesh, Peter is saying, this is how you have to live it out. Right? We are we are in that end time between when you have accepted Christ, there is no more to be done in redemptive history. I I reserve the right to qualify that that statement. Um we are in this end period and This is how you must live during that end period. And that's that's the that's really where we're at in this passage. And if you want more of the verses I have for sinless and not sinless and cheese from sin and on and on, just download my notes. I I try to run through that as carefully as I could. For me, as I was trying to synthesize the force of uh four, Chapter four, one through six, and chapter four, seven through eleven, these These two passages were very helpful to me. And if you're looking at my notes, it's page two, that's 2 Timothy 2. 21 passage and 1 Corinthians 10, 1 through 13 passage. This helps me understand what Peter is calling me to in this last portion. 2 Timothy 2. 21 says we are to cleanse ourselves. I'm not quoting. We are to cleanse ourselves from what is dishonorable. And become set apart as holy. I would equate that to cease from sin. Set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. Useful to the master of the house. Master of the house, ready for every good work. That's the the the end of setting aside what is dishonorable. And then if you read first Corinthians ten one through thirteen, it's it's an extended passage, so I'm just gonna read a few snippets from it. It says, Now these things took place as examples for us, referring to the m Moses wandering and and the Exodus and Sinai and and and all the things that Now these things took place as examples for us that we might not desire evil as they did. We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happen to to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction on whom the end of the ages has come. Right? And that's where we pick up in this passage. The end of all things is at hand. Christ redeemed us, drew us to a place where we set aside what is dishonorable. made a way through Christ on the cross, the work that He did, His death, burial and resurrection, to be able to actually set us apart as holy. Fully holy. Not temporarily, not not partially, not just judiciously or judicially, um, in the way that the figures and shadows of the Old Testament were able to do, but completely set apart as holy. So that we would be useful to the master of the house and ready for every good work. And we have examples of what happens when God amazingly draws people in Exodus, right? Draws people out into um frankly to himself, right? Out of their slavery, out of their bondage, to themselves, communicates his special word to them. How how Amazing is Mount Sinai. And although I know that the word that we have in the scriptures through Christ and through the apostles is better, I can't help but be jealous to have heard God's voice. Yeah, I get they were all afraid and everything else. But I can't help it. I am jealous to have heard that voice, to have seen his awesomeness on that that mount, to have been able to look at the stones upon which his finger Whatever that looks like when you're God, right? Had actually inscribed his law, his covenant. His invitation to create a bridge between us and himself, which is what those Ten Commandments were. Come to me in relationship. Here's how it can be done. And and day-to-day grumbling consumed them. And they were lost in the wilderness Defiance consumed them in one of the passages, it might even be the first Corinthians ten passage, it is a matter of fact it is, right? They're up on the mountain, Moses is up on the mountain trying to get the law, and it says they're down there, and it says they rose up to play. That's actually the expression, and it blew my mind the first time I noticed that. They didn't rise up to sin, per se, when they built the calf and did all those things down there that were so horrible. It says they rose up to play. I don't know whether that was stress play, like you know I'm too stressed, so I'll just go entertain myself. I don't know whether that was boredom play. I don't I don't know what that was. But I I so wonder in our day soaked with entertainment and distraction if it didn't look a little bit like that And then they built a God for themselves and called it Yahweh. But it was a God of their own making and in their own image. And they served that. And God sent destruction. God destroyed those people using a figure of the cross as the symbol of judgment. Getting off target here. The end of all things is at hand. Let's get to an insight into what Peter thinks the end of all things means. He he cannot mean that he thinks Christ is coming tomorrow. And the reason is he's got a bunch of teachings from Christ himself that set some parameters On when Christ will return and institute his earthly kingdom. Acts 1, 6 and 7 says tells us that Jesus rebukes the disciples and says that they are not to know when Jesus would. establish the kingdom. So Peter doesn't expect to know when the final return of Christ will happen. Jesus has a number of teachings on end times, but in Luke 21 we get a fairly rich set of uh I'll say characteristics of the end times or um evidences uh uh that will occur leading up to the end times. Luke twenty one, six says the demolishing of the Jerusalem temple. Well that didn't happen to AD seventy. No comment that was within you know the seven to five years, depending on when you want to date Peter. But that hadn't happened yet when Peter is writing this. And he expected it to happen and Christ taught pretty plainly on it. Luke 21 nine and when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end will not be at once. Well that hadn't happened yet. Luke twenty one, ten and eleven, nation will rise against Against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, there will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences, and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven. But before all this, they will lay their hands uh twenty-one twelve, sorry. But before all this, they will lay their hands on you and persecute you as a as a body of believers in this case, delivering you up to the synagogues. prisons and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake. Twenty-one uh chapter twenty-one, twenty and twenty-seven. But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that it's desolated. has come near. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. Not only that, but Jesus talked about Peter's own death in John twenty one, eighteen through nineteen. He says Jesus tells Peter Uh excuse me, which tells you it's just you know, the the story where Jesus tells Peter there on the beach uh in in which manner he will die. So these these things hadn't happened yet and Peter was expecting them. Um and and so uh there's There seems to be no basis for a comment that Peter was trying to say tomorrow, next week, next month, next year, you know, some time period. He's not trying to establish a specific time period. He's trying to establish an an an epoch or an epoch, depending on how you want to say it. that um a period of time during which uh the Lord works in a certain way. And he's saying we are now in an end epoch. Right? We're not waiting for Messiah like we were before. We're not we're not waiting for additional things to happen in the way that we were previously in redemptive history. We are in the end. Christ is here, he has established what he intends to establish. You be faithful to that. He will come, and that's it. What's also significant here is that you get some characterization of the end time. Did any of those passages in Luke twenty one encourage your heart? Nation will rise against nation, the the demolishment of the Jerusalem temple, how important would that would that have been to a Jewish audience? I will destroy all your churches in four years. How would you like that statement? Earthquakes, various famines and pestilences, terrors and great signs. They're going to lay hands on you and persecute you and drag you in front of religious persecution and throw you in prison prison for religious persecution and bring you before kings. Kings and governors for my name's sake. Does any of that sound fantastic to you? Hmm. But this is what Paul's expecting, Paul. This is what I mean, he is too, but this is what Peter is expecting. of these end times. And specifically what you mean by fantastic. You you said does any of that sound fantastic to us? Positive. Good. Okay. I wanna do that. Fantastic as in hard to believe or yeah, yeah, I understand. Nope, nope good question. Um Yeah, I I meant good. You know, does it send you home feeling warmed and filled and and comfortable? Thank you. Peter isn't talking so much about the imminence of the day of the Lord's coming as being in the f uh as much as he is about uh of being in the final epithet. He is now waiting for all the final events that Christ foretold to occur. There is nothing that need happen prior to those events. Additionally, Peter is all too aware of how challenging the end of all things will be. Back to Luke twenty one, he says, But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighted down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth, but stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place and to stand before the Son of Man. And I can't help but think that Peter had that in mind when he wrote, The end of all things is at hand. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. So I hope you have some view of end of all things in Peter's mind based on the teachings of Christ. I I hope that the things that stand out there is that you know Christ is coming. The the wheel is turning. There is there is no other thing that we are waiting for for Christ to come and it is an imminent coming. I hope that's in your mind. I hope the the difficult The sober difficulties that will lead up to that final coming of Christ are in your mind. They need to be there. A recognition of the truth of Scriptures needs to be. there so that you can be encouraged by Peter's next words. But if you dismiss it and try to put a face on it and try to diminish it or comfort yourself with some sort of, frankly, foolishness, Right? Anything that is not of Christ and Christ's truth is foolishness. If you're trying to comfort yourself with some sort of positive thinking that is other than that which we find in Scripture, y you're not going to be able to hold on to the encouragement. encouragement and the goodness that is here in Peter's passage. Because of the end of all things is hand, even as the Christ said in the Luke passage, Peter here says that Therefore, be self controlled and sober minded. Christ said, Be awake, be alert, see what's going on. Do not spend your time sleeping and dreaming about something that is other than the reality that faces you today. Be self-controlled and sober-minded. It's not the first time Peter said this in 1 Peter 1:13. Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope. fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's interacting with that same thing. If your hope is just in some positive thinking, it's not been my experience that unbearable persecution and will come to me here in the United States. And so I'm just not going to think about that. That may be true of people over there, people on the T V, people in the news that I hear about being tortured and imprisoned and persecuted for Christ's sake, but that will not be my experience because I'm an American and I live here. Or whatever variation of that that you have. My sons have started talking about this a lot, y y you know, and and I get it. I think I did the same I know I did the same thing when I was young, but my oldest son in particular started saying, Dad, I gotta tell ya, I I know it's wrong. to want to escape the world. I I want to live. I want to experience some things. I'm I'm a little nervous about Christ coming before I get to, you know, realize the fullness of my manhood and the fullness of the liberty that's involved there. Get to try a career. Try some of the you know, check off some of those things on my bucket list. And I say, I I get that, I get that. But there's another part of him that as the world starts to come apart increasingly, he's afraid. Now he doesn't say that obviously, but that he's afraid. Because this hope and I'm uh this isn't like dragging my son through it. I I had the same thought. I still struggle with some of these same things. But it's because his hope is ultimately that's unfair. Because he has not yet learned to control his thinking in such a way as to to identify hopes that he has as a temporal man, hopes that he has for this life and this world, hopes that he has as a result of the passions that seek after self. Right? He has not yet learned to be able to identify those when they come upon us and see the difference between that's a hope that I have for me, in me, about me, and this is a hope I have in Christ. How about you? How about you? What is your hope in? I tell you how you can tell. And I'll confess to you right now, I've certainly been walking with the Lord very carefully, very assiduously, very brutally. brokenly for twenty-eight years, but I believe that the Lord started working on my heart about the age of sixteen. So it's been a long time. Lessons like this take me between six and ten hours. to prepare. I do at least two of them a week, one for small group on Thursday nights and one for this. I spend a lot of time with the Lord. In his word. I stink at praying. I have a hard time praying. I don't know why. I don't have a hard time walking through the day like talking to the Lord, but I have a hard time just setting aside time for prayer. But I don't have a hard time worrying about work or about employees or about filling the blank with a thousand other things. And that should be a reflection That's that should be my confession right there. I shouldn't need to say anything more about the struggle I have in my own heart with the hopes with my hopes. Where are my hopes? Why can I sit and worry about work and employees and family and Building houses and caring for land and why can I worry about all those things? I struggle with prayer. Well, because my hope is in accomplishments that I'm gonna make. Though my hope is is someplace centered in in this area instead of in that area. And I again don't mean ethereal, ephemeral, anything else. I just mean on God. And that what He will accomplish and his imminent goodness. If your prayers are lifted up to the Lord to ask him to empower you to walk each day, If your prayers manifest the gratefulness and thankfulness that is commanded of you in Scriptures, if your prayers ask the Lord to do away with the grumbling, fearful Cold, unloving, sometimes numb hard. Then your hope is in Christ. Your hope is in the things that the Lord is about to accomplish in your life. Your hope is in the right place. You are self-controlled. And sober-minded. You are awake to the truth that your hope must only be in God. You must, one author says, because the end of all things is near, you must be fully in control of your thoughts. How you think about things in light of God's truth, God's word, is infinitely important. And it's a sad statement, it's just true of us as people, but it's a sad statement. When you need to think the most truthfully thoughts which are usually the times when you're going through some sort of tr trial or struggle or or turmoil of some sort. And by the way, there's the there's the aggressive trials of life. Things come into your life and and press on you in ways that are so difficult. And then those internal struggles in life when you just really feel outside of everything. You you feel like you're outside of the flow of God's work and you feel like you're outside of fellowship and you feel like you're outside of blessing. And i it's like the complete opposite of when life is aggressive and creates trials. Just you're just there. And I haven't yet determined what the greater percentage of us is, but I know that we I know that as a body of believers, I know that even in this room, there are are people that struggle with both of those things in ways that are are so dangerous. And during both of those struggles, you know what we're not doing? We're not thinking true thoughts about who God is and about who we are before him, and about what it really means that he did not purchase us with gold and silver, but he sent his own. only son to die for you, singular. I mean yeah, everybody else too. But when we're struggling with those thoughts, you need to have it in your head for you You're not thinking true thoughts. You are not self-controlled and sober-minded. You are asleep. And you are giving the deceiver an open field in your heart and mind. Notice that prayers are never a part of complacent fatalism. Oh well, Lord, all these bad things are going to happen. Help me to grip my teeth and make it through. Find that in Scripture. That's called grumbling. What happened when people grumbled? The example that was given you in the Old Testament, when people grumbled, that 1 Corinthians passage that I just read to you, what happens there? This is not complacent fatalism. Alright, Lord, help me just keep the borders of my house safe and go from there. We're about to start talking about serving one another The rest of this passage is about engaging with others in this prospect. It's not complacent fatalism. It's not uh what's that castle mentality? Right? Roll out the moat, draw up the bridge, survive. As a matter of fact, the reverse. Run so hard that you run out of energy that you could motivate from yourself and are forced To depend on that which God provides for you in order to accomplish the fantastic ministries He's got prepared for you. That is the kind of end-time living that Peter has in mind. Notice that these are not prayers of isolation or escape. Peter Peter is going to go on to exhort us to love one another, show hospitality. Ah that should be serve, not server. Serve one another in the world. In order that in everything God might be glorified. Do you see the conspicuous nature of this service? This cannot be castle mentality. This cannot be isolationist mentality. This cannot be gridded tooth fatal fatalism. Gridded tooth fatalism? Yeah, whatever. Right? It's conspicuous service that acts itself out in such a way that it brings glory, not just a wink and a nod, but glory for God the Father. That is our lives played out in these end times until Christ comes again. Above all, keep loving one another, earnest. Notice the paramount importance of this exhortation in light of the end of all things. The end of all things is coming. And I described it, Peter says, I described it. It's tough. I shared with you Christ's teaching on this, right? There's some difficult things coming here. The most important thing you can do, now that Christ has redeemed you, and that's important, I don't want to put salvation somehow secondary to this loving business, right? But now that Christ has redeemed you and made you an exile, a chosen and elect exile in this world and we are in these end times, the most important thing is that you keep loving one another earnestly. Peter is telling us how to live as a community of exiles in these end times. How does it look? How do we play out being radically different from the rest of the world, knowing the reality of the the sufferings, the persecution, the things that need to come before Christ finally returns and establishes his kingdom? How do we play that? Well his instruction is right here. Above all other things, keep loving one another earnestly. This one anotherness is clearly of ultimate importance in Peter's understanding of the imperatives of the last day. Here he is, finishing this up. We're in the end times. He's trying to talk to us about how things need to just play out all the way to the end here. And he realizes the difficulty of it. Personally in his own life, right? He was the one that was told he was going to die and even in what manner he was going to die, how would you like that hanging over your head? How would you like the Lord to actually come and say, you're going to die not in the nice way? He had all that in his mind. And he comes to us to share the things that he's learned from Christ, these overflowing realities, truths of Christ. Love one another earnestly. One another-ness is key. To how you live in community as exiles in these end times. 8. Verse 8, love one another. Verse 9, show hospitality to one another. Verse 10, use the gifts that everyone. Every one of you has. Every one of you has. Is there anybody outside of every one of you? Is anybody in this room outside of everyone? No. Right? If you're one of those people that says, I don't know what my gifts are, that's fine. I frankly get a little annoyed with the whole Iden take the test, identify your gift thing. It sounds like hope pocus pocus to me. I know that steps on people's toes. I'm just letting you know. I'm a cynic. But I'll tell you what I do know. I'll tell you what I do know. Serve. Show up. I cannot tell you how many of you Have encouraged my family in conspicuous ways. I apprayed for Kirk this morning. I have never heard that man teacher preach There's no conspicuous way in which he has vocalized Christ to me that would allow him to be some sort of a a significant testimony in in my family's lives. But we talk about him all the time. Because he's faithful, because he's kind, because he's humble, because he's deliberate in his engagement of people to draw them into Christ. And I'm sure there's a hundred other other I just I don't have time and I can't think of them right now. I'm sure there's a hundred other small ways. I hope I'm not embarrassing you, it's not my intention if if that matters at all. A hundred other ways that he he just serves. I have no idea what Kirk's gifts are, and I frankly don't care. I just know he encourages my family. I know that when I see Kirk, I think to myself, don't be a jerk, Scott. Don't be some unworthy sinner. Don't don't be that arrogant toad. If you're gonna tell me that's what I am, I really don't need your help. He's back here waving his. Yeah. I I just wanted to add a uh personal experience uh to read what you're saying. I I about me though or about you? I just about Kurt. Okay, okay. um he's on the other side of the world right now. He's he's in Iraq. Um I we had our first small meeting of our small group last Wednesday. And and and Wednesday morning I get a text on my phone and it's from Kirk saying praying for your your new smoker to start today. So he you know he's got all kinds of things on his mind. He's on the other side of the world, he's in Iraq, dangerous place and he sends me a text message saying, I'm praying for your new smoker to start today. So that's the Animated. Praise the Lord for that. I I could actually I won't because I don't have time and because you would get upset at me probably, but I could actually go around the room with a lot of you and do that same thing. And I don't just that's not like f fluff part of this. As I was working on this, I was going around and I was picturing your faces and I thought, That person, I don't know what their gift is. I don't care what their gift is. I just know they're encouraging me. I just know they challenge me. And I'm not a sharing type of person. People in my small group will tell you I discovered sharing. Somebody says I'd like to share, and I say that's not what we do here. I'll tell you, just about every one of you in this room has been an encouragement to myself or my family in some way over the years. So far, I'll talk to you. Be faithful, nonetheless. Keep loving us despite the fact that I'm guilty of all of those things that I had listed there previously that I thought Rob was gonna help me amplify. I gotta talk about love just for a second. Um I I hate that word. Um Uh I know I'm contrary to so many things, but uh I I can't stand that word. It doesn't mean anything, right? Or it it means so many diff means so many things that it doesn't mean anything. In my Colossians study I had uh a reason to go study this more deeply and uh really enjoyed one commentator's uh treatment of what it means to love. And I want to be careful here. Um you'll see in my notes I have while the distinction between follet o and agape is made too much of, meaning we all the time try to draw these clear lines. Well this means this and this means this and so we're supposed to get some special meaning out of there. There are books, whole books dedicated to why that is not true. Yet Peter uses both the words in the same verse and he clearly intends a distinction in meaning between them. See first Peter one twenty two. It seems clear that we are being called to love in a way that is unique to the new life that we have in Christ. We are to love As Christ loves. Now with that said, I want to draw that definition definition out a little bit. I'm using um a commentary on Colossians by a guy named McKnight. He's a newer uh commentator to him. For those of you that care, his commentary replaced F. F. Bruce's in the series on Colossians. But he says: love is defined in the Bible by how God loves. It is therefore preeminently covenant. And that's so meaningful to me. I shared with some people earlier before the class. We've been working through the Psalms in a one of my small groups for the last, I don't know, twelve thirteen, fourteen, fifteen years as long as I can remember. And uh I've several times had an opportunity to teach one of the Psalms that required me to do a study on the suzerainty treaty or covenant format in the Old Testament. It's just a lot of words for how they understood covenant in the Psalms. And I'll tell you what, it's it's robust. And it has a lot to do with the person providing love and a lot less to do with the person receiving the love. And certainly when you look at God's covenant with Abraham, for instance, and then the new covenant that he has made with us. It is a covenantal relationship, preeminently covenantal relationship. God's covenant is commitment of now track this presence advocacy and protection. And his commitment entails both summoning his people into and providing for their transformation into Christ's likeness. I want you to see the means of of love or the method of love and the goal of love. The means of the method are imminent presence all the time, in every way, in every place, at all times. He is present with us. Right? These are the means of love or the method of love. His presence, his advocacy on our behalf. Now, obviously Christ's and ours must be different by nature because of the difference in who and what we are. And yet there is a way for you to stand as an advocate for others. An advocate sees a wrong. Deals with the wrong and yet advocates on that person's behalf as well, as it pertains to consequences, restoration, forgiveness, repayment However that plays out, right? Presence, advocacy, and protection I grew up a conservative Baptist, and separation was the word on everybody's lips as I was growing up. You were either a separated church or you were an apostate church. You were either a separated church. Christian, or you an apostate. And while I could teach whole lessons on separation, I'm and the need for us to be separate from aspects of the world, I Actually don't see how Christ did that. Prostitutes bathed his feet with their tears in their hair. Gentiles crept up to his table and begged him for things. He entered houses of sinners. He healed lepers. And forgave their sins, by the way. Which is even more amazing. They enjoyed his protection. He never once lied to them and said, Well, you're you're okay. Your circumstances make it. it okay that you're a sinner. He never once spoke anything but utter truth. He reflected God perfectly in every word. God's truth, God's law, God's love, God's judgment, God's justice, God's wrath. God's nature, he reflected it all perfectly, and yet he did it in a way that protected people. And I I I don't want to make more of it than I'm allowed to through Scripture, but I I gotta believe that Christ always saw ultimately the devastation of our sins play Played out all the way to the end of the judgment. Every person he saw, he saw that played out. And his goal with them, even in the midst of their repugnant sins, Was that perspective that they needed protection from the end that they were headed to? That's covenant is commitment of presence, advocacy, and protection. Those are the means by which he summons his people into and provides for their transformation into Christ's likeness. Do you see the goal? Transformation into Christ's likeness, to draw them up into Christ, to grab them arm in arm or waist in arm or however that works and rush to the cross. That's what it means to love people. Love is a rugged covenantal commitment to another person, to be with that one and for that one, as both journey into Christ's likeness. That is the ground and soil of the hospitality and the service that we are called to in the following passages. That love And when we understand love in that way, we begin to understand more easily, although the commentaries are all over the place here, what it means that above all things we should keep Loving one another earnestly since or because or for love covers a multitude of sins. It's apparently a quotation from Proverbs ten, verse twelve. It's not a direct quotation. Proverbs 10, verse 12 actually says love covers all failings, I think. Failings, faults, something like that. The word sin is not in the Proverbs 10-12 passage. The word sin is very much here in verse 8. But they believe that uh Peter is quoting from the Proverb. The only other place that that's quoted in the New Testament, I think, gives us a better picture of uh what's being said, what we're supposed to get from. And it's in James 5. Uh it's it it's in twenty, but I'm gonna read you nineteen and twenty. Says, My brother, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back. Let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. Do you love your children? Do you love your wife or your husband? Do you love the body of believers that God has given you to fellowship with? Is your response to their brokenness, which by the way is a brokenness that you share for as long as you live in this flesh? Is your response to their hair brokenness, covenantal love, presence, advocacy, and protection. And are you playing that out in an active type of hospitality, an active engagement, an act active advocacy? advocacy, an active pre being with the person, engaging that person, an active protection of that person, even in the midst of their sins. Always speaking the truth. I'm not I'm never diminishing that part, right? We are always drawing people Up into the light. Or is it frustration? Is it annoyance? Is it retreat? Because the sting, we just think we can't take the sting of their words anymore or their indifference or their whatever. What what is your response to these people? Is it the love that's called for here? Is your mind more focused and I I I don't mean this harshly. I struggle with this too. Most ungrateful the name of the most ungrateful people in the world is employee. And and you know I get cynical about it, I get callous about it. And then I remember that's that's not why I'm doing what I'm doing here. I I'm doing it to to have a mission field. Same with my sons. I get so upset about some of the foolishness they do, and there's a there's a risk, there's a there's danger, there's sin, there's a front. But am I more concerned about how that affected me, or am I more concerned about the fact that I'm trying to draw them up into Christ? My response will be radically different based on those two. Love covers a multitude of sins. Uh you can see the first Corinthians thirteen, three through eight A passage there. I'll just let you read that. D. A. Carson has an uh comment New Testament commentary on uh I always get that wrong. New Testament commentary on the Old Testament or we I I always get I'm just I get that backwards. But it's using the New Testament passages and uh excuse me, Old Testament passages can make comment on New Testament passages. It's a huge book. Anyway, it says, evil is not overcome merely by refraining from doing it. We must overcome evil with good. It is not enough to break a bad habit. We must replace it with good, obedient behavior. And that was specifically in regards to this passage, but I want to make sure that you understand that here. You will not overcome the bad habits you have in this area, the way that you love one another, simply by saying, Well, I'm no longer going to speak like that. I'm no longer going to allow myself to think like that when when an injury comes upon me or when I struggle with this thing. I'm I'm going to set aside those bad feelings, those bad thoughts, those bad intentions. And by the way, this plays out in just about every area of your life, but we're talking here about loving one another and this rugged covenantal love. You will not put away the errors in the way that plays out in your life until you learn not Not just to put them away, but to fully engage people in this loving hospitality And there we get to show hospitality to one another without grumbling. Hospitality is literally from two words that mean friend and stranger or alien. I just say that because I thought it was interesting, right? To to make an alien a friend, right? Uh don't don't don't go too far with uh you know root words. Um but uh I I did think that was interesting. This is necessarily an opening up of your home to one another. And I say that because a lot of commentaries kept talking about well so visiting T Teachers and preachers and messengers would be going through, you know, cities in the old times, you know, and in in uh in the time when this was written, and inns were bad places, and you're missing the point. Peter says, Show hospitality to one another. Another without grumbling. Not to ministering pastors and preachers, right? This is an opening up of your home to one another. One author calls this table fellowship, and I'm going to recommend a book to you on fearfully. I like the book. That's not true. I'm not sure that I can recommend everything in the book. I'm still wrestling with it. But it's one of those kinds of books that is Uh I can't think of a good example of it, but it's it's the kind of it it beats you up in a way that i is beneficial. Yeah, I I mean it's i if you know anything about Rosario Butterfield who actually I actually wrote the book. Um y maybe you'll immediately go to how this book is a little difficult. But if you matter of fact, forget if you all should go out and buy the book called The Gospel Comes With a House Key. I have read it before. I must have been in a different place in my life because I read it and I was like, hmm, I'm reading it now. And and I I'm I come home either frustrated or angry or argumentative or it's just like, What in the world are you reading or listening to in the car? And I'm like, Look she's like, Stop. Just stop reading it, right? I I I don't like the effect it has on you. But oh my word, she really forces you to r to deal with this issue of hospitality in a significant manner. It's an easy thing to just okay, hospitality, that's cute. And me And without trying to interact with Peter at all to the best of my knowledge, if she does, I forgot it already. She nails it. In these end times, where things are unrolling the way Christ and Peter said they were going to be. Going to unroll or roll out, I guess, you need to be hospitable. It is your quintessential calling in Christ. It is your basis for evangelism. It is your covenant. Fundamental love for God's people and for the broken things of the world that God intends to save. In light of verse 8, this clearly includes people that you may not. naturally be inclined to. People who have offended you personally or who have offensive sin patterns and habits in their lives Love covers a multitude of sins. Keep loving one another. Stretch it out is is kind of the a literal uh translation of the Greek in verse eight. So when he gets to this, show hospitality with one another. Without grumbling, he has clearly got in view not just the people that are easy to fellowship with, the people that we are disinclined to be with. People that may be offensive to us, maybe directly, or like I said again, I I think as Christians, it's just way too easy to see somebody that is involved in devastating sin. And we're so busy thinking about how yucky that sin is. Sin is how appalling that sin is that we separate from And while there's a context for that within church discipline, and there's clear parameters for that called out, again I would, without being able to spend time on it, I would just go back, think about Christ. What sort of a Paul, did Christ, do you know that the lady who is washing your feet right now is a prostitute? He wouldn't let her do that, was what the Pharisee thought in his mind. And Christ read his mind and said, Really? You didn't provide me any sort of hospitality when I got here? She didn't provide me oil for my head, and she's using perfume on my feet. The woman at the well. What a scandal! How many wives? Husbands? Sorry. How many husbands? And the one she's currently living with? Not her husband? And there he is at the well. Shady dealings. But he was willing. He was willing to engage even people with offensive sin patterns. Without grumbling. Why would Peter have said this if there was no need to be a good idea? Need for grumbling. Hospitality is costly. Hospitality is inconvenient. Hospitality is messy Hospitality requires that we remember that the times are nearing an end, and we are to be loving each other with a rugged covenantal commitment. I just want to touch on this real quick. If you feel so overwhelmed in your life that the idea of being hospitable just seems like, Scott, give it up. I'm going to ask you to consider that for just a second. We are in these end times. And above all other things, God says, you have to love one another. And that love will be manifested through hospitality by serving each other and by serving each other with w with the gifts that I've given you. I am going to submit to you that there is something fundamentally broken about your life. And I don't mean that like, oh my word, you're broken, and therefore we've got to get rid of you. I mean that there's a hurt in your life. There's an emptiness there. There's an incompleteness in your life. That will not be satisfied until you engage in the thing that God gave you to do, that He saved you to do, that you will be held accountable for whether or not you have done when you stand before Him. If you feel desperate and overwhelmed and incomplete now and you can't imagine doing hospitality as a result of those things? I want to argue that if you obey, if you trust, Trust the Lord in this area, you will find that those other problems address themselves. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's very grace. I want to do that each again, as each has received a gift. I I will say again, I don't know. I don't know that I care that much whether or not you know what your gift is. I also don't care whether or not you can identify your preeminent gift, if if that even exists, by the way. I know that it has been argued. God gifted you. God gave you talent. The Master has has ascended and he left with you the Spirit and talents to help you work out how you might glorify Him. Right? Useful to the Master of the house. Ready for every good work. And you are to serve one another as good stewards of God's very grace. That may mean that you don't do hospitality in your home. It may just mean that you're faithful to in appearing in somebody else's home in order to exercise hospitality for whatever reason. I I don't even want to try to attempt there's so many ways that your gifts could be played out. But you have Gifts that are necessary for hospitality to play out with one another to encourage the body of believers in these end times. And if you play it out correctly, there is There is good warrant in Scripture that there will be tremendous relief from the struggle of these end times. But not with it w not without those gifts, not without that hospitality, not without that love. You will suffer the sting of these times all on your own to some degree, unless you engage them. In in the way that you're being called to here. Scott, could could you define hospitality? I'm assuming it's more than making sure there's food and drinks on the table. Is it lending your shoulder? Is it Putting your life on hold for That's a great question. It it's a great question. Um I'm gonna do two things. I'm gonna recommend that book to you because I think it is super practical and super helpful. Um she goes through things even like keeping a cookbook in the house that's super easy to make cheap food so that When the need arises and the the locusts descend I see funny there, right? You know? Yeah. Um she reads it in Audible, you can get a Kindle to I think book is 17 bucks or something. But anyway. And the second one, and maybe more important one, is I would describe it as that covenantal love. Presence, advocacy, and protection in a way that It prov uh summons people to and provides for their transformation into Christ likeness. And in as much as I say that, the practicalities of that might play out in a million different ways, depending on who it is that you're ministering to. I'm running out of time. I wanna leave you with this. Uh first Corinthians twelve, four through seven says that God empowers the gifts in everyone. I'm gonna beat that overhead lest any of you think you can wiggle out of this. in any way. I want to leave no space for you to breathe in an argument that says, well I'm not somebody with gifts or my gifts aren't important for hospitality or for loving others. I'm just n not a significant person in the scheme of things. You're dead wrong. God empowers a variety of gifts through the Spirit in everyone, and to each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. That's right out of 1 Corinthians 12, 4-7. And then because of time, I'll uh I won't end here two comments. You know the parable of the talents. What happened with the servant that had a talent and buried it instead of investing it for the the increase of the mare master. It was taken from them and he was cast out. It's it's just a parable, so I don't want to go too far with it. But I do think it's a lust Right? Every one of you is needed in this, and every one of you is gifted in this. And if your life is drenched in the turmoil of sins right now, you are still not excused. If guilt is plaguing your heart because of the recognition of sin, pray that that's God's working, not your own guilt conscience, but pray that that is God's working and get involved in some sort of a hospitality. Ministry. Just show up to start with. Let other people be hospitable to you And let the Lord work in that situation until you've learned what gift you have that would encourage that body But if you wait until you think you're clean enough or healthy enough, literally healthy enough, or strong enough, or prepared enough emotionally, or your kids are finally old enough to not distract you so much it makes you want to pull your hair out or any of the other thousand ex- Excuses that you might use to separate yourself from the necessary love of the body of believers in hospitality and using your own gifts to engage them as well, you are in a bad place. believe the lie, and it exposes you to so much risk and so much danger and so much hurt. Finally, whoever speaks is one who speaks oracles of God, and whoever speaks serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies. I love this because I think we always go to like teachers and preachers and deacons and stuff like that. It doesn't say anything. It says whoever speaks Whatever gift it is in you that has a manifestation in speaking is an encourager, an exhorter, or a teacher, or a preacher, or I mean whatever it is. If the gift includes speaking, then do it as one who speaks the oracles of God. I have this precious gift that I can share with you from God. Doesn't that reflect back on that loving part that we talked about, that definition of love we use? And whoever serves is one who serves by the strength that God supplies. I don't have enough strength to do what you're calling me to do here, what Peter's calling me to do here, Scott. Didn't expect you to. I don't. Angel and I have specifically had conversations where we were like, we just don't have enough energy to do this hospitable thing anymore. This week, right? We'll do this one and this one and not these other ones. It doesn't call me to serve in my strength, but in God's strength. The exodus from the room makes it clear that I have gone too long. So I hope that you will consider this. I really hope that you will get that book. I'm not sure I agree with all of it. I'm not asking you to. I hope that you're challenged by it and walk away having harvested good things from it, even if you leave some of it laying on the field. It has been very convic convicting to me. Angela and I had a significant conversation about it this weekend. I hope that we're going she said she would reread the book so that we can be fresh and have the ideas on our minds. I'm hoping to engage her about it more in the coming weeks. Lord, I hope that you were honored by the words that were spoken today. And that you would be more honored by what we do with those words when we walk out of here. Watch over each of these people, Lord, to encourage and strengthen them, to draw them up into Christlikeness, and let the rest of us be careful about loving each other in a way that honors and pleases you. In your name I pray. They seements