As people are uh as people are filtering in, uh just take a moment. Wanna introduce myself. My name is Frank Johnson. Uh I've been attending here at Hope Bible for about three, three and a half years or so. Is that a is that all right? At any rate, this is my first time when I'm teaching a class live in front of everybody here. So um I kinda feel like Pastor Gabe gave me the you know, like like the kid that gets the keys to dad's car, you know, and I'm like, ready to go. And then then I come in and there's this. So they they're gonna listen to everything we say. So All of a sudden I feel like I got the car but there's a little bit of a speedometer. But hopefully I don't blow it too much, but uh I just want to tell you uh if maybe you've attended some of my Zoom classes when we were doing COVID, so maybe you're familiar with the way that I I like to teach. If not, just know a couple things about me. First of all, I I recognize immediately this is a classroom and not a sanctuary. So I'm not preaching. I I very much appreciate interruption. I'm always happy to stop and answer a question. I'm always happy to stop and interact. As a matter of fact, as we go through the class, it won't be so much today, but as we go through the class, I will also take time to stop and actually ask questions generally for the class just to get your your thoughts and your feelings on it. So Don't ever hesitate or feel like it's not a good time to interrupt because while I don't want to be the preacher, I promise you, if you let me, I will keep going. So that's a a bit of a habit of mine. So but I will try and incorporate deliberate opportunities for feedback. But just so you know, while we're in the midst of this, if there's a question we need to stop, I'm happy to do that Um and also, you know, I've got I I'm not gonna get to the end of these notes. Okay. I can promise you that. I'm not gonna get to the end of these notes, and that's okay. I'm flexible if we we will stop Focus on the things that need to be focused on. I'm also happy to do that. So w I really wanted to well we're going through five chapters of First Peter in twenty-six weeks. So one of the things that I really love about the opportunity in this class is the the ability to really dig deep into this episode. Because Peter has so many wonderful things to say, and so each little nugget, each little piece deserves its own time, and so if we need to be flexible and we need to add or subtract or take away or whatever We'll do that as time permits, as class flexibility permits. So that's just another quick note. A note about First Peter, this this is an epistle that uh means a a great deal to me personally. As a young Christian I um I I took a few seminary classes and uh I took a class with a guy who was my favorite teacher ever. His name was uh Professor Leroy Metz. Uh my kid was young, my son was like seven years old and there were times that I would uh I would have to bring him to class 'cause, you know, Erica was working or whatever. And uh I'd get in there and here's this little boy. He'd say Look and Professor Matt should look at him and say, oh, you gotta put up with me for two hours. Here's a dollar. And he'd give him a dollar. He said, and he just started talking and it was actually a class on First and second Peter, first, second, and third John. We never got through the second chapter of First Peter. And the reason for that is because It is such an amazing, deep, rich, so full of just wonderful uh allusions to our salvation and a and an image of our hope and and it's it's just a wonderful wonderful epistle so full of so many great details and things uh that it's almost impossible not to take twenty-six weeks to get through five times. As a matter of fact, as I was going through them, I was like, boy, I still want to fit this message in. I don't know how I'm going to get this one in there Uh so anyway, and uh Scott, by the way, Scott who is just finishing up the Ecclesiastes class is helping me co-teach this class. So he will step in here sooner or later and give you some relief for me anyway. But But uh so he'll also help co-teach the class. And I think uh just as kind of a quick overview, that's also a great so some of you were in the ecclesiastics class I I remember seeing your faces. And uh he mentioned this in the last class and I thought it was an excellent point. So I'll just bring it up again. You start reading Ecclesiastes, and really the key message is life under the sun is desperate and dark and hopeless. But there's just nothing in the world that you're gonna pursue. There's no wealth that you're going to attain. There's no number of of of of women or number of because Solomon just goes through the whole thing and his conclusion is it's all vanity. It's completely hopeless. But then you f flip a few chapters over to 1 Peter, and he tells you that a life in Christ is full of hope. That a life in Christ is full of purpose and meaning. And when you have a life in Christ Then suddenly every single thing that you do has value. Every single thing that you go through, everything you suffer, it's always Purpose, it all gives you a chance to do something that's meaningful and eternal and unperishable. Completely different viewpoints, right? One, without God, this is life. I don't know if you've ever seen the movie The Fault Behind Our Stars. Anybody seen that movie? Raise your hand if you've seen The Fault. Is that like okay, it's it it's not like a a bad movie to watch in the sense that it's like there's like stuff you don't want to see, but Boy, you watch that movie and it's about a young girl that gets cancer. And uh she's not a believer. There's not even a mention really of God. There's only maybe in passing and you leave the movie and it's just dark and you're like, oh, this is terrible. Like you walk away from it and you're like Like life is meaningless because under the sun, life is meaningless. But can you imagine how that might have shifted if it was a young girl with cancer Who was a believer in Christ and chose to spend her days in suffering, glorifying God, right? Showing the kingdom Right? Being proud, being being able to explain the hope that she has. I'm not afraid to die because I now all of a sudden you walk out of that meeting and you're like, alright, let's do it, right? It totally changes everything, right? And that's that's the contrast between Ecclesiastes and First Peter. That's genuinely the contrast between the two. So um Uh well the other thing I like about it is I gotta get back to my notes here. The other thing about 1 Peter is, you know, there's certain epistles that I think really demonstrate the uniqueness of the perspective of the writer. You know, so if you read Romans, which is just this deep and intricate and woven amazing picture of justification and the life in Christ and And you just really see Paul's years of studying baked into that epistle. You know, and you think to yourself, wow This dude knew the Old Testament. This guy underse he like, you know, you really get the feel that not just obviously it's inspired, but you also get a picture of the personality, right? You get a little sense Or 2 Timothy, when he's he's gone through this whole thing and he's gotten to you know he's gotten to the end. He knows he's about to be executed for Christ and he's writing the last letter to his son Right, his son in the faith. And he's just so worried about take up the mantle. Move forward. And you see his heart and his love. Excuse me. His heart and his love for the ministry. And and you get this picture of Paul in in those two in those two epistles that really paint a picture of of the man as well as the insp inspiration of the scripture. And and first Peter's like that about Peter. First Peter has a deeper sense of that about Peter. You know, John MacArthur calls him the disciple with the foot-shaped mouth. And he kind of was, right? He was always the first out there. And he was always vacillating and he was always, you know, oh Christ I'll never deny you, and then he denies him three times. But then But then he gets transferred into Peter. He goes from Simon to Peter, the rock, the foundation, the faith, the strength. Of Peter. And when you see him in Acts, with the benefit of the Holy Spirit, he is a completely changed person. And you get that picture in 1 Peter. You get that understanding and that feel for Peter's perspective in that. So I always thought that was a really great part about this epistle. And I hope to bring some of that out as we move forward. So talking about the epistle itself, and I'm gonna have to because I'm uh clearing my throat here for a minute. Peter was this this epistle was written, so most people will say mid-60s. They'll give you a time anywhere between 63 and 67 A. D. Uh uh in my reading the best time is probably about sixty-four AD. and you kind of match it up. About 64 AD is about right. So six years before the destruction of the temple, right? Six years before the Roman the R the Romans sacked Jerusalem And he writes it to the aliens scattered in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Mithynia. So for those of you like myself who are not familiar with maps but very familiar with Google, you can go on there and you can read, well, what was this? Well this is northern Turkey and it's all along the edge of the Black Sea And when you realize that, and then also the fact that he mentions that he's writing from Babylon, which is a reference to Rome. you get a sense of um how it was distributed. Because if if you're coming from Rome The first place you're going to find in northern Turkey is Pontus, then Galatia, then Asia, then Bithynia. So it's literally written in the direction that would normally be traveled along to deliver the epistle. So what so who cares, right? No, I it actually has meaning because what that tells you is This was an epistle that was like a what's called a circular epistle, not really written to address a specific heresy within a specific church. Church, okay, not really written to address a particular group of people, but really intended to be a general calling. Okay, really written to be a general calling about things that were going on at the time. And what was going on at the time? Well, a lot of persecution Okay, because we're not yet to Nero. Okay, so we're not yet to where people are being stuck on pigpoles and burn like candles. We're not there yet. But where we're at is a time when the the Roman citizenry did not like Christians. Why? Well they're atheist because they don't believe in any of the Roman gods Well, they're cannibals because they talk about eating the flesh and blood of this person. Okay, so and there's all of these kind of weird things that people are talking about, Christians, and there's this growing level of persecution. They won't sacrifice in the temples. You know, they won't act like us. They don't they tell us that our ways in life are wrong, that we're sinners, that we're bound for some place called hell How dare they judge me from my life? How dare they come out here and tell me and look at the way they behave. And so there was a growing amount of persecution. It wasn't yet to the point where it was systematic or systemic or run by the government But in pockets it would well up and it could be quite severe. Okay, and that's what at this point, 64 AD, Christians are struggling with. Okay, that this is constant sense. And so Um I'm not doing for time. Okay. Um so that that is who he is writing to Um it's also very likely that this epistle uh was not co-authored, but that it's called an immenuensis, I think it's called, that basically a person who writes on your behalf And if you're familiar enough with Acts and you're familiar enough with some of Paul's epistles, you'll know that Sylvanus pops up quite frequently. Okay, especially in the areas of Rome. So whenever people are in Rome, there's Sylvanus. I I just wonder if like yet when you get to heaven, and you're gonna go down, you know, I'm gonna go look up Sylvanas Hey man, tell me about your story. Because I see you popping up in all these places in the in the got in the mo in the Bible. I see you popping up in all these epistles and you knew Peter and you knew Paul. What was it like? Tell me your story. I want to hear his story. You know, I think it'd be kind of cool, wouldn't it? Like to just know what did this man did amazing things for the kingdom of heaven by delivering notes, standing beside Paul in his most critical moments. You know, doing these things and he lived this incredible life and and it's sort of spot documented throughout the New Testament. And it's just kind of cool to think about the number of people that were behind these apostles who were writing these Or going through acts and facilitating and and doing things and they maybe they don't even ever get mentioned in the Bible. Right? But here is this body, this church that's lifting these men up, and they're never Really, without that. And Sylvanus is one of these men. Sylvanus is one of these guys. If you read in chapter 5, verse 12 Uh there's a couple things there. Uh uh Peter says, Through Sylvanus, our faithful brother, for so I regard him. I have written you briefly, exhorting and testifying that this is the true trace true trace of God, true grace of God. Stand firm in it. And that Is the key of this epistle. I'm telling you about the true grace of God. Stand firm He actually repeats this on multiple occasions throughout throughout the epistle. He writes I think it's four times if my memory serves correctly. He also writes in chapter 3, verse 15, Sanctify as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the The hope that is in you. Yet with gentleness and reverence, and keep a good conscience, so that in the thing which you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ will be put to shame. Again, the reason for his writing of the epistle. He's looking and he's seeing from Rome, or maybe he's hearing reports that this area in in northern Turkey is receiving A particularly pointed version of suffering or persecution. And he's reminding them about what it is they are to be in Christ. And uh and so grace plays a central theme in First Peter. Grace plays actually the critical theme in here in this. And and you know, and and suffering also. Right? It's kind of a mix between here is the grace of God and here's the suffering that you're going to face in your trials in life because of the grace of God. And that sounds kind of odd, but Christian life will always produce suffering. Right? So if you go on and you're watching TV and there's some pastor, I am who the Bible says I am. I can do what the Bible says I can do, and he's talking about your best life now. Turn it off. Turn it off because it's a lie. It is an absolute heretical lie. Christ never promises your best life now. Christ never promised you that you wouldn't have troubles in this world. He told you you would have troubles in this world. If you want to follow me, pick up your cross and walk. If you want to know me, know the walk I have. I I think about that because that's what I always told my kids, you know, on the weekends. Dad, I want to go do something. Help me with the lawnmower Right? Because I gotta know a yard. I gotta trim some hedges. You wanna know me? Come work beside me Right? You want to know me? Come work. And man, we're working on a car or we're trimming some hedges, and I'm like, man, tell me about your day, kid. How's how's school going for you? You know, we're out there and we're cutting up things, and hey, let me get you water. Let's take a little break. You know, let's take a moment. You want to get to know me? Work with me Because then you're going to know who I am, right? Then you're going to know what I do. Then you're going to know all of me. That's Christ's calling. Right? That's Christ's calling also. So are we suffering today as Christians? Are we suffering today as Christians? See China, see Nigeria, right? See Afghanistan, where the suffering is only going to multiply very quickly Do we suffer for in American? Do we have social situations that are difficult? How many people you know you're in accounting and you're asked to book something that you know is not right to book You're asked to exhibit certain behaviors, to be one of the guys or one of the girls, but you can't be that And now you're different. And now you stand out. How's that going to be received? My daughter, my youngest daughter. Went to a party with our cheerleader friends. Supposed to be just a nice party. Parents were gonna be there. Everything's safe Text us 20 minutes later, daddy come pick me up. Mama come pick me up. Mama come pick me up and just make up some excuse. Just come pick me up She got there and that party wasn't what she wanted to be a part of. And now she's looking at all these kids, all these kids that are on her cheer team, that are in her high school. And she's got to stand out. Come pick me up, mama. Come get me. I don't want to be a part of this Right? My my daughter here, if I can brag about her, wrote on her college entrance exam Or a college entrance uh thing to find a doormate. I'm not here to party. I'm a Christian. I'm here to learn. So don't come knocking on my door at midnight I'm not going to share a beer with you. That's not what I do. Right? Sorry, don't blush. So do we suffer in social situations? Yeah, absolutely. What about suffering in the flesh? You deal with sin? Because I deal with it every day. Right? I deal with it every day, and it's terrible It's terrible. The temptations in life. Do I want to watch this TV show? I can remember music back from when before I was a Christian. You know, I had a pre-Christian life. That stuff draws me, you know, and it draws you, I'm sure. If you're a Christian and you're struggling to be holy, Because the Lord is holy, you are struggling with that command. And if you're not struggling with it, you don't get it. If that's not hard for you, you're mistaken. And you need to reevaluate. Am I really being holy because God is holy? Am I really Am I really following the command of Christ? Am I really picking up my cross and walking if life is just a breeze? That's not what Scripture promises. Scripture promises there will be some suffering. And you're going to suffer And if you ain't suffering, something's wrong. Something's wrong. That's a great litmus test. If I'm not struggling with this sin, if I'm not contending against that, if I'm not set apart at work, You know, what am I doing? Why am I here? What is my purpose? Because I'm not glorifying God if I look like everybody else Right? I'm not glorifying God. If I look like that guy, could that guy? He ain't glorifying God Right? Okay? So you don't want to look like that. So we all are suffering. And Peter's admonition, I've got to check my time here. Peter's admonition is suffer well, be holy, be firm. Suffer well, be holy, stand firm. That is the message of 1 Peter. But then He's gonna tell you all about grace. How are you gonna do this? How are you gonna suffer in Nigeria when some man bursts open your door carrying an AK-47? pointing it at your wife or pointing it at your child. How are you going to suffer through that grace? Grace. How are you going to suffer through Siena when you're at that party and you know you can't be there? Grace My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is perfected in your weakness. Because when you are weak, he is strong. Grace. How are you going to deal with your sin? How are you going to confront the reality of your sin, grace? And when you fail and you're told by Satan that you are somehow falling short of the glory of God, grace. Grace. That's how you make it through it. So these aren't my words, these are the words of uh so uh uh uh some of the commentaries I read, but breaks this grace down into five distinct areas. Grace which proceeds from God God gives you grace you need to partake. Grace which produces confidence and hope Grace which improves our conduct and allows our conduct to struggle against ourselves to manifest grace in the lives of yourself and others. Grace that perfects character and grace that promotes courage. The courage to stand firm. So uh and and so yeah, and so so grace is the central theme and suffering is the central theme. Uh and and now when I think about the way that this is all put together And I told you before that it it is it is in my mind perfectly Petri, right? It's perfectly who Peter is. You know, and and because if you think about his life and the gospels and you think about the things that that he when he walked with Christ, that he showed struggled with and you see him in Acts and the things that he does in Acts, and then you read this epistle, you're like, oh man, who else could have written this? It it you know there's a lot of people who are you know in defense actually to be honest, the epistle itself has very few people who who deny that Peter actually wrote it. The the early witnesses, you know, Eusebia or not Ireneus and all of these you know multiple early church fathers quote it and attest it to Peter. There's very few people who argue that it's petri. But the arguments about different things that it might be Peter uh coming late in I think early twentieth century, I believe it was, there was some. And to me it just it's all answered because only Peter could have written this. Only Peter could have written this. He he reflects he he reflects a theology, he reflects a focus, a motivation that is just perfectly Peter. It's just perfectly who God made Peter to be. And when you look at Paul, he focuses on what's called the reality of justification. You are saved. You've been transferred from the dominion of darkness into the dominion of light. Therefore, behave this way. Make it your spiritual service of worship. It's the idea that you are justified, so you have something now you must do. Right? John he focuses on the sanctifying work in the Spirit. We love because God first loved us. Right? We love because God first loved us. God is light. If we say we have fellowship in Him, yet walk in darkness, we lie and we do not practice the truth. Right? The reality of the current day is John's primary focus in his motivation for sanctifying in the Lord. But Peter focuses on something very unique. He focuses on the reality that we have something beyond. He focuses on the reality That we are saved by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. We are saved Into a reality that's unspeakably wonderful, one that is unperishable, undefiled, right? One that cannot be taken away from you You are chosen from the foundation of the world to be given something you don't deserve and never could deserve, and it is more beautiful than anything that you're suffering through now. Right? That's Peter's focus. And when you think about how that reality exists in Peter, you have to remember that before he was Peter, he was Simon. Common fisherman, common village, right? So you know, say he was in Caperna, maybe he was had a little bit bigger fishing industry than the common person, but he was a common dude Simon is maybe the most common name in the Bible. Oh the New Testament, let's say. I don't know that I didn't test that, so don't write me if it's wrong. I don't want to hear it. But it's one of the most common names in the Bible. But Christ's first words, you You are Simon Barjonis. But you will be Cephas. Right now, you're this common thing. I'm going to make you a rock. I chose you. No one said, he didn't jump up the way, hey I'm Peter. Nice to meet you, Jesus. No, he said, you are Simon Bar Jonas. You are Simon, son of John. But I'm going to make you the rock. First words out of God's mouth. Chosen. You are chosen to do this. You are chosen to be this, set apart. So, of course, when he talks about the reality Of his salvation. Of course, he talks about it in the context of chosen before the foundation of the world. Right? Through the foreknowledge of God. He was taught in a special way by Christ. Nobody else he's he's front and center throughout the gospels as the lead disciple. It's never really in question. He always appears first in every single list of the disciples. He's you know Christ takes him along in a special way. You're out on the oh you're out on in the Sea of Galilee and there's a storm And there's Christ walking along the waves. Peter says, ah, call me to you. Christ says, look at me. Don't look around. Focus on me. Right? Don't look around. Focus on me. Keep your focus on me. It's going to be scary if you look around. But if you focus on me, you'll be okay. And what does Peter do? Ugh. And he starts to fall. And what does Christ do? I got you. I got you, Grace, Grace, right Hey, Garden of Gethsemane. Christ says, I have to suffer. Simon jumps up, I'll never let that happen. Get behind me, Satan. Get behind me, Satan. You are not going to keep me from doing what I have to do. I know where I'm going. I know what I'm doing. You follow me. You don't try and prevent me from being. You don't try and prevent me from following through with my ministry. Get behind me, Satan. Right? Because what's the calling? Come along. Suffer with me. This is where we're going. You ain't stopping it. Right? He goes to lop off the ear of the soldier. Christ heals him. That's not how we're going to win this fight That's not that's not that's not the Christian calling. Here's the Christian calling. Let me stretch out my arms and show you the Christian calling. Right. So anyway, uh denies Christ three times Runs off, it's gonna go fishing, right? Because that's what you do when you fail. Just go back to what you did. Just go back to your old life because you know Christ can't use me. I failed miserably, denied him three times after I promised I'd die for him. Peter, do you button more than those guys? I love you, Lord. Come on, Simon. Feed my sheep. Do you love me? Yeah, Lord, you know I love you. Feed my sheep. Step into your calling. You're calling in out there on the Sea of Galilee, feed my sheep. Do you love me? Oh Lord, you know everything. Lord, you know everything. You know how it failed You know everything. That's right. I do. Feed my sheep. Finish your calling. Grace. Grace. In that moment. Grace. He fails. Christ brings him up again. Grace. And when the Holy Spirit comes, he is a different Peter. Have you ever noticed that? Like for me, that's like the most amazing thing uh uh about pet is that when he gets the holy spirit, man. He's weak, the spirit is strong. And when it comes through that mouth that ran so much as a disciple, he couldn't shut it. He was always up front. He was always vacillating. Now he's firm. Now he's direct Right? Now he's a different Peter. He changes completely from wavering, vacillating disciple with the foot-shaped mouth to an unwavering, bold leader because he was given the Holy Spirit. And he understood fully the reality of grace. He understood it. And you can hear all of these lessons in his word. When he states in chapter 1 that we are chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit for the obedience to Jesus Christ, we can reflect on Jesus' words. Right? You are called Cephas. Right now, you're commoner, you're chosen. Right? When you were he says you were not redeemed with perishable things like gold. Can you not see Peter looking at Christ on the the Mount of Transfiguration, talking to Elijah, talking to Moses? And God coming from heaven after he shoots his mouth off about we gotta build something here, Lord. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Uh-uh. No. You follow my son, who I am well pleased with Right? But can't you just see him looking at the glorified body of Christ and knowing that that blood was precious? Can you see I mean you can see that in his writing? And you can recall when he says, In this you greatly rejoice for a little while you suffer various trials, and in Acts 5 41 when they went about rejoicing because they had been suffered they had been considered worthy for suffering for Christ. So they they take them and with them, him and John, and send them on their way And he's like, oh, thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. And there are echoes of his sermons from Acts. Uh in 120, he was known before the foundation of the world. That's part of his sermon in Acts 223 at the day of Pentecost. The stone which the builder rejected also reminiscent of his of his uh uh speech in uh Acts 4, 10-11. When he says the very same thing, this is the this is the Christ that you killed. They will give an account reminiscent of his statement in Acts 1042. I can send those out if you want to You wanna uh look those up? How could you not read this and not see Peter You know, and and and then think about your own life. Right? I mean think about your own Your own testimony. Peter tells you to keep your conduct good so that if anybody asks, you'll be ready to give an account. Right? What's your account? Peter's account is I was a weak, vacillating Boisterous, putting my foot in my mouth every chance I got, love the taste of shoe leather. Right? And Christ made me into this man. who was told, you will go one day to whether you do not want to go Think about that for a moment. Christ told him he would suffer. Like I don't know about you, but if someone comes and tells me, hey man, you're about to go get some this is going to really hurt. This is going to be really bad Okay, you are gonna suffer in a very special way, Peter. To me, I'm like, well hey, wait a minute. Can we talk about this a little bit? Can we maybe have a little conversation? How did that feel to Peter in that moment after he had been just risen up by Christ again? After denying him three times? And Christ is not telling them not only that he's going to die and suffer for Christ. But he tells him, you're going to die and suffer for me. You are not going to deny me again. So it may sound like a threat to you, but I can only imagine to Peter in that moment, that was incredible grace. To Peter in that moment, who had denied his Lord and Savior, documented it. Thanks for that. Tell everybody. You know tell everybody. Everybody gets to know. But in the end, he was firm. In the end, he learned he was firm. That had to feel in that moment like the best news he's ever heard. And that's why, in that moment of suffering in Acts, that's why he's like, look, I'm worthy to suffer for the Lord. Are you worthy to suffer for the Lord? Are you? Someone comes in your house. Someone threatens you with a gun. Are you worthy to suffer for the Lord? What do you do when you're at the party? Yeah, hang around afraid that someone might laugh at you if you leave. Do you? Would anybody blame you for that if you just in that moment decided, well, I don't have to partake, but I can just kind of act like I'm with them. Is that is that your response? Or is it mama come get me? Mama come get me. I I can't be here. Mama, come get me. What do you do at work? Hey man, can you book this this order for me? I I need this order booked today I'm gonna have a purchase order. I got customers that hadn't told me he wants. Just book it today. I'll get the purchase order in a week. You book it? You do it because he's the sales manager, and if I don't do it, he's gonna be mad and he's gonna tell my boss and boss can tell me what to do, so I might as well just Just just forget about all the nonsense in between and just book the order. Purchase order to be determined. Maybe the customer takes it, maybe we cancel it in the Month. But at least for now, I don't have to stand out anymore. At least for the moment, I'm okay. Is that what you do? Or do you say no? I'm sorry, I can't do that You can't do it. It's against the rules. The rules are written. The rules are there. I'm sorry. I can't follow what you're asking me to do. No, that's gonna make you stand out if you do that. You're gonna look holy if you do that. Oh, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. Don't wait. Don't want to look holy What do you do in those moments? When it's dark, when no one's around, you're tempted by sin No one will know. No one will see. No one will hear The tree falls in the woods, it didn't really fall. Nobody heard it, so no one will see my sin. No, God sees your sin God sees your sin. What do you do in that moment? This is a hard calling. This is a hard calling, and Peter is not mincing words. Peter is not playing around. He is dead serious when he tells you, be holy, for I am holy. So if you're a Christian, you're gonna suffer If you're a Christian, you're gonna have struggles. Peter says, What are you gonna do? What you gonna do? Any questions? I got through my nose. Um okay. Um that's what I got. I got I'm gonna give you like five minutes of your life back. I better pray because I think I forgot to pray in the beginning. Maybe I sh no, I just forgot to turn the recorder on bef before I prayed. So what happened was Why per French skills? Okay, let's let's pray