First Peter chapter five verses one through nine. So can everybody open up? I'd like as we walk through this, if you don't mind, uh I'm gonna follow really, really closely to the verses, so if you guys wouldn't mind opening up and following along. Want to read those first nine verses? Therefore I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God among you. Exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for sort of gain, but with eagerness, nor yet as lording it over those allotted to your charge, but providing to but proving to the remote. To be to be examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. You younger men likewise be subject to your elders, and all of you clothe yourselves with humility toward one another. God is opposed to the proud but gives grazing the humble. Therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you at the proper time, casting all your anxiety on him, because he cares for you. Be of sober spirit. Spirit, be on the alert. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. But resistant, firm in your faith, knowing that the same experiences of suffering are being accomplished by your brethren who are in the world. So, uh Peter's concluding his epistle here now, um the last piece, verses ten through fourteen, uh Scott will cover next week. A little bit of an odd break. by the way, um you actually would normally uh if if you if I were teaching this along the uh the normal paragraphs, right, I think what you would have is that would be four different messages, right? You would have verses one through four about the elders. You would have a separate discussion about the younger men, then maybe the the third one about the discussion, uh the exhortation to all, uh and then probably finish up with the uh the the the warning and the exhortation about resisting the devil. So if we if we had like another three weeks we could probably stretch this out quite nicely uh by going through these pieces. But today I'm covering these first three parts and then Scott can pick it up. Uh at at the end of uh or you know next week and finish off just because it's literally so much to cover. Um but Peter here has three separate exhortations in the way that I've divided this up that we're gonna cover. The first is to the elders as As I said, the second uh I'm including the young men, or he calls the younger ones, uh and the church body together, and then finally the warning about the devil. And the uh the the big idea here, we normally have some discussion about this before The big idea here is how does the church behave in the face of persecution? Um how does the church behave in the face of persecution? And really, if we're going to be uh kind of uh i in a bigger view, uh how does anybody behave when they are faced with a crisis moment? Like what components? Like think about uh I just I was thinking like a football game. You know, if if you're uh uh a fan of of football, you know, the Super Bowl was last week and uh there at the very end of the game. Um Cincinnati has scored a touchdown and now they they've got I think it was a minute and forty seconds or something like that to travel the entire distance of the field. Or they were gonna lose the Super Bowl, the Rams were, right? They were faced with a crisis situation. Obviously not, you know, but they were faced with a crisis situation. What do you do? What do you do? And so they get the ball and they march down the field, um and then they get all the way up to the goal line and um and they run, you know, a series of plays and they execute and finally they win, right? But for those of you who know anything about football, you know that that's something they've practiced. Right? They didn't just enter into that situation having never really done it before. You know? They they they actually practice that stuff all the way back in spring training and all the way through the year. They're practicing it every every week over and over and over again so that they know they want to execute. And uh what are some of the things that you see in that? Just to invite some discussions. What are some of the things like if if you like football and you watch those last those last minute drives, what are some of the things that are really prevalent about those last minute drives. Like what about you know how they organize the the the effort? Who's in charge? T V quarterback, right? They ain't got time to call plays in from the sideline, right? So who's in charge of the quarterback, right? Right? And he's out there and he's looking at the situation and he's calling plays. Right? And everybody does what? Whenever they they get down the field and now they gotta reset the ball and everybody's doing what? Rushing rushing to the line? Hustling. Hustling to the line. line and it's just like bam bam bam right? But they all m have what, like one mind. You know, they know okay, if I get the ball I gotta go out of bounds. Right? Because I gotta stop the clock. If if uh if I can't stop the clock then I gotta get up 'cause we gotta we gotta get it down so they can spike the ball so they can stop the stop the clock. It's all executed along a path, right? And um and you have a leader. You have elders. Let's just to extend the thing. You have elders And those elders are out there having prepared themselves to call these plays when they face these moments of crisis. And the church body is submitted, right? what they know they need to do because the elders are there for them, right? Uh and they know how to follow along and they know what they need to do to execute. And then of course they're mindful of their resistance They're mindful of, you know, I okay, I'm I'm I'm a little bit older school with the uh with the football, but any time I think about something like this, if I was gonna apply it, I think like Lawrence Taylor. Oh you better know where Lawrence Taylor is, right? 'Cause that guy will knock your head off off if you're not terrible, right? He will flat and knock your head off if you're not so you better know where the enemy is is planning to attack you. And uh and that's kind of the idea that I'm uh we're working with here today. How do you execute these plays in these moments of crisis? How do you deal with these moments of persecutions? How does the church deal with, quite honestly, everyday life? Right? Because let's be honest. if we think about it, there's the church has always got something happening. Right? The church has always got a crisis moment. Somebody is always going to be suffering. Someone is always going to need Help. And uh so that's how we're uh kind of my my big idea on that today. And so he starts off with um an exhortation to the elders. Uh Interesting note is that this is the only passage in the New Testament, uh in the New Testament epistles, I'm sorry. In the New Testament epistles where uh elders are called out um specifically uh for an exhortation. It's the only place. The only other place is in Acts twenty when Paul exhorts the elders of Ephesus. And uh you could read uh actually let let's go ahead and just read that real quick. Acts Chapter twenty, verses twenty eight through thirty-two. And you're gonna see a similar pattern. I know that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock, and among and from among your own selves men will arise, speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples. after that. Therefore be on the alert, remembering that night and day for a period of three years I did not cease to admonish each one with tears. And now I command you to God, commend you to God and to the word of his grace which is able to build you up and give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. Uh how far do you want to go to the first time? That's that's that's good the idea there is verses there, I'm sorry. Uh Acts twenty uh Acts chapter twenty verses twenty eight through thirty two. So yeah, so other than that exhortation specifically to the elders, this is the only place in the New Testament where you see a specific exhortation to elders. Why Paul had exhorted the elders there, it's a similar situation, right? There are savage wolves coming in to the church of Ephesus, and he knows that. Right? And so there's a time of crisis coming upon the church of Ephesus. And during that time of crisis, he's going to look to the elders to shepherd the flock of God, which is how Peter puts it, shepherd the flock of God. sets out four things about uh the presbytos, uh the the the the elders. Uh first he sets out the standard of leadership in verse one uh the standard of leadership he calls them presbyteros. Sorry, it's presbyteros. Uh literally if you look in the Greek it it just means old man. The old guy, right? Uh It has the context if you bring in uh the Jewish teachings, right? The Jewish referred to elders as leaders, right? And that's where we set we tend to to get this idea of elders, you know, and leaders is that that the Christians kinda picked up on that. And so there they've extended that. So the term elder uh in the New Testament also clearly means leader or but if you just took the Greek words literal meaning it just means old guy. guy. So old people. Um and and that Jewish rank in the office, of course, you know you hear that in in the in the um in the Gospels about the Sanhedrin. He refers to them as elders also in Acts. And uh then he then he uh he says he he calls them and he appeals to them as soon presbytero, fellow elders. Fellow elders. and witnesses of Christ's sufferings and partakers of the glory uh the uh uh of their glory of the glory. Uh in other words he appeals to them on a sim on a one-to-one basis. He appeals to them on the basis of equality. Interesting note, right? Because Peter's an apostle. Right? Peter's an apostle, but here when he's appealing to him, he chooses not to assert his apostleship. Instead, he talks to them in the sense that, hey, we're together in this. We're together in this. There's a lot of uh commentaries we'll talk there about how Peter Peter specifically doesn't claim any kind of authority. So, you know, this idea that, you know, Peter was the first pope, he could have easily asserted his papal authority in that moment, right? Because he's appealing to the leaders. Why didn't he? Well, because he didn't see himself as the Pope. But more importantly I think than that, and just discussion between these kinds of things, is that Peter's appeal to them in that moment is that, hey, I'm alongside you. Right? I I'm here. I am alongside you. I am a fellow elder. I am a co-witness to Christ's sufferings. I am a co-partaker. Of the glory yet to be revealed. We're in this together. And that's an important point. Because the example of a good elder is one who. who leads by example. Important note. Peter chooses not to assert and to lord over them. He chooses instead to say, hey, we're in it together. Follow me. Here's the example. We have Christ as our example. I'm walking in Christ's example. Follow me. Right? Important note about what makes a good elder. And the responsibilities of He says, let me see, Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. He starts off, Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. Literally, this term shepherd. Shepherd means feeder or tender or keeper, not a white-collar guy. This is the guy that puts on jeans. Right? He's a worker. And he's out there and he's working. day working. It's not glorious business to be an elder. It's not uh uh it's not like glorious work. It's not something that should Make this person feel like he's on an ivory tower. Quite the opposite. He is down in the trenches with you. He is a feeder, a keeper. Um and and it also tells you what And the Bible is clear when they refer to him as a shepherd what what an elder's job is to feed the sheep. What does a shepherd do? He feeds the sheep, right? He's a teacher. He protects the sheep from wolves. Right? He confronts sin, he confronts error, he protects them from that, he keeps them from evil, he goes before, he leads by example, and he cares for the flock. He deals with the people. pain but the flock suffers from things in life. It's a pretty high calling. Go ahead. The um when Paul is speaking to Titus and the the um refers to specific categories of people in the church. He says older men, older women, and then the the uh young young men. Presbuteros is probably not the same word for these older men. as as um in in Titus because it sounds like it's more of a general category of I would have to look I I didn't I didn't uh look at that but I yeah I would have to look for that. But I would assume that it would probably be the same Yeah, because the literal meaning is old guy, right? It it's literally old man. Like it it's the literal meaning of it. But clearly scripture has more than just a literal meaning in mind. There's a connotation there that that extends into Jewish tradition, that extends into the early Christian uh pro you know, thought. So it it it's the s oh, it's the same word. No, Scott says it's the same word, so We'll trust Scott. Well, don't trust me, I'm looking at the Ohio. So yeah, it's the same word. But it you know, again, w we we have the same thing in English, right? We have words that have literal meanings and then there are connotations to those meanings, right? Um and so clearly this is a word that that interestingly uh the the church has picked up as as a as a recognition of a position of of leadership right and they get that from Jewish tradition. That's right. No, it's totally fine. It's it's great. Um okay, so what did I okay, feed the sheep, they teach, protect from wolves, confront sin and error, keep from the flock, uh keep the flock from evil. Uh Lead before the flock, right? The the shepherd is always uh should always be in front of the flock to to a avoid the potential of of something coming at at them. Uh and other they're leading there by example, they lead uh out in front. Uh and then they care for the flock, they deal with pain. Um and and they're not shepherding their own flock. Right? They're under shepherds. They are shepherding the flock of God. Right, the flock of God. So the elders should never consider themselves as being the owner of the sheep himself, but merely an undershepherd who, as he says there in verse 4, when the chief shepherd, the shepherd who does own the flock comes back in verse four. That's that's the that's the chief shepherd. The elder is is merely a uh uh an ambassador of the chief shepherd. He's an under shepherd. He He should shepherd the flock of God, not his own flock. So uh and then thirdly, the motivation of an elder. Uh the motivation of an elder, starting in in 2B, uh He says exercising oversight not under compulsion. Not under compulsion, but willingly. So an elder is one who doesn't act because he's told to. He leads because he must. He doesn't he doesn't lead because he's been ordered to by somebody else or he he's compelled somehow legally, but he he volunteers for this position. to lead. And that's an important quality of an elder. Uh that they um that they uh that they are I mean how how do you find an elder? Because they're usually doing the work that they shouldn't be doing as an elder anyway. Right? I'm gonna do it whether I have a position or not. nobody will take leadership responsibility. And it literally comes down to well you have a mantle that makes you look like a head of the household, so put your mantle on and we'll we'll we'll follow you. You are the leader. And it's not that the guy wants to do it. It's just that everybody What passage is that? It's Isaiah? Yeah, I want to know what passage that is. That's a g that's a good one. I yeah. So he he's volunteering Not under compulsion, but he's volunteering willingly. Uh as as God would have you. Not because man makes him do it, but because God has put it on his heart to do it. Uh a and earnestly You know, I I love Peter's constant reference to this earnestness of of um uh of the believer, the earnestness of the service that you're committing. And it's all throughout the w uh all through out Peter, we've talked about you know long for the pure milk of the word is the one that really sticks out to me, but but the idea of genuineness genuineness, something like that. I don't even think that's a word. But yeah, the genuineness of your walk with Christ. Right? Hear the genuineness of your desire to lead. That God is putting it on your heart. Not because for material gain, not because of a material, not because Sorted gain, I believe, is the way it's translated, but but out of an earnestness, uh an earnestness that God puts on your heart. Uh you know, and being an elder is a calling. You know, we talk about pastors having calls callings, we talk about, you know, um an and to be honest with you, I I'm always so I'm sort of uh Scott and I share this. We're sort of anti mystic, right? Like we I I I I tend to like, okay, it's the word of God, I believe it, it's there, you know i th there are very few passages where I'm kind of confronted with this mysticness of a and and calling is one of those things that just always feels kind of strange to me, like, you know, what what, you know, you're gonna see some vision, God's gonna to come speak to you. Like I always kind of there's something in my brain that discounts that, but what is a calling? Well here you get a picture of what a calling is. Right? Again, I made the point. When do you want when do you when does a person know that they're going to be an elder. Because they're doing the work anyway. I don't need a job title. I don't need a a designation per se. I'm just doing it because I must. And when you find yourself in that position where you are doing it because you must, because you feel compelled, because the word of God literally won't allow you to do anything else. And you don't care. About the other stuff because this is the important thing. I I would um think that that characterizes almost any spiritual gift, whether it's hospitality or mercy or evangelism. more leadership that you cannot not do it. Um maybe you can not do it uh because of it you're seared by sin, but any gift that God gives you you you can not not do it in some form? Uh yeah, I I would differentiate it though a little bit, just because when you think about a calling like this, the other aspect of of being called is that you're gonna stand out. Right. And and maybe I'll use that and I'll use you if you don't mind since um you're you're a great example. Yeah for poor Kirk. He's like he's like I'm never taking a class with Frank ever again. Your service to people stands out to me. I mean I just honestly, it's it uh it convicts me sometimes that I don't do enough um because I see you just quietly working and doing your thing and it's incredible. You know, and it's an encouragement. Both you and and Margot both. Uh it's it's a huge encouragement. Scott mentioned it too, it's an encouragement to others in the body that that you just serve because you love to serve and it's and and sometimes maybe doesn't show up on the headlines, it's not bright, you know, in bright banners, but it's always there. And it's always there. And that in that sense, yeah, I agree with you. You're you're using your gift. You feel compelled to use the gift. I think this is a little different Because with elders and this kind of calling, it's like they stand out. You know, the idea here is that as they are walking and talking and and do they stand out as requiring this elevation to eldership formally within the body. You see what I'm saying? Like there's no well, I guess there's a uh the akinos. But anyway, I maybe I need to unpack that a little more. But yeah, okay, go ahead. I I'm just kinda thinking of Peter himself, um, in John twenty one. You know, I mean before the crucifixion, I mean he was boastful and pride, you know, he would uh go with Jesus to the death. And but the in verse one the witness of the suffering in Christ, I mean It was you know, and after he denied him, I mean this was life changing for him, you know, he was just he was crushed, you know, his his pride and and so he was humble. And in John twenty one where the Lord restored Peter, you know, and tells him that to shepherd the flock, you know, feed the lambs. You know, that's exactly what he's doing here. You know, I mean exactly what he's doing here. And even though he was commanded to do this, you know, obviously his heart's desire is to do this to you know, not out of pride but out of humbleness to to serve the Lord. And you know, willingly, wanting to do that. Yeah and Actually it's in my notes it he as it's a good point and and I'll just expound on that. If you if you think about Peter in his life and we've talked a lot about this throughout the last twenty four weeks, uh he was always watching Wanting to be out front. Right? He sees Christ on the water. Call me to you, Lord. He wanted out in that water to be with Christ. There was an eagerness there, right? But there wasn't a humility. Right? So he gets out. the water and what is he get scared? Who Christ rescues rescues him. He says, you know, he he sees Christ and he says, I'm gonna Christ says I'm gonna suffer and die. No, oh that'll never happen. That'll never h I'll never allow that. Get behind me, Satan. He was wanting to be out front, but he didn't have the humility also. And and I I I really see his denials and the pain. Um Luke actually covers the pain of his denial uh maybe better than all of them because he m he makes the point that that the that the Lord looked back at him and he wept. And um yeah, he just even that image for a moment of, you know, he's caught in his own sin, that he's he's been so out front, so bold to speak, and now all of a sudden he's revealed, you know, on your strength you're nothing, right? And he collapses, he weeps and he goes off and now he's ready for service. Right? Only then, only then after that pain marinates in his heart and he realizes his weakness, only then Christ can come to him and say, Do you love me? Do you love me? Oh, I love you, Lord. Do you? Beat my sheep. You know, do you love me? Beat my sheep. He has to be broken first, right? And he has to be broken because he has to be reliant on and actually that's a little bit further down in my notes so I'll jump back on that later. But uh the you know this calling uh is the willingness to be out in front. And the evidence of that calling becomes evident in the way that you you live and you exist and you you walk. And uh can you read uh Matthew twenty, someone read Matthew twenty verses twenty five through twenty Eight. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great men exercised authority over them. It is not so among you, but whoever wishes to be great among you Shall be your servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for men. So Navig Navigator's memory verse. So the motivation of an elder, the the willingness to be up front, there is uh one commentator makes a note here that I think is excellent. Um you can um read that into a husband and his position in the house. Right? You can read that into anybody who seeks to be a leader in Christ. So if you're a a boss that uh is in charge of people at work, you want to lead like Christ, you serve, you're out front, you're a servant, right? You serve first, you're out there, you're willing, and this is no driver. Different for an elder. Fundamentally it's the same. If you think about our examples of the best shepherd examples in Scripture, you have David. Right? David in in uh in uh 1 Samuel uh the the entire 1 Samuel chapter 17, the entire country of Israel, the entire nation of Israel is quaking because of this giant of a man. And David, this little bitty screen, Brawny, ruddy kid is ready to go and fight for God's honor. He's ready to go out there and fight for his countrymen. And he says, Look, I've protected sheep against lions, I've protected sheep against bears. I'm not letting this guy talk about my Lord this way. Right? And he goes out there and he confronts. Right? He he sh he is shepherding then the nation of Israel the way he shepherded his flock uh for his father. Jesse, he was out there and he was out in front. Um Moses. In Exodus 32, uh after the nation falls into idolatry and God God's like, okay, I'm just gonna, you know, that's it, I'm starting up. over with you Moses and he says no no no Lord don't hold it against them put it on me he was willing to take that for his people or for for the for the nation of Israel he loved it them enough but he would suffer God's wrath on their behalf. And Paul says the exact same thing in Romans nine. Right? In Romans nine he says, Man, I I would rather be I I I don't have it in front of me, but I would rather go to hell than to have my nation I w I th they would be saved. I would burn for this because I love them so much. Why, he's a shepherd. That's the heart of a shepherd right there. And that's what a shepherd ought to be. And then moving on finally, the last thing is that the judgment and reward that shepherds receive. Peter said For when the chief shepherd appears in verse four, when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive an unfading crown of glory. So there's two sides of that sword. The first side of that is if you're a good shepherd, you receive the unfading crown of glory. The other side of that is is that uh you know James in chapter uh James chapter three he says uh not many of you You should seek to be elders because they'll incur a stricter judgment. God is watching you. God is watching you, Elder. You have a responsibility, elder, and if you step into that position, you had better follow in to it. You'd better not fall down from that because God will judge you for that. There's a judgment. Second Timothy four verses six through eight. Someone want to grab that real quick. As for me Second Timothy Pour As for me, my life has already been poured out as an offering to God. But the the time of my death is near. I've brought the good I have finished the race and I have remained faithful. And now the cries awaits me, the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will give me on the day of of his return. And cries not just for me, but for all of the Now that that word crown, uh which he's using there, skefonos, uh is a um a wreath that's given to athletes. It was um in Greek society a way of recognizing excellence. Right? And so the idea here where the chief shepherd appears, you'll receive an unfading crown of glory. You'll be recognized for your excellence excellence. Well done, my good and faithful servant. You'll be recognized for that. It's also used in 1 Corinthians 9, 25. Anyone who competes, exercises self-control, they for may for perishable crown you for an imperishable. James, thus it is the one who perseveres under trial, they'll receive a crown. And then Revelation 2. 10, uh he he warns the uh the church there that the devil is a Oh I was gonna say that the the opposite of that we were talking about, um, is in Jeremiah twenty three when he talks about, you know, woe to you and he says then, um, you have scattered my flock and driven them away and you have not attempted Yeah, and then um also in Matthew he says, Don't what do you lead my little ones astray? 'Cause it'd be better for you to have a millstone put on your neck and cast to the sea where you can die and decompose. It would be better that judgment for you than the judgment you're gonna face to me if you fail in that in in in that calling of leadership. Woe to you. Yeah, so yeah, absolutely. The judgment as as excellent as it is to to get the crown of glory is as as difficult as it will be your judgment if you fail in that. Um so, uh yeah. Anyway, so that that that uh then concludes the the portion on the elders. Um and then he goes in that starting in verse five, he begins to address the church body. In verse five, likewise you who are younger Uh and actually I really like the way the ESV translates that there because it there's no younger men and other other translations you might see younger men. It's really just the younger. The younger ones, I guess, because it's you know, is a noun. But it just means younger ones. Um but uh the those who are not elders in in in if you think about it in that context, those who are not elders, you younger ones, uh or you younger men, be subject uh to the elders and that word subject again uh uh a very common word in Peter, right? A very common point of discussion in Peter. In chapter three he goes on and on about be subject to every human institution, be subject to your masters, be subject to everyone. to your your uh husband's wives, um, you know, uh and he uses uh Christ's examples uh uh as to why we have to be subject. And here he says, submit yourself to these elders. Acknowledge and respect them for what they are doing. Now, there's an obvious point here. What if the elders are doing something, and it's the same obvious point that you have with the wives? Right, that we talked about with the wives. If the elders are leading you into sin, do you follow that elder? No, of course not. If your church is a body is falling away from the word of God, if your church is a body is is is not doing the things that they ought to be doing to glorify the kingdom of heaven, leave. You don't want to be a part of that body. Right? But if your elders are submitted To Christ, teaching the Word of God accurately, going about the ministry in the right way. If your elders are submitted to Christ, if your elders are examples like you see here in the first verses, submit to that. You don't have to like it. You may not agree that, oh man, I I don't like that they're going to go evangelize on this corner. I want them to go evangelize on that corner. I don't know, whatever. they they choose to do, submit. Submit. Our job as not elders is to trust that God is working in those elders and we submit. So you younger ones Be subject to your elders. And then he makes another more pointed statement. He says, clothe yourself with humility toward one another. I actually really like that verse. This was great. I I enjoyed really pulling out so I want to talk about that. But but the idea here is, you know, you gird yourself. The the word that he uses there to clothe is the same idea of as a slave who puts an apron on when he's going to work to cover his other clothes up. And then that that term for uh humble there is the same one in 38 where he says humble minded or it's a similar word, something exactly Exact same word, but it's a similar word. It has the same, it carries the same weight and the meaning of. So i in other words, wrap yourself in humility. Wrap yourself in the idea and the knowledge that you're weak. Wrap yourself and focus yourself. Keep a as a protective barrier around yourself. Clothe yourself in the idea that you're weak. You're a sheep. Right? You're a sheep. That's what you do. You're a sheep. And you're weak. And unless you're together with your group, you're not strong. Right? Together, you're safe. What is the devil? We're going to talk about the lion. What how does the lion know what gazelle it wants to pick off? It's the one that wanders from the flock. The one that's weak. Not ready, out there by itself, right, doing its own thing. That's how the lion picks who it's gonna pick off. The one that's not with where he's supposed to be, the one who's not in the flock, right? So clothe yourself in humility. Don't rely on your own strength. Rely on the strength of the Lord. Rely on the strength that you get in one another as the body. of the church. Wrap yourself in humility. Clothe yourself with that idea. And then he says God opposes the proud. That word is to do battle against. It's from Proverbs 334. It's actually a paraphrase in Proverbs three thirty four. Um it it means to to do battle against. James also mentions it in chapter uh in four verses six. You know look if if you want to be the strong one or you think you're going to be the strong one? God's going to let you be the strong one. You want to make up your own mind? Do you want to do your own thing? You want to follow your own way? Have at it. Have at it. You wanna face the lions? You wanna encourage the lions to come and get you? Actually I think hyenas are a little more scary than lions. I think lions will kill you a lot quicker than a hyena will, so you wanna go deal with the hyena? You want to be out there? You don't want to submit to the elders? You want to submit to yourself? You want to make your own decisions? You want to be your own leader? You want to go your own way? Go on, little gazelle. Go on, little sheep. Hang out there because God will resist you. God will resist you. He will oppose you in that. He will not bless you. Go ahead. Frank, it it um appears that humility is like a complementary um to being subject in in that if we observe or hear something about maybe uh what our elders have said or done Humility would set you to to not gossip, to not uh antagonize, to not challenge, but to to put on humility and maybe just observe and uh go go to him and question Or if it's a a womanly or to have some questions in humility and to take up that that posture rather than maybe an accus accusatory posture. I think there's definitely an aspect of that in in in pride, right? What what does pride always do to us? It always gives us the sense that we are stronger or smarter or wiser than maybe we really are. You know? And um uh so that's an excellent point, you know, that the lack of humility is also something that could potentially damage the church in that sense, right? Because if you're out there openly accusing and you're out there questioning the other and you're not submitting yourself uh with a good heart and a good conscience, then clearly you will cause those issues and uh and you'll incur judgment for that as well. Um Uh yeah, th that's that's where I think you know, I think it's an excellent an excellent point. Um and God opposes that that pride. And I I I tend to think of it as like, hey, you want to go your own way. Right, and and that can also take the form of of um you know interrupting or you know coming along or or jump you know causing division, causing a schism uh within the church. church, uh you want to lead yourself, you wanna lead others, you wanna step up and you wanna step into this spot, God will oppose you in that. God will fight you in that. Um and you know and of course our church the the the church the Catholic Church, the Little Sea Catholic Church, is full of denominations and and things because proud people decided that their point was the most important thing. Um and uh you know maybe sometimes that was the right thing, but maybe sometimes Sometimes it was wrong, but clearly it's something that causes division. Um is that kind of what you Yeah, yeah. That's better than I could have said. Um but yeah, if you want to be the strong one, God's gonna let you do that. And God's going to let you suffer the consequences of that. Right? And you're going to uh you want to step into a role of a leader, then guess what? You're going to incur stricter judgment. Whether you should have been in that role or not, whether that was God's call. calling upon you or not, right, you're going to incur that stricter judgment. You want to lead somebody astray? Well, it's better for you to have a millstone wrapped around your neck and thrown into sea. into the sea. Right? Than to lead one astray. You wanna you wanna lead yourself astray? Um no, humble yourself to God. Verse six, humble yourselves, dare Therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so at the proper time he may exalt you. That's another interesting terminology at the proper time he may exalt you. Acknowledge his sovereignty. You're submitting to elders who are submitted to Christ. You're submitted to God. Right? You're submitted, you know, I I mean think about wives from moment. Um and I can just tell you, you know, um Eric and I have been married twenty eight years, she's been married fifty years, right? And and how do you do that? And those of you who been married for a long time, no. Okay? You have to be submitted to Christ first. You have to be submitted to Christ first. And in that Submission, it allows you to become a good wife or a good husband. But you have to be submitted to Christ first. And in that submission, it allows you to become a good church member, right? A good member of the body. In that submission to Christ first, it allows you to become the best elder. So the moment you recognize God's sovereignty and you put Him first in your life, everything starts to take shape. Everything starts to have order. And that's I think what Peter really has in mind here. You know, we want to trust ourselves or we want to act like we know better. But it's better to trust him. And we want to exalt ourselves or one another or a person in a relationship or in a church, but you should be exalting the Lord in your heart. And trusting in his sovereignty, and only when you do that does the idea of submission and the idea of of of um it's the only way that it works. Right? It's the only way that it works uh for the Christian. So and then you don't exalt yourself, you let him exalt you. Now what that means exalt uh there's different different commentators say different things. I I think it means God will exalt you when you come to him and either he's going to return first or you're going to go to him. Right? Either Christ is going to come from the clouds and you're going to be called up. Right? And of course that's clearly in view. But also when you die and you go to heaven And now you see things unveiled. In that moment, what do you want to hear? Well done. Well done. In that moment, what do you want to hear? Well done. You're exalted. You have your inheritance. I I would interpret it as um increased responsibilities. To be exalted means uh if you've been faithful in a few things you'll you'll get increased responsibilities, whether it's on earth or in a uh heaven heavenly economy. you'll you'll have a lot of these really sought after responsibilities. Uh I think that's definitely true when it pertains to the walk in life, right? Like when are you ready to be a husband? When you're submitted to God? When are you ready to be a wife when you're submitted to God? When are you ready to be an elder when you're submitted to God and you're following your calling? Right? When are you you know there's an aspect of that that's true. God will promote you to the position he was faithful in little will be faithful in much. Um I mean there is an aspect of that. But I think in this particular case uh I I I I tend to see it as uh when when you will be a fellow partaker of the glory as he mentioned You'll graduate, yeah, exactly. Now what does that graduation mean? Okay, that graduation in my view means the same thing that it meant uh in the previous chapter when he says you'll cease from sin. So uh I think there's a consistency in the context there that says, hey, uh you're battling in this world and you're fighting in this world and you're suffering through trials and there's persecution coming. Right? And and and every believer is going to face persecution. And these particular believers are going to face extreme persecution. Right? And so for the elders, they have to stand firm, shepherd the flock of God, continue to be good shepherds. For the for the for the the church as a whole. Submit yourself to those elders. Be ready and willing to face those trials because the very worst thing that can happen to you is the best thing that can happen to you. The very most that they can do to you is the greatest day, the greatest day. Greatest moment of your life when you see him clearly, you are exalted. You then now go and graduate into your inheritance, which is undefined. So I tend to see it like that. Um does anybody have any other thoughts on that, Scott? I don't know why but I've been stuck in this purgatory ticket, so I meant that. Um oh Scott believes in purgatory. That'll be deleted from the uh the course. Just just Thursday. One of the things that became clear to me is I I was listening to people interact with the passage is what does it mean to submit? Like hammering the the nail head of submission is is important for sure 'cause it's all scripture, right? But what does it actually mean? And and uh you know how it plays out is I I think beyond the scope of of today's lesson, that's why I'm having calling a bit. But um I mean I I think you provoked me and that you talked about, you know, men understanding their submission to the Lord and their humility before the Lord and that's so important and I want to go to Yeah, let's talk about what that looks like. And then we're ready to talk about it. What does it mean for younger people to submit to to older people. And we're not ready to talk about that until we understand what it means that that you know, leaders should be submitted to Christ first and and men to leaders and I'm struck struggling to hold back a lot of my thoughts over the last month's worth of study to to do it. But you're scratching the No I think you know, I I think you're right. I think we you know the of course you had the the lessons on the the submit yourself to every human institution Uh and just as a moment of reflection, I I think you could really do an entire discussion on just Peter's view of submission in life. Right? Difficult, right? I mean, if you go back to chapter three, uh he tells slaves, submit to your masters, even the ones that are cruel, he doesn't give you any way out of it. That. You know, now, neither did the law in this case, so we had all of that discussion. But the reality is, if he says, hey, you're put here, submit to that. And that's that is a That is brutal, to be honest with you. That is really hard for the 21st century brain to wrap their head around this idea that, really, God, I'm getting beaten every day for what I didn't deserve? And you're telling Telling me submit? Really, God? You want me as a as a wife to submit to this man who can't stand me because I've chosen to follow you? You want me to submit to that? You want me to submit? submit to an emperor who is literally feeding my brethren to the wolves well that's not the wolves, the w wild dogs who's literally, you know, uh uh putting them in in in in open forums where they're eaten by lions? You want me to submit to every human institution? Why? Why? Well, it gets into this idea, right? The very worst thing they can do to you will be the best day of your life. They cannot defeat you. You've already won. And it wasn't by your own work, it was by God's work. But you already won, you're already victorious, you already have an inheritance. You're going to someplace that is infinitely greater. Right? And so this idea of submission, you can do an entire and I don't have time. So I I I I have to cut it from here 'cause I gotta get these last couple of verses in. But but this view of submission that Peter has is something that that I hope that you guys take away from this from these twenty-five weeks that we'll have had together, if nothing else, to learn this is what submission really looks like. Submission really looks like Christ. Submission really looks like Christ. Submitting and himself to be beaten and hung on a cross, the only one, one, truly innocent human being. The only one that can honestly look and say, I have done nothing wrong. The only one, the greatest injustice in the history of the world. The single greatest injustice in the history of the world, and Christ submitted to it, to the joy set before him. Right? For the joy set before him, Christ submitted to the pain. Christ submitted to the suffering because the glory was on the other side of it. Right, and it's the same as true for us. Submit because there is glory on the other side of it. Can I make one contact? Yep. Your passage. I I don't I literally do not disagree with anything you said. I feel like I'm trying to handle what you just said. I'm not. But in the context of this room and these Christian people, there's a a wonderful aspect of this too. just says true but super heavy really discouraging in my mind it's discouraging no it is it's tough to wrap your mind around it but go ahead the leadership that you just talked about the shepherding Brings human. And and that is what the church has. That's what we as people that have Christ have. Our marriages, our older, younger relationships, our elder, you know, church attendee relationships should be marked with an overwhelming evidence of God's leadership that brings healing and peace and restoration. It gets down and the dirtiness of life and and and allows for cleaning, you know, and and and the patience to have that cleaning happen in the Lord's time. And I I just I love the example of of healing leadership. It's Yeah, Isaiah three six through eight passage but I read up the references. Oh yeah, I read that it is it's specific. The leaders you know they make the guy the leader and the first thing he says is, There is no remedy in my house. What's he saying? I don't want to be a leader. I don't want to do the key the leader does which bring healing. And that is not what we have in crisis. We have we have healing. That's a phenomenal point. I'm gonna write it in my notes that I can say I had it in my notes. That's really great. No, I I think that's that's great. I um a hundred percent uh I I love that. Um you know and uh hold on let me get back to where I was. No, no, it's actually it was totally worth the point to be sort of a little bit lost. But we often uh we already talked about want to trust ourselves at the proper time he'll exalt you. And then it just says, cast your cares on him. Um that uh that Greek word etto, that horypto is the the the casting of, right? Uh casting and errors out, cast out, and it's a it's it's this idea of violently casting it out with abandon. The the the the i w the weight of this is to violently cast it out. Just let it go. Just throw it away. Toss it out. Cast out your anxieties. Cast them away. Um it's the same word used when I Mentioned the verse several times, better a millstone hung around your neck than to be cast out into the sea. This idea of this violent throwing out. Let it go. Just stop worrying. Just trust God. Cast your cares on. him. Well here's the thing. There's a reality here and and and maybe this speaks a lot to what Scott was saying, right? But there is a reality here that regardless of your submission, regardless of the things that you suffer and that you're going your your walk with the Lord, you will have anxiety You love your kids, right? You love your children. And sometimes they fall away. You know, we're we dealing with that as a family. You know, it's painful. And it it brings about anxiety. How do you deal with that? I am giving it to you, God. You know, there is difficulties in life. Your work relationships, you're gonna struggle with those. You're going to struggle with those. You're gonna have a bad boss. You're gonna have a bad boss. You're gonna get in a f with your spouse. And it's going to be off They're gonna cut you deeper than you knew there was depth in you because they can do it. And when sin enters in, it will happen. Cast your cares on God. Throw that on him. You have to trust him. You have to put him first. And when you make him the sovereign of your life, when you put him first in your life, then you've got a place for all of you. those things and there I think is where Scott's point is so pointed so great because you have elders who are also submitted to God. You have fellow believers who are also submitted to God and they are there for you. Right? They are there to protect You, to preserve you, to lift you up. Cast your cares on the Lord. Stay close to the flock. Submit yourself to the elders. And then he tells you why. Verses 8 and 9. And he's this is kind of cool because this is like Peter's a little theatrical here, the way he he puts the the verbiage here. Be sober-minded. Stop. Be sober-minded. Stop. Be alert. Stop. So he's saying it like warning. Warning. Right? Be sober-minded. Be alert. We've seen this word sober-minded also before. It means just have a clear head. Have a clear vision of things. Look at the world realistically. Right? See the world for what it is. Be sober-minded. Right? Don't be surprised if they if a fiery trial comes your way. Why? Because you're sober-minded, because you have an understanding, you have the clarity. the world, right, as given to you by the Lord. And be alert. Keep looking. You better be watching out. You better watch out. And why? Your adversary. That term adversary, literally an opponent in a court of law. Someone who brings you before a judge, the Diablo, the accuser, the devil, he comes. comes out accusing, and every time I hear that I think of Job. Every time I hear that I think of Job and and think I just put this back on you guys to think this through. Like think about Job. He says God says, have you considered my servant Job? Satan knew who he was. Satan knew exactly who God was talking about. You know why? Because he'd been watching. He knew exactly. Address, he knew his family, he knew his financial situation, he ascribed a motive. He didn't know the motive, but he ascribed a motive. He was waiting for For that. He knew everything about Job. And let me tell you something. The devil knows everything about you. And he is waiting. He is lying. in wait for the little gazelle to stray from the sh from the herd. He is waiting to see that little sheep. Just follow that little grass patch a little too far out to the left. Because like a roaring lion, he's gonna pounce on it. But thankfully the devil is not omniscient like God is. That's why he doesn't know his motives, right? That's why he really really honestly If I get deeper into the example, he isn't omniscient, but he's watching you. He's studying you. Right? But he doesn't know your motive. But he will test. He will pull it out. He will accuse. Right? Right? He assumes it. Uh and then in verse uh verse uh uh verse eight, let's see, probably seeking someone to devour, literally to swallow up, to consume you whole. to devour you. And then the command, resist him. Do you have to be afraid of this devil? Do you have to be afraid of this accuser? Who can bring a charge against God's elect? He can accuse you all he wants, but but is he going to be successful accusing you before God? No, because who can bring a who can bring a charge against God's elect? Don't be afraid. He's already defeated. Don't fret. It doesn't say have more anxiety because here comes the devil. He says, No, cast your cares on the Lord. But watch out for the devil. Be alert for the devil. Don't fret. Don't add anxiety. Just resist him. Be clear, stand firm, resist. Be clear, stand firm, resist. And one more time, just for good measure, Peter's advice. Be clear, stand firm, resist. Be clear, stand firm, resist. And know that everybody in your brotherhood is suffering through the same stuff. We're all in this together. I can do a little Disney song. Yeah. How many people did I make think about that song? Okay, I know there's a few. We're all in it together. Right? We're all in it together. Know that your fellow brothers are are all all across the world suffering the same thing. How do you know that? He promised. Jesus said They hate me, they're gonna hate you. Right? And we've talked about this for weeks. Everyone, everyone who names the name of the Lord will suffer trials. Every sin. Single one of them. Every single one of them. How do you deal with those? Last admonition. Keep a clear mind. Be watchful. Resist. Resist. Um And that's it. I mean I thank you guys. Um I'm out of time. It's it's a little bit melancholy for me to be standing here after twenty four weeks and saying This is the last time that I'm going to be teaching First Peter. It feels weird. Um but thank you guys for for bearing bearing with me. Did you have final closing? You can have a perfect verse at the end of your passage for Benediction. I feel like you should render it here. Well, okay, okay. And after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To you or to him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. Amen. Let's pray.