Well good morning. Take your Bibles, turn to the book of Acts. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I would never do that to our pastor. When I was pastoring in Indiana, I was preaching through the Gospel of Matthew. It took me about three years, and when guys would preach for me, I would say, listen, you have 65 books to choose from, but stay away from Matthew, alright? Job chapter 1. If you have trouble finding Job, just go to Psalms and go backwards, one book. Or if you were on your way to Acts, go back about 25 books to your left. Job chapter 1. We're going to focus this morning on verses 20 to 22, but for the context, I'm going to read the entire chapter of this morning, Job chapter 1. So follow along with me as I read. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless, upright, fearing God, and turning away from evil. Seven sons and three daughters were born to him. His possessions also were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and very many servants. And that man was the greatest of all the men of the east. His sons used to go out and hold a feast in the house of each one on his day, and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them When the days of feasting had completed their cycle, Job would send and consecrate them, rising up early in the morning and offering burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, Perhaps my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus Job did continually. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. The Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From roaming about on the earth and walking around on it. The Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? For there is no one like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil. Then Satan answered the Lord, Does Job fear God for nothing? Have you not made a hedge about him and his house and all that he has on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But put forth your hand now and touch all that he has. He will surely curse you to your face. Then the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your power, only do not put forth your hand on him. So Satan departed from the presence of the Lord. Now on the day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house, a messenger came to Job and said The oxen were ploughing and the donkeys feeding beside them, and the Sabians attacked and took them. They also slew the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you While he was still speaking, another also came and said, The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you. While he was still speaking, another also came and said, The Chaldeans formed three bands and made a raid on the camels, and took them, and slew the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you While he was still speaking, another also came and said, Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house. And behold a great wind came from across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they died, and I alone have escaped to tell you. Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell to the ground and worshipped. He said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return there. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Through all this, Job did not sin, nor did he blame God. May the Lord add blessing to the reading of his word this morning. In the spring of 1991, I was a junior in college and I got a phone call and it was from my small town in Indiana, Covington, Indiana, from the Little League Commissioner And he said, we had too many kids sign up for Little League Baseball. We need to start an expansion team, and we would like you to coach that team. This was my big break into Little League Baseball So I had coached the year a couple years before. I had coached Coach Pitch Baseball. Our first year we were 6-0, so obviously I had got the attention of our commissioner We were one and five the next year, but we were six and oh that first year. And so he asked me if I would coach this team of eight, nine, and ten-year-old kids, and I was elated and I said, of course And I wasn't able to return home for the draft. The draft was on a Wednesday night. I had night class. I couldn't go home. And so uh a friend of mine who I trusted I said, hey, uh get some good players, would you? And uh give me a call after the draft, let me know what we have. So again, this is an eight, nine, and ten-year-old league. Eight-year-olds coming right out of coach pitch, ten-year-olds are the most experienced. He calls me later, he goes, Kirby, we have 12 kids, 12 players. Ten of them are eight years old. One is nine years old, so one kid with a year experience. And he said, and we have one 10-year-old, and I said, well thank God I at least have one player with two years experience. He can lead our team. When I first met him as I got to know my team, he said, Coach, I've never played baseball in my life He was our pastor's son, a pastor in the community's son. So when I got these twelve kids together, I didn't let them hit for a week. I said if we're gonna win any game this year, it will be because of our defense And I kind of watched these kids play catch and I I noticed there were three eight-year-olds who could actually hit a target and I began working with them daily and having them work on pitching The other coaches that I knew, well, they told me, Kirby, you're not gonna win a game and and after our first game I was beginning to believe them We lost our first game 22-3. That was 26 years ago. I still remember the score. We got trashed And I remember my left fielder, appropriately, one who was in left field, came up to me and said after the game, did we win, coach? And I was really angry and uh I said, no, we didn't win, go shake their hands. And I knew at that time it was going to be a really long year And at that time in my life, I actually believed this is a major trial in my life. I was twenty-one. Shortly after this, I read again Job chapter 1. And when I read of his reaction that we just read, for a moment I thought this, yeah, but he never coached Little League Baseball. But as I examined it closer, I was simply amazed. Many of you are familiar with this account. Job was the greatest man in the East. As we just saw, he was very wealthy, 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, 500 female donkeys. He had a large number of servants, and God had blessed him with seven sons and three daughters. And then can you imagine the Lord saying this of you? Can you imagine an employer or a friend saying about you that there is no one like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil. That's what the Lord said about Job. And God allows Satan to take these things from him. You've heard this before, but Satan has to get permission from God. And so Job loses all of his sheep, camels, oxen, donkeys, he loses all but four servants who come to him to report these calamities, and he loses all ten of his children. What is his reaction? Let's look at those verses again in 20 to 22 Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head, and he fell to the ground and worshipped. He said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return there The Lord gave and the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Through all this, Job did not sin, nor did he blame God. Trials came to Job, correct? And trials have come, and they will continue to come to you and me. It's not a question of will they come. The question is when will they come and how often? And how great in magnitude These trials include financial difficulties, a wife's miscarriage, a car accident. A fire in your home, stolen property, a false accusation. I see these a lot at the Naval Academy, a season-ending injury And even the loss of a loved one. The Academy is still grieving over a young man who took his life just two weeks ago. It's very hard. So when those trials come, how do you react? How do you react to the trials that God brings into your life? Do you react rightly as Job did? Or do you blame God and begin to question His ways? So today, based on the example of Job, I'd like to give you five proper or five biblical responses to trials so that we like Job would not sin against God. Five proper responses to trials so that we will not sin against God. Number one, we must have a proper view of birth. We must have a proper view of birth. Look at verse 20 Again, we read that Job says, naked, verse 21, naked I came from my mother's womb. We come into the world with nothing. We don't own anything. Literally. I have two biological sons. I was there when they were born. They came into the world naked, right? There are no diamonds on our fingers, no air jordans on our feet that cost $150 to $200. But Job means much more than this. He is saying that he came into this world bankrupt Owning nothing. When he was born, his his mom did not hold him and say, Oh little Job, Joby, there are 7,000 sheep waiting for you at home, 3,000 camels. He was not yet the greatest man in the East, he did not yet have great possessions, he did not yet have a wife, he did not yet have ten children. The only thing that Job brought into this world was his sin. And like David and like us, he was brought forth in iniquity, Psalms 51, verse 5. And so are we. We bring our sinful nature into this world and nothing else. And many times trials involve the loss of something, the loss of a friend or a family member, or possessions, or property. And when those trials come, we must go back and remember that we came into this world with nothing. Secondly, not only must we have a proper view of birth, we must have a proper view of death. Job says in verse 21, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return there. Other passages of Scripture affirm this truth. In the Old Testament, Ecclesiastes 5:15, as he had come naked from his mother's womb, so will he return as he came. He will take nothing from the fruit of his labor that he can carry in his hand. Paul wrote to Timothy, 1 Timothy 6, 7, For we brought nothing into the world, so we cannot take anything out of it either. Job was a very wealthy man, 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, 500 female donkeys. I'm guessing Job lived in a pretty nice pad, probably a gated community. But he understood that when he died, he could take none of it with him. Just go back a little bit. When you were younger, did you have possessions that you were determined to take with you if you died or if Jesus returned? I think we all probably did. For me it was my baseball cards. That was my greatest possession. I love trading cars. I had a friend up the street who knew nothing about baseball, but he collected cards so I took advantage of him and I got some really good cards. And I was determined, Lord, I'm sure the Lord will let me take this baseball card album with me. But we know it's impossible. When I was in fifth grade, we had a student in our in my class, his name was Chip Conrad. Chip was a great kid, he was a great athlete. And he got cancer in fifth grade, um, leukemia, and by the time they found it it was really too late. He did go through chemotherapy And um when he came back to school, it it had so infected his body and we knew it was just a matter of time, but he wanted to come back to school. He wanted to live out his final days with his classmates And uh this great athlete, we would go out and play soccer at recess, was just a shell of himself and he couldn't run very much before he had to stop. He was so tired and As he was in our classroom, we watched him dying. We watched his body begin to decay. And at the funeral, I was so glad to hear the pastor preach the gospel and And tell us that Chip had placed his faith in Jesus Christ. And I remember Chip was a Chicago Bears fan, and I remember walking by his coffin, and there was a Chicago Bears baseball cap there in the casket with him. Most likely his family decided to do this, but maybe Chip requested that that hat be placed there so that when he got to heaven he could wear it. Well Chip, I believe, is in heaven because he trusted in Christ, but I can guarantee you this, the hat is not No matter how much we accumulate here on earth, we will leave it all behind. Cars, money, baseball cards, and even cattle. That's why Jesus said in Matthew 6, 19 to 20, Do not lay up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in or steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. The writer of Hebrews tells us that it is appointed for man to die once, and upon that death we leave everything behind. I love this story. When the million multimillionaire Howard Hughes died, someone was asked this question: how much did he leave? And the person answered by saying, all of it. Every penny. And Job understood this. He said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return there. Whatever Job accumulated during his lifetime would be surrounded at death. Shrouds have no pockets. So, like Job, we must have a proper view of birth. Secondly, we must have a proper view of death. Thirdly, we must have a proper view of God's grace. We must have a proper view of God's grace. The next thing that Job says here is a three-word sentence. The Lord gave. A lot of theology in those three words. The Lord gave. Job here understood the grace of God. He knew he came into the world naked, having nothing, but he also knew that while he was on the earth, the Lord had chosen to bless him. The Lord gave Job all these things, 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen. Yoke means two, so 1,000 oxen. Five hundred female donkeys, a large number of servants. Job had been given a wife and seven boys and three girls, and it was the Lord who gave Job the title the v of greatest of all the men in the East. Job understood the New Testament truth that every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. James 1 17 Friends, all that we have comes from God. Amen? We come into the world sinners with an evil and wicked nature. prone to sin against God repeatedly, and because of this we deserve nothing but an eternity in hell. But God is gracious. He gives us many things for our enjoyment here on earth, and we must remember it is because of him. We must have a proper view of birth. We must have a proper view of death. We must have a proper view of God's grace. Fourthly, we must have a proper view of God's sovereignty. The next thing that Job says here in verse 21 is the Lord has taken away. If you get one thing this morning, would you get this? Only when you have a proper view of God's grace can you accept God's sovereignty. Let me say it again. Only when you have a proper view of God's grace will you accept God's sovereignty. Only when you realize that God has given you all things can you accept the fact that He has the right to take them all away. Job had a proper view of God's grace, therefore he could accept God's sovereignty. This is brilliant. I mean, in the Hebrew here, it's one breath, it's one thought. In the same breath, Job could say, the Lord gave, and the Lord is taken away. Notice it doesn't say the Lord gave, and that darn devil took it all away. The same God who gave is the same God who took it all away. Job was was able in this moment of grief was able to say it all came from God, he can have it all back. Abraham understood this concept. He knew, obviously knew that Isaac, his son, was a gift from God. God had given Isaac to him in his old age. That was a gift of God's grace. And that is why Abraham was so willing to give him back. My pastor growing up from Illinois, his name is Joe Hummerkaus, still pastoring today, and He had a son named Jason. Jason and I and I were close, close friends, close in age. He was a year behind me. And um he went away to college. He was a basketball player in high school and went away to college and it was his senior year. And there were some guys on the cross-country team at a Christian school. They only had four guys on the team. They needed five to complete the team. And so they said, Jason, why don't you run cross-country, help us uh compete as a team Jason should have never run cross-country. He didn't have a cross country body. He wasn't a runner, but he decided to help out the team and and so uh his first meet, his first college meet, I believe was a five mile race And uh his parents went up to watch him run. And as he was running, he fell. And by the time his dad got to where he was laying, he was he was gone. He was not breathing. And in that moment, I remember our pastor coming back and telling the story and just being blown away. Pastor Joe got to where Jason was He actually was holding him in his arms. And he had the mindset to pray this: Lord, you gave Jason to us, now we give him back. How do you do that? By the way, the Lord spared his life. He's living in Indiana today. He's got a wife and six children. How do you do that? The Lord chose to give all these things to Job, but he also chose to take them all away. He took all of his possessions. He took everything but four servants and a wife And based on her response in chapter 2, verse 9, when she says, Do you still hold fast to your integrity, curse God and die? You wonder why the Lord didn't take her as well. Sorry, ladies. Friends, we must understand that God is responsible for every good and perfect gift we receive. But we must also understand that God has the right to take it all away if he desires. Psalm 115. 3, but our God is in the heavens, he does whatever he pleases. Psalm 135, 6: Whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and in earth. In the seas and in all the deep places. It may please him to take something away from you. It might be for your good and for his glory. Therefore, we must remember that all we have belongs to God. Your family, your car, your home, your business. It's all God's I heard this story from Chuck Swindah years ago. He was talking about a Christian businessman who was struggling in his work environment. He was stressed out at work, was spending long hours at the office in his business, not sleeping much because he was so consumed with with his business. And he decided one night after coming home, he he prayed and he gave his business to the Lord. He'd never done that before. It's like, Lord, it belongs to you. Do what you wish. And he was able to sleep, slept soundly, and a phone call woke him up, and it was his business partner calling him to tell him that their office building was on fire. And so the man got dressed, actually whistled a tune as he was getting dressed, and drove to the site, arriving to see this place of business engulfed in flames. And he finds his business partner, and as he's watching, he begins to laugh. Well, his business partner didn't think it was so funny. He was enraged and said, How can you laugh? And he said to him, I gave the business to the Lord a couple hours ago. If he wants to burn it to the ground, it's his problem. I like that. This man understood that if God took it, it was his to take. So did Job, so must we. We must have a proper view of birth. We must have a proper view of death. We must have a proper view of God's grace. We must have a proper view of God's sovereignty. Finally, we must have a proper view of worship. We must have a proper view of worship. Verse 20 Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and he fell to the ground and worshipped. He said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return there. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. You see, Job received the first three reports from the first three messengers of these disasters. He received them calmly. But he has a much different reaction to the fourth report. Look at verses in verses eighteen and nineteen again. While he was still speaking, another also came and said Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house, and behold, a great wind came from across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house And it fell on the young people and they died, and I alone have escaped to tell you. Job was a human And when Job heard of the death of his children, he grieved. He did not immediately cry out, Blessed be the name of the Lord. The first thing he did was he tore his robe. If you think back to the story of Joseph and his brothers, Joseph's brothers took his tunic to their father Jacob. And Jacob thinking that his son was dead, we read in Genesis 37, 34, that Jacob tore his clothes, put stackloth on his waist, and mourned for his son many days. The tearing of one's garment was a manifestation of grief and mourning. The second thing that he did was he shaved his head This was a common symbol of mourning in ancient times as well. Jeremiah 7. 29 says, cut off your hair and cast it away, and take up lamentation on the desolate heights. For the Lord has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath. The third thing that Job did, he fell to the ground. And I would argue, not in despair, but in reverence to God. I believe Job fell to the ground because he wanted to be in proper posture to worship God. One Bible commentator says this, the tearing and the shaving are the expected reactions to the tragedies that suddenly and recently came to Job. The falling to the ground and worshiping are what separate Job from others. You see, Job could worship God in the good times. When he had all of his possessions and when he was considered the greatest man in the East. But Job could also worship God in the bad times. When he was stripped of everything he owned. Look at Job's reaction to his wife in chapter 2. Verse nine, when she says to him, Do you still hold fast your integrity? Curse God and die. And as we read, remember now he has been inflicted with boils from head to toe. This is what he says in verse 10. He said to her, You speak as one of the foolish women speaks. Shall we indeed accept good from God and not accept adversity? Have you met those people in your life, men and women, boys and girls, who when things are going well, so too is their walk with the Lord. But when difficulties come, when trials come, their relationship with God kind of comes to a halt. I had a friend like this in college. You could always gauge if he had a girlfriend or not, because when he had a girlfriend, things were good We saw him at FCA, he was having this quiet time, he was worshiping God. But if he didn't have a girlfriend, everything came to an end. Perhaps that's true of you. But Job was not this way. He had a proper view of worship. He worshipped God in the good times and in the tough times. I love how it says in verse 22: through all this. And there's a lot there, isn't there? Through all this, Job did not sin, nor did he blame God. Well, what about you? What will you do when trials come your way? They have come to you before, and they will come again. Will you respond like Job? One day after classes at the Master Seminary when I was in Los Angeles We had been there maybe a month. This was in probably February of 1998. And I came out to my car and someone had busted my car window on the passenger side And uh stolen a an old car phone, it was useless, it was one of those you plugged in, you know, a bag phone And uh but they also stole my car discman for you young people, I'll explain that later. Uh but a car discman, a CD player, and a lot of Christian CDs And I remember when I saw that, I came out, we were very poor, took everything we had just to get out there, and and I mourned for a little bit. I was I was upset thinking about this is gonna cost me money. And uh but I also I began to pray for them, whoever broke into my car In the sovereignty of God, David, you'll appreciate this, I had Dr. Rosca for a class called Exposition of Prayer, and one of our assignments was to pray an hour a day. I prayed for this guy a lot. And I would pray, Lord, I pray he would just use that car decimal, put on those Christian CDs, hear the gospel, be convicted of his sin, repent. and return my property to me. Just an update on the situation, I'm still waiting. But what will you do? Perhaps you come out from work or from class and your car is stolen. I don't think you're expected to tear your clothes. You may want to rip off your tie. You're not expected to shave your head. You may run your hand through your hair. You might throw your cover if you're a midshipman or an officer. But will you be able to say, naked I came from my mother's womb? I came into this world with nothing. And in that moment, will you be able to say, Naked I shall return there? I can't take anything with me anyway Will you be able to say the Lord gave everything that I have, every good and every perfect gift comes from above, from the Father of lights? Will you be able to say the Lord has taken away the same Lord who gave has the right to take it away for my good and for his glory? And will you be able to worship and join Job in that chorus, blessed be the name of the Lord. May God give us the grace and the strength to respond biblically to trial so that we will not sin against God nor charge him with wrongdoing. That's great. Father, we read an account like this, and we are overwhelmed. We are blown away by the faith of a mere mortal man. That he could react in such a way that would be pleasing to you. A man who did not sin against you in the time of his child, he did not blame God. Lord, we we think how in the world could I ever react to something like that? Especially, Lord, to the loss of a child, a loved one. But Lord, we understand that Job was a man like any of us. He was born into this world as a sinner, at odds with God. You had redeemed him. He would even say, I know my Redeemer lives. But Lord, He had an understanding of life. He understood that He came into this world with absolutely nothing. He understood that he would leave with nothing. He understood, Lord, that all that he had been given came from a good and gracious God. And therefore, that same God had the right to take it all away. And Lord, he had a proper understanding of what worship was. Worship is not what we do for 90 minutes on a Sunday morning. It's what we do every day of our lives. And so, God, I pray, as many here this morning, no doubt, are going through trials now, Lord, we have faced trials together as a church. Difficulties, tribulations. Lord, we go through things we would never choose for ourselves. They're hard. They're difficult. They're refining. Lord, they are things we would never wish on even our enemy. But Lord, you use trials for our good. You use them for your glory. Lord, you will do whatever it takes to make us more like your son. Help us, Lord, in the midst of our suffering, in the midst of our tribulation, persecution. Severe trials. But Lord, you are using all things. You are causing all things to work together for good To those of us who love God and have been called according to his purpose, Lord, you have predestined us to be conformed To the image of your Son Jesus Christ. Lord, that is your goal for every one of us, that we would look like your Son. So God, use trials to refine us and to make us more like you. We ask for your blessing. We ask for your presence as we leave this place. May we go out, Lord, ready to serve you, ready to worship you in the good and in the bad, that you might be glorified and magnified. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.