But it is a delight to be here and be able to get uh acquainted with many of you. I want to express my deep appreciation uh for the uh tailors. They owned their home up to us and had to put up with us for the last uh two evenings and so on. But we so greatly appreciate their hospitality Both my wife and I. It means a lot. And for the brief time that we were here, just to be able to get to know some of you, we were greatly encouraged to see what God is doing in this part of the world By the way, uh I know that this is a mission conference and what so many people are thinking about as missions is missions is always out there. I'm going to let you know that missions is right at your back door. It's right here And we're going to pick up on that theme a little bit uh here in just a moment or so on that. Before we actually get into this though, I do want to submit it before the Lord and ask for your um attendance as we pray. Now Lord, you have brought us together here for a specific purse purpose and reason. And as we've already sung We looked at their songs, we sang them, but all glory goes to your name for who you are and what you're doing, doing in the lives of people here and people around the world But Lord, we tend to forget so many things, things which we should be doing and things often we do not do. And I pray, Lord, that what you have laid upon my heart and directed me, it will be meaningful to everyone here as a challenge to recognize our own responsibility before you. So our Father, I submit this time to you. May you be glorified and praised in it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, I'm going to be using some PowerPoint to kind of guide along with our study here. I'm reminded, and some of you have probably heard of John Piper and his book on Let the Nations Be Glad And in fact that when we entered uh yesterday, I came in here and I noticed that there were uh some displays out front and uh one of the books that was one of the displays there was John Piper's Book Which kind of leads us to this whole subject here, and that would be uh what he says uh in the book with regards to the nations. I read this. If the pursuit of God's glory is not ordered above the pursuit of man's good in the affections of the heart And the priorities are the church. Man will not be well served and God will not be duly honored. The emphasis is the glory of God. Why are we here? It's for his glory. And I hope that uh in the moments that uh we give attention to that, you'll see exactly where we're going uh on that. Well with that in mind, and uh if this will work here, I hope it does, we are going to move on to our study. Yeah, here we come. Okay. Yesterday I shared with you just a little bit with regards to a faith that glorifies God. But this morning I want to deal with another one, which would be the call that glorifies God. It was 2nd Avenue, New York City. This isn't the place where the average person would like to be. They go there primarily to get uh onto the train in the city, out the city. Uh it's a place where they go out of necessity. Uh it's to go to work or to come home. But normally most people wouldn't like to spend much time there Often you would find in that particular area some of the derelicts, the drunken bums, so to speak, and those who are not so welcomed in obviously the average American home But nevertheless, out of necessity, there are those people who do go there. And on this one particular occasion, some years ago, there were some individuals who went uh to the uh station and were waiting, standing on a platform. Obviously they're waiting for the train. Uh it's in the evening. They're anticipating on getting back home. So as they're standing there There is this old man who begins to approach those uh dozen people standing there. Obviously, you could tell he was under the influence of alcohol. He was really drunk And he was stammering back and forth and could barely stand up at all. Just by his appearance, most people would ignore or try to stay away from him. The people on the platform were just looking down the rails, anticipating the train comes soon. But this man, ah, his smell was horrible. Obviously, hey, he didn't know what a bath was Besides that, uh just a look at him, so filthy, dirty, there was like a soot or an ash over his face. But his nose had been running And you can tell that because the drippings in the nose was kind of washing away uh all the soot around. Horrible. Uh he had three overcoats on. And under him uh his arm uh there was a bottle and obviously uh it was a fifth of whiskey This was the kind of individual that was staggering up, scabs all over his face. Again, take in mind that most of the people on that platform were ignoring him at this time As he was kind of stammering back and forth, no doubt anticipating getting on the train as well, uh his glasses dropped off. And so he begins to reach around a little bit on uh the platform to see if he could find the glasses, and finally he sat down there on the platform. Nobody, nobody ever tried to help him out They just kept their eyes on the track. Obviously the old man and his condition needs just a little bit of help, but nobody cares. A little bit of time passed. Now he's kind of sitting around and as he turns, again fueling for his glasses, his legs dropped over the edge of the platform. Now, in that particular station, if the train comes in at any moment, the train will only be about three inches, four inches away from the platform. With his legs that are now hanging over the edge of the platform, you can only imagine what's going to happen. His legs would be severed and obviously he would be pulled right into the train itself. He'd be killed But he doesn't seem like anybody would care. And as he just sat there, little by little he began to work his way down, and he drops himself down four feet below to where the rails actually are Now that means definite uh uh danger. If the train comes in, he's gonna be killed right away. And with all that uh before him Again, the crowd just steps back a little bit. After all, they don't want any blood to be splashed upon them. But nobody cries out until finally one individual says Get out of there! Get out of there! Don't you know what's going to happen? The train is coming! But with the reaction that came on there, the crowd, they don't respond. They don't do anything to help him. Can he help himself? He's in a helpless condition. And with then the cry goes out, get out! Get out! Hurry! The train will be coming! So what? So what? says the drunken bum. Finally with a plea, the one man who did cry out says, Is there anybody here who'll go with me? We've got to get him off the track. Another young man finally responded and the two of them jumped down near the track. They had to be careful because one of these tracks had 600 volts of electricity, which should they touch it, they'd be killed instantly Fortunately the drunken bum missed that reel, even as these two men. As they grabbed a hold of his arms and hoisted him up on the platform, they themselves so no sooner than got up Onto the platform itself, and in came the train. That incident was written in the Delaware County News outside of Philadelphia. But as I read that article, I couldn't help but be moved at the closing statement. Let me read it to you. The bomb might have been killed. And those people might have let it happen. So I keep thinking of a passage that I read. It's the introduction of a book on social conscience. Something, it says, has gone terribly wrong with America. Did you get that? We don't want to get involved. It's not our business. If the bomb is in a condition that he is, he got himself into it. I'm wiping my hands clean of anything doing with him. We can withdraw. And it's with that thought I want to share with you this morning It's an expression I've heard, and no doubt some of you have heard as well, which goes along this way. And I think it describes the situation we're talking about. Evil prevails when good men do nothing. Now, listen, um I want to uh oh here we are. I I want everybody to read that with me. Could you do that? Everybody. Now you all can read. And I I'm used to a classroom situation, so I want you to respond on some of these things, okay? Here we go. Everybody together. Evil Do you see what evil would have taken place if no one had done anything? If the two individuals didn't help him out? Can you see the horrible, the tragedy that would have taken place? But the tendency is most of us will not get involved when something has to take place. And the reason is which you will take note here, I've changed one word to it Evil prevails when good men, what is it? Give excuses. We always have the reason why we cannot get involved or do something uh in particular in that mind. We like to give it Now this is only just a brief illustration of another tremendous need or a call since this is Mission Emphasis weekend. I want to draw to your fact that you and I have been given a responsibility. I'm going to emphasize this a little bit more later on as I share with you, but right now the responsibility was laid out before our Lord as he departed from this earth and he says Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now, that mandate that he had given was not just for a specific uh group of people who were going overseas and to make Christ known. It was for every believer that is sitting here this morning, and those across America and around the world who profess Jesus Christ as Lord and as Savior You have an awesome responsibility. What is it? To make God known that all men might glorify him to make him known in that realm. And men cannot worship God They can honor cannot honor him because they don't know where he is. But you and I have been given this awesome responsibility to do it. But you know what? We have a problem. What we do is we give excuses why we can't do it. Now, with that in mind, I want you to turn with me this morning to Exodus chapter 2. Exodus chapter two, and while you're applying that in your Bibles for a few moments, what I want you uh to uh look at is we're going to look at three excuses why we commonly don't get involved or do what we're told to do. Now the background of this, obviously you'll be familiar with Is that Israel has been uh in the uh land of Egypt for some 400 years. And because there was a Pharaoh or a king in Egypt who rose up who did not know Joseph, a righteous man, It was in that context then that a lot of burden was placed upon the Israelites. They were placed in bondage or in slavery. Now that's the context. It was very difficult. So if you would read with me in this context here of Exodus chapter 2, verse 23, follow along with me. Now it happened in the process of time that the king of Egypt died. Then the children of Israel groaned because of the bondage. And they cried out, and the cry came up to God because of the bondage. So God heard their groanings. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God acknowledged them. They're in a horrible predicament. You got my point? They begin to cry unto God when they're in a desperate situation. Where else can you go? They had no one else to help them to. They call upon God for deliverance. Now it's interesting that in reply to their request. An answer to their uh uh the plea, God will now raise up an individual who will lead them out of bondage, will allow to lead them to freedom Now I point up here on the screen as you can see something I heard somebody say yesterday and it's really true. I want you to repeat it with me too. Can you and Yella? Everybody on the screen. Everybody. Men. Now you women, don't you think that's an excuse for you That's a general term meaning all. Alright? Men are God's method. He came by E and Bounds, a great man of God who prayed tremendously, years gone by. But it's a tremendous truth we find in Scripture If Israel is going to be delivered from this bondage, a horrible situation, then as a result of it, then God raises up a man. Who would that man be? You know, as we move through chapter two, it would be the man Moses. So we're going to look at the three excuses now that he's going to offer to us our end here. So if you would, I'd like you to look down to verse 10 of chapter 3. Okay, now uh God begins and he appears before Moses in a burning bush, and I'm not going to cover all the uh things that we have here. But if you would take note, first of all, dropping down, well let me give the verse seven first. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the oppression of my people who are in Egypt. And have heard their cry because of their task maskers, for I know their sorrows. It was grievous Now, in a sense, Israel in a sense was somewhat like that drunken bum. In a sense, they were in a pedic uh pathetic situation. They needed help or assistance Now, having looked at that then, you'll take note that he now shares his own burden, that is God's burden, with his servant, Moses, whom he has chosen. So in verse 10, you'll take note Come now, therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. What a tremendous opportunity Israel would be free. Finally, there's going to be an answer. After all their groaning, complaining, finally calling upon God. God's heard them. God's going to answer. And it's going to be through an individual. Why? Men are what? God's method. So in this case, here's the man. What a man. But you'll notice as we move on in the passage here, in verse 11. And Moses said to God, Who am I? That I should go to Pharaoh and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? In other words, what's he saying? I couldn't do that. I put on the screen here, for example, and basically saying, I'm a no-bite. I could never do that. Talking about a feeling of inadequacy, boy, Moses really senses it. He couldn't do that. Why not? Do you realize what had happened to Moses previously? He had been in Egypt. In fact, he was the adopted son, as it were, of the daughter of Pharaoh. But he was run out of town. Why? Because he tried to make an attempt to save his people Israel. It didn't work out. If you were to go back to Acts chapter 7, It's interesting to take note in verse 27, where in this text here, it's interesting, Moses himself did not feel that he was the kind of God that could bring anybody in. He had tried it before, for while he was in Egypt, he saw an Egyptian who was fighting and really making it up on an Israelite, a brother in the flesh, as it were. And Moses attempted to save the Israelite and he killed the Egyptian. But it resulted in he fleeing for Pharaoh is now for uh Moses' hide, was going to kill him. That was taught. So with all of that in mind, Moses flees. And he's been out in the desert, let's say, for some 40 years. Who is he? He's a nobody. He doesn't feel adequate. He could never be able to carry on the task on there Now, please take note when he offered the excuse here that I'm a nobody, I could never do that. I feel so inadequate. Please, please take note of the following verse, verse 12. So he said, I will certainly be with thee. That is God. Moses, all you need is my presence. And you can go. And you can accomplish that which I'm sending you to. Well, with that in mind, I'm afraid that what happens so often is so many of us. Kind of lose perspective of what God's done. As God has given us a mandate that we should go among the nations of the world. And that we should declare Christ for who he is. You know what he says in Matthew chapter 28? He says, to all of us, he would say, and lo, I'm with you always. Even to the end of the age. So if you have the responsibility, and I have the responsibility, that we should go and proclaim Christ, and some of you, I could never do it. You'd be like Moses. I couldn't do it. What do you mean you couldn't do it? Certainly I will be with thee. What more encouragement do you need? The God of all gods, a mighty God we have, the mighty God of Moses, and he promises, I'm going to go with you. Along that line. I'm amazed how so many of us tend to put ourselves down and we constantly say, I can't do it. Have any of you done that before? Now be honest. I can't do it. If you're gonna be honest, all of you would raise your hand, okay? There have been times when I know I can't do it And uh I can't help but think years back I used to be up at River Valley Ranch in Northern Maryland. I don't know if any of you are familiar with that ministry up there And I remember I picked up a little phrase that goes something like this: be what you is, and not what you ain't. Because if you ain't what you is, you is what you ain't. Did you get that? Be real, be genuine! And when you're going to be real, you've got to recognize, yeah, you can't do it. When God tells you to do something, and you say, I can't do it, I feel so inadequate. You can do it. Why? Because the apostle Paul says, I can do all things. Through Christ who strengthened me. Amen? Alright, we move on here. That was an excuse. And you would notice that when that excuse was offered, God did not accept it from Moses, He rejected it. Well then what happened after that was rejected? And I put on here that passage that remember, Moses didn't want to try it because he had already failed one time. He tried by killing the uh Egyptian to free his people and he was rejected. This was the passage I was dealing with. Show me a man. Who never failed. And I'll show you a man who never tried. All God wants is that you try Get out there and do what he told you to do. And with that, then allow God to work through you. Now, with that, uh, I come on. There certainly was that, by the way, that I put here. God promised that his presence would always be with us. And I put here, for example, Judges. There was another guy who was called to do something for God as well by the name of Gideon. And when Gideon says, oh God, I couldn't do that. You know what God told him? Certainly I will Be with you. It's the same words that he gave to Moses. If you were to look at Jeremiah in the passage here, uh, it was the same thing. Jeremiah, when he was called of God, Jeremiah says, Oh, I'm but a kid, I'm too young, I couldn't do it. And God says to him, Certainly I will be with you. And now you go out likewise. And God's giving you any instructions. And hey, all he says to you is, Certainly I will be with you with you Well, with that in mind, we move on. There's a second time then. Since the first excuse was not accepted by the Lord, we come to another one, chapter four of Exodus. following here. Obviously we're scanning through a passage here. Exodus chapter 4 and we begin with verse 1. Then Moses answered and said, But suppose they will not believe me or listen to my voice. Suppose they say, the Lord has not appeared to you Hey, is it likely that the Egyptians uh that they would not accept Moses? Is that possible? Nod your head, yes. It won't rattle if you move it a little bit, okay? Now the whole point is, yes Pharaoh did not accept. He did not believe the words of Moses. He was totally rejected of it. It's difficult. Now, why even go then? God, it doesn't make sense. If Pharaoh's not going to free the people of Israel out of Egypt, then why even go? Sit back and do nothing I'll put another thing here. He was grappling with this thing, a fear of unbelief. He did not believe that God would be able to use him. Now, again, I want to come back on a little thought here. Too often we're looking at what we can accomplish by obeying God. It's not an issue about what you're going to accomplish. It's a matter of what God's purpose is and what God's going to do. And we've got to always try to keep that in the back of our mind. And so in the text here then it goes on to say, God says, I'm going to touch your lips, your mouth, so that you will be able to proclaim and tell what is necessary on that. But there is that fear. The Egyptians did not respond by any means, but rather rejected. But what was the real reason? And I want you to look at this uh uh uh carefully. Why was it that God wanted Moses to go down? There was more than just the fact that he would be able to free the people. Something else that would come along with that. And that would be along this line here. This is repeated time and time again throughout Scripture. Could you read it with me, everybody? That they All the time. Some time ago, I was going through the scriptures and I picked this thought up and I followed it all the way through scripture. When we're looking here in the case of the Israelites in Egypt, ten plagues, how many times was that repeated that Egypt might know that I am God? Or that you might know that I am God. When David was before that giant Goliath, you remember him? That big giant that threatened him so much? And uh he said, You think I'm a dog? And David, he makes a proclamation at a time. And the proclamation is, I'm going to take your head, and by this the world might know that I am God. In other words, God wants to be known If you went to the book of Ezekiel again, over and over again, with the prophetic teachings of that prophet, he points out time and again that you might know who God is. There is a God. He's making himself known And going back to Egypt in the context here, Moses, you're not going down there just simply for the fact that you're going to have people who would repent. And turn. They probably won't believe. They'll reject your message. But the point is, they'll know who God is. And they will be responsible for the response on that. So I put here 16 times that whole expression is reviewed or gone over, giving the idea God wants to be known. And why would he ever uh send us out? And I said this in the very beginning, just a few moments ago. Why does he want to go, or us to go? And that is, that we might make him known Right in this area here, how many people do not know Christ? There are many people who don't know our Lord. And you are the special instrument to make him known. But I can't do that. I feel so inadequate. Oh yeah, but the Lord's going to be with you. And then once again it comes right on back. Yeah, but uh uh uh they won't believe me. That's all right. The purpose is just to make him known. Let the results in God's hands. And we move on. A third time. Moses gives another excuse on this. And I tell you, he must have really been struggling on this. Moses, God's calling you. Why don't you go? A third excuse. Note what it is. I am not eloquent. Look with me, chapter 4, and we look at verse 10. And Moses said to the Lord, O my Lord. I am not eloquent, neither before or since you have spoken to your servant, for I am slow of speech and slow of tongue. In other words, she says, my tongue just doesn't wiggle right. I can't pronounce the words. It's difficult for me to talk to people. How many of you would love to get up behind the pulpit here and speak? Oh, there's a ro a lot of reluctance. And somebody will say, I'm not a speaker. I can't do that kind of a thing like that And I understand what you're talking about. That's not for everybody. But God's still giving you a little thing that wiggles in your mouth called a tongue. And I know that the vast majority of you, almost 100% of you, use it on a regular daily basis, correct? So you have the ability to be able to speak. Now some of you can speak publicly or you speak one-to-one. It's different ways of doing it. But all of us speak So when he says, but I'm not eloquent, first of all I want to point out, Moses, you're a liar. Because if you did go back to that one passage in Acts chapter seven It says that Moses spoke it with mighty words of power. He was one who communicated well So he was really taken out. But Moses, don't you know who you're talking to? God knows all about that. Now, again, that's a third excuse. What Moses needed to do was this little thing. Change what I can't speak to I won't speak. I listened to James Dobson on the Flippers on the family some years back, and he came up with that little expression: change your can't to won'ts, and you find a real problem. You get that? What it is, it's not you can't do it. It's a matter of rebellion. I won't do it. And that's the real issue: rebellion, indifference, disobedience. That has to be dealt with. When we change our mind and we realize that God is going to go with me, He'll accomplish what He will. All I have to do is make myself available, then mighty things can happen in that time. So I say that in this regard here. God will make it possible for you to go. If in the Old Testament he could take a donkey, A jackass as the King James would use it. And make it talk. Can he not use me? And can he not use us? Amen? He can. And he'll put you in the particular situation where you can use that mouth of yours to his glory. So don't say, I can't, I can't. You can by the grace of God. So with that thought in mind, I'll put a couple little thoughts here. God says, I'm going to be with your mouth, Moses, and I'll make you able to be able to communicate clearly what that is. And uh as I I have already said on this take note, when God tells us to do something, he accepts no excuses. When Moses said I'm inadequate, I can't do it, I'm a nobody. Oh wait a minute. Yes, you can. And that was not accepted. When he said they won't believe, oh, wait a minute, Moses. That's not up to you. God didn't accept that as an excuse. And then finally the the last one, I can't speak. I'm not eloquent. Wait, God didn't accept that either Moses, you don't have any alternative. Go! And he went. And thank God Israel was delivered over time. And God answered prayer in his own way through his man that he had chosen. Now, having uh uh said uh that as far as Moses is concerned, I'll put this And I think this is important as it applies to everyone else more specifically. Will we ever learn lessons from the past? And I could go with other passages of Scripture, and I know some of your pastors could do it likewise, and scan other reasons why we cannot serve or do what God tells us to do. And I say, will we ever learn from the past? Will we? And a lot of us, no, we don't. We keep trying to give the excuses why we can't, but here's the mandate that the Lord gave us in Matthew chapter 28. And you're familiar with it, I'm sure. I read it for you. While you are going, I want to emphasize that the old King James says, Go But that's not a command if we go back to the original text, the Greek text, alright? It's why are you going? It's understood that we're on the go all the time. Uh how many of you are be uh you'll be on the go tomorrow morning? Let's say at 7 30. You're going to work, right? All right. While you're going, uh some of you women may be down at Walmart. You have Walmart in this area? I I d I don't know I don't know what all you have here. But the point is wherever you go, while you're going, there's instructions. Would you read with me what's underlined there? Everybody? Now the nations is really means it's ethnos in the Greek. It means ethnic groups. It doesn't mean somebody way overseas just there. It means people right here among us There's all different kinds of people, all different ethnic backgrounds and so on, all these people. But regardless of who it might be, we have the responsibility of making disciples Now having said that, take note. Not only do they make uh place their trust in Christ, but also they would be followed up with. And I heard this earlier in the service today, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I command you. And everybody? Did you ever hear that before? I can guarantee you, Moses heard it. And so did Gideon hear it And Jeremiah, and we're hearing the same thing. You have the responsibility of declaring Christ. You have the responsibility of making disciples. It is your responsibility. It's my responsibility as well. And with that thought in mind, I put here, for the most part, we have led it to the professionals. And this this is the grievous part. The point is, the professionals, oh, there are those missionaries. And by the way, there was a missionary just on the screen just uh a few moments ago, right? He's one of the uh he vocationally he's a missionary and he's gone overseas and there's many others that uh we looked at yesterday on the uh the screen as well But wait a minute, that doesn't exempt you or me because we're not going overseas. Look at this. I want everybody to repeat this real good, okay? Everybody. Everybody I didn't hear you. I know I have problems with my hearing. Would you repeat it again? Now I know Nathan heard that and Tara heard that before because when they had classes with me, I repeated that often. How many well let me put it this way. I want to see right now how many missionaries there are in our audience here this morning. Stand up. Oh boy did I catch you off on that? Some of you some of you were a little slow in looking around as somebody else getting up You sit down now, all right? Now, what did I do here? I'm pointing at the fact you are recognized if you believe in Jesus Christ. He is your Lord, your God. He is the one that you want to exalt. He is the one that you want to glorify and take note. You are the missionary And that mandate that I just reviewed over was intended for all of us here. But we tend to give excuses, do we not? Well with that uh in mind, I come back to what George Murray he has served uh in missions for years Eventually he became the president of Columbia International University. It's the old Columbia Bible College in South Carolina. He made the statement that I think shares a little bit of what missionaries are even made up of Take note. Many of our candidates, he says, tell us that while they are concerned for world evangelism, they do not have the gift. Most say that they want to teach, counsel, or engage in some other sort of specialized men. Like translation work, radio work, um medicine and so on. All those things are good, by the way. Okay? But few want to say that they want to lead souls to Christ That's it. Now, I don't know all your professions, but I'm getting an idea. As I mingled among you in the last two days now, how many of you are engineers Would you raise your hands? All right. I see hands here and there. How many of you are, uh can I say, um, oh teachers? Any teachers here? Professional teachers? Okay, a couple of them here. Now uh we'll go on a little bit farther. How many of you are in nursing or you're medical doctors? Would you raise your hands? A few here and there Now we could go on. All different professions and sewing contacts. How many of you work in a store? Okay, I don't see any hands there, but hey, it's another opportunity. Uh there's all different kinds of jobs and professions, right? Where all of you might be. But regardless of wherever you are, remember, God has placed you there. Do you ever realize how many unsaved people, people who do not know Christ, Do you realize how many people you have contact with? Contact that your pastors don't even have contact with. You are the most important person to work along with and share with your workmates and so on. Share the gospel. for the Lord Jesus. But I can't do it. Offering an excuse, that's exactly what Moses did. So with this, I put a brief description here. What that discipleship is. Jesus says, make disciples of all nations. And very quickly I want to scan over this. This is what Jesus had in mind as to what a disciple is. Number one. It is a person who keeps Christ first and foremost, preeminent. All right. Also, it's one who is willing to count the cost Willing to forsake all, give up everything to follow Christ, obeys Jesus Christ. Loves others. And finally, Jesus says, My disciples bear fruit. Now, this is just a very brief discussion. I'd love to go in a whole session just on this. I can't. But I'm going to say this. You cannot make a disciple unless you are a disciple. And you exemplify these very traits here that Jesus described in the Gospels Well, that's a big task. You must make disciples. Now, with this all in mind, what our world is in, it is an enormous task. It is large. The world population has exploded from 270 million people in Jesus' day up to over six billion. It's nearing, actually, nearing six billion or seven billion people. A lot of people need to be reached. And I realize that most of you will never go overseas and just kiss that out of your mind. Right where you are right now, there are the people that you need to be reaching And with that then, I want to wrap it up. Three common excuses. Here they are. Would you repeat them with me? What Moses had said? One Two. Three. Okay, that's a good summary. There's a world out there that needs to be reached. You're the instrument God is calling. He says, Go. And as you go, wherever you may go, you encounter all kinds of ethnic peoples, different kinds of people, but wherever you go, don't ever offer an excuse. Why? I think we have to keep in mind he promised his presence. I'll give you some brief illustrations of individuals who said they couldn't do it. And it seems like they had valid reasons for for it. Uh by the way, I I'm not going to mention all of them, but Johnny Erickson Todd ha you've heard of her, I'm sure most of you have. And here she was, she broke her neck here in uh in the Baltimore area, and she She was down at Liberty, what, about a year ago? She spoke in conversation down there. What a tremendous testimony. How God has used that woman down through the years since that tragedy had taken place. Certainly she would have an excuse of why she couldn't carry out a ministry, but she did by God's grace, and because God helped her out Look at the great things she has done, and I mentioned some others here. Some of you may be familiar with those names, where there are impossible situations, but God used them. You have no excuse, and Hyatton have no excuse as we move on in that. So with this, show me a man who never failed. And I'll show you a man who never tried. All I ask of you this morning is as you go to the workplace tomorrow, as you go shopping tomorrow, wherever you're going to be tomorrow, and throughout the week and the months to come, keep this in mind. Give it a try. And with God's help and God's enablement, you will do it by his grace. Amen. In Jesus' name, we commit our time to you, thanking you for what you will accomplish to us. Thank you that you promised. Your presence, your enablement, and it doesn't depend upon us to get the job done. Burden our hearts for lost people and give us that passion to reach out to them That you might be made known, and that all men might glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen.