Ever since the human race fell into sin and we were expelled from paradise, God not only cursed the ground that we walk upon, but he also pronounced displeasure and difficulty upon our work. He said that mankind would now have to earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, and he would keep up this unpleasant work until he returned to the dust of the ground from which he was taken Needless to say, the working conditions we had in paradise were a little better than we have today. But this is what we get we deserve for disregarding and disobeying the word of our Creator. That's our lot in life. We have to accept it. And now I think it is fair to say that discontentment reigns in the workplace How many people do you know that are fully satisfied with their work these days? People complain about unfair policies, unrealistic expectations. inconsistent management, are we describing where you work at? Deteriorating work conditions, lazy employees, incompetence, and disloyalty. It seems that few are the workers who are happy with their bosses and few are still the bosses who are happy with their workers. Given the multiple problems in the workplace, And given the prominence of work in the lives of everyday people like yourselves, it should come as no surprise the Bible has a lot to say about our work. And despite our fall into sin, not everything said about work is bad. For sure man's fall into sin brought the curse, and the curse made work hard and even painful at times. Ecclesiastes two, verses eighteen through twenty paints a gloomy picture of work. From a limited perspective on earth, listen to this. Therefore I completely despaired of all the fruit of my labor for which I had labored under the sun When there is a man who has labored with wisdom, knowledge, and skill, then he gives his legacy to one who has not labored with them, this too is vanity and a great evil For what doth a man get in all his labor and his striving which with which he labors under the sun? Because all of his days his task is painful and grievous, even at night his mind does not rest. This too is vanity. That's from a human bound perspective. But not all work is vanity, certainly not work that is done for the Lord Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul tells us in Ephesians 4. 28, let him who steals, steal no longer, but rather let him labor. Performing with his own hands what is good. Why? In order that he may have something to share with him who has need. When is a thief no longer a thief? When he's working and sharing and giving what he has earned with his own hand Productivity from work can overflow as a blessing to other people, and that can bring both joy to the worker and to the beneficiary. Indeed, from your hard work Many of you, even this morning, brought an offering to give to the Lord for the progress of his work. And that offering that was given in faith will bear fruit for eternity. That comes from your labor. We also live in our homes and we eat the good food we have and the clothes that we have. Why? Because of the labor of our hands and the labor of our minds and our bodies. And we should be thankful, don't you think, that we live in a country where our labor counts for something. Many people, untold millions, are laboring right now just for their own sustenance, and they're laboring even harder. than us just to survive as a family. And we ought to give thanks for the country in which we live. So the Bible teaches that work is also a gift from God. It is a gift from God that gives us direction. It allows us to find a sense of fulfillment in using the gifts that He has given to us It gives us an opportunity for creative expression. It gives us an avenue of blessing for other people. Work is not all bad. Now, knowing that God has much to say about the work world, it lifts seemingly meaningless everyday tasks that we perform out of this earthly doldrums we might be in, and it lifts it into a heavenly splendor and gives it an eternal context, an eternal value. I remember when I was a teller at a credit union in Bethesda, every day was the same thing. It was so monotonous. You know, you open up, you you do Dozens and dozens of the same transactions each day. You close close down, you hope everything balances and then it starts all over the next day. You might think in the midst of that, whoopee, what am I doing with my life? Where does that get with me? How what am I doing? How does it count for anything? And uh frankly I remember it feeling quite boring at times. There was so much monotony to the work. What what does it mean But then as I as I applied my mind in that situation, I found certain joys because of my Christian faith. There was the joy of accomplishment at the end of the day. If I handled everything accurately, you walked away You know, I didn't make any mistakes. Everything is okay. Um the joy of helping certain people to calm down or all nervous about their money, and there you were, and you could calm them down about that situation and assist them when they were upset. The joy of pleasing a boss. The joy of being a good witness to the Lord, sharing the gospel with a co-worker at lunchtime, privately praying for someone that you could tell was going through a hard time and you had that connection with them, you overheard what they said, the difficulty they are in because You were in the workplace, and I knew that, and I could pray for them there. And then of course there was a joy of bringing a paycheck home for the wife and knowing that we could uh be a blessing that way, bringing a portion of that cheerfully to church For some of you, there's even more to your work though than that. Beyond that, there is a sense of calling to what you're doing. That God has given you certain talents and He's worked in your background to place you in a in a certain locale with certain group of people doing a certain task, and you're skilled at it, and you like the fact that you're skilled at it, and that also brings a sense of joy You know God has placed you there and that you're to be a positive moral influence in the midst of a an increasingly depraved society and a deceitful world, and there you are shining as a light of truth. And that's wonderful I want to remind all of you this morning that the work world is a great place for a Christian to be, a great place to influence others for Christ, even to build up other Christians, maybe who are down. How do you do it? Through your godly example in many different circumstances, through boldness in speaking the word, for being a true Christian in the midst of those who are not. Indeed, your Christianity is more visible to the world there than it is right in here this morning. And God has a design for that. Certainly, being a pastor is not the only job in the world that God is pleased with. Nor is it the only role in which he calls people to serve him. God has you where you are. He's prepared you with gifts and background and experience, and none of that is coincidental. He wants you to shine for him right there. He wants you to bloom where he planted you. And this is Labor Day weekend, and we want to talk about that And we want to talk about what it means to labor for Christ, how to shine for Christ, particularly when you're in a difficult work environment. Open your Bibles if you haven't already to 1 Peter 2. Verses 18 and 20. 18 through 20. 1 Peter 2, 18 through 20. We will learn what Peter wrote to the workers of his day, and it has application for our day as well. Verse 18, servants, be submissive to your masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable. For this finds favor if for the sake of conscience toward God a person bears up under sorrows when suffering unjustly. What credit is there if When you sin and are harshly treated, you endure it with patience. But if when you do what is right and suffer for it, you patiently endure it, this finds favor with God. That's what we want to talk about. Finding favor with God in the workplace, even a difficult workplace. Now, we're only going to be in First Peter for this one message, so let's get a little context. We were in 1 Peter a few years ago in this church, so Some of you may remember that, but I want to bring back to your mind some of the context here. This verse is in the midst of a section of 1 Peter where Peter is laying out The Christian's responsibility to the world in which he lives. How do you relate to unbelievers? That's 1 Peter chapter 2. It talks about it in a number of different facets. If you glance back to verses eleven and twelve, Peter reminds Christians that in this world we are aliens and strangers here. Yes, there are aliens that have come, and we are them. We're aliens, we're strangers to this world. They don't know us, they don't understand us, we don't fit in. We are different, and since we are different, we're a royal priesthood and all of that stuff that's written there They're not that. We are, we're different, and so we are different. We need to behave differently. One of the most important ways we conduct ourselves in this world is by submitting to God ordained authorities. Whether you like the President of the United States or not. Whether he's a Democrat or Republican, it doesn't matter. They are ordained by God. Indeed, that was true of the Emperor of Rome. Verses 13 through 17, notice It stresses the need to submit to governing authorities, even if those authorities were like the Roman Empire, a cruel empire, hardly godly influence in the world. Submission to the state was one important way to make sure the gospel of Jesus Christ would not be spoken against or hindered by the state. If we were rebellious to the state, that would hinder the spread of the gospel and thus hinder the church and hinder salvation for others. And so submission was important, and it was stressed within 1 Peter and other epistles. Another major area of life the Christian Church had to be concerned about was in the area of slavery. and their work that they performed for their masters. And this is because first century society was filled with slaves. And many of those slaves, the the lower rung of society, had embraced the message of Jesus Christ and the hope of eternity. And so how Christian slaves worked and how they responded to their masters would speak loudly about the truthfulness of Christianity to all of the onlooking pagans. And though thankfully we do not have slavery today in our country anymore, some of you might not be thinking that way in your workplace, I know, but yet by way of application we can take this that was given to slaves and apply it into our workplace to learn how our respectful submission can still find favor with God. As I said, that is the burden of this text By way of application, this text encourages us to find motivation to work well and work hard even when we are not treated so well ourselves. I think the text answers two basic questions about Christians in the workplace. Number one, how should we live in the work world? That's verse 18. How should we live in the work world. And then in verses 19 and 20, the second question, why should we live that way? Why should we live that way? So let's consider first, how should we live in the work world? Focus your eyes on verse 18 if you would. Servants, be submissive to your masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable. Well, godly Christian workers understand that their proper role in the work world is in one word what? What? Submission. Submit. It's right there in the text. You can't miss it. Submission. Submission is the same word that's used back in verse 13 to apply to the state. It's hopitasso. Hupitasa literally means to place oneself underneath, to be put under, and thus to be subject to someone in authority and obedience. It is commanded here, and commanded as it is, servants are willingly to be obedient to their masters. Their masters have authority over them. They are to recognize that authority, and they are to bring themselves under that authority and willingly. Submit. That's what the word means. Now, this is actually not the usual word for servant given in the New Testament. The usual word is diakonos, from what from which we get our word what? Deacon, right? The servant in the church. Verse 18 actually uses another word, oikites, which stresses not just that they're servants, but that they're household servants. Household slaves They were slaves who served in the master's home or for the benefit of the household. Now, in New Testament times, these kinds of servants were in abundance all over the Roman world. Most businesses in those days were home-based and family run, and servants were needed to run them well. Some of the servants would work out in the family farm fields, some would watch over the family herds or flocks And then there were some who developed various skills from their masters, learning a trade or a craft. Some got very, very skilled, and they were more greatly valued by their masters for what they could do for the family. To these varied servants of the home, Peter simply writes, Be submissive to your master Now there are many biblical principles that we have in Scripture to help us in our jobs. Many principles. We don't have time for them all this morning. Maybe some of you taking the Proverbs class will get into some of this because there's a lot about work principles in the Proverbs. The Bible gives much practical teaching concerning work and to workers. We're told, for example, the importance of personal integrity in the work world. Does your company ever ask you to lie for them, shade the truth, exaggerate, just to make a sale of some kind? You are to say what? No, I'm not that kind of a person. I speak the truth. What if that costs me a job? Then it costs you a job. You have to trust in God You're different. You speak the truth. You stand for truth. If you give in, who's going to stand for truth in the workplace? Your integrity is necessary. That's why God has you there. Some of you may already be shading. You need to pray about that. Ask God for faith. Do what is right in the workplace. It's sad that we have to say that today, but I think even Christians are under pressure so they can keep their job, keep their standard of living, to lie just a little bit. So it'll work out all right for them and for their families. We're also told, as we read earlier, to work hard at our jobs. According to Ephesians chapter 4 and 28, we're to work with our own hands. I guess that includes typing on a computer, whatever you do with your hands, and then you'll be able to have something to share with those who have need. Hard work is pleasing to the Lord. And the Proverbs teach that laziness is a manifestation of a selfish indulgence, and it is not good. It results in poverty often. Scriptures also remind us in the midst of our hard work not to rely on our own knowledge, our own abilities for our sustenance. Many times people get proud in their work And God has to do something in their life to humble them. We are to rely on God for our increase. Many who sweat and work and stay up late and work overtime, take two jobs, and do all of that to try to make a living They don't realize that in the midst of that, they're actually not trusting God. They're working hard, but they're working too hard, and they're no longer pursuing the priorities that God said to pursue. They're not seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And God has to also correct that. Psalm 127 says, Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain to build it, right? Unless the Lord guards the city, the watchman keeps awake in vain. It is vain. Listen, it is vain for you to rise up early, to retire late, to eat the bread of painful labors. Why? For God gives to his beloved even while he sleeps. God takes care of those who are his own. God provides what is needed for those who genuinely trust him. So sweat, but don't sweat it too much, see Seek first the kingdom of God, get your priorities straight, work hard, and then rely on God for provisions. And don't work so much to make a God out of it that you're relying on that to have everything you want in your life or for your safety and security. The scriptures also provide the common sense wisdom also of instructing us at work to do something and choose something we can do well. I mean again how fortunate we are in America to be able to choose this career or that career or that career or change in the midst of careers or rearrange things. Choose something that you're good at. You can perform well. He's given you that talents for a reason. You'll be a blessing to people by by picking something where you can really excel in that and people say, you know, you're really good at that. You know? I I I really am glad that you're a doctor there or that you You do this or you do that, and you're good at it. And so people recognize that and you're a blessing. Another principle, just going through this. Is that work is to be viewed as a service toward other people? Work is not just about making a buck or making it to the weekend, right Work is about being a blessing and a service to other people. Now, Monday to Friday or whatever your work schedule is, a lot of people don't think about that, but that's true. Why are you there? So you can be a blessing to other people You're there to serve other people. You're there to do something good for them. You're providing something that's reliable and dependable. You're there for them. You're a friendly face in a service context. And so you are to be a blessing to them. I just wrote down some things. If you're a crossing guard, what does the crossing guard want to know? That at the end of the day the little kids made it across the road safely, right? That they all went home safe and that you had a part in that. A fireman knows he's rescued a person or kept the fire from doing more damage. The store owner knows he's provided good services at a good price. The pharmacist takes care to fill out the prescription accurately. The nurse cares for those who are suffering. The doctor should serve with compassion and insight and skill. The waitress serves people literally. With joy and respect, hopefully. The teacher with patience and truth, the skill worker with prompt and thorough work, the truck driver with safety and reliability, the office worker with courtesy and efficiency and reliability, yes, even the lawyer with truth and justice. Do you know the Protestant work ethic came from Scripture and you could boil it down to three things. One, it uses your gifts to the glory of God, using your gifts to the glory of God. Two, benefiting other people. Three, meeting your family needs. That's what it was all about. With a right heart, all three purposes work together. They're not in conflict. Yeah, with all these principles, to me it was fascinating when I did this study through 1 Peter. Everything that we could talk about work. Here in the New Testament, it stresses one quality more than any other. You didn't say too loudly the first time. That quality is what? Submission. That's the quality that the New Testament stresses for workers. Be submissive. You say that's just in 1 Peter. No, it's not. Turn to Ephesians, would you? Real quickly, Ephesians chapter 6. I'm going to show you a few things here. Ephesians 6, verses 5 through 8. Again, slaves are addressed. Ephesians 6, 5 through 8. Slaves be obedient to those who are your masters according to flesh, with fear and trembling, in the sincerity of your heart as to Christ. Not by way of my service as men pleas pleasers, but as slaves of Christ doing the will of God from the heart. With good will render service as to the Lord and not to men, knowing that whatever good thing each one does This he will receive back from the Lord, whether slave or free. And masters do the same thing to them, and give up threatening, knowing that both their master and yours is in heaven. And there is no partiality with him. Now this is a great perspective for workers, whether they're masters or slaves, bosses or laborers. Submit to your masters because it's the Lord Jesus Christ whom you serve. Please notice this is not referring to pastors, it's talking about your work is serviced unto Christ. Do you see that? It's not saying just a pastor or a missionary serving Christ says Your work is done for Christ, the work that you're doing, wherever you are, you do that for Christ. You're serving Christ, you're working for Christ full-time, all the time. And I think even more than that That service that's done for Christ is to be expressed in submission. Submission is an expression of your faith, you see, towards God. I want you to turn back to 1 Peter. In 1 Peter, it talks about 1 Peter chapter 1, it talks about a heavenly perspective, and I want to give this to you. 1 Peter 1 verse 3. Blessed be to God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again, here it is, to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Why did I read a verse on hope? For this reason. First Peter is a lot about suffering, but it's also a lot about hope. That we have hope. See, what does that have to do with the work world? Well it has this to do. When I go to work And I'm really don't know why I'm doing what I'm doing. I'm supposed to keep a heavenly perspective. Christ's kingdom is coming. There's a hope that I have. I'm going to see Christ and his kingdom on earth. And so my service now, whatever I'm doing, when I do it for him, is not what It's not in vain. It really has value. Not just 1 Peter 1. 3, it launches, it talks about a living hope from the beginning of this letter. Just glance forward to verse 13 also in 1 Peter 1. It says there, therefore prepare your minds for action. Keep sober in spirit. Fix your what? Hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Where is your hope? Not with the boss, not with the corporate ladder, not with Any of those kinds of things. Your hope is in the future when Christ is revealed and he comes. And you have that perspective and it helps you in the midst of your work. Now we didn't turn to Colossians, but it echoes some of this This need to submit and to do it in hope. It says this in Colossians 3, just jot the reference down. Colossians 3, 22 to 24. Slaves in all things obey those who are your masters on earth. Not with external service as those who merely please men, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do Do your work hardly as for the Lord rather than for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive your paycheck. That was my uh translation there. You will receive the reward of the inheritance. It is the Lord Christ whom you serve. Colossians 3, 22 through 24. You're going to be paid. It's pretty good pay. You're going to be paid well. Keep serving Christ in whatever you do. That's the hope. Another verse on hope. Still in 1 Peter one. Look at verse 21. Who through him are believers in God who raised him from the dead and gave Christ glory so that your faith and hope are in God. Hope connects to the workplace. It's hope, hope, hope, Peter says. We have a future hope. We have a heavenly hope, we have a sure hope, we have a living hope. It's not about gaining more worldly wealth or or obtaining more freedoms for ourselves, financial freedoms or whatever, or expressing our rights in the workplace. It's about working for Christ and His kingdom. That's what it's about. The doctrine of hope in Christ, firmly fixed in the minds of workers in the present, will impel them to submit to their bosses for the sake of Jesus Christ because they realize no matter how good or bad that boss is, it doesn't matter, their ultimate boss is Christ. And they want to serve him well. Listen, some of you have more than one boss, right? You have a boss that's right over you and then you have another boss over him and then another one like that. What if you like the one that's three stories up and not the one that's right over you Don't you work hard because of him or her? Don't you do that? Why? Because you're like that guy's a good guy. That guy's a good guy and I I want to please them. Well they just keep going a few stories higher, a lot of stories higher, and who's up there? It's Christ, you're working for him. Just think that in your head. That's who you're working for. You want to be pleasing to him. It doesn't really matter how they treat you when you have that perspective. And that is why this submission must not be half-hearted. Look back at our passage, chapter 2, verse 18. It cannot be hypocritical, it cannot be half-hearted. It's to be done with all respect. Literally, respect is phobos, fear. This refers to an attitude of respect to the masters. Now not a cowering fear of them. We're commanded as Christians not to fear those who can kill the body if you were afraid that was going to happen to you. The boss shoots you or something like that. You're afraid to go into work, he's gonna kill you. You don't have to have that kind of fear. But a respect for his position, his God-given position over you. So Peter writes all respect. What does that mean? Every situation, every conversation, every task that you've been assigned. You're flying out to LA, you're flying down to Dallas, you're going to Atlanta, New York, Boston, wherever you are, you still have a boss in every situation You honor them. None of this, yes sir, I'll get it done right away, sir, and then you turn around and start joining the gossiping course and bad mouthing the bat with the boss. That cannot be from a Christian. Cannot be Now I think it is noteworthy that when Peter and Paul wrote divine instruction to slaves, they communicated that the way to advance the kingdom of heaven on earth was not to attempt to overthrow the institution of slavery in the Roman world. In fact, quite the opposite. It was submission to that very stinky institution that would cause the gospel to spread. Isn't that amazing? As evil as the practice of slavery was then, just as it was here in the Americas, the overthrow of the institution was not God's first or even primary concern for his church To have sent a message to overthrow masters would have sent a message of chaos at best and treason at worst. And Peter just finished teaching the need to submit to the state, right? Not to revolt against the state, even if the state was evil. Rome depended on slaves, for good or for bad. The economy in those days was run by slaves. It's estimated by a number of sources that I read that more than half the population in New Testament times across the Roman world were slaves. Wow. Some slaves were treated very well. They became even like part of the family. Others were treated extremely poorly, like property, to be cast away. But either way, their official position in society was a lowly position. There's no prestige in this on earth. But Peter's message to the servants was not to revolt, but to let their submission to their masters correspond with a general submission to the state. and proved to give the Christian community a good reputation that would aid the advance of the gospel and would aid the salvation of souls. And that was the church's priority, the proclamation of the gospel and making disciples of all the nations. Not an earthly agenda or earthly comfort or earthly rights. Too often the church gets into various crusades for certain kind of uh changing society in certain ways, and that is not the emphasis of the New Testament. Please notice. Now please understand Peter's writings did not endorse slavery. The scripture does speak against the kidnapping of people in order to make them slaves. Did you know that? Exodus 21, 16, a fascinating verse. Exodus 21, 16. He who steals a man, whether he sells him or he is found in his possession possession, shall surely be put to death. Wow, if we practiced that, then those that were stealing folks from Africa and bringing them over here to America would have been put to death instantly. That tells you what God thought of the American slave trade. Dr. John MacArthur, in his commentary on Ephesians, provides a lengthy and helpful quote about slavery. I want to read it to you. He writes: This: quote: Certain types of non-abusive and beneficial slavery were permitted or even advocated in the Old Testament. For example, a thief who could not make restitution could be indentured until repayment was worked out, a plan far superior to the modern prison census which provides for no restitution of property or money to the victim or restoration of dignity for the thief. Israelites were allowed to buy slaves from the pagan nations around them, Leviticus 25, 44 But fellow Israelites could not be bought or sold, although they could voluntarily indenture themselves until the year of Jubilee Leviticus 25 verses 39 and 40. During their time of service they were to be treated as hired workers, not as slaves Even pagan slaves were not to be abused, and were given their freedom as seriously injured by their master. Exodus 21, verses 26 and 27. A slave who fled from an oppressive master was to be given asylum and protection. Deuteronomy 23 and verse 15 That's also quite different than what happened in America, isn't it? Every 50th year, the year of Jubilee, all slaves were to be freed and returned to their families. Leviticus 25, 10. A slave who loved his master and preferred to remain with him could voluntarily indenture himself for life by having his ear pierced by his master. Exodus 21, 5-6. Those of you that have been piercing your body and all, you didn't know what you were doing, did you being a slave to somebody there. Well my daughter's gonna come home with three or four of them. I know it, so I'm just getting my shot in. The kind of slavery controlled by slavery This is still the quote. The kind of slavery controlled by scriptural teaching was a blessing to both employer and employee, and was a rewarding and fulfilling relation between them. Although slavery is not uniformly condemned in either the Old or New Testament, the sincere, listen, the sincere application of New Testament truths has repeatedly led to the elimination of its abusive tendency. Where Christ's love is lived in the power of a spirit, unjust barriers and relationships are inevitably broken down. As the Roman Empire disintegrated and eventually collapsed, the brutal abuse system of slavery collapsed with it due in great measure to the influence of Christianity. New Testament teaching does not focus on reforming and restructuring human systems. which are never the root cause of human problems. The issue is always the heart of man, which when wicked will corrupt the best of systems, and when righteous will improve the worst. If men's sinful hearts are not changed, they will find ways to oppress others regardless of whether or not there's actual slavery. Again, some of you are saying, I know what he means It's how it is in my workplace. And Dr. MacArthur concludes with this man's basic problems and needs are not political, social, or economic, but Spiritual. And that is the area on which Paul here concentrates, and Peter as well. Well, there are hints in the New Testament that when the masters were addressed, giving their slaves their freedom was considered a noble thing to do. Philemon verses 15 and 16. There's only one chapter there. Paul writes to Philemon about his runaway slave named Onesimus who while running away was converted to Christianity, writes this, For perhaps he, Lenissimus, the slave, was for this reason parted from you for a while, that you should have him back forever, no longer as a slave but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me. But how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? What a great perspective. Many masters came to understand that their slaves were their Christian brothers and were equal in standing before God. 1 Corinthians 7, verses 21 and 22 adds this. Were you called while a slave? That is, were you called to Christianity and saved when you were a slave? Do not worry about it But if you are able also to become free, rather do that. For he who is called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freed man Likewise, he who is called while free is Christ's slave. See? What a perspective. But you ask Would God really expect Christians to suffer, to be submissive to bad masters and employees? Well, what does he write in verse 18? What does he write? Submit to your own what? Masters. Toys despotes. We derive our word despot from that. It just means master, though, there, whether good or bad. The master in Roman society had total right over the slave. Paul knew that. Peter knew that when they wrote these things. The master exercised absolute ownership and unlimited control over the things and persons in his household. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine receiving a letter that said for you to do that? And that's what these Christians were told? Do you see the faith that they're being called to here? You say, but surely Peter would not be advocating submission to abuse of masters, would he? Again, let me ask you: what does he write? Not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are what? Unreasonable my translation has. Not just the good ones, the bad ones too. That's a two-fold classification that would include unbelieving masters as well. Good masters probably meant they were good and gentle, they were easy to work for, realistic goals for their workers, they gave adequate rest away from work. Obviously it's much easier to submit to a a boss like that. Do you have a boss like that? Do you have a boss like that? You need to think twice before you ever leave a job like that. They're few and far between. The ones who really care about you. But to show how important submission was, Peter includes the other kind of a master too. The ones also who are unreasonable. Literally, you know what that word is? Crooked. Crooked. The opposite of straight. These kinds of masters would deviate from what was right. That doesn't mean you joined them in their sin, by the way, but you submitted to them in any way you could. They were crooked in their dealings with slaves too. Maybe paychecks didn't come as they were promised. Maybe uh they didn't provide well for their families. They showed no concerned for the welfare of their employees. Maybe they were temperamental and hurtful, promising things, but never delivering them. Bad working conditions, you name it. You know everyone wants a good boss, right? But Peter's saying there's a purpose for suffering under unreasonable bosses as well. What's the purpose? Well, that's where we turn to the second half of Peter's instructions here. First, he told us how to live That is to submit, submit in the workplace, and now he's going to provide the reason why. Why should we do that? Second, why should I as a worker Submit in the workplace. Well that's verses 19 and 20, please notice. Verse 19 first. For this finds favor. If For the sake of conscience toward God, a person bears up under sorrows when suffering unjustly. The word for there used at the beginning of both verses 19 and 20 is important to understand the relationship here. Servants are to be submissive to their masters with all respect. Why? For this finds favor, that is favor with God, as the end of verse twenty makes it clear that's favor with God Submission usually we'll find favor with a master, that's true, but the favor that Peter is writing about here is favor with God. That phrase favor with God is translated various ways by different English translations. The NID if you have that has this is commendable. King James Version has this is thankworthy. Literally it is for this is grace, but the grace here takes on the idea of favor from God, or in this context, the things that find favor with God. This will find favor with God is the point. Submission, even to unreasonable masters, finds favor with God. It finds God's approval. Again, this is mentioned at the end of verse 20. If when you do what is right and suffer for it, you patiently endure it, this finds favor with God. So submission in difficult circumstances pleases God. That's the point, and that's clear. How does it please God? Kinda wish that wasn't in the Bible, you know, that we could please God some other way, but there it is. Look at nineteen verse nineteen more closely. It doesn't exactly tell us, but it gives some hints. Why does this please God? Well, first notice the situation the servant is in there at the end of verse 19. He's suffering unjustly. And while suffering unjustly, he has a choice. He can rebel and run Or he can stay put, as it says in the middle of verse 19, to bear up under sorrows. He stays put. He's bearing up. So what choice will the suffering servant make? That's the question. Well, here's where his knowledge of God helps, and it kicks in. Notice it says, if for the sake of conscience toward God he bears up under sorrows. That translation could be a bit misleading because the term conscience there, psunadesis, means literally with knowledge. Sunadesis with knowledge. Usually when it's used here, a little bit of a grammar point here in the reflexive sense, it means knowledge of one's own mind, and thus we translate it conscience. We're aware of ourselves. But sunadesis can also mean awareness of others or awareness of God going on in your mind. Thus the NID translates it because the servant is conscious of God, because he is conscious of God In other words, the servant's awareness of God watching and that God is seeing and God understands the situation and the servant The servant is understanding that he works for God and God will be pleased with his submission. That is what motivates the servant not to run Not to rebel, not to fight back, but to stay, yes and even suffer, yes and even suffer unjustly Let me put it a little more bluntly. He knows God is his real employer, and he trusts in God's lordship over his life, and that consciousness of God keeps him from bailing. In fact, he's able to take quite a bit. He's able to bear up under sorrows. It says sorrows is the word lupe, grief and sorrows of the body or mind. I mean bosses can be a real pain in the neck, can't they? They can bring a lot of sorrow to workers. They can make life miserable. They can inst Just keep on insults onto a worker, even when he does what is right, looking for the smallest little fault that he can find in them They build up the hope of promotion and then they dash that hope later. They demand too much. They don't give enough grace when time off for the family is needed. And all of this for a worker produces sorrow. It's no fun to go into work. It hurts There's mental anguish, there's even pain. It's unjust suffering that Peter is writing about here. Suffering that really ought not to be. That's no way to manage people at all But the servant obeys. He still works hard. He goes ahead and he gets the job done. Where is his reward? Where is his praise? Where is the boss's commendation? It's not there on earth But he keeps doing it. But God's commendation is the boss's boss is looking over his shoulder and has noticed the hard work that this unjust, suffering servant This servant is suffering for unjust means is bearing up. The servant knows God is looking, and that servant is conscious of God, and that knowledge of God strengthens him. He bears up under the load and he stays put and he submits and he brings glory to God. You say that's hard. Yeah, that's hard. But it brings glory to God. You know, it's kind of hard for us to take abuse from others. We're Americans. We have a lot of rights. We know about them pretty well. These are even posted in the workplaces now. These are your rights. But sorrows for the sake of righteousness pleases God. Why is that? Why does that please God? You ever thought about that? Doesn't he want us happy? Why is it that when we're sorrowful and have a lot of pain in a bad workplace and we bear up under it, God's happy? See, see I always knew God wasn't going to be any fun. That's why I didn't really want to follow God. See, it's not going to be joyful. And here it says, this pleases God. Find favor with God. Well, I'm going to tell you why. Because when you are in that situation, you're exercising great faith in God when you don't run. See, when you exercise a little bit of faith in God that pleases God, without faith it's impossible to please God, so says Hebrews 11, 6, right? But the greater your confidence and trust in God, the more God sees in your life that you know who he is and you know what he can do. You know what he can accomplish in your life. You got a big view of God. And so in the midst of your circumstances, you're not complaining, you're anticipating what God is going to do. And that big amount of faith in a hard situation pleases God. But the only time Jesus ever gave compliments to people when he was on earth when people exercised big faith in God. When you're not suffering in the workplace, you don't have as much opportunity to demonstrate great faith If you are suffering in the workplace, you are in a tremendous position to be a great witness for Christ. Have you ever thought about that? See, because other people are looking at you. You're going to let them talk to you that way? And you can say something. They'll listen to you. I know who I am. I know what my Heavenly Father thinks of me. And I know who I'm serving. And it doesn't matter what he says to me or doesn't say to me. That speaks as a tremendous witness, a light to people all around you who in that situation would bolt. Would plot, would gripe, but not you. You're bearing up with the sorrows because you trust that God's going to work something else Would you look at the end of 1 Peter 2? I want you to see, because Christ knew all about this. Look at verse 21. For you have been called for this purpose since Christ also suffered for you. leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. Christ suffered for us, people. What did he do? Well, he committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. But the easiest time to sin is when people are mistreating you. Verse 23, while being reviled, what did he not do? He didn't revile in return. That's an example to us in the workworld. While being reviled, he did not revile in return. That is an example to us. Do you see that? While suffering, he what? You wait till you get yours. Oh yeah, I can't wait to quit. I'm going to drop this guy like a hot potato, this guy Gone. He uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to who? To the one who sees and judges righteously, God the Father. He was in The most controlled situation, he was worse than a slave. He was a prisoner being let off to be executed, and he uttered no threats. He submitted to God the Father. He knew that no one would have authority over him, as he told Pilate, unless it had been granted from above, right? Same situation you're in. Whatever authority someone has over you, God has designed to work something into your life, to give you a platform. An avenue for ministry, for blessing. And God wants you to glorify Him in that situation. There's no blessing in here for suffering when you do wrong, by the way. Did you note that? Kids, you know when you want sorrow, when uh parents are coming down on you and it's hard, because I guess kids have their homework and things like that, that's your work, right? But you know kids if uh you don't do the chores, you don't do the homework, then you don't get to play If you suffer for that, you're suffering for doing wrong. That's not what this passage is talking about. There's no blessing for you. You need to do what's right. This is talking about suffering when you do what is right. Suffering and giving glory to God. But you say, but Pastor, when do you know when your workplace is too demanding? I mean, this instruction is directed towards slaves. Technically speaking, I'm not a slave. I'm an employee. I'm under contract. I do have rights. Yes, you do. And sometimes you're going to decide to leave a work situation. I just want to give you one important principle And this is not the only in principle, but I think it's the the main one. How do you know whether to stay or go? And it's this don't run from something. Run towards something. Make sure that God has put in your heart a sense that this other job is where He wants you to be. Maybe it's a better work hour. You can do more in church. You're trying to find a way to give more time to your church, give more time to your family, and you're making a decision that way. Don't run from a difficult situation. Learn what God wants you to learn in the midst of a difficult situation. and be a light for God's glory in the midst of that difficult situation. Work for God. Work for Christ. His kingdom is coming. Our hope is a living hope. It's real. And we will be paid. We'll be paid quite well if we serve him hard. Do you believe that?