There are a lot of different kinds of churches that people go to with different traditions, different ways of doing things. Unfortunately, sometimes different beliefs even on core areas of the Christian faith. I've been a part of a number of churches, both prior to my Conversion. That's right. I was in church before I was converted. And uh more so afterwards. I was raised in a United Methodist Church in Bethesda, Maryland, where the gospel was not preached, was not known. Briefly attended a more liberal Presbyterian church while I was off in college at Frostburg. Got into a Southern Baptist church for a while, some of you would be happy to know. Enjoyed that time there as near the campus. Went to a relationally oriented community church. Didn't really hear a lot about teaching, but they were friendly people Went to a Pentecostal church that was into visions, dreams, even believed they had a vision from God to build a new Noah's Ark. It's the one you see up there on the highway when you're heading up that way. That was one of my old churches Charismatic fellowship of believers had a lot of enthusiastics, sincere worship, again, not always a lot of teaching Went to an independent Baptist church. That's at the time when Susan and I were engaged and we got some instruction there and enjoyed modeling some of the older couples in the church. And uh then I was part of an independent independent church, where I was allowed to serve in a number of different capacities, learned a lot about service in church Went to a conservative congregationalist church in California where I was ordained to full-time gospel ministry, a Filipino church. And then of course Grace Community Church in Sun Valley, California, where I served as a deacon for one year, got to study in seminary there, and got to observe the church. up close. Learned something from all of those churches, more so from others. One thing that I've learned is that there are churches which follow the Word of God more closely than other churches. All churches are not the same. It has been asserted that the sincerest form of flattery is imitation. In some ways, every church imitates another church somewhere, in some way, at some time. A lot of what we here do at Hope Bible Church is not new. We haven't invented church 2,000 years into church history. We have uh imitated other churches such as very purposefully imitating Grace Community Church, Dr. John MacArthur's church in Sun Valley, California, not of course for its size or its prominence or its unique place in the modern the modern church, but its commitment to keep the ministry biblical, to make sure that uh what we do is all focused on the Bible. We don't uh let smaller issues become big issues. We let the big things remain the big things in church. We want to see the preaching of the Word of God to the people of God on the Lord's Day in particular as the engine which drives forward the church and all that it does We also believe in what they use and other churches had used before them, a multiple elders strategy to lead the church. I also believe it's important that all of the members in the church are using their gifts and are involved in ministry in some capacity. That it's important to strengthen families, particularly the men, as the head of their homes, to practice church discipline, to hold one another accountable. To counsel from the Word of God biblically and not follow the spirit of the age, to disciple members and other aspects of the ministry. These are important things that we take from other churches, see them doing And then we bring them here into this church. Currently I'm reading the biography of John MacArthur by Ian Murray, and uh in the chapter on the early years of his ministry, it records this. Some are Dr. MacArthur's words with comments by Ian Murray. When I first came to Grace Church, I had a new idea about how to run the Sunday school. I wrote out my idea and presented it to the Education Committee. They unanimously turned it down. They said, Who are you, kid? We've been here longer than you, and Murray adds. This incident contributed to a lesson that would guide his whole future ministry. I wasted a lot of energy when I was young trying to create concepts and programs to get everyone conforming into a slot. He learned that life is more important than organization, and life is the result of inner attitudes. So the first need was for hearts moved by God through Scripture, not for new methods or new programs. MacArthur goes on. The goal of a pastor and the leaders of a church should be to generate proper spiritual attitudes in the hearts of the people. They can't just say you need to do this and you need to do that If the right kind of spiritual attitudes are present in the church, the structure will take care of itself because spirit-controlled people are going to do spirit-led things. Back to Murray. This lesson underscored the place of the pulpit. As God uses the word preached, other things are bound to happen. This lay behind MacArthur's early commitment to expository preaching. Back to MacArthur. One effect of God anointed preaching is that a congregation will not remain simply listeners Whenever there is real benefit from the Word of God, there will be people moved to love and to reach out to others. In a healthy church community, Christian activity will be spontaneous. This is what happened at Sun Valley. There came a deepening spirit of zeal, enthusiasm, and sacrifice. One couple even gave up a honeymoon to be able to give more largely to the work of God. Programs for evangelism were unnecessary as Christians made it their everyday business to live lives pleasing to God. It was proved that a congregation that evangelizes three hundred and sixty-five days a year is better than a church which has a week of revival meetings once a year. MacArthur again says, our church has been labeled in some circles as non-evangelistic. Do you know what brings most of the people to a saving knowledge of Christ? It is their personal contact with faithful Christians People in our church witness to their neighbors, co-workers, other parents in Little League, friends at school, people in the markets, their doctors, their attorneys, and everyone they meet And over the years, the Lord has blessed that one-to-one evangelistic activity to bring more people to faith in Christ than any other service, program, or event we have ever sponsored. And they've sponsored some big ones Well my experience here at Hope Bible Church has been the same, that when the pulpit is committed to expository preaching, taking the Word of God seriously, it does penetrate and influence every ministry, every program of the church, because it reaches into the heart, attitudes, and the faith of the people. And so I think we're seeing that happen here as well. And it is a joy from my perch, my perspective, to see God at work because it's just unleashing his word and seeing what his word does in the lives of people, his people. Really, though, our imitation goes back to churches long before Grace Community Church in the conservative Protestant Protestant tradition there have been many churches that have kept the Word of God in the center. That's why they put the pulpit in the center. They want the Word of God to be the center of their ministry Even before that, there were biblical congregations that extended all the way back to the New Testament Church. And the New Testament Church, of course But the teaching in the New Testament is the ultimate model for us. It really should be for every church, but if we're thinking about church and who we want to be, what we aspire to be, the best model goes all the way back to that New Testament church. One of those mostly positive models that we read about in the New Testament was the church at Thessalica in the ancient Roman province of Macedonia. And so today we began Paul's second letter to them. I'm skipping the first one just because I wanted to focus on some of the content in 2 Thessalonians. And we're going to begin by reading the first five verses of that epistle. 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 1 through 5. Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting, because your faith is greatly enlarged, and the love of each one of you toward one another grows ever greater. Therefore, we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. This is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which, indeed, you are suffering. It's good to know what we're aspiring to be as a church. What is it we're trying to grow up into? Here we have five traits of this church. Five traits that we should aspire to see at Hope Bible Church. They are, first, that they are rightly connected to God and Christ. That's in the introduction, verses one and two. Second, that they're growing in faith. Third, that they're growing in love. Fourth, that they're persevering in trial, and lastly, that they are Oriented Godward in verse five. I'll go through those again as we go along. First, they're rightly connected to God and to Christ. Look back at verses one and two The introduction simply says Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians, in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace from God the Father. And the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a letter. This is the introduction. It's written to this church. Paul had planted the church in Thessalonica during his second missionary journey Sylvanus and Timothy were with him at that time. Paul chose Silas, whose Roman name is Sylvanus. as his personal traveling companion. That's when he, you might remember, parted ways with Barnabas because they had their disagreement about John Mark, who was with them on a first missionary journey but then abandoned Paul and Barnabas and went back home. Paul didn't want to take them, so he ended up taking Sylvanus or Silas. According to Acts 16, Timothy was picked up in Lystra along that same missionary journey and eventually became Paul's most trusted and valued companion. Paul in fact wrote two New Testament letters to Timothy. Thessalica was the capital of the region of Macedonia. It's estimated it had some 250,000 people at that time. Quite a large city for an ancient city. It was also an important Roman uh trade uh city on a very important Roman road. It was a strategic city as far as Paul could see to proclaim the gospel, for much information and people would be flowing in and out of this city. And this, by the way, was Paul's pattern, not to shy away from the cities. But to make them his aim, he did not go from country to city, but he planted churches in city and let that influence and uh impact the country and the region around the cities. Well, as persecution broke out while Paul was there in Thessalica, Paul traveled next to Berea and then on by himself to Athens. And then to Corinth where Sylvanus and Timothy caught up with him. All of this is background in Acts 16 and Acts 17. Shortly after arriving at Corinth, Paul wrote 1 Thessalonians, and then we believe just a few months later, maybe three months, maybe six months later, he wrote 2 Thessalonians. The year was 80, 50, or some say fifty-one. That would make 1st and 2 Thessalonians Paul's second and third earliest epistles after Galatians, which was his earliest Very few question Paul's authorship of this letter. Its evidence both internally and externally is overwhelming It's clearly marked as from Paul, both in the greeting and the ending. It fits the circumstances of Paul's journeys quite well. It teaches Pauline theology. It was quoted early by church fathers as from Paul's hand. It also appears in the earliest lists of Paul's letters that were handed down to us in canonical form. It was never questioned as to its inclusion in the apostolic writings of the first century. It had no problem gaining entrance into the canon of Scripture as the church did not make a canon but recognized which letters were truly apostolic. Of the few moderns who questioned that Paul wrote it Some eighteen, nineteen hundred years removed from the fact, let us keep in mind. They try to make a big deal out of the fact that Paul's theology in 1 Thessalonians speaks of a sudden unannounced coming of the Lord Whereas in Second Thessalonians, and we'll see this as we read through the letter, has all these signs that lead up to the second coming. Can't be unannounced then, they say. So they think two different minds wrote these two different letters Well, that's because they don't understand that the Lord's second coming is complicated and has two phases. One, a rapture which is unannounced, and seven years removed from that, after the seven year tribulation, the coming of Christ back to earth. The first is sudden, the second has definite signs that precede it Some modern writers try to pigeonhole various authors of Scripture so that if they express a wider variety of understanding and detail on a theological subject, it must mean that they couldn't have written the same two letters. That is logically absurd and it's quite easy to refute. And by the way, if each of the letters said something that sounded too much the same, they would call the other letter a forgery. You can never please skeptics whether it's too different or too much alike. They find a way to say it couldn't be original, it couldn't be original. Don't believe that. The unity of the letter, too, is without question, since no manuscript evidence has ever been found that would divide the letter into two or more parts. The style and content fit Paul's other letters with only minor deviations As I mentioned before, just a couple of months after writing 1 Thessalonians, Paul wrote 2 Thessalonians. The letter was written in response to a report that came to him while in Corinth about how things were going at the church. And we don't know who brought the report. So the purpose of the letter is to respond to that report, and we can figure out what was in the report by the content of 2 Thessalonians. It's threefold. First, since the persecution that broke out while Paul was there was still going on intermittently, this letter was to encourage them to stand for Christ amidst the suffering they were enduring. Second, though Paul had instructed them about last things, what we call eschatology, you can see 1 Thessalonians 4, for example, about the teaching of the rapture, 1 Thessalonians 5. about his teaching about the day of the Lord. They still were confused about some items. Particularly they were confused about a supposed letter that had been written from Paul forged with his name upon it, saying that the day of the Lord had already happened. You can see chapter 2 and verse 2 for that. But the day of the Lord had not yet come. It was still future, and Paul didn't want him confused It is not coincidental that the letter ends, if you look to the end of the letter in 2 Thessalonians 3. 17, he says, I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. And this is a distinguishing mark in every letter. This is the way I write. Then he goes on to bless them with the grace of God. In other words, you could know my letter is not a forgery. This is how I sign my letters. He used Sylvanus or one of the other men. as an amenuensis to write, to kind of be a scribe as he would write the letter to them, but he would sign it with his own name. The third reason is because of all of this anticipation of the coming of the Lord that the Thessalonian church had embraced, some of them in that church had decided that there was no sense in continuing to hold down a job if Jesus was coming. They might as well just, you know, get rid of that, have a good time, and uh stand around and wait for the second coming. And uh this letter also corrects that. We'll see that when we get to chapter three. He even tells them if you're not willing to work, you shouldn't be allowed to eat. Idleness is not the right response to the teaching on the second coming. That's the purpose of the letter. The theme of the letter Could be this, living in light of the second coming. How do we live in light of the fact that Christ is coming again? Well, they were instructed about that twenty centuries ago, we need to be instructed by that now. In fact, all three chapters are oriented toward eschatology. It shows both how to anticipate the second coming while remaining practically engaged with the world today. I think it's an appropriate study. for the year in which we are in, 2012, and all the hype that surrounds this year. Please notice from verse 1 that this church is a local church, the church of the Thessalonians. This is a local church in one city. But though it is in Thessalica in the world, in terms of its geography, Paul also gives it a second location. Its real location is, notice, in God and Christ. The church is in God and Christ. That's its location. That's very important. It shows that every true church is rightly connected to God and Christ. We are actually in Christ and in God. What is a false church? A false church is where Christ is not really the head of the church, and that church is not connected to the head. Why would that connection not be there? Because they didn't teach the true gospel and the truth about Jesus Christ. That's a false church. If they distort the gospel or they distort who Christ was, they can't be a true church, even if they have a steeple, nice-sounding bell, Bibles in the pew, etc. Today there are many false churches that are not rightly connected to Christ. You wonder if there are not more false ones today than true ones What one teaches about Christ and the gospel determines if they really are connected to Christ. That's true of individuals. You have to believe the gospel to be connected to Christ. A church has to preach the gospel, believe it in that sense, to be rightly connected to Christ. What is not a true gospel? Let's just take a moment to think about that in broad categories. Any system of getting saved and going to heaven by your good works, that's a false gospel. That's not a true gospel. And churches that teach that and uphold that are not true churches. A denial of Jesus as fully divine, as fully divine as the Father. Any church that denies that Is not a true church. Disbelief in Holy Scripture, for how can we know about Christ except what is taught there in Scripture A replacement of being born again by getting busy and doing social work instead of telling the people they're dead in their sins and trespasses and need to be born again. Or they won't enter the kingdom of God. They say, you know, be a Christian, do good works, get out there and help people, and that replaces the new birth. That's not a true church either. Some try to have an attachment to Jesus Christ through a system of sacraments. If I keep these sacraments, the sacraments will impart grace to me. That also is not a true gospel Some today are into health and wealth or personal fulfillment, and churches use Jesus to make themselves feel better and to get wealthy and have more prominence, and they call that the gospel. That is not the gospel But true churches teach the true gospel and they have God and they're connected to Christ. To these true churches God and Christ communicate their divine resources. When you're connected to the true God and to Christ, you get some benefits from that. Notice that there are two of them right there. Just two that are listed, two of the key divine resources given to true churches. Do you see them there? It's grace and peace. Grace and peace. Don't run past those words too quickly It is a greeting, but it communicates something. Grace is carus, it's undeserved merit. Grace is given to undeserving sinners. We shouldn't get grace, but we do. Grace comes abundantly from God because of how He is. And He doesn't give it to the proud, He gives it to the humble. Grace is given to heal, Grace is given to forgive, Grace is also given to strengthen people in their ministry toward one another. You know that grace begins and ends all thirteen of Paul's letters. He indeed could be called the apostle of grace. Peace is also listed. What is peace? It's peace with God. We're no longer in enmity with Him. There's no longer hostility there. We have peace among each other. We get along. The normal barriers that would separate us from society are torn down. The cross of Christ humbles us and brings us together in Christ. And there's also the peace that we all want inside of us in our thinking, so to cast out worry and anxiety, and we have restfulness Peace, shalom, in Hebrew thinking is well-being. It's where you want to be. You always want to live a life of peace and well-being. You can't buy peace. Peace comes only from God. You have to be in God and in his son to have this priceless peace. There's a bumper sticker that affirms when you know Christ, you know peace. And that's true. You need to know Christ and know him well. That's the first trait of a church to model, to be a true church, truly connected to Christ and God. The second trait there is in the beginning of verse 3, and it is growing in faith. Growing in faith. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting, because your faith is greatly enlarged. Now this entire section from verse 3 down through verse 12 is to express Paul's thankfulness to God for that church there. It forms an entire section, including God's just wrath against the unbelievers who are giving this church a hard time. We'll get into that next Lord's Day. Paul does not just say that he gives thanks for the church, but that he ought to give thanks for them. You see, that is the Greek word offalo. It refers to obligation. We often think that, you know, thanksgiving is a good thing good thing to do. It's what we do in church. We give thanks to God over our meals. But do you ever think of it this way that you and I owe God our thanks. It's an obligation. It's a debt. We have a debt of gratitude toward God for the multiple ways in which He works among us. What kind of a person would be given a great gift, a wonderful gift that he truly needs, and still does not say, thank you? We owe God thanks for his amazing work of grace and peace. It's a large reason why we come here just to thank God every Sunday for what he has given to us. Unbelievers are characterized by a lack of thankfulness towards God. They have lots of good things in their life and they refuse to give God the thanks. And when something bad comes into their life, they're quick to say there can't be a God and to curse him. That's very contradictory. We as believers ought to sing out with a hearty, thankful tone when we come together Singing isn't something we do so that we can say we participated in church. If you're kind of weak in your singing and you're not enthusiastic in your singing, it's probably because you're not very thankful in some You need to talk to yourself about that and let it all out. Be thankful towards God. As I said, unbelievers don't give thanks to God, and that's morally disgusting. It's a sin not to give thanks to God. Obviously a gross sin when they take credit for things themselves that are good and blame God for things that they count as tough and hard The giving of thanks is not, by the way, to the Thessalonians, please notice, the giving of thanks is toward God. God gets the credit for the church. The church was there. God is not thanking the church. He could do that at different times for different thanks, but here he's thanking God. God's grace and peace are given to this church. God causes the faith that results in attachment to Jesus, and then a church is born. And Paul sees that and gives thanks to God for that. You know, a local church that is a true local church is something to give thanks to God for. Wouldn't you agree? We see another church and God is working in that other church over there. We've got to be thankful. That's a work of God. You know, churches are God's pattern and program for this age. We want to see churches springing up all over the place. We want to plant churches. We want to encourage weaker churches. In part we're excited about being a large part of what Grace Advance is going to do in the mid-Atlantic area because we get a chance to help smaller churches and younger churches and younger pastors encourage them. We want to see God work in them. It's a good thing to give thanks for. A church is a work of God that spills over and brings blessing to more and more people, maybe to generations and generations. It's such a privilege to be involved in building the Church of God. It is the very fruit that Paul ventured out on these missionary journeys to see. Why did he go out and sacrifice? Well, he wasn't going out to entertain himself to see the world. He went out to plant churches and see God work It's why he brought along Silas and Timothy with them. It's what they wanted to see. Of course they gave thanks to God for it. Notice, too, that he calls the church he's writing to, brethren. As people come to faith, they join a family. It's been called the forever family of God. If you're saved, you're part of it. We're brothers and sisters in Christ, we ought to act that way towards one another. We are joined not at the hip, as some people say, not by blood, but by spiritual birth. We're truly brothers. Then he adds, as is only fitting, that refers to his thanksgiving. In other words, it's a proper thing to give thanks for them. The giving of thanks has objective merit. When you see a work of God, it's fitting that you give thanks for it. The reason for the thanks is initiated with the word because, hati in Greek. It has a causal force. It means because the faith of the Thessalonian church is greatly enlarged. That's why he's giving thanks. That's why it has merit We rightly give thanks to God for you, Thessalonians, because your faith is greatly enlarged. That shows what, by the way, that God is the one who does the enlarging of their faith. You see that? You're giving thanks to God for enlarging their faith. That means they're not enlarging their own faith, God's doing it. And by the way, that also means that that faith that is in you is given from God. You can't even muster faith in Christ. God grants that to you in the first place. He opens your eyes, he moves upon your heart. And that faith that's found inside of you, that comes from you, originates from the grace of God's work upon your heart. God gives grace to allow faith to flourish. That word greatly enlarged translates a word that's used only here in the New Testament. It means it grows over and above. It's sort of an abundant term. The growth rate has gone beyond the normal. It's poured out. It's above and beyond what is expected. If the church were a tree, so to say, we say, well, we planted it, man, that thing has taken off and it's growing. And it's exciting as a gardener to see that. Because sometimes shrubs and trees and plants they don't grow much at all. When you see one take off, you're like, that's exciting. And for Paul to plant of this church by God's grace, he's excited about this. He's finding joy in this. It's not the growth in the numbers. You never hear him say anything about how large they are in size. You notice that? It's the growth in their what? Their faith. Their faith was begun when, of course, the gospel was preached and faith was placed in them, but that was just starting faith. That was saving faith. Faith is not something we're to have and just the status quo we're to keep. Faith is to grow. Your faith is to grow. Our faith is to grow. We're not to be happy with where we are. There's a contentedness in the Christian life, but there should be a discontentedness too. I'm not satisfied with how my confidence in God is. That's how we should be We don't want to become stagnant in what we do for the Lord. Faith, people have said, is like a muscle of you exercise it, sore a little bit, but then it gets what? Stronger. If you don't exercise it, it gets what? Weaker. Faith needs to grow. Why? Because we need more confidence in God to see God work among us. We're limited in what we do for God if we don't grow in faith We're limited in what we know of Christ, the experience we have of Christ in our soul by a weak faith. And the way that faith grows, he doesn't mention it here, but we know from his letters, is by knowing Christ better. And how do you know Christ better? You listen to his word and you meditate on it and you think about Christ And you gain more experience in Christ and walk with Christ and let the word continue to feed you and hang out with those who build up your faith, your faith grows. And God blesses and increases faith. John Phillips in his commentary writes this: Growth is evidence of life. Nobody expects a pebble to grow. Vigorous growth is evidence of vigorous life. Developing faith is a direct result of occupation with the Word of God, of specific answers to prayer, and of increasing personal knowledge of and confidence in the Lord Jesus. We should aspire to be a church where faith is growing and is enlarged. That's one reason we're committed to expository preaching. When you take every verse of the Bible and you take it seriously and you bring out the wisdom and knowledge of that verse We begin to see this is not a normal book. This has life-changing power in it. It speaks the truth to the human condition. There's no spin here. It all tells the truth, whether we like what it hears or whether we don't like what it hears. And so it's the word of God. It builds us up as we listen to it and treat it that way. What happens when a church is enlarged in faith? Did Paul say that? You can't see faith, but what was he seeing? He was seeing love. He was seeing love growing, he was seeing evangelism, he was seeing endurance and trials, and we're going to get to all of that. The faith was the root of all of that People say faith is the root and love is the what? Fruit. You don't get love, God's kind of love, without that. We'll talk about that in a minute. As a church moves forward in faith, it moves forward in evangelism. If you really believe what you've come here to affirm this morning, you're going to go out there and you're going to tell somebody You're going to want to tell somebody. You may be a little scared, but you're going to go tell them anyway. And you gain more love for others because you understand this is true. And you care for them. You're more active in the things of God. The things of the world, they're not as attractive as you thought they were when you were younger. You you grasp behold a faith and you see those things that used to excite me, get me so excited, they're like, ah They're not that great. They're there, thank God for them. They're temporary. If I have them or don't have them, somehow I can be happy. Because faith and the knowledge of the kingdom to come fills your soul. You know what else happens when faith enlarges is love towards Jesus enlarges. That takes us in the growing in love, the latter part of verse 3. Look at it. And the love of each one of you toward one another grows even greater. This is a further reason for Paul giving thanks to God. That verb grows is up front in the sentence, giving it prominence. It grows, the love grows. It should be noted that this love and faith increasing is the result of the prayers of the Apostle Paul and others for this very church, mentioned back in 1 Thessalonians 3, verses 10 and also verse 12. There Paul wrote, As we night and day keep praying most earnestly that we may see your face and may complete what is lacking in your faith. And then verse twelve of First Thessalonians three says, May the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love for one another and for all people. Just as we also do for you. He prayed for this love and he's writing in 2 Thessalonians and he's saying, it is increasing, it's growing Really, about this love, there are four elements I'd like to talk about here. The first element is love itself. Love is necessary in church Can you imagine a church without love? I mean why go there? Who cares what they say? Who cares what's preached up here if the people out there don't love one? Right? Who cares? Love validates the truth. Love is the application of faith. Faith yields love. As we said, faith is the root, love is the fruit. God's kind of love, agape love, is born only of faith, and then it can begin to grow. The second element is that love grows. Just as faith grows, we love each other, but love can increase. Love can grow Static love is not the goal. I found I'm going to do this much for people in the church. I'm comfortable and happy with that much. And that's a nice routine. I think I'll keep it for the next ten years. Are you like that? I hope you get messed up in your routine. And you get something you have to give up something you didn't want to give up to love because then you'll experience in your heart how much you would rather have been doing that than that other thing that you supposedly wanted to do so much. Growing is a word that means to become more in abundance. God wants to see more abundant love in his churches. The third element here is that love comes from each one of you. Love cannot grow in a congregation unless love grows in you and you and me and you and you and you and each one each one of us has to own the responsibility. I have to I have to change me with God's help, so that I can love you more. I need to give up something, I need to show more concern. A prayer request is given online or here. If you take note of it, does it give interest to you or is it just, well, someone else is hurting out there, I guess yeah. Someone will pray for it, that's good. Or does it become your concern? A need is there. Do you say, well, they must have something set up in this church to meet that need, right? Well that exonerates you then I guess, huh? Is that how the conscience works? No, things aren't always set up in church. Needs are there. Go ask. And we still by the way need a couple more deacons of our care ministry that we may coordinate our love towards one another better in here. God may be talking to a couple of you men about that We need to have love, each one of us, for the other. Don't wait for someone else to love you. God already loves you, right? We love because he what? First loved us. If God love, don't wait for someone in the congregation to love you, you go love somebody. Take the love he gave. And the fourth element is the love is toward one another. Toward one another. We forget how important it is that our love be especially expressed towards the brethren. You can't love the air or the sky. You're not supposed to be loving the music. You're supposed to be loving the people. Don't love the preaching. Love the people. See Your love is directed outward. It's a courageous love. It's toward other people around you who are imperfect people. We're called to love imperfect people. People who will let you down from time to time. People you're not sure you can trust, you're supposed to love them. People who are sometimes hypocritical, you're supposed to love them. People who are not like you, you're supposed to love them. People that don't make you smile all the time, you're supposed to love them. You care about others. You have to show it in tangible kinds of ways. Get past some of the superficial talk. It's fine maybe for a moment or two. Ask people how they're doing. Grow in love. But I don't want to ask them how they're doing because if they tell me how they're doing, then I might feel obligated to help them. And that's why you don't ask, because you don't love them I'm too busy to love people. Trust God with that. We can work together as a church. If you're overwhelmed helping one person, we find someone else. We talk about that. We talk with one another about those things. Don't just show up on Sunday, please. It's the worst thing. James says you deceive yourself if you listen to the word of God and don't what? Put it into practice, right? You're just deceiving yourself. Christianity is very practical, it's very personal. Some people love to come to church and debate theology. I love theology. They love to come and debate theology. They've got big brains. Read big books. Don't have a big heart. Don't have a big heart. How come it didn't trickle down? This stuff that was supposedly learned. Christ died for my sins. Forgiven much, you what? Loved much. Jesus said so. People love church music. I love church music. But do you love church people? See? Some people love to stand up front and teach other people where they feel they belong. But they don't love the people. Some people love to look good on Sundays, but they don't love the people. They don't even demonstrate sometimes love to their own members of their own family. You can't love the members of your own family in Christ. How are you going to love the others here. Alright, a fourth trait is perseverance and trials. Verse four, perseverance and trials. Therefore we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God. For your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. You can just hear Paul's emotion in that verse. The word therefore shows that following is the reason Paul speaks so well of this church. Notice how Paul puts it. We ourselves, that's emphasized strongly there. The we ourselves boast about you. The writers were boasting about this church. That refers to Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. They traveled around the other churches and they talked about the Thessalonian church. They talked highly of this church They're the churches of God, notice. They're not the churches of Paul or the churches of Peter. Every true church belongs to God. They're the churches of God. They spoke among the churches of God. They gave thanks to God for what he did, but they also spoke proudly about this church. The church got high praise from Paul. It's not a sin to boast in the work of God in others. It's really a boast in God. Personal pride, of course, in oneself is wrong. Our society says it's right. No. It's a self-focused. It says, I get the credit. I don't get the credit for anything except for my sin. Get the credit for that, right? The wages of sin is death Pride in others is fine if it is understood that God gets the credit. The person's beautiful and gracious actions are the result of God's grace in them. Ah, the Thessalonians were not perfect. Keep that in mind. They had some doctrinal correction to undergo. There was some sin in the church, but he gave thanks for them and boasted in them nonetheless. Some of that boasting, you might want to turn here, is in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. And you hear Paul boasting about this church. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Starting in verse one, and we'll go through uh verse five He writes this. Now, brethren, he's writing to the Corinthians, but he's going to be talking about the Church of the Thessalonians and some others around them. Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God. Which has been given in the churches of Macedonia, that in a great ordeal of affliction their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability they gave of their own accord, begging us with much urging for the favor of participation in the support of the saints And this not as we had expected, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. This was a poor church and they begged to give more financially in the contribution that was headed to the churches in Judea And they uh Paul just said they they were an incredible church in their giving, and they gave of themselves too. And so this is some of the boasting that uh he even puts in Scripture about this church. Now let's flip back to 2 Thessalonians. We can do this. We can spur one another on. We can find something that someone else is doing and say, look how God has worked in that person's life as worthy of emulation. It's boasting in the work of God, glorying in the work of God in their life, and spurring us on to give more, to do more, to obey more. We should never feel that we're too proud of a church that we can't look down the road or across the country or in the other part of the state and say, now there's a church that's doing something right. We can learn from that. You know, the elders, leaders of churches should be reading what's going on in other churches. We should be going to conferences, we should be getting input. Getting stimulated from what other people are doing, not proud and thinking, well, I know everything already, I don't need to be told anything. There are examples out there that are worthy of emulation, and we can do that. Spur one another on through that Now, particularly what Paul speaks proudly of them about is their persevering faith in the midst of two difficulties. Afflictions and persecutions. Afflictions is philipsis. Persecutions is the ogmos And um they're related, but they're slightly different. Persecution indicates the hostility toward the church by others. Affliction speaks of the pain that hostility brought to the church They go together. The point of persecution is to bring pain to the church, and they got them both. In Acts 17, verses 1 and following, some of that persecution had already started. I'll read from verse 5 It says the Jews becoming jealous and taking along some wicked men from the marketplace formed a mob and set the city in an uproar, and attacking the house of Jason, that's where the Christians had met They were speaking to bring them out to the people. When they did not find them, they began dragging Jason and some brethren before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have upset the whole world have come here also. And Jason has welcomed them. And they all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there's another king, Jesus. They stirred up the crowd and the city authorities who heard these things. The Jews stirred up trouble from the Gentiles against the church. So they had to endure this. They had to endure those trials. We don't. You drove in this morning. Was there someone shouting at you and made a left turn into the church? You're like, go away, you're not allowed to be here. Someone coming here and dragging the leaders out, you know, beating them out in the square, how would that make you feel? I know how it make me feel. I don't know how it make you feel. You feel bad too. Maybe I'm next. Maybe I won't step up and be a leader. See? That's what this church was dealing with. And they stood their ground. And they continued to preach Christ and meet together. They endured trials. You know, enduring trials is not a stoic, tight-lipped kind of Just gotta get through this. It's trusting God, He's got good in the pain. It's joyful, it's powerful. It comes from faith. They were bravely enduring. They were not running scared. Bear up is hoopamone, bearing up under. These are real strong men and women of faith bearing up under persecution. Diedman Heber in his commentary writes, It is closely linked to their faith. Without a living, robust faith, they would not have been able to remain steadfast under their afflictions. Their perseverance as believers amid persecution manifested the reality of their faith. Well, the fifth trait is that they were oriented towards God. We'll do this one quickly. Verse 5. This is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for which indeed you are suffering. Actually, the fifth verse is the hardest in the section to interpret It speaks of something being a plain indication of God's righteous judgment. But the commentators disagree as to what the plain indication actually is. Is it their endurance in trials? the affliction from the unbelievers or the whole situation that they faced there. The grammar really allows for all the different views. I don't think God is saying that their suffering is God's righteous judgment upon them. I don't think the context speaks of chastisement. It's a strange way to speak of fatherly discipline as God's righteous judgment. The majority don't think judgment is being used in the positive sense here, but in the negative punishment sense. It seems more likely, considering the verses that follow that Paul is showing that the fact that they were being persecuted is a plain indication that God's judgment will fall on the persecutors. Verse 6, for after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. I think that's what he's saying. It's a similar thought expressed in Philippians 1 27. Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear of you, that you are standing firm in one spirit. with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel, in no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them. but of salvation for you, and that too from God. That you're persecuted is a sign that you're saved, and it's a sign that those who are persecuting are headed to judgment. It's a mark or sign of that. The second part of verse 5 shows that the persecution are so that they will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God. Of course, this phrase too needs to be handled accurately, for in ourselves none of us are worthy of the kingdom of God. Would you agree? The righteousness that we will have in standing before God is not our own, it's Christ's. It's imputed to us We don't get into heaven or the millennial kingdom due to personal righteousness. Romans 3. 20 says, by the works of God's law, no human being will be justified in God's sight. You can't get there that way. However, the suffering is for the sake of the kingdom. And that suffering for the sake of the kingdom shows their faith is real, it's genuine. Enduring faith and persecution validates genuine faith. And in that sense, they're counted worthy of entrance into the kingdom. There's a sense in which we today are in the kingdom, the spiritual kingdom in the church. There's a sense in which we're not. The future manifestation of the kingdom when Christ returns to earth will be given. We've not entered into that aspect of the kingdom yet. This also shows that their entire church was oriented toward God. That's the trait. They were working for God's kingdom, and in working for God's kingdom and being oriented towards God and not their own agenda, they were suffering. It's easy for a church to get out of suffering. They just have to fit the way the world wants their church to be. Just turn the church into something the world's happy with, and the church will leave it alone. In fact, they may come and join it. That is the secret behind the so-called success of many of the churches that grow rapidly in our culture and don't speak of the offensive aspects of the Bible. What secret is there to that? If you throw sin and Bible and judgment out, people are gonna kind of like that church. It fits the spirit of the age. This church wouldn't do it, and they suffered for it. They speak of Christ as king in an empire where Caesar was the emperor. They were oriented towards God. Christ was their king. They held up his banner. Everything they did was about him, not themselves. When you witness for the Lord Jesus, when you identify with other Christians who do, maybe who do so more than you Then you're going to suffer. And you're going to do it because your life is God-focused. Churches have to stay focused on God and His agenda and His work and not get sidetracked. Listen, we're not growing a social club here, people. That's not what we're growing. We're not growing an entertainment center, so the entertainment gets better and better each Sunday. We're not building a community center We're not building a self-help center. We're not building a feel-good place. We're not working to erect the monument to ourselves. Our name is unimportant. We're not joining this church because we find people here like us whom we enjoy eating a burger with Some of you I've heard have said things like, I don't have friends here. I don't click with the people here. They don't show interest in my likes. Since when is church about you? Since when? Get your focus off yourself, humble yourself, and start loving, start serving, start giving yourself to the program of God. That's a God-focused life. If you're not doing that, then you'll still be about yourself. And God does not bless that. He blesses those that are focused on his kingdom, on his work, and who are willing to suffer for it most. Judged by modern standards of good churches these days, the church at Fess and Leica would not really pass the test. They didn't really have big enough facility. They they didn't have large enough programs, didn't have a lot of money, they're a poor church, and didn't have good productions up front, skits and things like that Pastor wasn't all that well known in public. In fact, some of the leaders got beaten. Didn't have a nice sign hanging out front. But they were the kind of church that God wants a church to be. They were a church that was rightly connected to God and Christ through the gospel. They were growing in faith, they were growing in love, they were persevering in trial. And their entire church was oriented towards God. That is a church that is worthy of emulation. Don't you think? And so let us continue to strive to be that here at Hope Bible Church. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. Thank you, Lord, for the model of this young and growing church, hit with persecution early in its church's years. May we, Lord, be standing for what is right. May we be loving each other. May we be known as a church growing in faith, directed and oriented toward you Those who are comfortable in our church, Lord, help them to be stirred up, to do more, to grow in you. Those whose hearts are stubborn this morning, unwilling to bend and to repent Maybe even who are hearing this at home in a message, change their hearts. Help them to get past themselves, to give of themselves. Help them to remember the cross and the one who sacrificed for them. Help each of us to take an evaluation of our own hearts and what we're trying to do in this church, what we want our church to look like and be. Help us to have the right goals, the right traits in mind as we pray. for Hope Bible Church. Lord, bless us as we follow your word, keep our minds on it, keep our hearts open, keep our hands busy with your work. In Jesus' name, amen.