Malachi obviously has in mind the same world altering time he just mentioned at the end of chapter three, particularly verse seventeen. Have you ever taken dry stubble and been in front of a bonfire or something like that and just hurled it in there to see how quickly it lasts? It says, Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, though his height was like the height of cedars, and he was strong as the oaks, I even destroyed his fruit above and his root below. Because through the next 400 years they would need to remember. And he says, don't let anyone deceive you. Indeed, experiencing the future promises of God depends on a faith in Jesus that saves. Their hearts will be changed so they do make those right decisions. In the present I rest my soul because I know whatever judgments are coming, whatever inadequacies there are in my faith and soul, God has guaranteed the future for me and for you. And beloved, I would add this that since you do not know the day or the hour, not only of Christ's second coming, but of your personal departure from this planet When then God would distinguish between the righteous and the wicked. But I can imagine you don't get too close. And abase the haughtiness of the ruthless, haughtiness, proud, arrogant, and then you see terms like ruthless that are associated with them. Stephaniah 1 warns, near is the great day of the Lord, near and coming very quickly. And the prophets in the fifth century BC said it's coming and it's near, as Malachi is saying. And you will go forth and skip about like calves from the stall. If you have the King James or the New King James, you may see that the word for son, S-U-N, is capitalized. It is a figurative representation of the rays emanating from the sun, indicating the swiftness with which the healing will be applied to the righteous that need it. and express themselves in such sexual immorality and have all these adventures that they go on are so depressed and many of them end up committing suicide because they don't know real joy in life Because you will trample them down. How often should I come to church or should I go to something that puts me in remembrance of the Word of God? in Exodus 3. And when the day comes, because our life hasn't indicated it, we will be one of the wicked, even though we've professed something different with our lips. The New Testament tells us that the unrighteous people, people who practice unrighteousness, and it even gives lists of sins there, will not inherit the kingdom of God. There are always those in the church that want to profess Christ and live like the devil. They're given to you to teach you, to exhort you, to instruct you. But he's not that's not going on now, and he says, don't worry, I will. To turn the hearts of the fathers back to the children. The land of promise from their time of exile, because they had been disobedient before. God had to make sure there would be a future generation who would have their hearts transformed and thus keep the law and open the door for blessing on the land. And I remember the past, I remember all the instruction that's been handed down to us from godly men and women. through all the worries we have to endure in a faith and obedience that's stuck on the same path on and on and on We will continue that journey. He will restore the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, so that I will not come and smite the land with a curse. in the teaching of God. The second strategy is to remember what God has instructed us in the past. The coming of the day of the Lord needs to be before our eyes. But we are to keep our eye on the future. In fact, the day is mentioned four times in these six verses. So God is preparing a day for the future of this planet. But it is a hundred percent guaranteed by the God of angel armies, the God of hosts, the Lord of hosts That's exactly what we see here in chapter 4. Did you guys hear about the spilling out of the volcano in Iceland? The the grain was harvested, but this part was unusable. Nothing to envy. It is translated as proud in Isaiah chapter 13, verse 11, which reads, Thus I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. The wicked have no future. The fire will never give out. That were in the world, he said, gather up the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them up. It's still growing because the root was still alive. It is at hand. Don't wait right now, for there's no other hope outside of Christ. that our actions are significant and powerful, that we have to face the consequences of our actions, and that our actions have consequences for eternity as well as in time. And he is a just judge. Others have interpreted it to be a specific reference to the Messiah when he arises and shines the blessings of the end times. He hears the word of God and trembles before the word. In his prophecy in Luke chapter 1, verse 76 and 78 and 79, I'll read it. Just as those beams come out and hit us, so quickly will the healing of Christ come upon the righteous. This is a picturesque way of speaking of the sun's rays that surround the sun as it rises and shines those beams down on the righteous and brings blessing to them, while at the same time it scorches the wicked. In other words, God is the giver of the greatest joys. How can I have a strategy to live as a more faithful and obedient Christian right now? That's where we stand here as Christians. 4, 5, and 6 here that the Israelites would hear from God for the next 400 plus years. How do I know that in the future I'll be one of those just described as being blessed? The exhortation to remember is all throughout the Bible. That's their history. If we ignore them and set them aside, it lets us know that our faith is a spurious faith. In this book, Malachi, that now at the end of it, the nation again is exhorted, keep the law, remember it. In your homes, take advantage of sermons online, take advantage of conferences, take advantage of Bible studies, come to classes. The first part would make you anxious. And it doesn't matter what you're going to face personally in your life, nationally, with something like Ebola, end times judgment, daily worries, none of that matters. That's why we hear things like this in Psalm 46, 10. And he tells the people, There's going to be no rain. the great and terrible day of the Lord, during the height of Antichrist's rage against the nation of Israel. The parallels between this and chapter 3, verse 1 are clear. Plus, this prophecy in Malachi says Elijah's coming will be before the day of the Lord, which that did not happen either. Robert Alden writes, John the Baptist's ministry was preparatory for that great and dreadful day when the curtain will drop on world history and the Lord who came the first time as Savior and Friend will come Look at the work of Elijah in the future. to bless the family, to bless the nation, to bless the land. If it were the earth, it would not make sense, because the earth is already smitten with a curse in Genesis 3, and which Romans chapter 8 echoes that nature moans and groans until the time of the redemption of the sons of God. We will stand in all of God's fiery judgments. Help those that are vacillating and coming to Christ to flee to the Savior before they meet a fiery end. Thank you for this. And we pray for greater faith that we may be more faithful to you. That greatest of all disasters also can be avoided only if you have forward thinking now. future. You will tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day which I am preparing, says the Lord of hosts Remember the law of Moses, my servant, even the statutes and ordinances which I commanded him in Oreb for all Israel. Burning like a furnace. right here in the present in verses five and six. what is coming. And the day that is coming will set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. for you. Arrogant and evildoers will be like chaff or stubble before a blazing furnace. These so-called blessed, arrogant ones from chapter 3 and verse 15, who are rich now and have the good life now, and who test God and seem to get away with it now, will be helplessly torched then. The arrogant have way too high an opinion of themselves. centuries and centuries before he has brought this day upon the planet, so that people would be thoroughly warned. When God tells them to repent of the wickedness of their lives, they say to themselves, We like our lives. John the Baptist used very similar imagery for the wicked when he spoke of the ministry of Jesus Christ when he was to come in Matthew 3. The burning will be so complete, our text tells us that there will not be left root or branch. I had a fig plant in my backyard and we had a really severe winter this past winter as you all know and I thought it kind of got my plant, he knows All the branches above the ground I found out in springtime were killed by the cold. Whatever they are, all of it will be consumed in the mighty fire of God. No wonder in verse 5 this day is called the great and terrible day of the Lord. The fact is that we all deserve the fires of hell, and only the saving death of Christ can rescue us from that judgment. Everyone will not be saved in the end, as the universalist hopes. Fearing the name of God is how a righteous man goes about living his life. A man who fears God does not view life in all of its measures as secular. He's God-oriented and he has a reverence toward the eternal God. The Son of Righteousness may refer to the blessings which will shine down upon the righteous from God, generally speaking If it is the Messiah, it refers to him as that light who would come into the world. We say that at Christmas time. Because of the tender mercy of our God, with which the sunrise from on high will visit us to shine upon those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death. to guide our feet into the way of peace. calls this phrase a beautiful figure of Christ in his personal, visible, and glorious second advent to usher in the era of millennial peace in which he will rule with power and glory. Just as the rising of the sun can mean warmth and growth and life and plush gardens and fruit, it can also mean burning heat and desert and death. adds this insight. Some believe that Malachi is making reference to the ancient Egyptian sun disk that was often pictured on the pyramids and various obelisks that would be surrounded by wings, referring again to the rays. This was also used by the Assyrians, maybe even invented by them, and used by the Babylonians and the Persians, though in different forms. Remember that the next time you're out in the sun and the sun rays fall upon you, we're not worshipers of the S U N, we're worshipers of the S-O-N. This pictures the exuberance of the young calves getting a little bit of freedom out in the field after being cooped up or penned up for so long. Gives them a chance to move their muscles, exercise their legs, and even kick them up in the air. We are told this is how we will express our emotion and be exuberant at this time. Everything that you think you're not getting now, and all the blessings that you wish you had as a believer, hang in there. Victory. Or Romans chapter 16 and verse 20 if you like, where it says, the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. Or Isaiah 63, 6, I trod down the peoples in my anger. This is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith, 1 John 5. By the evil, by unbelievers. We don't try to take our revenge now. constantly be thinking of that day. Joshua was told to mutter on it, meditate on it day and night so he wouldn't forget. how they were to behave and their families. It lit their pathway ahead. This law is the law of love. The law was their solid ground on which they stood. It's not being revealed today. It came in the four gospels and in the book of Acts. He is righteous. Behold, I am going to send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord. Doing that in the present. The additional thought here is that God gives these promises to us in the present. What are you supposed to do with a promise from God? Right? There's a future ministry of Elijah that's supposed to bring confidence to the people of Israel and also confidence to us In essence, what God is saying is, I still have a plan. That's why Jesus said, do not worry about tomorrow. Do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. God promises to act in the future to make sure everything is going to be worked out. I'm going to send him back to the nation again, a second time. And his that he was a bad king. Elijah, when he came the first time, was sent by God at a very low time in the history of Israel. Clearly, this prophecy is connected backward to the same, to a similar prophecy in Malachi chapter 3 and verse 1, which we saw was John's ministry. In Matthew 17, 12, Jesus said, Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished, referring to John's being beheaded. as king and judge. The same two prophets who came down and appeared with the Lord Jesus Christ on the Mount of Transfiguration in Matthew chapter 17. Moses represents the law, their grounded past. Here we see that infamous battle between the generations, the generation gap being bridged. It was also in the home where Jewish children learned obedience and learned loyalty and teamwork and reverence and hard work and forgiveness and the skills for a happy life and a blessed life by God. If the home did not thrive, the nation would not thrive. The final warning of the Old Testament, lest I come and smite the land with a curse. So it must mean that the promised land where Israel was to dwell would be cursed. Would come and respond to the ministry of Elijah and come back to faith and the gospel so that God would not smite the land with a curse. I know that what He has said He will do for me, He will accomplish. We must learn a long enduring kind of faith that endures through the trials, through the things that we want to see and can't see We need each other lock and step. You ought not to push this off as if this is something that you will think about a decade from now. We give you glory. That's the hope we have. Help those of us that are excited about the end times to be filled with energy and ministry and to keep plodding along, for it is worth it. And all the arrogance and every evildoer will be chaff. them in their day, and by extension, us in our day, to repent. Behold, I am going to send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord Please notice at the end of verse 3, it is called the day of the Lord of hosts, that he is preparing it. One might try to predict will happen on this planet. All their lives, everything about them, all that they've built up, their family and heritage they've tried to establish, their businesses, the causes that they stood for. And why would the promise of his coming help the Israelites to trust God in their present circumstances? And when the gospel is believed, they will have it in them to forgive each other, generation to generation, father to son, son to father. But if or where this virus spreads, how far it would spread, depends in large measure on past planning. All of this to exhort his generation in the present to obedience. His final message is this: a forward-looking faith, strengthened by God's provisions in the past, will result in a present obedience. It is not a day that favors wicked people. To the second coming, interestingly, of Elijah, even while he reminds the nation of Israel of their past grounded in another great figure named Moses. And all the arrogant, not some, all the arrogant, and notice the emphasis: every evildoer, do you get the point? Fire. Fools today mock the idea of the end of the world. Peter Adam writes insightfully, it is an aspect of the awful dignity and responsibility we bear as humans made in the image of God. A man or a woman who fears God is before God all day long. He understands that everything that he does is in the presence of God. But like the sun that shines on us and spills over its blessings, so we will bask in the healing power of the Lord Jesus Christ. But that day is coming. Gentle people, caring people, generous people, people of good motive, who get trampled down and taken advantage of by the arrogant And will have a certain poetic sense of justice in the way he meets out punishment in the future. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. That's our foundation. Those two commandments: love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Just as the Israelites, we have a moral will that has been revealed to us. The future judgments of God reveal that the law is not to be taken lightly. Here's where you need to stir yourself up, to take advantage of every opportunity to be in the Word, not just coming on Sunday and saying, I got enough of the Word. Here is what he's going to do. This was a time where the nation of Israel was in full out apostasy, turning away from God and worshiping Baal, Baal. Gabriel told John the Baptist's father in Luke 1:17, John, it is he who will go as a forerunner before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. It is also interesting that both Moses and Elijah, according to 1 Kings chapter 19, met God on the same mountain, Mount Orab or Mount Sinai, which is also mentioned in this very context. Fathers clearly representing the head of the home and including the mothers. On mass, though a partial hardening has happened to them now, they will repent and believe then, and they will avert this terrible curse. Once in a while we get a little bit of a glimpse that it's coming faster. While being determined to be faithful, faithful in obedience until he comes. Purify us with this hope, Heavenly Father. If people have forward thinking. By strong past planning and careful implementation of those plans in the present, all with an eye to preserving our future. But for you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings, and you will go forth and skip about like calves from the stall. Really, this is true for any potential disaster, is it not? Please take a good look at your end and reconsider. The whole plant gone. This day tells us that those who say that God is only love are wrong. I wish I could shout a little better with my voice this morning because here's where I would start shouting. Even greater in the future, as we're told. And the answer is we need to be constantly stirring each other to remembrance. Jesus and Paul taught that love is the fulfillment of the moral aspects of the law, for love will do no wrong to a neighbor. You will not inherit the kingdom of God. It should settle it. He is the great prophet of Israel. Jesus said in Matthew 11, 14, if you are willing to accept that John himself is Elijah who was to come. The two greatest prophets of the Old Testament, Moses and Elijah. Yes, John the Baptist's ministry accomplished this to some degree, but not for the entire nation. Jewish parents learned lessons how to minister with love, how to show forbearance, how to sacrifice for their children, how to give wise leadership There's a warning. But the diligent implementation of those plans now, in the present, present panic can only be averted Sin is a disease of the soul more deadly than any virus, yes, including Ebola. For it kills not just the body, but the soul, and it kills the soul forever If God has one message for those who ignore the Bible today and the ethics and teachings and commands of the Bible, if He has one word to tell them about their future, the one word is the word fire. Fire is the destructive element that God has chosen for the end times. Maybe some of you are arrogant. It's interesting that the prophets in the 7th century B. Have you yet fled to Jesus Christ to be your Savior from the fires to come? But for you who fear my name, that's the same as the righteous, the Son of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings. Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist, seems to have blended Malachi chapter 4 and verse 2 with Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 2. Of John, his son, he said, You, child, will be called the prophet of the most high, for you will go on before the Lord to prepare his ways. Removing all miseries, making them incalculably blessed. Not being a farmer, I've never actually seen this before, but I'm sure it's a very obvious scene to those who have cattle. That is a picture of us running around silly, kicking up our legs and having a great time in the future. Only the devil says following the Lord is drudgery. This is reminiscent of Genesis 3. Because, brothers and sisters, it's not the day. When we long for the coming of Jesus, we long for His revelation and righteousness. Then we will have healing, then we'll have joy, then we'll have triumph Then we'll see Christ victorious again. God's moral will also gives us imperatives to obey today. The righteous commands of God are still there for us to obey. But if you're going to obey, you're going to have to stir up remembrance from the scriptures. We must not forget the law of Christ, the law of love, in the same way that the Israelite was commanded not to forget the law of Moses. And the hearts of the children to their fathers, so that I will not come and smite the land with a curse. Where we have anxiety, where we're stirred up with worry, where we're not sure and in doubt, there's the weakness of our faith in the promise of God given to us in the present. If I told you right now, a great fire was going to break out here in this building. I am going to send you. That nation-changing prophet who was snatched into heaven, God says And in Matthew 17, 11, Jesus talked about a future Elijah beyond the ministry of John the Baptist. So a future Elijah is clearly still to come and to fulfill all this prophecy literally That is one reason why people think these two, Moses and Elijah, will be the two witnesses sent in the tribulation time written about in Revelation chapter 11. By the ministry of the Word of God in the future, the hearts would be restored, the hearts would be returned. Where dad is not the head of the home, and mom is not the support of the home, and children not listening from both parents, male and female, as God intended. That's right. The Old Testament ends with the threat of a curse. In fact, near the end of the New Testament, we read that in the future, Revelation 22:3, there will be no more curse. By the way, this curse was not a new curse conjured up out of nowhere. The judgments of God will come with a fury, but I rest in that. And God guarantees our future, and that's what we rest in in the present. Today's message from God in Malachi reminds us of the need for forward spiritual thinking to avoid a disastrous Well, this connects to the previous section we covered in chapter 3. Beloved, as we arrive at the end of the book of Malachi, we see this was a hard-hitting book, was it not? And neither do I. Educate the public on how our authorities are supposed to handle a deadly disease like this. FDR was wrong when he said the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. The sun of righteousness will arise and will bring healing in its wings, we are told. It's even picked up in a number of corporate logos to this present day, and you can see it. The Muslim foolishly blows himself up or exhorts someone else to give their life for a lost cause. Remember is the exhortation. Listen to the teachings of Christ. And if you believe in a promise of God, if you really believe in a promise of God, what should that do to your mindset and your thinking? Yet in John chapter 1, the Gospel of John 1, verse 21, when John the Baptist was directly asked, Are you Elijah? Who would restore all things at that time? That breakdown in the home that's causing a breakdown in society has been furthered by the watered-down teachings of the church to placate society and fit in. The future of the nation of Israel depended upon the future health of the home. The curse was to be heeded, the curse was to be dreaded. Since the only way to keep the land was them for them to keep the law, and since they could never keep the law because they were sinners To have a robust kind of obedience as a Christian, we need to implement this strategy, a threefold strategy. This tells us, the day of the Lord tells us, it pays to fear God and obey His will So also the coming of the Lord Jesus at his second advent will result in the same. All this picture here solves the questions and the doubts. By way of application for us, we can see the breakdown in society. Or they would reverse them and put verse 6 before verse 5 just so it would end on a positive note. As Malachi concludes the book of this prophecy, he lifts his gaze to the future. Three blessings specifically are mentioned to those who fear the name of God. Your God, who according to Psalm 103, verse 3, pardons all your iniquities and heals all your diseases. God is the giver of the greatest joys. Remember, the Israelites are told, the law of Moses, my servant, even the statutes and ordinances which I commanded him in Oreb for all of Israel. This strategy will be what helps you with the present obedience as well. Some translations have the thing that is cursed planet Earth rather than the land. Because God would take care of that. Malachi 4 is our text, verses 1 through 6 follow as I read. What a terrible thing. 11 and Exodus 17. Weren't those wonderful thoughts to put our minds upon. The media's been stoking that. To prepare for just such an event. The second blessing is the joy that we have. Our God promises to act in the future so that in the present our hearts will be calm We see what lies ahead. We bask in the glory and the correction of this book, this wonderful holy book, because we reading it can smile at the future. With some things we don't know, with other things we do. The statutes and the ordinances are part of the law. I know that in some ways this sounds just like the first three verses in that it speaks of the future, and it does. A terrible time, a low time in Israel's history. Obviously, this necessitates a national repentance on the part of Israel, receiving the gospel of Jesus Christ, just as we are told they will do in Romans 11. This would actually be the last thing the Israelites were told from any of the prophets in the Old Testament. Such a negative way to end the Old Testament. Lest I come and smite the land with a curse. That's their future. You will tread down the wicked. There are people saying I'm righteous and I'm right with God, but they wouldn't live in a way that would obey God What work is there for a believer to do when he hears a promise from God about the future? And so he's promised that he will come again, this powerful prophet. Thank you for your plan for the nation of Israel, your plan for the church, your plan for future glory and blessing. The righteous are described as fearing God. But this harsh ending is the way the Lord wanted it to end. We'll stop right there. They needed to remember that, and they needed to remember the law as well. Our faith is the kind of faith that understands it's going to be a long, long walk, but it's worth it. 1 John 3:3. This divine righteousness shall beam upon them that fear the name of God, flooding them with joy and light, healing all wounds. One grows out of the other, the past to the present and to the future. And there is a real judgment day coming to be feared. It talks about Christ coming into the world. That's the future of them and you. The law was their foundation. The interpretive challenge in this prophecy is how this promise relates to John the Baptist. And then the judgment of God would come upon the land. Thank you for sending us Jesus. It's pretty hot. They go for their best life now, they have nothing else. There is a day coming that does not favor the wicked, it favors the righteous. Not only does our future hold joy, but there will be triumph over evil. That's phony. And so he came at this very low time, a time of apostasy. It was all given in the first century. I am going to send you Elijah the prophet. Now you know who Elijah is. Fire is nothing nothing to be trifled with. That day is coming. We need to understand that or we won't live as strongly in the present as we need to The second part, if you trusted me, would settle your hearts. They would read verse five twice instead of verse six, some of them. That's what Christian fellowship is about. Who are these arrogant ones? He will return the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to their fathers No recuperative powers. Seeing the future day of the Lord in Holy Scripture corrects all of our wrong thinking. 6 and other places. The law never saved anybody in Israel, but the law gave them the right path to walk on if they would trust God. The law revealed the will of God, the moral will of God. Why not? The law was the center of the whole nation. And we'll come to the present here as we close. He was a wicked king. The day is coming. Jesus himself said in Matthew 13, 30 about the end times when it was to gather the tares and the wheat. 15, where the seed of the first woman was promised to crush the head of the ancient serpent. Everyone who has this hope fixed on Christ purifies himself in the present, just as he is pure. That's not true. Isn't it interesting that Malachi concludes the book with a look at both Moses and Elijah? We will not turn to the left or to the right. I think this is the perfect conclusion to the Old Testament revelation, anticipating the age of the Messiah. I hate it when young people think the world brings more. Christ said, A new commandment do I give to you that you love one another, even as I have loved you, so you should have love for one another. It seems like today, as we've wrestled with in Malachi, that the present favors the wicked. Being engulfed in fire, I can only imagine, is a terrible, terrible thing to look forward to. He doesn't think of it as ho-hum. There is no joy, there is no blessing, and no life that God intends to withhold from you contra the words of Satan to Eve in the garden. It should cause rest. You don't think of yourself as arrogant, but your unwillingness to obey what God says proves your arrogance. The point of this figure is that root, branch, fruit, above, everything will be consumed. Look at His example. I could have preached the whole message on this alone. We will see the Lord Jesus Christ in all of his glory Allow your words to lodge deeply within our minds. God warns about it. They will be ashes under the soles of your feet. Because we leave room for what? The unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God Can you imagine what it would be like to know that there is a lake of fire, of burning brimstone that is in the future Nothing new would be coming. I'm working that plan out. That tells me Elijah's with God. First, God describes his destruction of the wicked. The third blessing, more than joy, at that time there will be victory. The second strategy is we need to remember the past. That's why he's promising to send Elijah. Let's go through this strategy and think about our souls. That is why you need to hear and be certain that our victory in the future is guaranteed. Notice the dire ending to this prophecy. It's stated a second time, just in verse one, just for emphasis C. Cease your striving. You will tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day which I am preparing, says the Lord of hosts. It says, you will go forth and skip like calves from the stone. The Gospels are our foundation. People are supposed to be prepared. He lives for God. Here are the commandments. How? Something John the Baptist's ministry did not do Same is true in our society. said it was coming and was near, and the prophets in the 6th century B. Remember refers to putting your mind not just to the future, but to the past. They refuse to bow their knee and give allegiance to Jesus Christ. God has shut up the heavens. Those who live in a dark land, the light will shine on them. Someone who has been declared righteous by God, that will begin to show in their life. Indeed, we're even humans who need to make the right decisions, such as the nation of Israel. It's the same curse of Deuteronomy 28 through 30 for disobeying the raw the law, the written law. And the day that is coming will set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. Do you see it? They're part of what was given through Moses. It picks up our pace in the journey Let's keep going, brother. For so we have listened, and so we have determined, and so we have prayed. A future day. Turn or burn is made fun of by comedians who do not believe. The cross and the teachings of Christ and the resurrection is what we stand on. Here we do. It's what we are to focus on. Doesn't seem like the righteous get too many benefits now. He rejects all of it. Love your neighbor as yourself, fulfills the moral obligations of the law revealed to the children of Israel through Moses in the law. And his wife was worse. They would take it and throw it into a blazing furnace, and it would be consumed in seconds. Cease striving and know that I am God. How will tomorrow care for itself? He was so great, God decided to snatch him body and soul out of the world and to send them up in a whirlwind. Elijah, though he was in the past, is also the promise of the future. Hurricanes take preparation, terrorist attacks, power outages, whatever it may be. We don't know exactly when. Many will meet a fiery end, but they are warned now. You say, why is that so great? So clearly there was some fulfillment of this prophecy in Malachi in John's life. That land was meant to be a blessing, but that land would be cursed if they did not keep the law of Moses. That's verse 4. The truth is the Christian life is the best one even now. The law that was given was given to the nation of Israel, and it was given on this mountain. How do I do that? It shows us that the righteous need to be faithful to do God's commandments if they want future blessings. It is explained in the epistles of the New Testament and the Revelation. When I have my eyes on the future and I think of all those things that are coming, and I think of the day where the righteous will be vindicated. One of the Newsweek articles said that it was one of the longest standing uh eruptions of a volcano. Zed is the Hebrew term for arrogant, a rather rare word. First John 3:7. There's nothing difficult to interpret here, is there? We know that from experience, that's why God warns and warns and warns and has taken There will be a fire, and there will be a fiery end to them. And a God of all love is a false God. Do you fear God? First is healing. Do you picture it? An eye on the future, remembering the past. Why? And Elijah showed up out of nowhere. In other words, restore families in obedience and in righteousness. I know whatever weaknesses we have as a church, God is greater. Beloved, this is also true in the spiritual realm. I want to ask you, isn't that enough incentive to remain riveted on that day? The answer is if I remember the past law that was given, and I'm faithful to that in the present Why? But the media's also been trying to uh Look at verse three, or look at verse one, excuse me. 4. The wrath of God, which is greater than our wrath. And that's a warning for them, maybe for you. Here's how you obey. They have no brighter day to look forward to. Complete termination of life. Seeing the day of the Lord reminds us that the doctrine of universalism is wrong. He responds to the word of God, not perfectly, but he responds, and when he fails, he confesses. And the law always focused on God. Yes, obey His commandments. Quit being all worked up about it. Goodness gracious, that's all we worry about. And he'll come again at a very low time in Israel's history. It's so negative. And thank you for all that will attend in the end days, including the ministry of Elijah. Notice that God will set them ablaze You're going to have to get back into the scriptures. The third is to rest in God's promises presently. My plan has something to do with Elijah. We will not sit down and give up But then I waited a little longer in spring and up from the roots came the life of the pig plant. In Joel 2, verse 31, it employs that exact phrase: the great and terrible day of the Lord. It's not the day yet. You're supposed to believe it And we hold fast to it. He wants none of it in his kingdom. He does not have a little compartment for his religion, and the rest of it he lives any way he wants to. He lives with meeting God before his eyes. Unger taking this as a reference to the Messiah The New Testament ends with the grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. It's meant as a very good feeling. We have God to fear, and anyone who doesn't fear God is a fool. Why do the wicked prosper? We have a law. And he tells all the people and points their finger at him and says, If if the Lord is God, serve him. If the home does not thrive, the nation will not thrive. So God had to guarantee a future ministry of Elijah to change the hearts of the fathers and the sons. It would be the alternative if the people did not respond to the law of God. John the Baptist came, he said it's near, and we are told in New Testament scripture, it's coming and it's near. Why are they ashes? Isaiah 9 and verse 2 prophesies: the people who walk in darkness will see a what? And God's going to send him, and that's in the future. Why would Eli to be sent? It's worth it. The first strategy is keep my eyes on that day. The law told them how to live. And it was revealed to us in the past. Not even today Remember her name? I know something else that's been on people's minds this past week is the uh Ebola virus. And of course the third is to rest in what God's promises are. There is a day coming and it favors righteous people. Or if the cattle analogy doesn't work for you, just think of the wagging of the tail and prancing around as a doggy. The world is a lie. And a faith in Jesus that saves will show itself in fruit, the fruit of love. Why tell us now what He's promised to do then? All right, listen. See how the three aspects of time intersect. Anyone that tries to predict the day, forget them. You'll have to do that in your own ears, okay? Notice the Son of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings. Or even Revelation 19, he treads the winepress of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. The nation of Israel was constantly told to remember. He knows exactly what they deserve, he knows in what proportions and when, and he will deliver it How often should I be using the Word of God throughout the day? It should cause calm. A day of wrath is that day. God is love. It's not a true saving faith. Those imperatives measure whether or not we are believers in Christ Little children, make sure no one deceives you. Here's how you learn to walk in love. Repent from half-hearted devotion to God. Look at verses one through three as we keep an eye on the future, what is coming. Chaff, of course, was a part of the grain plant that was harvested. But Malachi obviously pictures the Lord's blessings shining down upon the righteous. Every generation has godly people. The need for change is there, lest I come and smite the land with a curse. Look again at verse 1. The Liberty commentary says Romans 12:19. I think it's fitting that with all the violations to God's law that have already been written about It's what we are to know. Water was the destructive element that God chose for the destruction of the world that once was, of this planet, in the days of Noah. And when he comes, what will he do? You don't even know there's going to be a decade from now. And then not just past planning. You'll know whether you're righteous or not. It's a healthy fear. Moses was merely God's servant, as we're told here, through whom God delivered the law to his people. A promise from one who knows the future is what should settle us. Answer God's promises. He, more than any other prophet in the history of Israel, turned the hearts of the people back to God. May that be our posture. Help them to do this this day. The Lord of hosts declares it, and it's a day he is preparing. What does that imply? 24-7 The law was given to Moses on Mount Oreb. It was a time when a guy named Ahab was king in the northern kingdom of Israel. So again, a future fulfillment is necessitated The black on the bottom of your feet from the ashes. No wonder in John's writings believers are sometimes called overcomers. All our benefits that we can see will come then. Our law is called in the New Testament the law of Christ. They had been brought back to live in the land. We pick up the book and we learn. Because they were stubble that went into the fire. We want to know how often we ought to be in the Bible, how often we ought to be thinking about Scripture. But don't worry, every last one of you is going to be safe. Something horrific might occur. But the Hebrew word Eretz in this context refers to the land of Israel. It it has no chance, it's just quickly consumed. I said interestingly, the second coming of Elijah. The gospel will be believed. It's not that day. We need to remember God's instructions from the past. How? The prophet skillfully weaves these thoughts together as a fitting conclusion to his entire prophecy, urging In fact, this is emphatically declared. It refers to his basic outlook on life. The pulpit commentary The law was their base. That's the warning for the wicked. They were committed to God. You're going to have to know what they say. We're told that some of the Jewish scribes didn't like this ending. For behold the day is coming, burning like a furnace. Speaking You see, there is a way to express exuberance and joy, and we can get excited. He's promised it all to you and more. There's no genealogy, no family background. That's Christian encouragement. And it's it's fitting that he told them, remember. I will be exalted among the nations. John the Baptist came in the Spirit and the power of Elijah. My soul rests in the promise of God in the future. It was a blunt book. It was the last thing he wanted ringing in their ears. They are useless to the eternal harvest of God. It urges repentance away from sin right now. Because And we can see that the breakdown in society comes from the breakdown where? Strengthen the knees of those who are weak and unresolved. We bask in it today. Amos chapter 2 and verse 9 confirms this interpretation They'll get no paradise. The world gives a little bit of fun and then it closes in around. No one will escape, will be chaff or will be stubble. Here the Lord's fire is described not as a lake of fire, but as a burning like a furnace C. God is merciful and willing to forgive, but God is also holy light. Under your feet. They would have to do what they were told even before to remember. Now it's been about 2,000 years, hasn't it? Jezebel. It is in the home where We are to have no doubt the day is coming. We like the way we are already. The arrogant unbelievers will be burned. Why do they go unpunished presently? It told them every aspect of their life, their religious life, their civil life. There is no light at the end of the tunnel for them. What are the wings of the sun? These are the last verses. said it's coming and it's near. The wrath of God is coming. He understands all of that. Remember that? Ephesians 5 and verse 5. Coincidentally They took it as referring to the coming Messiah, to Jesus Christ, the Son of righteousness. Interpreters are divided as to the meaning Obviously sparing us from the judgment that is to come. By the ministry of Elijah. Do you fear God in a healthy, reverent way where you walk before Him with fear? It's instructive to us as well. Happy calves. The greatest commandment our Lord Jesus told us was to love the Lord your God with all of your heart and soul and might and strength. He will turn the hearts of the Israelites back to the Lord their God, this time to faith in Jesus Christ. Look to the future. The day is burning like a furnace. The one who practices righteousness is righteous, just as That's in verses 5 and 6. Or else, if that didn't happen, In Christ's blessed name. For behold, the day is coming Isn't that paradoxical? Do you see it? Doesn't seem that way, but God will distinguish it then 12. It's interesting, in modern times, this same sun disk has been an emblem in a number of cults. Clearly, this is the prophet from their history, the Tijbite. I know that His grace is greater than my sin. The only kind of fear really the Bible says is healthy, the fear of God. Eyes must be on the future. No, the lowest of all times, the tribulation time. He would come and restore their hearts. They will begin to live out that righteousness. The gospel must be believed. Sometimes they set up stones to remember. It should cause peace. There will be reconciliation, peace, harmony. Thank you for the tremendous promises we have of our future. Elijah's ministry will do that. But lessons were learned, lessons needed to be learned. he expressly denied it. More positively, we notice next the reward for the righteous. Don't push that day out of your thoughts God's promises. It's a promise. Nothing left. The teaching of Christ is our base. He will restore the hearts of the fathers to their children. Now they're ashes under your feet. That's an alternate name for Mount Sinai. Answer: believe it. Society will fall apart. He said the Messiah will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. The first is to keep our eye on the future. There's no chance for them. He just shows up and he begins to preach. None of us knows the future. But God says it is more definite than anything else that God's going to do this, God's going to take care of the future. The final warning. It's going to be very good for the righteous. We have a sunny future. Look at verse 4 There's promises. I will be exalted in the earth. Use every means at your disposal. Remember the past. Christ owns life and death in his own hands. I will also put an end to the arrogance of the proud. I was like, yes, it's still alive What's that? That's the picture of the wicked before the judgment of God We don't want to turn. We're to remember the past even as we look to the future. We too have to look backwards. Amen. Look at it. How can that give us any kind of peace in the present? The law was their light. It's also called the law of liberty. And the answer is so we can rest in them now. It's not a better life than the next life once they die No, I'm not. The ministry of proclamation of the Word of God. The day is on its way. What a beautiful picture. That's all they are. Eyes must be on the future. We have many blessings now. You ought to be stirring yourself up to study on your own. Disasters can be avoided Why under your feet I'll take care of the future for you. If Baal is God, serve him. I've never gotten a chance to stand next to lava flowing out of a volcano. There's no hope for the arrogant. What a blessing to know 2 Kings 2 and verse 11. Society is falling apart before our eyes. God guarantees it. I rest in that Be faithful and restful in the present. At other times, in the reading of the word, they were told remember. We don't want to repent. So John was Elijah-like. Why do you think those that are so rich And after it was delivered, they were told, remember this law. You can see that. From God's timetable You see that in verses 1 through 3. It comes from God. We too have to remember the past. In the home. Either one Look at verse 2. And I rest in that. Quit vacillating between the two. It gets even greater then. He was used mightily. All will be consumed by fire. Amen. We give you glory. There's that same word. Great light. Listen.