Well, as we continue our worship by turning our attention to the Word of God, would you turn in your copy of the Scripture to John chapter 7? As we return to this wonderful gospel, John chapter 7. If you are using one of those blue Bibles, it's on page 893. Our text for today is John 7, verses 37 to 52. And in this passage we see that there is a division. among the people of Israel and among the l spiritual leaders regarding who is Jesus. Is he a prophet? Is he the Messiah? Is he not? Is he unique and worthy of consideration? Is he a blasphemer? There are no less than six distinct responses to Jesus in this passage. Now, as we've seen throughout our study of the Gospel of John, the identity of Jesus is the very focus that John brings to the forefront. In John chapter twenty, verses thirty to thirty-one, he says these familiar words, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in his book, but these are written so that you might Believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and by believing have life in his name. Only one right view of Jesus leads to everlasting life. This is important for us to remember because there seems to be a shift taking place in our culture that requires discernment. Have you noticed that it seems as though there is more open affirmation of Christianity than there have been in times past? We could talk about what's going on in the White House and how there are many professing Christians who work there. There are unprecedented uh uh practices of prayer and even praise taking place in various government meetings. And now of course they've launched that anti-Christian Bias task force to identify where government has engaged in discrimination. We could talk about what seems like an uptick in professional athletes. Professing faith in Christ. Not not merely giving glory to God for their victories as they have always done, but specifically even identifying that their identity in Christ is more important than their athletic achievements Some even going so far as to declare and explain the gospel in their media interviews. We could talk about Musical competitions like American Idol and America's Got Talent, where there seems to be an increasing amount of Christian music, even worship songs and hymns being sung. What's what's normally a secular concert sometimes has a more worshipful atmosphere. We could talk about Bible-themed shows like The Chosen or The House of David or movies like King of Kings or The Last Supper. A significant amount of money is being poured into portraying Bible Stories at high production quality. Christian faith and the name of Jesus seems to be proliferating in various sectors of our culture. And on the surface, this would seem to be an encouraging trend. But we have to think, is it really an encouraging trend? I think about a particular music artist who several years ago found himself sitting in the church of a friend of mine in California, uh where the friend of mine is the pastor and Hearing the pro proclamation of the Word of God, this particular music artist effectively made this pastor his own spiritual personal trainer. This pastor would conduct Bible studies in this man's home, even on his private jet as he flew from place to place. He asked the pastor to come to his concerts and preach the gospel and even called his concerts Sunday service. Maybe you know who I'm talking about It almost looked like this man had been converted to Christ and he was using his significant platform to proclaim the gospel of Christ. But then all of a sudden that came to a screeching halt. And this man since then has been as publicly vile and ungodly in his conduct and speech and relationships as he had ever been. Whatever his interest in the Lord was, it didn't last. So we could ask, is that what we're experiencing in these other areas of society? Is this some feverish hype that is taking place but it will just fall off? Or is it a real revival of spiritual interest? Well, some might say we can't judge, we just need to wait and see. My question would be, what are we waiting to see? How would we know if what we're seeing is a true movement of God or not? There have been many so-called revivals throughout history and places all around the world movements where there was heightened spiritual interest, where there was radical change in people's lives, where there was massive growth in churches. At such times revivals had uh at times I should say revivals had lasting impact on communities even going throughout the world. At other times the fervor died down and people eventually went back to their normal lives and their previous sin, those who are involved in those movements and those who have observed observed such moments have given much thought to what constitutes a genuine work of God and what is to be regarded as something less than genuine And among the variety of marks of genuine revival that one could articulate are two foundational elements that must be true for something to be a true work of God. The first is there must be a genuine, clear, bold proclamation of the Word of God. I don't mean simply repeated proclamations of the gospel message itself, but rather a consistent, in-depth preaching of the Scripture. The Spirit uses such preaching to renew the minds and hearts of the people and move them forward in godliness. That has always taken place where there has been genuine lasting Revival. The second mark is repentance. A recognition of sin, the confession of sin, and the turning away from sin. You know what it's really not all that difficult to capture people's emotions and cause them to make a profession of faith The 19th century Charles Finney and those who have followed in his wake show that it's actually quite easy to manipulate emotions and produce professions of faith. But what's impossible for anyone but the Holy Spirit to do is to bring genuine repentance, confession, and conviction over sin. Now, as far as I'm aware, no one is calling what's going on in our society as a r uh nobody's calling that a revival, but it's still helpful to look at what is going on and discern That it is actually void of the Word of God. In some cases, even worse than that, it's a distortion of the Word of God, as is the case in the media Presentations of the scripture. Among all those who have been involved in the various elements I mentioned above, there's also no discernible repentance. No repentance from past and ongoing public sin. No repentance from false teaching. No repentance from habitual sins of speech and lifestyle. No pursuit of holiness. Sin and false teaching continue unabated in all of those areas that we described above. There, of course, may be individuals for which that's not true, but on the whole, that is true. Now I want to hasten to add that if the Lord can speak through Da Balaam's donkey and if the Lord could use the pagan Nebuchadnezzar to proclaim his glory to the world, the Lord can certainly use things that are less than genuine to draw people to himself, but we shouldn't be deceived into embracing anything that has the appearance of being Christian without carefully discerning its true nature. Now, in the Gospel of John, we see Jesus modeling this for us repeatedly. In chapter 2, Jesus performed many signs and wonders and healings in Jerusalem. And many appeared to believe in him. But it says there in chapter 2, verses 24 and 25, but Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them because He knew all people, and he needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. He knew that the appearance of belief was just that, an appearance. It wasn't genuine. And then in chapter 6, we saw that people came to Jesus. They flocked to Jesus by the thousands, and yet he said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs but because you ate your frill of the loaves. And then he continued to confront them and challenge them until they went away. Jesus knew that what often looked like popularity, what often looked like belief, wasn't actually that at all. And so here in chapter 7, we see the most emphatic evidence that even though some had positive thoughts about Jesus, There was significant confusion, disagreement, and division centered around the identity of Jesus. And so, among other things, what John, who writes this gospel, wants us to see is that not every affirmation of Jesus is genuine faith. Now with that in mind, follow along as I read John chapter 7, verses 37 to 52. On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow living waters, rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, whereas yet the Spirit had not been given because Jesus was not yet glorified. When they heard these words, the crowd around Jesus, some of the people said, This really is the prophet. Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bel Bethlehem, the village where David was. So there was a division among the people over him. Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, Why did you not bring him? And the officers answered, No one ever spoke like this man. The Pharisees answered them, Have you also been deceived? Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them, Does not uh does our judge rather, does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does? And they replied, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. Since it's been nearly two months since we were last in this gospel, let's call to mind the overall context of what we just read. Jesus is in Jerusalem for the Feast of Booths, which was a seven-day feast. And this is one of three annual feasts that every Jew was required by the law of Moses, by God, to attend. And this is now the last day of the feast, as we read there in verse 32, or rather verse 37. And for the last three or four days, Jesus has been going to the temple day after day, teaching in the temple, causing no small stir of debate between the religious leaders and the people. Verse 32 told us that somewhere between the middle of the feast when Jesus started teaching and this last day the chief priests who were primarily Sadducees, those who only believed in the first five books uh of uh Moses. The Sadducees and the Pharisees banded together and agreed to send officers to arrest Jesus. Those officers who are really more like crowd controlled than soldiers of any kind, they were themselves arrested by the words of Jesus, and so they couldn't bring themselves to arrest him and bring him to their leaders. Last time that we were in John, we focused very narrowly on verses 37 to 39, where Jesus offered these words to anyone who thirsts. He had been sitting down teaching, which was common among rabbis to do, but all of a sudden he stands up and he cries out, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. This he said because day after day the people had been participating in what's called the water drawing ceremony. where uh which was a tradition created over time where the people would effectively and symbolically cry out to God for water for the next season of harvest and also they would cry out for the coming of the Holy Spirit, whom they believed would usher in the time of the Messiah. Through this water drawing ceremony, year after year, decade after decade, century after century, the people cried out to the Lord to satisfy Because they longed for the Messiah. They longed for the freedom and the joy and the peace that the Messiah would bring. They long to be sprinkled with clean water, to have all of their uncleannesses and idolatry washed away. They knew their desperate need, and so they hungered for the new heart and the new spirit. They realized their inability to live faithfully for the Lord, and so they craved the Holy Spirit to come to them and enable them to obey their God. In short, they eagerly waited for the Lord to fulfill his promises that he had made to them through the prophet Ezekiel and others long ago. In the centuries leading up to the life of Jesus, there were many self-proclaimed Messiahs who promised revolution, who promised to free the nation from the Romans. But none of them ever even tried to offer the spiritual blessings that God had promised. Here Jesus does the opposite. He doesn't offer revolution. He cries out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. And as John tells us in his editorial note in verse 39, this is a promise to send the Holy Spirit who gives life. The Jews believed that it was the Holy Spirit who would come and usher in the age of the Messiah. In truth, it would be the Messiah who would come, fulfill God's promises, and give his Holy Spirit to the people. Now, why was there this confusion among the people about this? It's because the people thought of the Messiah as a man. A great man, to be sure, but nothing more than a man. And so they believed that God would have to be the one to take the initiative to send the Holy Spirit who would effectively create the environment. Conducive to a messianic reign. In reality, before the people could be washed clean and forgiven and receive the Holy Spirit, What had to happen first was the justice of God had to be satisfied His wrath against sin had to be dealt with finally and forever. And Jesus, who is the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God. who is truly God and truly man, he and he alone could satisfy the wrath of God, he could give the Holy Spirit, and he could establish his everlasting kingdom. Some of you may recall that in a recent episode of the Reading Scripture with Hope podcast, Pastor Mike and I were talking about the great blessing that is for believers to have the Holy Spirit. Some people who share convictions that the sign gifts of prophecy and words of knowledge and speaking of tongues that those things have seen, sometimes we can feel like we're missing something. Maybe you've seen in person or on video someone who seems to have an intense emotional experience with the Lord. Maybe you know somebody who seems to have a really close walk with the Lord to the degree that they would even say God speaks to them privately. Or they talk to God in a language that they don't understand, but somehow makes them feel closer to the Lord For those of us who don't experience those things, we might be tempted to think that we are missing out, that somehow our faith is in black and white and natural, and the faith of others is in living color and supernatural. That is not true at all. If anyone is in Christ, all things are made new, and the Holy Spirit makes a radical difference in life. Think about this Jesus uses the metaphor here of the Holy Spirit being an ever-flowing stream of water in the soul. So what is the reality that that metaphor points to? Well, you who were dead are now alive. You who were blind can now see. You who were deaf can now hear. You who couldn't understand can now perceive. You who were enslaved to sin are now free to righteousness. You who are hostile to God are now loving God. You who are hopeless now abound in hope You for whom the Word of God was offensive, now receive it with joy and embrace it. You who used to live for yourself. No desire to live for God. You who serve only yourself, serve others. You who ran after immorality and debauchery Now pursue purity. You whose tongue was full of poison are now full of grace. On and on we could go. If you have believed in Jesus Christ and these things are true of you, know that this transformation is not your own work. It is the work of the Holy Spirit in your life. And if you would say some of these things are true of you, but you would long for them to be more true of you than they already are then know this, even that desire is the work of the Holy Spirit in you, and his power to you has not been cut off. He actually is an ever-flowing stream where he empowers you to continue to grow in the grace and knowledge of Christ. So Christian, you should never feel like you are missing out because you don't experience things that Jesus never promised. If you believe in Jesus Christ, you have the Holy Spirit living in you, and His true work makes all the difference in your life. The Jews at the temple that day knew that they needed the Holy Spirit Those who participated in the water drawing ceremony were likely familiar with Isaiah 44, verses 3 to 4, where the Lord makes this promise. I will pour out water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit upon your offspring and my blessing on your descendants. They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams. So when Jesus offers living water, they would have understood, at least many of them, that he was offering them the Holy Spirit. And you know, this offer still stands today. If you are here and you do not believe in Jesus Christ, if your soul is thirsty, If you are parched because of your life of sin, believe in Jesus, and he will give you living water. He will give you the Holy Spirit. Well, with this offer of living water ringing in the ear, the apostle turns our attention to the responses that people give to Jesus in verses 40 to 52. There are, as I said, no less than six distinct responses to Jesus displayed here. And these responses are not just how the Jews on this particular day responded to Jesus. These are common, not exhaustive, but common responses that people have to Jesus in the world today and so these are helpful for us to consider. We often talk in binary terms of believer and unbeliever. And those are ultimately the only two categories. But It's helpful to consider that there are different types of unbelievers, if you will. There are different ways in which people express their unbelief, or the different ways in which they think about Jesus, which are actually expressions of unbelief. So we'll walk through these verses and see how the house of Israel was divided in unbelief. And perhaps if you're an unbeliever here today as we do this, perhaps you'll even find your own self, how you've responded to Jesus in these verses. And perhaps that will help you consider whether your response is the right response. So let's walk through these six responses. Let's begin with the first one. The first response that some people have to Jesus is that some misidentify him. Some misidentify him. Look at verse 40. It says, when they heard these words, some of the people said, This really is the prophet. Some misidentify him. These individuals have an appearance of belief Because they recognize that Jesus is no ordinary man. He's no ordinary rabbi. He's no ordinary prophet. In fact, they say he is the prophet. In addition to looking for the Messiah, the Jewish people were anticipating the coming of an ultimate prophet who would be like Moses. This promise that stirred their anticipation came from Moses himself in Deuteronomy 18 as Moses was preparing the people to enter into the promised land. He said to them, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. And he told the people that he was giving them them that promise in light of the private revelation the Lord had given to him, when the Lord said to him, I will raise them Raise up for them a prophet like you among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him Now, of course, between Moses and Jesus there had been a great many prophets, but none quite like Moses. There were many prophets who had a prolific teaching and preaching ministry, but performed little to no signs at all. The prophets Elijah and Elisha performed many miracles like Moses, but they did not seem to have a teaching ministry, at least not a significant one. And so the people expected that one day there would be a prophet, the prophet, who would not only have the teaching ministry that Moses had, but also perform the miracles. similar to how Moses had performed miracles. And Jesus fit that expectation perfectly. What did he do except go from town to town, place to place? and teach the people. And what else did he do? He would always heal those who were brought to him and performed extraordinary miracles. So it seemed as though he fit the bill for this prophet long foretold by Moses. And we can ask, were they right about that? And the answer is absolutely they were right about that. Jesus is The ultimate prophet that fulfills the expectation and the promise given by Moses and the Lord. The problem is they were also wrong about Jesus. Because he was much more than a prophet. That's what they did not see And so they embraced a distorted, a limited view of Jesus. They, in other words, misidentified him. Much like those today who are willing to say that Jesus is a good man, even a good teacher, maybe even a miracle worker. Yes, the Muslims would say that Jesus was a prophet. Jehovah's Witnesses would say that Jesus is the Son of God. Mormons would go so far as to say that Jesus is the Savior and Redeemer. But are they right? Well, in some ways they are right depending on how you define terms But ultimately and objectively they are wrong because they actually reject the fullness of what Jesus Himself claims to be. And so while claiming to believe and affirm and acknowledge Jesus, they ultimately reject Jesus' own declarations about himself, and therefore they misidentify him. That's the first response. Some misidentify him. Consider the second response. Some rightly identify Jesus. Some rightly identify Jesus. Look at verse, the first part of verse 41. It says, others said, This is the Christ. This is the Christ. This group is right. They correctly look at the evidence that's put before them and they conclude that yes, Jesus is the Christ. Jesus is the Messiah. He must be, he doesn't just declare the Word of God, he doesn't just perform miracles, but he actually claims and declares himself to be the Messiah. And so it seems that he meets all of that criteria. Now, this doesn't necessarily mean that these individuals put their faith in him. At this point, they can see and rightly interpret the evidence before them, but do they believe in him? That remains to be seen. They might be like those who were like those in Jerusalem the first time Jesus was there about eighteen months ago, who believed in Jesus but or rather who claimed to believe in Jesus but did not truly believe in him. They may be like the seed that fell on the rocky soil that sprang up quickly but didn't last because it had no roots. Or they could be like those in chapter 8 who, John says, believed in him, and Jesus affirms them in their belief. In fact, uh uh, if it's not on the same page, turn over to John chapter 8 and look at verse 30. John 8, 30 says, as he was saying these things, many believed in him. And verse 31, Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Whether someone truly believes cannot always be discerned in the moment. It can take time to determine if this person truly believes. And so to abide, as he says here, means to keep believing and to keep living according to what they claim to believe. As we'll see next time in a couple of weeks, John eight takes place the same day as our passage of John seven, so it may be that those who declare that Jesus is the Christ are those who actually do believe and continue to abide in Christ, but only time will tell. So there are some who misidentify Jesus, and there are some who rightly identify him and whether or not they truly believe is in question. Consider the third response that some have, and that is that some doubt his identity So some misidentify him, some rightly identify him, and some doubt his identify uh uh his identity. Look again at verses 41 and 42. Others said this is the Christ, but some said, Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David And comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was. In response to those who identify Jesus as the Christ, this group raises objections They say, forget his teaching, forget his miracles, forget his promise of everlasting life, forget the fact that he's offering the Holy Spirit. Does he even meet the basic qualification of having been born in the right city? Now that might seem silly, but it's actually not. Notice that their doubt is not based on personal opinion, but rather their expressed interest to be faithful to Scripture. Verse 42, has not the scripture said? So this crowd seems to be the more astute group, who know the scripture reasonable reasonably well. In fact, This is the only place in all of the Gospels where people express their understanding that the Messiah is to be born in Bethlehem. When the Magi came for the birth, uh or after the birth of Jesus, and they went to Herod and asked Herod where the baby was, Herod then asked his chief priest. And uh the Pharisees, because he didn't know, they told him about the prophecy in Micah that Jesus was to be born in Bethlehem. And so, just as Herod was ignorant of that fact, so it seems were many Jews. But however common the knowledge of Micah's prophecy was. They were utterly ignorant of the fact that Jesus Himself was actually born in Bethlehem Now, we might say that part of their ignorance may have involved the fact that they didn't even think that was that it was possible for him to be born in Bethlehem. Why would they think that it might not even be possible? Well, because not only did they know he was he grew up in Nazareth, and so it would have been natural to assume that he was born in Nazareth, but also There was a period of two years where no man alive could claim to have been born in Bethlehem. Jesus was the only survivor of Herod's massacre. But nobody knew that. And so if they happened to have some idea of Jesus' relative age, they might not have even thought that he could have been born in Bethlehem. Now, however much that's a factor, the more likely reality is that the problem had more to do with their unwillingness to even confirm the facts. Their unbelief clouded their objectivity and they just went with their assumptions. We're not given any evidence that anyone ever thought to ask Jesus or his parents, where were you born after all? And again, bolstering their confidence in their assumption was the fact that they're just trying to be biblical about this. Well, there are many people today who doubt the resurrection, for example, for scientific reasons. Say those who believe that nothing created everything. There are those who question the morality of God in the Old Testament. Say those who promote the killing of children in the womb. There are those who doubt the Bible's accuracy for historiography reasons. Say those who embrace other ancient literature with a fraction of the evidence There are those who reject Christianity for philosophical reasons. Say those who can't even answer the basic questions of life Many people today reject Jesus on the basis of what they believe to be strong intellectual and rational arguments. But what may seem to be impregnable fortresses of reason, once you get across the threshold, are revealed to be a facade held up by rotting Support structures. As you look at these three responses given to Jesus or or by the people uh about Jesus in verses forty and forty-two, John's concern is not to give us an apologetic explanation. for their responses, but simply to point out that the people were divided. Some misidentified him, some rightly identified him, and some doubted his identity. This is what His purpose is as stated there in verse 43 and 44, it says, so there was a division among the people over him. Some of them wanted to arrest Jesus, but no one laid hands on them. On him. So some thought he was dangerous, and some thought he was worthy to be listened to. There was no consensus for or against Jesus. Some had the appearance of belief. Others doubted him. So misidentification, proper identification without faith, and doubt are the first three responses. to Jesus then and now. Consider the fourth response. Some are amazed. Some are amazed. Look at verses 45 and 46. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, Why did you not bring him? The officers answered, No one ever spoke like this man. Some are amazed. The officers were sent to arrest Jesus back in verse 32, and verse 37 fast forwards the narrative to the last day of the feast. So The officers have been watching and listening to Jesus for at least the portion of two days, if not more than that. And it's likely that they were instructed to wait for an opportune time to arrest Jesus so as not to cause a stir in the crowd. So as they were waiting for just the right time, they watched And they listened. Now these officers were not soldiers, they were actually Levites, which is a lower-level priesthood. Among other roles, they managed the crowds on the temple grounds. Rabbinic sources tell us that guarding the temple, protecting the temple, were three priests and twenty-one Levites positioned at various places around the temple to ensure that order was kept and rules were followed. So these Levite officers constantly observed rabbis and their disciples listening to the teaching that each one gave. Over time they would be exposed to a wide array of rabbis and they would know how the rabbis taught and what it is that they taught. Among the Jews, among the rabbis, there would be different schools of thought on various doctrines and practices But there was a common pedagogy, a common way of conveying ideas to their students or their disciples. So when the officers come back to the chief priests and the Pharisees and tell them, no one ever spoke like this man, They mean two things. First, no one ever spoke with authority like this man speaks This was the common response that people gave. We see that especially at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. The crowds were amazed with his authority. Jesus didn't quote other rabbis. He didn't discuss prevailing interpretations. He didn't advocate for one school of interpretation or another. He just taught the Word of God, he explained the kingdom of God, and he interpreted the scriptures with clarity and authority. No one ever spoke like this man. The second meaning of their words is that the content of what Jesus taught was unlike anything any other rabbi taught. Other rabbis would teach the traditions of the elders. They would teach that which was handed down generation by generation. And they would lay impossible burdens on the people. Jesus, on the other hand, offered himself as the bread of life. He offered the Holy Spirit as living water. He offered God as Father. He offered God as one who goes after sinners and rejoices when sinners repent. What Jesus taught about God made sinners want to listen and to follow And it repulsed the self-righteous. What the rabbis taught drew in the self-righteous and repulsed sinners. So the manner in which Jesus spoke and the content of what he said arrested the hearts and the minds of these Levitical officers. They were so taken by him that they just could not bring themselves to arrest him. At the same time, there's no indication that they actually believed in him, but they were amazed. And we see this kind of response in the world today. There are a great many people who find uh uh inspiration in the words of Jesus. Every major religion in the world makes positive affirmations about Jesus. They even affirm his teaching at various points. Eastern religions like Hinduism and Buddhism affirm that Jesus was a wise teacher. New age gurus don't shy away from Jesus, but quote him and use him to advance their mystical ideas. And it's a tragic irony that though the names Jesus and Jesus Christ are common expletives in our culture. You can ask many people about him, and they will generally have positive things to say about him. Why all of this seeming support for Jesus? It's because everyone recognizes the amazing teaching of Jesus. It's not only true that there were no rabbis that spoke like Jesus. There has been no one in the history of the world that has spoken like Jesus. And so religions that started long before Jesus in other parts of the world. Religions that came along after Jesus, everyone knows you can't ignore Jesus. His teaching is just too amazing. Now, of course, they pick up and discard what they don't want, especially his exclusive teachings. And so while amazed they may be, they will not believe So far, we've seen that people respond to Jesus by misidentifying him, by rightly identifying him, by doubting his identity, and by being amazed at his teaching. A fifth response is that some have an irrational hatred of Jesus. An irrational hatred of Jesus. Look at verse 47 to 49. The Pharisees responded, Have you also been deceived? Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. Then look at verse 52 as they reply to Nicodemus. Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. These religious leaders are incredulous. The only possible explanations in their mind for anything less than passionate disbelief is deception. And since these are Levites who are trained in the law, it would be a serious problem if they were so easily deceived by Jesus Notice how the Pharisees contrast the leadership with the people there in verse 48 and 49. Have any of the authorities where the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. In other words, the experts don't believe in Jesus. The professional scholars don't believe in Jesus. The only ones who appear to believe in Jesus are these fools, these ignorant, naive, deceived fools. Neither the Sadducees who only accepted the first five books of Moses, nor the Pharisees who accepted all of the Old Testament scriptures as we would call them, none of them believed. But this unlearned crowd is a curse. They are under the curse of God. They are outside the sacred realm of God's protection and blessing, and therefore they are under divine condemnation. These leaders hate Jesus so much that their hatred splashes out onto anyone who would dare to make a positive statement about Jesus. That is blind hatred. It blinds them to the fact that if this crowd is in fact ignorant, it's their own fault because they are the ones who are supposed to be the teachers of the law. But their hatred also blinds them from historical facts. Did you notice their response to Nicodemus? And their appeal to Scripture. Again, they say in verse 52, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. No prophet arises from Galilee? Are you sure about that, you teachers of the law? Now, if by that they mean that there is no prophet whose prophesied to arise from Galilee, then there's a discussion to be had about that But it seems like what they actually are saying is no prophet has ever or will ever arise from Galilee And given how much the Judeans look down on Galileans and especially Nazarenes, it's no surprise that they would push out inconvenient facts from their mind. The problem is there are actually two prophets at least who rose from Galilee, the well-known prophets of Jonah and Nahum. So the experts are factually wrong. These Pharisees and other religious leaders Exemplify how all who have an irrational hatred of Jesus argue against him. Rather than dealing with Jesus' life and his ministry directly, specifically, and rationally, they offer up irrelevant issues and factually false arguments. They commonly practice historical revision and offer up invented theories of how the Bible came to be written so that it's easily to disregard. Now when we encounter those in that state of mind, it's rarely helpful to try and engage them in a rational conversation. About the best one can do is try to point out the folly of their argument so they can at least consider their own irrationality. But as is the case with all unbelievers, For anyone who has a blind hatred of Jesus to turn and repent, the Holy Spirit must work in their life. Well, consider the final response from Jesus that we see here. Look at verses 51 to 52. Here we see that some are cautious examiners, some are cautious. examiners. Verse fifty. Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them, Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does? Like Nicodemus, some respond to Jesus as cautious examiners. This is to say that they are interested in learning more. But they approach that examination discreetly so as not to convey that they actually might believe in Jesus Now, as we see there in verse 50, John identifies Nicodemus as the one who came to Jesus in the dark of night in John chapter 3. It was to Nicodemus a year and a half prior to this moment. That Jesus revealed rich theological truth about the kingdom of God and salvation. It was to this man, Nicodemus, that Jesus said his most famous words. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Now we're not told in John 3 whether Nicodemus believed in Jesus in that moment. And we're certainly not given any Indication here just by him asking his question and promoting a more rational process as to whether he truly believed in him. But we do know that six months from this day, Nicodemus would join hands with Joseph of Arimathea to take Jesus off of the cross and place him in the tomb. And so whether he came to believe before this moment or at this moment or later on is not clear. Just taking these particular words, his question at face value, the least we could say is he wanted Jesus to have a fair hearing. But again, he is cautious not to reveal his own personal opinion about Jesus. This, too, is a common response. There are people who hear the gospel, who hear about Jesus, who go on and study more about his teaching along with the rest of the Bible, but they do it cautiously. Maybe they're afraid that their family or friends will reject them. Maybe they're afraid of being scoffed and mocked at work Of course, there are many places around the world where there's the real potential of persecution if anyone thinks you might actually be interested in Jesus. This kind of curiosity and examination is an encouraging sign that the Holy Spirit may well be bringing this person To a saving knowledge of Christ. But interest as such is not the same as belief. Studying Jesus is not the same as believing in Jesus. Going to church and to Bible studies and engaging in conversations about Jesus and God and Christianity and the Bible or anything else along those lines is not what makes a Christian. There is only one right response to Jesus Christ that brings salvation and eternal life There's only one way to receive the living water of the Holy Spirit. There's only one reaction that brings about the redemption of the soul and forgiveness of sin and new life in Christ. And that is believing in Jesus. Believing in the person of Jesus, who he is. Believing in the work of Jesus, what he taught and what he did. Embracing the reality that he is the sinless Son of God who not only taught amazing truth, but he gave his life as a substitute for sinners. Friends, you cannot misidentify Jesus and be saved from your sin. You cannot rightly identify Jesus and not believe and have your sins forgiven. You cannot doubt his identity and receive the Holy Spirit. You can't simply be amazed at him And be given eternal life. And you certainly can't irrationally hate him and have any hope of redemption. And so, friend, if you are like Nicodemus and you are a cautious examiner of the teaching of Jesus, we would urge you to come all the way. And believe in Jesus Christ, because only then can you find true satisfaction for your soul. Well, through all of these responses, we see that the Jews were a house divided in their response to Jesus. There are some of you who have a home divided in the responses of each individual to Jesus. There are some of you here who come week in and week out and you do not believe. There are some of you who are here because it's Mother's Day, and you know that you do not believe in Jesus. Whatever the case, whatever place you are in, whatever way you have responded to Jesus in the past. Know that the offer that Jesus makes applies today. Whoever thirsts, let him come to me If your soul aches with emptiness, turn to Christ. If you know the sorrow of living your life Full of sin. Believe in him. Follow him. And you will find satisfaction for your soul Let's pray. We thank you, Lord Jesus, for who you are. You are amazing. You are remarkable. You are extraordinary. We could use every superlative in the English language and in every other human language, and we still would not reach the vast heights of the glory of who you are. And so we thank you that though you are the glorious God eternal, you came and gave your life for sinners such as us. You died on the cross to grant us eternal life to anyone who would believe in you. And we pray that you would work in the heart of each individual here. That if there are any who do not know Christ, truly, fully, savingly placing their hope and trust in Him, that you would open their eyes to your glory. And for all of us, help us be to be discerning regarding those around us, whether our family, friends, or co-workers or those we know in the community. Help us to discern their responses to Jesus so that we can faithfully proclaim the truth to them according to their need. May Jesus be lifted high and glorified. In Christ's name, amen