In our passage this morning, we're going to come back to an issue that we discussed quite a while back, and it's the issue of God's love, particularly God's love for the true believer. As I've been thinking about this message literally for the past several months, one of the most remarkable statements in all of Scripture is that God's love is perfect. Its perfections impact so much of our lives and in so many different ways Not only does God's perfect love save us, it transforms us. It changes us. It shifts our focus away from self to that of others. It causes us deliberately to put others first. It prioritizes the needs of those around us In other words, it completely changes us in a way that we begin to think and to act different toward each other that is opposite of the world And the pattern of our life is that we begin to treat others as more important than ourselves That unlike the love of the world, God's love begins its perfecting work in us to forgive, to show compassion. kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience towards one another. And we do this as we bear with one another, give preference to one another Not judging one another, but building each other up in love and with good deeds. As the Bible teaches us, God's love is perfect because it brings about a supernatural change. It brings comfort and peace into the believer's heart. And that perfect, perfecting love then reassures us. It causes us to sacrifice ourselves for the sake of others, and ultimately it brings us to maturity what is the manifest character of God in us. As God's word tells us, it's what defines and determines what an authentic Christian life ought to be. And in that it becomes then one of the primary tests of true saving faith. This is what we want to look at today. If you haven't already, please take your Bible and turn to 1 John 4. In 1 John 4, verse 12. The Apostle John makes this remarkable statement. He says, No one has beheld God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us. And his love is then perfected in us. Look down to verses 16 and 17. He then says, the one who abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this, love has been perfected with us. Now look at verses eight verse eighteen. There is no fear and love, but perfect love. Casts out fear because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not perfected in love John uses this word perfect not only to describe what happens in the believer's life, but also to describe the kind of love that originates with God. In the context of 1 John, we may ask the question, what does John mean when he says that God's love is perfect? Our English dictionary would define this word perfect as something that is without errors, flaws, or faults And this is because it's it would be something that would be excellent or ideal in every way But the Greek word that John uses here is a word that refers to something that has reached its end. Something that has ultimately come to completion. Not that God's love isn't excellent or ideal in every way. But this word that John uses here for the kind of love that comes from God is meant to bring something to completion, to maturity, and complete fulfillment. On the cross, Jesus used the same form of this word when he said, it is finished. He could have said it's complete. It's been brought to maturity. It is now done. As if to say the work of God's salvation has now been brought to complete fulfillment. As John uses it here, it's meant to convey the idea that the work of the Father, that the Father had given to the Son to do, has now reached its end. And now it's been brought to completion as God has determined it. He brought it to its perfect and fulfilled conclusion And the evidence of that work is now being manifest in those who belong to God. Here in 1 John 4, John uses this same word again to refer to the fullness of God's love. That is again made manifest in the life of every true believer. He says that this love has now been brought to fruition, demonstrated in a life that is devoted to obedience to the one who is perfect love. It is a love that is the best that it can possibly be in the human realm The Bible tells us that God's love is fulfilled in us only when we receive Christ as our perfect sacrifice for sin and then live in obedience to Him. Jesus said in John chapter 14, if you love me, you will keep my commandments Well, this is why back in 1 John 2, verse 5, John said, Whoever keeps his word, truly in him the love of God has been perfected. Why? Because when we keep his word, John says we experience the fullness of God's perfect love in us. As we live in obedience to his word, that love comes from God's finished work that Christ completed on the cross, and it does this By causing us then to do God's will. Before we didn't want to do God's will. Now we want nothing but to do God's will. John put it this way in 1 John 5, verse 3. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. And why do we keep his commandments? Because his commandments are not burdensome. That is the fruit of love. For love, as defined by the Word of God, is not some type of sentimental or emotional feeling. It is simply the result of living in obedience to God's will for our life as He has revealed Himself to us through Christ and in the written revelation of God. So when we keep his commandments, God says the love that Christ had for keeping his father's will is now being manifest in his children. And it is that self-sacrificial gift that is the expression, ultimately, of God's perfect will. Well, in 1 John 4, verses 7 through 21, John is going to give us those details of God's perfecting love. This love, which is best reflected in the fellowship of Christ's Church, is one of the most important tests of authentic Christianity. Without God's love, there can be no true, genuine Christian faith, nor can there be true koinonia, fellowship, which is what we enjoy. Like rain, without clouds, it's impossible for the believer to know where true love really comes from without first then receiving it from what Christ has done for us. And this morning, as we begin this study of God's perfecting love, I want us to then look at the biblical definition of love. As defined by God's character. And then I want us to focus in on the demonstration of love in the coming of Jesus Christ. Well, in order to set the context for this amazing virtue of godly love, please follow along as I read for you verses 7 through 21. And this morning, just to uh save any concern that you might have about how long I'm going to go, we're only going to cover verses 7 through 10, okay? So Today we want to begin a portrait of perfecting love. And I want to read for you again the larger context. So that you can see where John is going in this amazing explanation of God's perfecting love. Look at verses seven to twenty-one. John writes, Beloved, let us love one another. For love is from God. And everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, because God is love. By this, the love of God was manifested in us. That God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him. In this is love. Not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has beheld God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us And his love then is perfected in us. By this, we know that we abide in him and he in us because he has given us of his spirit. We have beheld and bear witness that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God. And we have come to know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love. And the one who abides in love abides in God, and God then abides in him. By this love has been perfected with us, so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, because as He is, so also are we in the world. There's no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment. And the one who fears is not perfected in love. We love because what? He first loved us. If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he's a liar. For the one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen And this is the commandment that we have from him, that the one who loves God should also love his brother What an amazing, clear, concise, convicting passage May God give us the faith and the compassion then to live it out as we understand how it applies to us and to the church as a whole. Well, I am convinced that verse 7 is the key that unlocks this entire passage. The reason I say this is because it sets the theme for the entire section. John writes beloved. Let us love one another. Why? Because love comes from God And everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Simple, straightforward, clear But this is a defining test for the church. Verse 12 says, if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love then is perfected in us. Let me read that again. If we love one another, God abides in us. And his love is perfected in us. Verse 21 then closes this in with this important sentence, and this commandment we have from him that the one who loves God should love his brother also. Are you starting to hear a theme here? Love. Love is the theme of the believer's life. Love is the anthem of the church in its proclamation to the world. From the beginning to the middle and to the end of this entire passage, we're dealing with one subject, and that is to love one another. John says, God's perfecting love is how you know that you are a true believer in Jesus Christ. Love, John says, is at the heart of everything that we do as a believer in Christ. And again, it is the defining test of an authentic Christian church. And why is that? Because love originates with God. So therefore, his love is the driving motivation for everything that we do to glorify him and to accomplish his purpose in this world. Love is absolutely central to the nature of true saving faith. And this is because love is central to the very character of God Himself. Just as God is love, so also true saving faith works itself out in love Love, by its very definition, is one of the most central attributes of God from the scriptures. And this is why Christians ought to be known by their love for one another. Notice verses 7 and 8, because John begins here with a portrait of love that begins with God Himself. In other words, a true definition of biblical love begins with the very character of God John writes, Beloved, we love one another, for love is from God. And everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God. Why? Because God is love. Notice the very first word that John uses to begin this section. It is the word beloved. I love this because this is the fifth time in John's epistle that he refers to his readers as those who are God's beloved. He uses this word here in verse 11 to draw his readers together. In a sense, he does it to remind them. That you are God's most beloved child. He says, beloved, if God so loved us We also ought to love one another. If you track John's usage Out of the six times that he uses this word in this epistle, it is set in the context of talking about the various implications of godly love. And that is of loving God and loving one another. You want to know why you're beloved of God? Because God is at work perfecting his love in you. And again, I love this because this word beloved defines who the Christian is. It defines our character, just as love is one of those defining characteristics of God. It is such an appropriate word that's used here in this context because it specifically refers to those who are God's divinely loved ones. It is a term that John uses here to let his readers know that they are, as God's children, the sole recipients of God's saving love. You are distinct from the world because God loves you. And now we are to manifest that love John says, as recipients of God's saving love, let us therefore extend that love to one another. And how do we do that? By being a witness of God to a world consumed with hate Keep in mind, when he says, Let us love, John is deliberately using the present tense of this verb to say, let us continue, keep on loving in the way that God has always loved us. And never stops. Just as you are the recipient of God's love, so also you are to continually and habitually Keep on loving one another. Don't stop. Don't give in or give up. Keep on going, is what he's saying here. Again, loving one another is the theme that is repeated five times in this short epistle And the reason it's repeated so often is because it's obviously something that is so easy for us to forget. Even though it is something that is essential to our faith. We need to be reminded that as believers, it is our obligation before God to extend mature, complete, and fulfilled love for one another. This is because verses seven and eight tell us why this is so important. We are to love one another. Why? Look at the middle of verse 7. Because love is from God. That is a very short sentence. It's not complicated. When John says that love is from God, he is saying that God is the source, he is the origin of self-giving love. And this is what we are to extend toward one another. Not the world's definition of love, but God's love. True love comes from only one source, and that one source is God Himself. The reason we are to love one another is because love origin literally originates from out of God. It's not just defined as something that God does. It is the very person of God Himself And this is because the attribute of divine love comes from the very nature of God Himself. And then John says, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. When we demonstrate true sacrificial love for one another, we not only demonstrate that we are born of God. But we demonstrate to the world that we actually know God. We know Him personally, intimately, spiritually In a way that the world cannot even come close to knowing anybody. We not only know him spiritually, but we know him experientially Because how of how God has manifested his characteristics in us For the believer, love is both a spiritual understanding and it is a sanctifying experience that can only come from God The reason we love one another is because love is ultimately part of the character of God Himself. As God's children, we reflect the character of the one who brought us to life Just as the moon reflects the light of the sun, we also reflect the image of the one who saved us in all his glory, and love is that glory. It's funny, but as a child, there is no doubt that every one of us is going to pick up on some of the similar characteristics and qualities of our parents. Mannerisms get passed down from one generation to the next. And this happens even if you're adopted into a family. I remember somebody came to me one time and our girls, both of them. who are adopted both they came and said, Boy, your girls are so much like you guys. That was both humbling and terrifying But the longer that we live with our parents, the more we begin to act like them. And the same principle applies to us spiritually. The more we apply God's word to our life, the more we begin to look and act like Christ Himself. Spiritually, as a child of God, John says, we are born of God. And that is because heaven is our heritage. In addition to this, we also begin to experience his presence in our life And that's because the longer we walk with him, the more we're going to behave like him. As God's children, our destiny is to bear the image of the one who created us. to reflect his image in the world, though marred and scarred by the fall No doubt, the more we live in obedience to his word, the more we're going to manifest his character in our lives. And Paul makes this absolutely clear when he writes in 2 Corinthians 3, verse 18, that he tells us that every true believer is going to become more and more like Christ. Peter in 2 Peter 1, verse 4, tells us that we have become partakers of the divine nature. And that means that when people look at us, they're going to see something of the character of God in us. If they don't, then there's reason to question whether or not we've been truly born again And this is exactly John's point right here in chapter four. If we have been born from God, then we'd better start looking like him We better start acting like him. We better start reflecting both his actions and his attitudes in our life. Many years ago, I heard a story about a soldier in the army of Alexander the Great, this soldier who was disobedient and defiant. As he came before the judge, the presiding judge asked him just one question. What's your name? The soldier said, My name's Alexander, the same as that of Alexander the Great. Upon hearing this, the judge then replied, Well, if that's true Then either change your name or start acting like him. The same should be true of us If you and I are to receive the name of Jesus Christ, then we should think very seriously about its ramifications. It's not enough to say that we're one of his We need to start acting like it. Otherwise, all we'll do is bring reproach upon his name, bring shame to the very name of God Himself. If we're children of God, then John says then we ought to manifest his love If God is the source of perfect love, then those who demonstrate his love should give evidence that they have been born of God and that they know him. Those who do not love as God loves, then they are they were never born again in the first place. And those who then claim to be a child of God but do not love, they have no idea what it means to know God personally or experientially. Verse 8 tells us that the one who does not love does not know God. And so John says it doesn't matter what you say. Again, if you don't love others the way that God loves you, then you have no right to claim any relationship with him And that is a very, very sobering thought, is it not? Again, no doubt, we all know how far. We come up short in terms of demonstrating God's love for others. But truthfully, that's not the point John's making here. John says it's not about you, ultimately, trying to be perfect in your love for one another. This is about God perfecting his love in you. And that is how definitive the Christian faith ought to be If there is anything in your life that keeps you from loving others in the way that God loves you, then you either have sinned that needs to be confessed or repented of. Or you have a lifestyle that needs to be crucified with Christ. Pride, arrogance, and a careless attitude. are the quickest ways to damage the very reputation of Jesus Christ among God's people. And especially in the context of the local church And this is why verse 8 then ends with this very important phrase. Bottom line: the reason believers ought to love one another because it is because God is love. And that's it. That one simple sentence is so crucial because it defines for us how God reveals Himself to us. In the Greek it literally reads this way, the God love is. This is important because The article before the word God tells us that God is where this attribute of love finds its definition The Bible says God is love. It does not say love is God. God is the only one who defines what love is. Love can never define God. And why is it? Think about it this way. The reason love cannot define God is because all of God's attributes are expressed by His All of his activities, divine activities, are expressed by his divine attributes. And as a result, all of God's attributes work in perfect harmony with each other. Never is one canceling out the other. Never is one to be more magnified over and against any of the others If love were the one defining characteristic of who God is, then the rest of God's attributes would not be a perfect expression of his character nor of his nature This is why love is just one of the many attributes of God. Take, for example, at the same time that God is holy, righteous, just, and jealous. His love is also essential part of every one of those attributes. And that's because perfect love will always be a part of perfect justice. Perfect love expresses itself through perfect righteousness, and God's jealousy is what draws out God's perfect love. Again, each one of these attributes works in harmony with each other. The point being that God cannot have any one attribute apart from any of the other attributes. And the cross is where we ultimately see the greatest expression of God's character of love and justice poured out on sin. At the cross, God's perfect justice and his perfect love are expressed in perfect cooperation without any contradiction, without any incongruity And that's because they are in perfect synchronization with all the other attributes that define who God is. This is why some people find it so hard to believe that God is love. Because they want to make love his supreme attribute. Some people say if God is a God of love, then how can he allow such injustice in the world? Why all the wars? Why the diseases? Why the corruption, the hatred, and the perversion? And the short answer is this: because he allows it for the demonstration of all of his glory We've been studying that the last several weeks, and it's, wow, it's revolutionary in the sense of how we are to think about who God is. But think about it also in this way. He allows these devastating consequences of the fall, because the Bible says so that he can manifest the supreme nature of his being. Not just his glory, but his being. The reason he allows for such wickedness in the world Is set against the backdrop of his love, we would never know how guilty we are We would never know how great a savior he is, were it not for his supreme attributes And the implication of this is this, when we love one another and purpose to fellowship with each other. We become then a living witness to the world of how great, how grand, and how supreme our Savior is. Amen. I mean, this is this is revolutionary. God's love expressed through Christ is just one of those life-transforming attributes In Jeremiah chapter 13, verses 13 to 16, God tells the nation of Israel that He's going to punish them if they don't repent, and He's going to give them and He's going to give them then His glory. That he alone deserves. It seems like such a contradiction that he would do those things He says these sobering words in verse 14, I will shatter them against each other, both the fathers and the sons together, declares Yahweh I will not spare, nor show pity, nor have compassion, so as not to ruin them. Wow, if it was just left to that, we'd weep and be in Just such a misery because of it. But then he says in verse 17 But if you will not listen to me, my soul will cry in secret for such pride, and my eyes will weep bitterly and flow down with tears That's the love of God intervening. That's the love of God showing absolute perfect love To an imperfect creation. And again, that from such a loving and just God Even though he allows for calamity in this life, he still expresses profound sympathy to those who are his people. And that's the kind of love and compassion that God has for those who are his children. When you look at your own pain and misery, keep in mind that God allows for these things to take place in your life to demonstrate the utter depth of his love and compassion for you because you are beloved you are God's child And the more you see the grand and gloriousness of God, the more you then express utter love for Him Our trials, as we've learned in the past, are not working against us. Instead, God is using them to work out his love in you. to perfect his love. And it's because he wants to yield the peaceful fruit of righteousness in us Hebrews 12, 11 puts it this way, all discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful but sorrowful, yet to those who have been trained by it, afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness God's love is insurmountable. And yet, until we enter into his glory free from sin, this is how we are to demonstrate our love for one another. This is why we must never forsake the fellowship of the church. This is why we must never again put it on the back burner thinking that it's not important. Because our fellowship with one another is the means by which we can express God's perfecting love in and through us. And when that happens, the world takes notice. Again, like God, our love must never tolerate sin. And yet our love must be compassionate, even in the midst of judgment. Why is this? Because this is how God demonstrates his love to us. Remember that the Bible makes it absolutely clear that God is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in loving kindness. That is all throughout the Old Testament. And that is how we ought to love one another. The constant reminder to us is that this is why God sent his son into the world. He sent his son to be the greatest demonstration of God's love to us. And what Christ did in coming to earth serves as the greatest example of love and action. And this is the point of this command. Verses 7 and 8 define for us what love is, because it takes us back to the originator of love, who is God Himself, the source of all godly love. Is his attribute born in us when we come to saving faith? But then verses 7 and 9 tell us what God's love did for us on our behalf. And that's when then it brings us to the demonstration of God's love in verses 9 and 10. Here then John draws our attention to Christ's first coming. John says, by this the love of God was manifested in us, that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. In reading these words, I hope that you are beginning to see how this principle of living an authentic Christian life comes together with the very gospel of Jesus Christ. He came not only to save you, but to transform you. And that is why saving faith is so monumental. John says that we are to love one another. Why? Because not only does godly love originate with God, but also because of what God did for us in sending his Son to be the one and only Savior of the world. In Scripture, we have so many examples of God demonstrating his love to his people. But the greatest expression of it all is the death, the burial, the resurrection of Jesus Christ for his beloved. We can sincerely say with all our heart, all our soul, all our mind, all our strength: God loves you if you have put your faith in Christ. Romans 5. 8 actually tells us that God demonstrated his own love for us and that while we were yet sinners, he died for us. That is the most supreme act of God-saving love. While we were still hostile toward God, shaking our fists at him living in open rebellion against him, Christ came into the world to satisfy God's eternal judgment against us. He then took upon himself the punishment for our sin, so that we might live through him. John says that Christ is God's only begotten Son. That phrase, the only begotten Son, simply means that Christ is the one, the only, the unique, the one of the kind Son of God. And the implication is that there is no one like him. There has been nobody that will ever be like him. He is the one and only Son The implication here again is that there is no one like him even now. And there is no one who will be like him in all eternity. How is God's supreme and unique eternal son characterized by By putting the love that He had for the Father, that the Father had for the Son on display in the world by saving us from our sin. If you are sitting here today and you do not know the love of God, I pray that you would cry out for his mercy and forgiveness. Put your faith in him because you will never know love until you have known the God who is love. John tells us that God's Son was manifested in us, verse 9. That implies that God's love was made visible. To us and in us. But how was that possible? It was made possible through the incarnation of Jesus Christ to the world This is why the incarnation is such an absolute essential doctrine to the Christian faith. God became a man Why? So that the Son would make the Father's love visible among mankind Here, John then takes it even one step further. Jesus became God's indescribable love gift in us. And the pronoun here, us, is a direct reference to every true believer who has put their faith in Jesus Christ alone for their salvation. In verse 9, John tells us that Jesus was sent purposefully by God the Father to come into the world so that we as God's children might live through Him. Jesus put it this way in John 14, 6. He said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father but what? Through him. Only through the person of Jesus Christ can we obtain true salvation from our sins. John, then, here in verse 10, tells us that in this is love You want to know what true love is? You want to know how true love has been expressed? Here it is, verse 10. Not that we loved God. But that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. That statement alone should overwhelm every single one of us. Not that we loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son And here it is, to be the propitiation for our sins. I know that's a big word. Learn it. Memorize it. I mentioned in the past that propitiation is a word that has to do with, and here it is, satisfying God's eternal wrath. What John is saying here is that Christ's death was the only true satisfaction of justice against sin for us. Hebrews nine five translates a form of this word propitiation as the mercy seat And what that means is that back in the Old Testament law, the blood of the sacrificed animal was then taken into the Holy of Holies once a year. and poured out on the Ark of the Covenant, which represented God's mercy seat. Doing this by the high priest than satisfied God's righteous requirements against sin for the entire nation. And the fact that God loves us or loved us so supremely that He did this before we ever loved Him again demonstrates the full extent of His saving love. What that should tell us is that there is absolutely nothing in us that's deserving of God's love. We cannot earn it. And yet God has sent his son to pay the penalty for our sins simply because, it was in his nature to love. He took the initiative to love us when we never loved him. And so likewise God commands us, here it is, to love one another. We love one another, not because they're deserving of our love, not because they have earned it in some way. No, we show God's love, demonstrate God's love simply because of what God did for us in Christ Jesus. So he commands us to love. And the point here is that God's love must always be the motivating factor in loving one another Before we were ever saved, sin was the motivating principle of our life. Now John says love is. And it's because Jesus Christ provided the perfect expression of divine love. God reconciled us to God. In verse 11, John tells us that as a recipient of God's love, we are morally obligated to love those for whom Christ died. Why? Because we, like them, have become partakers of God's divine love through Jesus Christ. And that alone is the sufficient motivation for loving one another. I'm gonna do something that I don't I don't think I've ever done. And that is I'm gonna change my conclusion to this message. Four years ago, we had a my wife and I and our children had a very difficult time of ministry, difficult season. We left our former church because of just hurtful things that had taken place. Things that I would never want anyone to experience. Hurtful words Terrible actions from those who professed and proclaimed the love of God. That was a very, very difficult time. There was a man several, but one man in particular. That it was so hard because for eleven years we partnered side by side together in the ministry of the church. The betrayal that took place just shattered me Again, it was one of the most painful ministry experiences that I ever had. I had been praying, and my wife had been praying, that somehow, in some way, we would be able to reconcile This past week at the Shepherd's Conference. On Wednesday morning, I got a text. Hey Mike, are you here at the Shepherd's Conference? I want to get together with you. Immediately I was shocked when I saw who it was Texted back really quickly. Yes, let's get together. So we planned to get together at lunch. We sat down for about an hour and a half. We talked together. We reminisced about the difficulty. And he turned to me and he said, Mike, I was wrong. About you. And I want to ask for your forgiveness. I think before I could say anything else, I said to this man, I want you to forgive me. I failed miserably to lead you, to shepherd you. And I know that it contributed to what took place. In our shattering of our relationship. And as I forgave him, he forgave me. And he showed me the love of God. And I showed him the love of God. When we first met, there was this tempered embrace, shaking of the hands, you know, the side hug. When we left, we embraced full on, and we hugged for a while I had prayed so much for reconciliation. He did as well. He said, you don't know how many times in the last three years I wanted to pick up the phone and talk to you I said that's okay. This is God's timing. We need to love each other. We need to think about how God's love should impact our fellowship with one another. God by his very nature defines what love is, not the world It's Christ's sacrifice that demonstrates what true love ought to be. If we commit ourselves to meditating on the character of God, the reason for Christ's coming I believe, no doubt, we will begin to act differently toward each other. For the sake of our witness for Christ I pray that God would give each and every one of us many, many opportunities to love each other, not just this week, but beyond. Think very carefully about the broken relationships in your life, whether it be with a friend, a co-worker, your wife, your children. God is calling us to love each other and to demonstrate the love of God for them. With that all said, the only thing that I can say to conclude this message is, may God's love be magnified in and through us for the sake of his own glory. Amen. Let's pray Father, we thank you for the love that you showed us. We thank you for how you have worked your will in our lives to bring us to the place where we can genuinely say we love you. We thank you for the many opportunities that you have demonstrated and shown your love to us. How you continue to magnify your love in such a way that when it works in and through us, we can't help but demonstrate that same love for each other. Father, I thank you for the greatness of your love. I thank you for the reconciliation that we can have. And I thank you for how we can be a witness to the world of the wonderful grace of Christ manifested through saving love. Father, may you be glorified in everything that we do, and may we continue to do it dripped in the love of Christ that was shed on the cross for us. Thank you, Father. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen.