It is a tremendous joy every Sunday to be with people that I know personally, love Christ, and have come genuinely to worship Him. And just knowing what your lives are like and the character of this congregation, it just adds to the fullness of the morning that there's just a lot of beautiful worship that goes on. One of the things unbelievers dislike about church in general is the hypocrisy that they say they often can smell from quite a distance. And that's sad. The church may talk about the Christian life, but its populace doesn't always appear to be that much different from the world around them. Of course, some of the evaluation of unbelievers is unfair. Christians have never claimed to be perfect people We're forgiven by Christ. We're growing in our understanding of Christ and obedience. That's the truth. But this is not to exonerate the church from the need to have a genuine and sincere example. Often church people do want to appear to be good Christians But it's an outward show, a show of a love for God. And it can be a pretty decent show sometimes, but a show is just that. It's a show. It's not the real thing. Outward appearances are driven by pride, desire to be seen as good by men. And so the problem of hypocrisy in church is real. I think the problem is heightened when spiritual leaders in the church are themselves hypocritical. After all, they are the ones who are supposed to set an example for how to live the Christian life, right? They are the ones who preach and teach the Word of God and model the Word of God for others So when those who teach others to pay attention to God's Word make excuses for their own sins, and even at times try to cover up those sins, lest anyone find out Well, that sets an insincere example right at the very heart of a local church. Leaders like everybody else need to confess their sins. If they find they have a problem that needs to be dealt with, then they need to deal with it like everybody else. If the problem becomes a strong or major problem They can't seem to overcome it. They need to get help like anyone else would do. Or maybe in some cases Because the sin is so grievous to step down from their leadership so that no discredit to the Word of God would be given You see, a genuine example validates the truthfulness of the Word of God. People don't know whether this is the Word of God. They're dead in their trespasses and sins. They're spiritualized or blind. They're not really sure it's God's Word. And then they see you who memorize it and read it and live a certain way. And they say there must be something to the Word of God, to that Bible. Skeptics are watching our lives. And we need to live in a genuine way. In 1 Corinthians chapter 8 The Apostle Paul taught the Corinthian church that they needed to place love of the brethren above their liberty in Christ. Though they are in Christ and they've been given tremendous freedoms Liberty was never meant to be greater than love. They were to sacrifice their freedoms for the sake of the love of the brethren. Often that would involve quite a sacrifice. A lot of things they'd have to give up for others. So the question would be, did Paul, who taught this Actually practice what he preached. And the answer to that question, along with an important lesson for us on living the Christian life with a genuine spirit, follows in First Corinthians chapter nine. Would you open to First Corinthians chapter nine? We'll focus on verses one through six But I'd like to read down through at least verse 19 so you can get the flavor of this chapter in the greater context. 1 Corinthians 9, let me read verses 1 through 19 The Apostle Paul writes, Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. My defense to those who examine me is this. Do we not have a right to eat and drink? Do we not have a right to take along a believing wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas? Or do only Barnabas and I not have a right to refrain from working. Who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? Who tends a flock and does not use the milk of the flock? I am not speaking these things according to human judgment, am I? Or does not the law also say these things? For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing God is not concerned about oxen, is he? Or is he speaking altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake, it was written, because the ploughman ought to plough in hope, and the thresher to thresh in hope of sharing the crops If we sow spiritual things and use it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share the right over you, do we not more? Nevertheless, we did not use this right, but we endure all things so that we will cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ Do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who attend regularly to the altar have their share from the altar? So also the Lord directed those who proclaim the gospel to get their living from the gospel But I have used none of these things. And I'm not writing these things so that it would be done so in my case, for it would be better for me to die than have any man make my boast an empty one. For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of, for I am under compulsion, for woe is me if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this voluntarily I have a reward, but if against my will I have a stewardship entrusted to me. What then is my reward? That when I preach the gospel I may offer the gospel without charge so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel. For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a slave to all so that I may win more. He goes on to talk about that, and we're going to get into all of that, but I wanted to bring you up at least to that statement because I think it really reveals his heart, why he was doing what he was doing. Did Paul live a sincere Christian life? Did he practice what he preached? The answer, well that's not surprising. The answer is yes, of course he did. That's why the Apostle Paul he's given to us as an example in Scripture. In this chapter, Paul is not leaving the subject of chapter 8. Some scholars suppose that as you read their comments here, but he's not. Rather, he's setting himself up as an example of what he just finished teaching. It was very important to Paul that the Corinthians did know he practiced what he was telling them to do And he wasn't bragging about himself. He wasn't boasting in himself. I mean, later in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 9 and 10, Paul would write very humbly these words, For I am the least of the apostles. And not fit to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But then he goes on and he says, But by the grace of God I am what I am All things worthy of emulating in Paul's life, he gave credit to what? The grace of God working in his life, to Jesus Christ, right? The grace of God made Paul not a perfect example as Jesus was, but a worthy and sincere example of a Christian. And that is why Paul could write to the other churches things such as these in Philippians chapter four, verse nine the things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things in the God of peace. To the church at Thessalica, he wrote in 2 Thessalonians 3, verses 7 through 9. For you yourselves know how you ought to follow our example Because we did not act in an undisciplined manner among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with labor and hardship we kept working night and day So that we would not be a burden to any of you. Not because we do not have the right to do this, but in order to offer ourselves as a model for you, so that you would follow our example. He gave himself as an example to an entire church. And furthermore, in giving himself as an example, he also showed that this principle where sometimes you have to restrict your God-given freedoms in Christ applied to more than just that one specific situation of eating meat sacrificed to an idol. Paul would go on to demonstrate in his own life how multifaceted this principle of love and restricting freedoms can be in the Christian life, especially as it applies to leaders in the church. If you're a leader or a developing leader, people are watching you. This particularly applies to you. You want to expand and advance your ministry of the gospel, so pay close attention to what Paul did with his life. I find this to be a very practical chapter once again. You saw how practical chapter seven was, those of you that were with us in chapter eight, just talking about the nuts and bolts of the Christian life, whether it's talking about the family or how to relate to other believers. And here we are in chapter 9. And again, it's very practical. Soon we'll be diving into topics at the end of the chapter about the importance of self-control. Personal disciplines, restricting the passions of your body to make sure you're not disqualified in your ministry. Discipline. That sounds like a great topic for a New Year's sermon, doesn't it? You see that one coming up here We're also going to delve into Paul's ability to adapt for the sake of advancing the gospel. This is intriguing. What are the ways that we're allowed to change so that we can make the gospel Advance and win the laws. Have some groups gone too far in applying that principle and actually brought sin into the church? How do we know? That's an intriguing study, and we're going to get to that But right now, the focus is on that important Christian living principle that Paul taught back in chapter 8. Would you look back at it again to keep it fresh in your mind? Chapter 8, verse 9. But take care that this liberty of yours does not somehow become a what? A stumbling block to the weak, to not to the unbelievers here, but to weaker believers who don't understand in teaching what Christ has given to them There are many ways in which liberty could become a stumbling block to our weaker brethren, and we need to take care, as he said. Now, through his personal example. Paul is showing that liberty is not a license to do whatever we want. It is freedom to accomplish the will of God, to adapt to any situation, to win the laws. I was set free from my sins, he's writing, not to live for myself, not simply to enjoy my freedom, but to love, to love the brethren from a pure heart. You know, there's another interesting thing going on in this chapter, too. As Paul writes about his personal example, he also feels that he has to explain to these Corinthian believers why he behaved in the way that he did. See, they had misconstrued his actions, and they'd looked at what he'd done in restricting the use of his freedoms, and they concluded that he wasn't really much of an apostle. He was somehow a lesser or weaker apostle, not that great of a man as others were. They looked down on Paul because of this example that he was setting. You will notice as you read the Corinthian correspondence that Paul frequently had to defend his apostleship and his ministry to them. It's all over the place in 2 Corinthians. You get into chapter 10 and 11 and 12, you see it everywhere there. Right here in verse 3, notice how he says, my defense to those who examine me is this. And he goes on and he gives his defense. So here in verses 1 through roughly verse 15, he's giving reasons why he had a right to be supported financially. This full chapter is really about. I have a right to receive money from you, Corinth. He's being very direct about it. I mean he's being very straightforward with him. You should be paying me, he's saying. But the Corinthians had doubts about him. And they pointed out some things in his practice they thought showed he was some kind of a lesser apostle. He wasn't as great as the other apostles. You know, to quote them, Paul says in 2 Corinthians 10, verse 10, they say his letters are weighty and strong, but his personal presence is unimpressive and his speech contemptible. And he he writes from a distance and they sound like wow look at all that truth and then he shows up and who is this guy? I mean what does he have? He's not all impressive, he doesn't even speak all that well Remember, Paul was not one of the original twelve apostles. That kind of caused a problem for him. Are you really one of the apostles? Then how come you're not one of the twelve? This was a question he had to answer. Often his credentials he had to defend it. Not to boost his pride. People misunderstand that about Paul. Oh, he's being proud. No, he's not. He had to make sure the gospel that he was preaching and the doctrine that he was doing and The advancing that he was giving to the church would continue. If they doubted his apostleship, they'd doubt all that work and it would be a victory for the enemy. He wasn't doing it out of pride, he was doing it to defend the truth So notice in verses 1 through 6, he shows that he has all the normal freedoms that other people have. And even more, his privileges as an apostle. And he wasn't even using those. Why? Because of love. Because of love. And verses 16 through 18, just another preview, he tells why he did not exercise other rights. He was under compulsion to preach the gospel to the lost, he felt. In verses 19 through 27, he focuses on how far he was willing to adapt and change and restrict himself and his freedoms just so that other people could get saved. Man, what a heart for evangelism he had He lived by that statement, verse 19. For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a slave to all so that I may win more. What a great statement. What a great heart. And so, since next time we're going to see reasons for supporting spiritual workers financially, I thought today in verses 1 through 6 we'd just focus on Paul's sincere example as a Christian. Paul gives three reasons why he should not have to restrict his freedoms. That's what he's doing. He's giving three reasons why he should not have to do it, and then he says he's going to do it anyways out of love. His first reason is that he was free in Christ. That's the first statement there in verse 1. The second reason is that more than being free in Christ, he was an apostle of Jesus Christ from the middle of verse 1 into verse 2. And third, that he was worthy of support as a worker for Christ. He labored for Christ. We see that in verses 3 through 6. Amazingly, Paul was misunderstood by the very people that he loved. They judged him harshly as he was loving them and serving them. It's so sad, but it gives us another insight into the problems the Corinthian church had. All right, let's look at the first reason. He was free in Christ. Beginning of verse 1. Am I not free? And then he goes on with four The total of four rhetorical questions there. Now you need to understand that each question has a negative adverb in it in Greek, the word ook. First one is Uk Emi Eluthraos. Am I not free? Now if you have the King James or New King James, it sort of reverses the order of the first two questions, but I think the Nasbi has the Greek the correct way. These questions, these four questions, were designed really to make a statement. They were to lead the Corinthians to some understanding. They're rhetorical questions. Each of them expected a certain answer. Not really a question. Am I not free? Answer, yes. Yes, you are free. They're supposed to know that. And it appears the Corinthians and their spiritual pride were making a big deal out of their freedom in Christ, their knowledge, their spirituality, their giftedness. They thought that they were the stuff. They really thought they were important and great. And Paul had to keep this knowledgeable and proud bunch in check. He had to do this throughout the whole letter. They were overlooking one little fact, and that is that Paul was a Christian too. And Paul, guess what? He had freedoms just like they did And you know something? Paul cherished his freedoms just as they did. And he was not in any way inferior to them. I mean, this was the apostle who had staunchly defended our freedom in Christ when it was attacked in the region of Galatia As he writes in Galatians 5. 1, it was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. He knew about freedom. He wrote about it, he stood for it He also wrote about freedom from sin in Romans chapter 6, verses 5 through 7, which says, if we have become united with Christ in the likeness of his death Certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old self was crucified with him, with Christ, in order that our body of sin might be done away with so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. For he who has died is freed from sin. We have freedom from sin. We have freedom from the law of Moses. Paul knew about that. The Gentiles were not to get circumcised to satisfy the Judaizers who wanted to impose a restriction on them. Salvation was a free offer in Christ. He was a minister of the new covenant, and he knew what that was about. Paul was allowed to drink wine if he wanted to. He was allowed to eat any meat. He wrote that in 1 Timothy 4, verses 4 and 5. He said, Everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected. if it is received with gratitude. For it is sanctified by means of the word of God in prayer. You can eat what you want to eat. He could. Paul's not under the law. Paul didn't need to keep Sabbath laws. He didn't need to keep dietary laws or other restrictions of the law. He knew what the new covenant was all about. Am I not free? He says. Do you not know that I know this? He even wrote in Colossians, no one is to act as your judge in regard to food or drink or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day. Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come. But the substance belongs to Christ. We're in Christ and we have the fullness of Christ. Live as New Testament Christians, see. Well, this was a man who understood his freedoms. And I think he understood them probably better than any of the Corinthians did. But he also was a man of love, of deep love for the people. You see, and he's willing to give up. What he knew he could do to care for other people, to help them with their faith. You can't miss that. That's what the Corinthians were missing. That's how they were misunderstanding his example. We can't miss that. That's very important. All right. The second reason is that he was an apostle of Christ. an apostle of Christ. A lot of these go together here. And this is just a lot of these questions just kind of go with this one theme. Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? If to others I'm not an apostle, at least I am to you. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. This just ratchets up what he's been saying. I'm free as a Christian, more than that I'm an apostle, he's saying by asking the rhetorical question. You give the answer. You should know. Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Well, this shouldn't have been any news at all to the Corinthians, right? How did he begin the letter? Do you remember? 1 Corinthians 1:1. Paul called as an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. What is an apostle? A lot of people hear that name and they just think, oh, an apostle, that's another word for a disciple. No, it's not. You and I are disciples of Christ. We're not apostles. There's a huge difference. Why is it that an apostle was given even more rights than just being a Christian. What is an apostle? What makes them so special? There are people today who think that they're apostles. Did you know that? In this church or that denomination, they think they may have a group of apostles, or they may have Apostle So-and-so who's preaching on Sunday morning You look on their sign and there they are. They're the church of the apostles or something like that. That can get confusing. They have apostles in their church? Are we missing something here at Old Bible Church? Then we need to go out and get one of those apostles. What is an apostle? Maybe we need one of those guys. Make us a little better and stronger. Maybe people look down upon us. We don't have any apostles here. You know, nobody today can meet the criteria and the description of a New Testament apostle. Nobody. The term apostle, apostolos, means a sent one, one who's sent out. Sent out by another. Why? To represent them. Someone sends somebody out, say, you go and speak for me, you represent me. That's an apostle. It's like an ambassador or an envoy. They are an official representative of the one who sent them out. Who sent Paul out? Jesus Christ. So you could be an apostle of Rome, I guess if you wanted to be, you could be an apostle of Caesar if he sent you out. Paul was an apostle of Jesus Christ. Jesus sent him out. And so an apostle spoke with the authority of their Lord and their master. Now so many people get really confused on this teaching on apostleship, so I really want to take you on a whirlwind tour of apostleship in the New Testament. You ready? You're going to be flipping through a lot of verses. I want you to see these for yourself, get the doctrine of what an apostle is. As you do this, you'll understand how great they were and how Paul could have used his rites and understand his love as well I mean these were very special people. They were quite privileged. There weren't that many of them. Let's start by turning back to Mark chapter 3, where Jesus selects them. Yeah, you have to move quickly with me this morning. Mark 3, verses 13 and 14. This is the time where he picked the twelve. It says in Mark 3, 13, Jesus went up on the mountain. And he summoned those whom he himself wanted, and they came to him, and he appointed twelve. So that they would be with him, and that he could send them out to preach and to have authority to cast out the demons. etc. And then he gives the names of these twelve apostles. You ever stop and ask yourself why the names of the twelve apostles are given not only in the Gospel of Matthew, but in Mark, but in Luke and in other places. Why? Because they were his hand-selected guys. And you were to know who they were. You had to know who they were. I want you to see this also in the Gospel of Luke. Turn to Luke chapter 6. Verses twelve and thirteen, Luke six. Verses twelve and thirteen It was at this time that Jesus went off to the mountain to pray, and he spent the whole night in prayer to God. Now it doesn't say what he was praying about there, but I'm going to guess, and a lot of people think he was praying About who to select as his twelve apostles. Makes sense because the very next thing he did, when day came, verse 13, he called his disciples to him and chose twelve of them. Whom he also named as what? Apostles. I'm going to send you out to preach for the kingdom of God. I spent all night in prayer. I selected you. You're one and you're one and you're one and you're going to be number four and you're going to be number five and he selected them there. And then you, he probably put his hand on them. You're the one I'm selecting right here. You're my apostle I mean these these guys are special. I don't know how people can say, I'm an apostle. Did Jesus show up in your bedroom and hands select you last night, buddy? Jesus prayerfully considered these people. What about Paul? He wasn't one of the twelve. Oops. How does he fit into all this? Well let's go to Acts 9. Let's go to Acts 9. What does Jesus say about him in Acts 9? This is after Jesus has appeared to him on the road. You guys know that story, so I'm skipping that. Jesus appears to Paul, but after that Ananias is sent to him, and all the way in verse 15 Ananias is complaining. Well, back in verse 13, Ananias is going to be sent to Saul, and Saul's a guy who's been throwing Christians in jail, and Ananias says, Lord, I've heard. for many about this man. I mean, how much harm he did to your saints at Jerusalem. And that's just sort of reminding the Lord, you know who this guy is you're sending me to? And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who are called on who call on your name. I mean he's he's here on a mission from the chief priest. Look at verse 15. The Lord, that's Jesus. The Lord said to Ananias, go, for he is a what? Chosen instrument of mine to bear my name before who? The Gentiles. He was not an apostle of the Jews. He was not one of the twelve apostles to the nation of Israel. He was an apostle to the Gentiles. That's what Jesus said. He's chosen to go with the Gentiles. He even includes the sons of Israel because that's going to be part of what he does. But you'll see that he maximizes, and that's why it's listed first, that he's an apostle to the Gentiles. He's still a witness to the Jews, Peter's still a witness to the Gentiles, Peter's primary calling was to the Jews Paul's primary calling was to the Gentiles, and that's how it was. And so Ananias departed and obeyed. Paul knew his position, and Paul guarded it. He understood what he was. Just listen to some of these instead of flipping all of them. 2 Timothy 1. 11. I was appointed a preacher and an apostle and a teacher. He knew. I was appointed an apostle. I didn't appoint myself. 1 Timothy 2, verse 7. For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am telling the truth. I am not lying, he adds. As a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. There it is again. I was sent primarily to the Gentiles. Romans 11:13. He says, I'm speaking to you who are Gentiles in as much then as I am An apostle of Gentiles. I magnify my ministry. You knew I'm an apostle of Gentiles. I was hands selected by Christ. Galatians 1:1. Paul, listen to this, you love this. You can just hear how adamant he is here. Paul, an apostle, not sent from men, nor through the agency of man. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. Peter didn't select me. James didn't select me. The Twelve didn't select me. Jesus Christ selected me to bear his name. I'm an apostle. And he had to defend it. Now, because they're hand selected, they obviously then speak with Jesus' unique authority. Listen to these also. I'll get you flipping here in a minute. I got so many of them. 1 Corinthians 12, 28, it says, and Paul writes this, God has appointed in the church first, what do you think follows? Apostles First apostles. They're appointed first. Wow. 1 Corinthians 14, 37. If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment I speak with the authority of the Lord. I write with the authority of the Lord. Now you can turn to 1 Thessalonians 2. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. See again that he knew about his authority. You better use it very, very carefully. Chapter 2, verses 5 and 6. 1 Thessalonians 2, 5 and 6. For we never came with flattering speech. As you know, nor with a pretext for greed. God is witness. Nor did we seek glory from men. Either from you or from others. Some of you still flipping, you gotta keep up. I hear you out there. Even though, here it is, verse 6, even though as apostles of Christ, we might have asserted our what? Authority. We could have done that. We could have commanded you, but we didn't. They were careful with their authority. They used it to build others up and to care for others. Obviously then there was a limited number of these apostles, very limited, very limited in the first century. People got hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of apostles today. How did that happen? How did that happen? So only fourteen or fifteen or sixteen, something like that that we can prove. Some say only thirteen that you can prove, the twelve and Paul. And some won't even accept Matthias. They stick Paul in as the twelfth. That's not right. Matthias is in there. It's true. Listen to this. In First Corinthians fifteen seven, just listen. It speaks of Jesus and all the appearances that he had after his resurrection, because to be an apostle you had to have seen Jesus' resurrection. And he says, Then he appeared to all the apostles All the apostles. All the apostles? All the apostles. That means there was a limited number of them and they all saw Christ. You can't have years and years and years later people being added more and more apostles. No, Jesus appeared to all the apostles. Ah, except for one apostle. No, not Thomas. He was back in there by then. He speaks of his own as one that is untimely born, kind of out of time And the last. We'll get to that verse in a minute. But I want you to turn to Revelation 21 because it also speaks of the limited number of Jewish apostles here. Revelation 21, 14. Go all the way to the very end. How many got added on? You go all the value of going to Revelation 21 is you know how many apostles there have been for Israel. If there are more added on, we should know. And you go to chapter 21, verse 14 Talking about the the new heaven, the new earth, and the new Jerusalem and what this will be like. And there in verse 14 says, And the wall of the city are twelve foundation stones, and on them were the what Twelve names of the 12 apostles of the Lamb. The Lamb is Christ. Still just 12. To the New Jerusalem, to Israel. Judas killed himself, remember? His name's not going to be on there. Who's the other guy? Paul wasn't one of the twelve. He always talked about the twelve as someone outside of him. Acts 1. 26. Remember they put forward two worthy men. Two men that had been with Jesus since the time of John the Baptist. They'd seen his resurrection. Both were equally qualified. And they cast the lot, said, Lord, we don't know how to divide 'em, you divide 'em, you pick one, and the lot fell to Matthias, and he was added with the eleven. He became twelve. And you go on and read the rest of Acts and Matthias was there performing miracles validating the fact that he indeed was an apostle So obviously, if they spoke with the authority of Christ, then they must have been very revered by the church. Yes? Go to Acts. Go back to Acts. See how the church treated them. Chapter 5, verses 12 and 13. Acts 5, verses 12 and 13. It says, at the hands of the apostles, many signs and wonders were taking place among the people. Let me read that again. At the hands of the apostles, many signs and wonders were taking place among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's portico, but none of the rest dared to associate with them, to them as the apostles. However, the people held them in high esteem. The apostles were performing signs and miracles. Not all the Christians were doing that. The apostles were doing that. The apostles were performing miracles. And if you saw a group of 12 men there performing miracles, what would you do? Ow Something special about those twelve men. That was exactly the point. They were revered. They were honored. They were the ones that taught the doctrine, and everyone else in the church was to listen to them. Jesus was gone. Where is Jesus speaking? Now he's speaking through his hand-selected ambassadors. Who are they? Peter, James, John, Philip, Andrew, Thomas, etc. Acts 242, they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' doctrine. What are they doing? They're sitting around and teaching, and the people are listening to the apostles. 2 Peter 3, 2. Don't turn there. You should remember the words spoken beforehand by the holy prophets and the commandments of the Lord and Savior, Savior spoken by your apostles. You better listen to the prophets of God, and you better listen to Jesus speaking through your apostles. And don't forget their words. 2 Peter 3. 2, one of the last things Peter wanted to remind them of. By the way, rather than there being more and more apostles down through the year, just in case you're wondering, both Peter and Paul in their last letter before they died told the church, remember the words that we gave to you. Remember the words of the apostles. We were to remember them, guard them, and treasure them, because the faith was already deposited. Well, we already saw some of the signs That they did. I'll just read to you second Corinthians twelve twelve. The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with all perseverance by signs and wonders and miracles. That's where Paul is defending his apostleship again. Second Corinthians twelve twelve. I did miracles. I did signs. And they authenticated me as an apostle. Even in Acts 2. 43, it says the same. Everyone kept feeling a sense of awe, and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. You know, there are a lot of apostle wannabes. Some today feign performing the supernatural, whacking people on the head. Reving up the whole place to get it emotional is supposedly someone that you can't really tell got healed there, that's running around. You can't verify it These miracles were verified. They were genuine and they were not in an atmosphere of great emotion. Because the power of God rested on these men, because they were chosen by Jesus Christ. And on him the power of God had rested. Well needless to say, oh let's turn to a couple more. Ephesians chapter two and verse 20. Because here we see that they're foundational to the church. Ephesians 2. 20. The whole church is built on the apostles. Go back to verse 19. You Gentiles are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. Here's the image of a building now. Household, God's household Verse 20 of Ephesians 2, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. The prophets would be New Testament prophets there in that context. Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone. Christ came, he's the cornerstone. You can't have anything before the arrival of Jesus Christ in Israel, his actual life on earth I'm talking about, that's what that's referring to. And then the apostles are the foundation. And the entire church is built on that. There is no church before that. There can't be. And the whole building is growing up into a temple unto the Lord. That's the Church of Jesus Christ. And that's what it is. Well, what do we have then in the church today? Well, we have some guys in the church today, maybe some ladies too. I don't know. And they would fall in sort of the 2 Corinthians 11, 13 to 14 category, for such men are false apostles. Deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ, Paul wrote. No wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light Those are some hard-hitting words, people. Revelation 2. 2, Jesus spoke to that church Church at Ephesus, I know your deeds and your toil and perseverance, and that you cannot tolerate evil men, and you put to test those who call themselves apostles, and they are not And you found them to be false. Paul was a true apostle And Paul had rights, you see. He was hand-selected by Jesus. He spoke with Jesus' authority. He performed miraculous signs, many, many of them, to authenticate his apostleship. He should have been revered in the church as all the other apostles were. He helped lay the foundation for the Gentile church. He really did lay the foundation for the Gentile church. Notice to accentuate his apostleship, the next question it says, have I not seen Jesus our Lord? This again is tied to his apostolic credentials. An apostle had to be an actual eyewitness of Jesus' bodily resurrection. That verb to see is the verb aura'o, to see with the eyes. Every apostle had to not just hear about the resurrection, he had to see Jesus Christ risen from the dead. Don't turn there. I know you're tired. Acts 4. 33. With great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And abundant grace was upon them all. Choosing Matthias again from Acts 1, it says, Therefore it is necessary that the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning with the baptism of John, until the day that he was taken up from us, one of these must become A. And here's how it's described. Witness with us of his resurrection. That's what the apostle had to be. And now I'll bring up Acts 9 again. As Paul was traveling, it happened that he was approaching Damascus and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him, and he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul. Why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. And then he tells him to arise and he commissions him right there Kind of a untimely witness to the resurrection of Christ. Paul knew this. In chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians, he explains this. You might want to turn there. This is very interesting. 1 Corinthians 15. Verses 8 through 10, because this is going to help you out a lot if you really understand what it says here. He's talking about all of these appearances. Jesus appeared to James, Jesus appeared to all the apostles, Jesus appeared to Cephas, he appeared to twelve. You know, and and the five hundred brethren got to see him. They're not called apostles there, but brethren. All of these appearances you see, and then you come down to verse 8. And Paul writes, last of all. Those are three words that a lot of churches ought to take into careful consideration. Last of all. He doesn't say second or last. He doesn't say one of the last. He says he was what? The last of how many? All. That's not an expression. Paul was the last. New person to whom Jesus Christ gave a resurrection appearance to and selected him as an apostle. Last of all As to one untimely born, he appeared to me also. For I am the least of the apostles, and am not fit to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me did not prove vain, but I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me. Now turn back to chapter nine. I think it's interesting here in chapter nine That he says, have I not seen Jesus? And he uses his human name. Most of the time when Paul writes about Christ, he's he uses Christ. Here he uses his human name, Jesus. I saw him in the flesh. I saw Jesus. And that's what he's saying. So he wasn't one of the original twelve. And he had to continuously make sure that people knew he was a true apostle. 2 Corinthians 11:5, I consider myself not in the least inferior to the most eminent apostles. Wow. Well this is who he was. You know, and the Corinthians of all people should have known this, because in verse 2 he says, if to others I'm not an apostle, in other words, if they don't accept my credentials You should, because I started your church. I came and I preached the gospel. Your whole church was born from my apostolic preaching. If anyone in the whole world ought to get this, it ought to be you, Corinthians I think there's a measure of sadness there. He says, you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. They were the very evidence that he was an apostle. Back in chapter 4, remember it said, I became your father through the preaching of the gospel. A seal in ancient times was used, among other things, to show something was authentic. The existence of the Corinthian church authenticated Paul's apostleship. All could look and see what he had done and see this fruit is from Paul the Apostle. Well, the third reason that he was worthy of their support was that he was a worker of Christ, and that's in verses 3 through 6. We'll read it as we go along here. He says, My defense to those who examine me is this. Now the use of the word my defense is really that's an official defense as in a law court. He's using the word there apologia. From which we get apologetics or to speak in defense of something. He was speaking in his own defense. He was offering his apologia. He was offering his defense as if in a courtroom He says to those who examine me, that's the Greek verb anakrino, to examine a case, as in a court of law, to those who are trying to examine whether or not I am worthy or not, here's the case that I present. Do we not have a right to eat and drink? Now it's tempting to take that statement back to the freedom that he talked about in chapter 8 concerning the eating of meat sacrificed to idols. But the more immediate context here in chapter nine deals with Paul's financial support. All of these points from verse four on For several verses here, relate to the right for him to have financial support as an apostle and as a worker of Christ They should have been providing for him at least his basic necessities such as food and drink. He was an apostle, he was serving the Lord. Did he not have a right to be given those things as he was serving? Is his point The Corinthians to their shame, rather than being grateful for what their spiritual father, humanly speaking, was doing for them Actually, turned that around on Paul and began to think of Paul as less worthy because he was not requiring payment, even of food or drink, as others clearly did and had a right to do. So he must not have been much. No one's paying him anything. He can't be that impressive. Do you see how their mind works? Imagine that. The proud Corinthians here, Paul is loving them and sacrificing for them, and their conclusion is ah he's nothing. Remember chapter 1, I am of Peter, some of them were saying in the church, oh no, I am of Apollos, now there is a man of God. Paul, he's he's not too impressive. In second Corinthians again, sarcasm and sorrow, I think, together, chapter eleven, verses seven through nine. Explain this to him again in this letter. He writes, Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preach the gospel of God to you without charge. Oh man, that hurts I robbed other churches by taking wages from them to serve you. And when I was present with you and was in need. I was not a burden to anyone, for when the brethren came from Macedonia, they fully supplied my need, and in everything I kept myself from being a burden to you, and will continue to do so. I loved you. I loved you. I loved you. I sacrificed for you and gave and gave and gave. Follow my example. Don't conclude. Something in your pride. It just made no sense. You know In verse 5 he mentions that he also had a right to bring along a believing wife. Did you see that? That's interesting. Do we not have a right to take along a believing wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas The concern here, by the way, is not that Paul is allowed to have a wife, but to bring along a wife. Nobody in the early church, despite what some denominations think, would have restricted a a preacher, a pastor, an apostle from being married. That idea came much later in church history. It would have been expected as a good Jew that he would have married. It would be the exception that he was not married So that was not the controversy that he would have a wife. The issue would be the financial support of being able to bring along a wife and have her knees paid for as well in his travels. The apostles should be allowed to take along a believing wife and have that wife paid for by the churches. Literally, this is to lead about a sister who is a believer. To lead about a woman in ministry away from home, to have her as your traveling companion, obviously refers to a wife, and that's why the translators translate it that way. To lead about a wife who is a believer. Do we not have a right to do that? That's a better way of translating it. It means to take along a woman who's a believer, a sister in the Lord, who's your wife on missionary travels, as they were doing. A woman would be needed in many cases. Why? Well, there's only some kind of work that a woman could do in the church, or that they would do better. A man would need a companion. It was wise to have one. It would reduce temptation. provided for his comfort and support. So many things a wife would do in the missionary travels of the apostles to help. The apostles were not stationary servants of the Lord. They didn't have one little area. They had to go out and plant churches and proclaim the gospel and witness to the resurrection, to the ends of the earth, as they were commanded They were constantly traveling from one place to another. And they needed a wife often. John MacArthur writes: Your wife's support and companionship is especially helpful when the husband is ministering away from home No doubt one of the contributing cases of divorce among ministers today is that many of them are not able to spend enough time with their wives and families. Obviously a wife with small children at home or with other such commitments is limited in the trip she can take. The point is that when it is possible for her to go along, every effort should be made by the sponsoring group to pay her way. It is a question of the right attitude, the attitude of generosity and supporting the Lord's full-time workers. Well, you remember back in chapter seven, Paul made it abundantly clear that he was a single man. There were advantages to being single. He wished everyone was like him in a sense. But here he's saying, Why would you deny us the support of taking along a believing wife if we wanted to? Are we now inferior? We're not allowed to be paid food, we're not allowed to be paid drink, we're not allowed to bring along a believing wife, we're not allowed to be paid anything Are we inferior here? By the way, notice he says that Cephas, that's another name for Peter, you know, was married. That's interesting, isn't it? Peter was married. Yes he was. Yes he was. In Matthew eight and verse fifteen it says that Jesus healed Peter's mother-in-law, so Peter had a wife, right? Can't heal a mother-in-law unless you have a wife. The other apostles were married too. Some of them were, maybe not all of them, but evidently the majority of them, it was common, it was expected. The twelve apostles were Jews too. That was normal and customary for Jews to be married. So obviously, pastors should never be restricted from marrying, as some people say. That's wrong. And here the brothers of the Lord are mentioned also. Guess what? Jesus had earthly brothers from the same mother. From Mary. And those brothers also had wives. You didn't think Joseph and Mary did abstain from sex their entire marriage, do you? If Mary did that, she wouldn't be providing for Joseph. In fact, she'd be sinning if she did that. You can't have the perpetual virginity of Mary and have Mary being sinless at the same time. That's impossible If she was perpetually a virgin, she disobeyed God and didn't provide for her husband. So obviously that's not what happened. In Matthew 125 it says that Joseph kept Mary a virgin until she gave birth to Jesus. That until is a pretty important word. Yes, there are brothers of Jesus, half-brothers, meaning that they were born from Mary and Joseph, and Jesus had no earthly father. He had an earthly mother, Mary. You could see Acts chapter 1, verse 14, for it speaks of his brothers. Mark chapter 6 and verse 3. Mark chapter 13 and verse 55. Galatians chapter 1 and verse 19. We don't have time to go into that, but even their names are given He had brothers. Mary had children. And then the last thing he points to here in verse 6 is, Or do only Barnabas and I not have a right to refrain from working? Again, a little bit of sarcasm in these words. Just Paul and Barnabas, they're not worthy. Oh, how poorly Paul was treated by this church. They volunteered their ministry and work so they would not be a stumbling block to those new believers in Corinth. And they turned it around on them and said they were not worthy to be paid. Need to remember at this time the church was in its infancy here in the first century and It was not established yet that all workers were paid, and so Paul sometimes didn't want to put a stumbling block before people. He didn't want his motives to be misunderstood, even though they ended up being misunderstood. He offered the gospel free of charge. He would work at his tent-making trade to pay for his own way. There were times he accepted gifts from other churches. They were voluntary gifts. He would accept them because he knew it was far better to devote full time to the ministry. But he didn't want to demand that money. By the way, Barnabas's name is thrown in here too. That's interesting, isn't it? Because you can remember back in Acts chapter 15, verse 39, that Paul and Barnabas had a little quarrel and they parted ways. You remember that The quarrel was over John Mark. John Mark deserted them on the first missionary journey, and Paul said he's not valuable for missions, and Barnabas said, Oh, come on, let's encourage him and let's keep working in him and they split their ways. Because Paul knew that he was under a command from God to do a lot of work and he didn't think he could do that with John Mark, so we took Silas and Barnabas's gifting was to encourage and build up and strengthen and so he decided he'd take John Mark and help him and recover him. And you know I think they were both right and they were both wrong at the same time. But here, interesting, Paul and Barnabas must have spent some time together again because he refers to him together with his own ministry in this verse. Well Paul was not a perfect man, but he was a man who showed a genuine example of following Christ. I know we're out of time, but I want to give you a couple exhortations here. It is good to have genuine examples to model in your Christian life. This is one reason we urge you in the congregation to get to know our leaders, to spend some time with them, to minister side by side with them. If you're not in a small group, I would just exhort you for no other reason than that to make sure you're around An older, more mature believer, you can model their Christian life. You can learn from them, their priorities, their decision-making, when they confess sins, how they do that. Learn all of that. Be close to them and close to others as well You need that in your life. You need to be seeing what another Christian looks like and modeling them. You need that. And for the leaders and our developing leaders, we need obviously to set a sincere example. We need to practice what we preach. And it's not just preaching from the pulpit. You're out there witnessing to other people. You're teaching classes, you're leading small groups, you're counseling someone, someone comes to you for advice. You need to be putting into practice the things that you're teaching. And if you're not, then admit your faults and admit you need to grow. And be open and honest about that and don't cover up. Don't cover up your sins. People have left other churches and come to this church because they were fed up with examples of leaders in other churches. Don't let that happen here at Hope Bible Church We don't have perfect leaders here, but we need to have honest and sincere and genuine leaders. Your example is vital. Weigh the words you speak, weigh the motives you have, be willing to hold back your freedoms so that you don't cause a stumbling block to others. And you know all of you can apply this too because you have someone that you've witnessed to, someone who's watching you, some of you youth, the the younger kids look up to you. Parents you give out orders and commands in your home. Now do you practice what it is that you said? So we're being watched is the point, and our example matters. It matters a lot because it shows that Christianity is true and alive and working well and how we live is important and looking after each other, your brother and sister in Christ, holding your leaders up in prayer, praying for them, because they too are tempted like you. Please surround me with prayer. I can just say that. And care for how we live and what example that we give to other people, for they're all around us unbelievers, younger believers, people who are visitors coming in, and how we live is vital and it's very important. Jesus Christ gave up his rights in heaven. He emptied himself and he came here into this world. We celebrate that at Christmas time He became a man. We sung about it, a weak baby. Almighty God became a weak babe, a helpless babe. He gave up his right. He still remained God, but he gave up his right. To demonstrate all of his glory. His glory was veiled in human flesh. And here we even have Paul, a man of like nature as us, giving up his rights. To be supported and honored, just to care for this church and love this church and spread the gospel. So I ask, can't we give up our freedoms too? So that we can discipline ourselves, win the loss to Christ, not be a stumbling block to others, and just build up God's church. Can we not do that? Amen. Father, we ask for your mercy and grace. We ask you to take your Holy Spirit and apply this word to our hearts. We pray, as we have heard your word, that we would soften our hearts. We'd let it sink deep into our minds. We'd see the great importance of love and of sacrifice in the Church of Jesus Christ. Help us to be loving brethren, looking out for each other. For we ask it in the name of our loving Savior, Amen