So we are going to take a trip to heaven in this uh section, uh this breakout session, and if you have your Bibles, you can turn to Matthew. chapter 5, Matthew chapter 5, verse 12, which will be our kind of anchor text that we're going to spring from to talk about heaven. As you're finding Matthew 5, verse 12, I want to read you a poem written by Henry W. Baker. It's called There Is a Blessed Home. There isn't blessed home beyond this land of woe where trials never come, where tears never flow, where faith is lost in sight and Patient hope is crowned, and everlasting light its glory throws around. There is a land of peace. Good angels know it well, glad songs that never cease. Within its portal swell, around its glorious throne, ten thousand saints adore Christ with the Father one and Spirit evermore. O joy, all joys beyond, To see the Lamb who died, And count each sacred wound and hands and feet inside, To give to him the praise of every triumph one. And sing through endless days the great things he has done. Look up, ye saints of God, nor fear to tread below. The path your Savior trod of daily toil and woe, wait but a little while in uncomplaining love, his own most gracious smile shall welcome you above. Hmm. Is that good or what? I mean we could just stop there and end. The Lord speaks to us through the Apostle Paul in Colossians 3, verses 1 through 4, and he says this. Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above. Where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God, set your mind on the things above not on the things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him. There are two present active commands in this little Colossians text. A present active command means we are to always and continually be obeying whatever is commanded. That's what it means. Two commands, we are to continually obey our one, keep seeking the things above, and two, set your mind on the things above. So I just want to ask you, ladies, before God, how are you coming along with those two commands? Think of today. Think of yesterday. Think of last week and last month. Do you regularly think about heaven? Are you seeking the things above where Christ is? Or have you been setting your mind exclusively on the things below? You know, preparing the next meal and shopping and cleaning and diapers and food and hobbies That's not wrong to think about those things, but are you letting days and weeks and months go by when you never really set your mind on? the things above. If you're thinking, wow, come to think of it, I don't think of heaven very much. If that's your answer, I'm going to try and help you. Fix that. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5 through 7, gives nine beatitudes. If you've been a Christian for a while, you probably know about them. They all begin, blessed are. John MacArthur notes, speaking of the Beatitudes, the word blessed means literally happy, fortunate, blissful. Here it speaks of more than a surface emotion. Jesus was describing the divinely bestowed well-being that belongs only to the The Beatitudes demonstrate that the way to heavenly blessedness is antithetical to the worldly path normally followed in pursuit of the The worldly idea is that happiness is found in riches, merriment, abundance, and leisure, and such things. Jesus preached the Sermon on the Mount to a large crowd of people, and this large crowd of people were very heavily influenced by the legalistic and hypocritical scribes and Pharisees. The beatitudes, correct, worldly attitudes about what it means to be truly blessed. The last Beatitude addresses the blessedness of those who suffer for Jesus' name, which Kinds of is kind of weird, isn't it? Blessed are you when, Jesus says, people insult you And persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad. Oh, really? For your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who are before you. Matthew chapter 5, verses 11 and 12. My wife tells me the theme of the conference is she smiles at the future and when she said, Oh, I volunteered you to do a breakout session I thought, okay, I need to think about something worth smiling at about the future. Well you're not going to find it in the news, in politics, in science. But you can find it in God's Word. When you're looking forward to heaven. And so for this breakout session, I want to take you on You may have noticed when I read Matthew 5. 12 that Jesus said when suffering persecution for his namesake. That we are to rejoice and be glad. And the question is, why? I mean, it seems, why would you rejoice and be glad because you're being persecuted? And Jesus tells us, for your reward in heaven is great. That's why. Jesus also tells us that, in the following context, that we are the salt and light of the world. So we know that he's speaking of believers When he says, For your believers reward in heaven is great. Jesus gives three examples of the kind of suffering his followers are to endure. And I think we all know as we see the world landscape and We see what's going on and we see kind of the degradation of of Christianity in America and the rise of evil and men proceeding from bad to worse and Deceiving and being deceived, it's becoming more and more like the days of Noah when the thoughts and intentions of men's heart were only evil continuously, and it's like the days of Sodom and Gomorrah And if you are living now and you look at that and you focus on that, it's gonna make you afraid. How are you gonna raise your kids? In a world like we live in. How are you going to protect them? How are you going to keep them pure? How are you going to protect your grandchildren? How are you just, as a woman, going to survive? With all this evil. And if you keep your mind fixed on the things below, on the earth, you'll get anxious. But what does the Bible say? Fix your mind on the things Above. And what's interesting is Jesus says, when you're persecuted, and he gives those three examples, when you're insulted When you're persecuted, whatever degree that might be, from just shunning and losing a job to being burnt at the stake, and evilly spoken of because of him, then you have these two commands Rejoice and be glad. Those two commands seem they are otherworldly. They're contrary to what normal what we normally do. Usually we start complaining and we Try and get away and tell friends, you know what they did to me? Do you know what happened at work? Do you know what my neighbor? Whatever. How can you rejoice and be glad when insulted and persecuted and slandered? But Jesus tells us to do that for two reasons For your reward in heaven is great, and for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you, which tells us that you're in good company, because they too suffered unjustly. For Christ's name. But we're just going to focus on the first reason or motivation to rejoice and be glad. Your reward in heaven is great. So just from that little phrase, we learn several things that are helpful to consider. One, heaven is a real place. Two, rewards are waiting for you if you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior in heaven. 3. From the near context, heaven is for believers described as salt and light. And fourth, and finally, we learn about the size or the degree of the believer's reward in heaven. They are great. A word that means much, many, of very large quantity, numerous In short, the believers rejoice and be glad, even when persecuted for Jesus' name, because they have very great rewards waiting for them in heaven. If you've never read Fox's Book of Martyrs. You need to do it. Just don't do it right before bedtime. There's a new version out. Harold Chadwick, who's a historian, took the old Elizabethan version of John Fox and he edited it into modern English. It's called the New Fox's book. Book of Martyrs. You can um get it on audio so when you're driving around. It is gruesome and wonderful at the same time time where you see time and time where you have just normal people living their life being persecuted unto death and the grace of God being given to them so they boldly stand up for Christ, sing hymns while they're burning up in the flames. And it just is a reminder when you read this book, when you listen to these stories, that these people, when the world became so evil and so hostile against them, constantly thought about what? What was On sale at the marketplace? No. What entertainments they could indulge in? No. What food they might eat? No. They thought about heaven. So that's what we're going to do Now, for some reason, a lot of preachers don't like to preach on heaven and its rewards. And by failing to preach on heaven Congregations often adopt worldly ideas about heaven from TV shows. E boo books and social media, which we all know are just part of Satan's propaganda machine. Thus, there is an entire generation of believers who are so ill-taught on the nature and the glory and The magnitude of heavenly rewards that they're not tempted to think of it at all. Ever. Now if a rich relative of yours wanted to Invest $20 million in the stock market, and they called you up and said, Hey, I just invested $20 million in the stock market for you. Here's what I invested it in, and here's the proportions of how I invested it. In five years whatever remains will be yours. Do you think you would ever, you know, think about that? twenty million dollars? Do you think that you might start looking at the stock market every day? Five times a day? At minimum, of course you would. And why? Because there is a great reward waiting for you But you know what, as believers, we have a greater reward. Greater than twenty million, twenty billion, or twenty trillion dollars. And it's waiting for every believer in heaven. Reserved in heaven for you. And will not pass away. Think about that. Satan through the media portrays heaven as this bleached out place of monotonous tedium where unsanctified complaints People exist forever, bored to death, holding a harp, they don't know how to play, secretly regretting, you know, that they didn't choose hell instead, so they could, quote, party with their buddies And Jesus is never mentioned. Now I confess I can't even begin to adequately describe the glories of heaven to you. Words fail. And I'm going to do my best. What I'm going to do is I'm going to take some of the tax on heaven. In the Bible, we're going to look at those. Then we're going to look at what those texts clearly imply. And we're also going to use a sanctified imagination, fill in the gaps of what the Bible allows. In order to transport all of us from this sin-cursed world into the heavenly realm, For a little bit, and then I'll bring you back to Earth. It's July 30th, 2022. After this breakout session, you are visiting with some of the gals, talking about the ministries you involved with, talking about some of your unmet expectations. What you've been reading in your Bible, what God has been teaching you. You meet someone you didn't know, and when you're introducing yourself, you suddenly feel a sh a sharp pain in your chest. You fall to the ground unconscious. You suffer a massive heart attack. And though desperate efforts are taken to keep you alive and paramedics soon arrive, their efforts fail and you die. Say lo. Think about that. Pause and meditate. Now what? What comes to your mind now Is it all over? Black forever? Unconscious forever? No. No Immediately you find yourself awake and alert, your mind working better than it ever worked before on earth. You feel no pain, you have only ease, you have only peace, without a shred of panic or concern. Every one of your senses is enhanced and fine-tuned, and you realize that you have died, but you are still alive. And there's no panic, there's no fear, there's just joy. Of course, you think to yourself, this is what Jesus told Martha in John chapter 11, verses 25 and 26: that he who believes in me will live. even if he dies and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? You smile thinking to yourself, good grasp of the obvious. As you smile, you realize your life has not ended As the world so frequently told you on earth that it would. Your life is just beginning. You have parted from your sin-sick body of death, your earthly tent that God has given you For your short stay, your vaporous stay on earth. And maybe you see your family and friends from church crowded around your corpse. some weeping, others looking on from a distance with fear and worry and concern on their faces, some praying, still others uh talking to one another and hushing Tones, though you cannot hear them. The paramedics are packing up their medical supplies. Somebody puts a tablecloth from the church over your body, and you're dead. But you're alive. And it's amazing. Truths from the Word of God come to your mind, answering thoughts and questions. You have, you praise God, you realize that things are different. They are better than they ever were before. You are free from sin's presence, and it just feels so right. You still have memories of your life on earth, but you understand things clearly now, like never before on earth, now that you're in this spiritual realm in heaven. You feel fortified, bulletproof against evil thoughts and temptations. You are pure. You are calm. You are in control You made it home, says a voice behind you. You turn. You don't quite know how, for your body isn't like the physical body you had on earth You just seem to be made of a outline of light. You have a form, a substance, but it's a spiritual substance that you're not familiar with. No, the person is in front of you says, as if to read your mind, I am not the Lord. I am merely one of his servants. As Hebrews chapter one, verse fourteen declares, a ministering spirit sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit eternal life. I was commissioned by the Lord to serve you all the days of your life. You smile as you think about what Jesus said about believers in Matthew eighteen, verse ten. See that you do not despise one of these little ones, for I say to you, their angels in heaven come Continually see the face of my Father who is in heaven. You extend your hand saying, is it okay to shake your hand? I'd really like to hug you when he smiles and says, Both are fine, so you you hug him. You've just hugged an angel. He looks at your smile and says, We in heaven rejoice. The day the Lord saved you by his grace. And it kind of shocks you when you say, you mean the angels know about me? And then Luke 15, 10 comes to mind There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Without realizing it, you have left the church building, your mortal friends on earth into some other realm. You ask the angel, I notice that many who are crowding around me And my body had a radiance, uh a glow, and some did not. You were going to ask the angel about it, but your question is answered before you can speak. They're believers and unbelievers. Yes, says your guide. There are many religious unbelievers on the broad road to destruction within the church. They are the tares among the wheat and the goats among the sheep, but from this side the children of light are obvious. You listen in wonder and joy and praise as the angel speaks to you. You are amazed that your questions are often instantly answered by God's word, which you now readily recall as if you had a photographic memory, understand with supernatural clarity like never before. And you like this You look at your angelic guide and ask a question, and he answers before you can speak. Yes, he says with a smile on your face, I am taking you to your Lord, Master, Savior, and King, the risen one. Who is the glory of this place? For he desires to have you in his presence. Are you able to read my mind? You ask the angel, for you seem to know what I'm thinking. Answering my questions before I even ask them, the angel says with a smile on his face, I can't read your mind. Only The Lord can do that, but I have been with you all of your life. And I know you. And I have ministered to those who would inherit eternal life. And as the saying goes, in your world, this is not my I have served 112 of the elect over the years and have escorted them to this place as I now do with you. In fact, I must be going, for the Lord is sending me to a Another who is just now being born. I will see you again, he says. Yes, of course. You remind yourself we will spend eternity together Together, and then the angel vanishes. Time would fail if I tried to describe to you the beauty of the intermediate heavenly realm where you now exist. and will continue to exist until heaven is brought to earth. Yes, you will live here in this intermediate heaven until as Revelation eleven fifteen says the kingdom of this world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ and he will reign forever and ever. The radiant colors, the glorious singing, the purity, the absence of any corruption, imperfection, or sin causes you to just praise God. All of this you say to yourself, I have experienced in my first few moments in heaven. And you're awed to realize that eternity lies before you You are drawn through the heavenly realm by comforting forces towards a crowd of angels and people who are all looking at you and cheering. Look, there is your mother. And your father who came here before you, your uncle, your daughter, your son who died before. Over there is your dear friend who died of cancer so many years ago. And so many others that you recognize, and they're all cheering your arrival. Your thoughts are arrested as you see someone Step forward out of the crowd. He is of average height, of Middle Eastern descent. He speaks to you without opening his mouth, and you just know Welcome, he says, to the General Assembly of the The church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant. Hebrews chapter twelve, verses twenty. And you are drawn towards him as he walks towards you with a smile on his face and arms stretched towards you, cheering, becomes quiet with reverence. As you see him just as he is, 1 John chapter 3, verse 2. The sight of the Lord fills Every longing, every desire, every need of your soul, it is the Lord. You say to yourself, My Savior, brother, master, and king on earth, you saw both yourself and Jesus dimly in the mirror of God's word, but now you see him face to face. Now you know him fully, just as you also have been fully known. 1 Corinthians 13, verse 12. Oh, the sight of him. He is clothed in a robe, reaching to his feet, girded across his chest with a golden sash. His head and his hair are white like white wool, like snow, his eyes are like a flame of fire, his feet are like burnished bronze, when it has been made to glow in the furnace, and his voice is like the sound of many waters. Revelation 1, verses 13 through 15. You crumble, humbled to be in his presence, shamed. That you did not live better for him on earth. Thrilled to be in this place, to possess the free gift of eternal life. You fall on your face before the Holy One of God and you worship and praise him Content to exist forever, right there, at his feet, with your face in the dust. Thanking, praising, worshiping your King. He speaks to you, welcome home. Through many tribulations, you have entered into my kingdom. Acts 14, 22. Then Romans 8:18 comes to your mind in response to his words: the sufferings of my time on earth were not worthy to be compared with the glory. That is now being revealed to me. Arise, he says to you. You stand in my presence, blameless. With great joy, Jude 24. You marvel that you are in the presence of the only God, your Savior, Jesus Christ, your Lord, to whom belongs all glory. Majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and forevermore, Jude 25. And as you begin to rise, you get a glimpse of the scars. On his feet, where the nails were driven in as he suffered in your place on the cross. Visual reminders for all eternity of his love for you You think of John 3:16: for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish, but have eternal life. In Romans 8:32 comes to mind: he who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all. How will he not also with us? With him freely give us all things You realize you are now seeing things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard, nor entered into the heart of man all that God has prepared for those who love him. 1 Corinthians 2 9. You see the scars on his hands as well. Thomas's words come to mind. Unless I see his hands and the imprint of the nails, I will not believe, John twenty, verse twenty-five. And you see them. And you believe them You want to laugh and you want to cry and you want to sing and you want to shout for joy as you look upon those scars, reminders of how your Lord and Savior suffered so cruelly for you on the cross, a hymn by Augustus Topody Which you read long ago and never tried to memorize comes to mind with perfect clarity as words printed on a page. A debtor to mercy alone, of covenant mercy I sing Nor fear with thy righteousness on my person and offerings to bring the terrors of the law of God with me can have nothing to do. Savior's obedience and blood hide all my transgressions from view. The work which his goodness began, the arm of his strength will complete His promises, yea and amen, and never was forfeited yet things future nor things that are now, not all things below nor above can make him His purpose for go or sever my soul from his love, my name from the palms of his hands. Eternity will not erase. Impressed on his heart it remains in marks of indelible grace. Yes, I to the end shall endure, as sure as the earnest is given, more happy, but not more secure than the glorified spirits in heaven. You were amazed at all the good, the encouraging, the wholesome things that you can remember. You are nearly overwhelmed with joy. The children This hymn by Jeremiah Luke, read many years ago, comes to your mind, I think, when I read that sweet story of old, when Jesus was here. Here among men, how he'd call little children as lambs to his fold. I should like to have been with them then. I wish that his hands had been placed On my head, that his arm had been thrown around me, and that I might have seen his kind looks when he said, Let the little one Come to me. And so Jesus places his hand on your head, you look into a smiling face. Face, your eyes meet with the Creator of Heaven and Earth. The one who led Jesus then draws you to himself. He wraps his arms around you and words You recall a sermon you read from Charles Spurgeon sometime in your life? called the hope of future bliss, in one portion of that which says, but oh that view of glory Glory, that great appearance, the vision of God, to see Him face to face, to enter into heaven, and to see the righteous shining brightest the stars and the firmament, but best of all to catch a glimpse of the eternal eternal throne, ah, there he sits. Twere almost blasphemy for me to attempt to describe him how infinitely far my poor words fall below the mighty subject, but to behold God's face. I will not speak of the lustre of those eyes, or the majesty of those lips, that shall speak words of love and affection, but to behold his face. You who have dived into the Godhead's deepest sea and have been lost in its immensity, you can tell a little of it. You mighty ones who have been in heaven these thousand years, perhaps you know, but you cannot tell what it is to see his face We must each of us go there. We must each be clad with immortality. We must go above the blue sky and bathe in the river of life. We must outsource the lightning and rise above the stars to know what it is to to see the face of God's word cannot tell. They cannot set it forth. And so there I leave it, end quote. Now with regret, I'm just gonna pull aside out of heaven just for a second for a scripture mercial. If you know Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior, if you've repented of your sins, if you've placed your faith in Jesus Jesus Christ crucified and resurrected from the dead. Everything I'm trying to describe, but way better is yours. You can relate to the Apostle Paul I'm sure, who said, Oh wretched man that I am, who will set me free from this body of death. And what does he say right after that? But thanks be to God through our Lord Jesus Christ. He is the Savior. Christians hate sinning against their Lord, and yet we daily do it. We daily fail to give Give him the glory he deserves. As with the Apostle Paul, the believer who truly understands heaven prefers to be absent from the body and at home with the Lord 2 Corinthians 5. 8. For you who do not know the Lord, and I'm sure there are some of you in this room, I want to speak to you right now. Why do you cling to your sin instead of turning to the Lord in faith? Why cling to the perishing things of the world rather than clinging to Jesus? Why do you prefer to march in Satan's army instead of aligning yourself with God? You know Satan is a defeated foe And it will not go well with you unless you turn. The Lord Jesus Christ in faith and receive him as your Lord and Savior. O sinner, do as Abraham did. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and it will be reckoned to you as righteousness. He will take all of your sin and all of your guilt away from you. And he will then give to you his perfect righteousness so that you too can stand in his presence blameless with great joy Heed the words of the Apostle Paul to the Philippian jailer in Acts sixteen thirty-one believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be Saved. Hear Paul's words in Romans 10:9: confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, and you will be saved. Do not trade a drop of sinful pleasure for an eternal ocean of wrath. Listen to Jesus speak to you in Isaiah 55, 6 and 7. Seek the Lord while he may Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him turn to the Lord, and he will have compassion on you, and he will abundantly pardon you. Here Jesus is urgent plea to you in 2 Corinthians 6. 2, behold, now is the day of salvation, today, right now. Jesus calls to you in Matthew 11, 28, Come to me, all you are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Moses warns you in Deuteronomy 30, verse 9. 19 choose life in order that you may live. Believe in Jesus. Come to heaven with us. Now let's go back. Our time's running. out. Remember, Jesus says to you with a smile on his face, though you may not see me, I am always with you. And will never leave you or forsake you. I am always listening, always watching, always wanting to talk to you, to be worshipped by you, to assist I am the living word of God. It is I who have been speaking to you since you arrived in this place. I am with you. Since you have overcome, I grant to you to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God, Revelation 2. 2. 7. Have no fear, you will not be heard by the second death, Revelation 2:11. I give to you some of the hidden manna. And then he hands you a white stone with a new name on it, placing it in your palm, wrapping his hand around your fingers and he says the name on this stone is only to be known between you And me, for it is a special name by which I alone will call you from now on. Then raising his voice, he says, Since you have overcome and kept my deeds until the end, I, who have been given authority over the nations by my Father, Will shepherd you. I will give you myself, for I am the bright and morning star. Revelation two twenty sixteen. and twenty-eight. I clothe you in white garments, your name will for be never be erased from my book. Then raising his voice still more. So that all heaven shakes as with thunder. He confesses your name before the Father and before his holy angels. Revelation 3. 5 And you agree with Charles Gabriel's hymn, I stand amazed in the presence of Jesus. Nazarene. Jesus looks at you with joy and eager anticipation and says, I will make you a pillar in the temple of my God, Revelation 3:12. And when all things are new, you will not go out from my presence anymore. I write on you the name of my God, and the city of my God, and the new Jerusalem which comes down out of heaven from my God and my new name Revelation 312. When I establish my kingdom on earth, he says, leaning closer to you, I will grant that you sit down with me on my throne. As I also overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne, Revelation 3:21. For you are royalty, your majesty. And you will rule and reign with me forever and ever. He who overcomes will not, will inherit these things And I will be his God and he will be my son, Revelation 21, 7. I have asked three men to show you around this place, to answer questions you may have, then I have work for you. to do. And Jesus vanishes from your sight, but you hear him say, remember, I am with you always. You do not know how long you have stood before the Lord. It feels like an eternity crushed into a few moments. The Lord speaks to you again. I have important work for you to do, but first I have added Thomas Watson, Charles Spurgeon, and J. C. Rowell to accompany you around heaven. Insert your fur three favorite saints. The three men who you have never met before, but were blessed by an earth, come forward and introduce themselves. Hello, my name is Thomas Watson. The first says with a bow, I'm Charles Spurgeon, says the second, clasping your hands in his, and you must be J. C. Rowell, you exclaim, as he places his hand On your shoulder. How is it that you three men have been asked to show me around this glorious place Then Watson replies, you will quickly discover that our Lord expects to be as gracious to you as I Omnipotence can be grace upon grace lavished upon you All three of your companions laugh at Spurgeon's deep Baritone laugh overpowers them all. As your three companions show you the wonders of heaven, you are surprised at the numbers of people and angels. These are the angels and saints That you will be spending eternity with getting to know. You can speak to the Lord at any time, and he instantly answers you For he is always with you. You lose track of time. You never go tired. You never feel weak. Always rejoicing, always singing, always praising. Always worshiping, always serving the Lord alongside the saints and angels. Words fail to describe the glories of the spiritual realm of heaven before heaven comes to earth. assemblies in heaven and all the angels standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures Falling on their faces before the throne and worshiping God, saying amen, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever. Revelation seven verses eleven through twelve. You sing the song of Moses, the bondservant of God, the song of the Lamb Saying, great and marvelous are your works, O Lord, the Almighty, righteous and true are your ways, King of the nations, Revelation 15, 3 One day the Lord calls an assembly and says, it is time for all the saints to receive their glorified bodies. For my bride, the rest of my bride, to be gathered with me in this place. You hear the voice of Michael the Archangel. A series of loud trumpet blasts shake the heaven. Instantly you are changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, you are clothed with immortality, imperishable, and you are changed. Corinthians 15, 51 and 52. Heaven is instantly populated with more men and angels than you have ever seen for all the saints on earth and all the angels sent to serve them are in heaven now. Every saint has been caught up together to meet the Lord in the air and to always be with the Lord. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 17 You now have a glorified body just like Jesus's. You laugh and shout and sing praises. You wait and watch while Jesus meets And grief, each new arrival as he met you. You know how not how he does it. For it seems like an eternity to each, but in a few moments it's finished, and the Lord asks you to Show one of the new arrivals around heaven, as your three friends had previously shown you. Time wears away. You receive news. The tribulation is martyrs are showing up, dying for their faith. An angel tells you the tribulation is about over, and Jesus tells you You to get on your horse, and you are instantly clothed and armed for battle. Jesus tells you You to come and you see him break into time, space, and history and glory, dealing out retribution to those who do not love God and to those who do not obey the gospel. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 1 verse 8. Then the Lord goes forth and fights against those nations as when he fights on the day of battle. In that day his feet stand on the Mount of Olives, which is in front of Jerusalem in the east and the west. And And the Mount of Olives is split in the middle and a large valley so that half of the mountain is moved towards the north and the other half towards the The South, then the Lord your God comes, and all the holy ones with him. Zechariah 14:5 and following. And you, believer, are among them. Jesus proves to men, angels, Satan and demons that he is King of kings and Lord of Lords. And he sets up his kingdom where he will rule and reign for a thousand years. And you witness the great white throne judgment. Satan, demons, the Antichrist and false prophet, all unbelievers of all the ages are judged and cast into the lake of fire. Revelation twenty verses eleven through fifteen. You watch and wonder as the Lord causes the heavens to pass away with a roar, the elements to be destroyed with intense heat, and the earth and its work to be burnt up with fire. 3 verse 10. You marvel as the Lord speaks the new heavens and the new earth into existence with the saints and angels watching on, declaring, worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive. Power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. Revelation Ladies, if you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior I've just given you a sampling of what the Bible tells us about your great rewards in heaven. As we Head into very uncertain times. And it's scary. There's so much wickedness, and it's just increasing like Jesus said it would. And you're tempted to be afraid, but you remember Jesus' words, do not be afraid, for these things must take place, but the end is yet to come. That no matter what God by His sovereign decree chooses for you to suffer in this world for his name's sake sake you have something to smile at in the future why because your reward in heaven is great amen pray with me Me, pray with me