Well, um This is the first time that I've been in church besides um Pastor Luke's funeral. And uh last Sunday Doug and I came for the first time on a Sunday Um so the physically I'm a little bit woo just uh being here. Um I'm Uh we were not going to venture out until we were both double vaccinated. Um and so we have been, by the grace of God And um and I would just say that even though hospitality seems like such a simple topic to um speak on. Um it's never simple when you um handle the word of God. So it is sharper than any two-edged sword and it cuts to the bone and marrow of all of us, right? And God is a consuming fire. So we just need to think about that when we're in the word of the Lord that it is living and active. And that no teaching or sharing of scripture is ever a simple, easy task. It is something to be handled with sober mindedness and um and carefulness and humility. So um also I'm very um thankful for everyone who has prayed for me. Um and there are a lot of people who have um prayed for me um for a long time, just about this morning. And I uh will take too long to mention all of your names, but I'm very grateful. And I'm very grateful for the ladies who wouldn't have come today but came to just support me in in coming. I want to welcome everyone who is new and who I don't know. Um there's a lot of love amongst the women in this church and um and uh we've all suffered in various ways and there's really cool, fascinating things that the Lord has done through all of you, through everyone here. So I just invite you all to get to know one another and um and to not judge And um now that we're uh sort of starting a fresh a new um era in our church Um that we've all suffered through this pandemic. We're still in it. Hospitality might look a little bit differently, but that we would just humble ourselves before our gracious Heavenly Father and before one another and apologize and forgive and start again to love one another in this way. So um teaching is challenging, but one of the fun things is to get into God's word. And see how much he has to say about so many areas in our life. We have a personal God And he's awesome. And he cares. And he's interesting. He speaks in a very lively, interesting way. And it's so cool how he continues to teach us in our lives and we have layers upon layers upon layers. of new depths of his truth and his beauty and his love of loving other people that he wants us to be part of. And I pray that whatever comes out of my mouth this morning, that you all there in your lovely little boxes and everyone here can Be rejuvenated by what your personal savior is saying to you in this area. That's my hope. And I just thank you all for everyone who has offered myself and my family hospitality over the about 22 years that I've been here. So I'm going to pray shortly and then I'm going to start. Dear Lord, you are the God who sees and the God who hears. And we thank you for that. We pray, dear Lord, that you would be watch guard over the door of my mouth. And that you would bless our time together and unify us in your love. In your sweet name. Amen. Well, in Scripture we derive our word hospitality from the Greek word, if you care, philoshenia, which literally means love of strangers. Strangers meeting anyone that lives outside of your household or family. We are told that practicing biblical hospitality is not a suggestion from God. But a command from God. Paul tells us in Romans 12, 13, contribute to the needs of the saints. And seek to show hospitality. The writer of Hebrews says in chapter 13, verses 1 and 2, let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some entertained angels unawares. Isn't that a cool thought? Someone that we might invite into our home might be an angel in disguise. Our modern-day Christian approach to hospitality generally doesn't include the complete stranger. We usually entertain family and friends that we know and are comfortable with, and there is nothing wrong with that. The challenge is set before us to generate our face muscle in inviting others to our home for food and fellowship that we do not have a pre-established relationship with. Our dear personal Savior knows us well Because he made us and he knows how we think. So along with the command that he gives us, he tells us about the attitude that we are to have when obeying. The attitude of hospitality. 1 Peter 4. 9 teaches us the right attitude required for biblical hospitality. Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. Grumbling includes complaining, murmuring, whining, or protesting. And I might add it can include the not that I know The opposite of grumbling or complaining is cheerfulness, enthusiasm, or gladness. Um in our book Becoming a woman who pleases God, there is a wonderful quote by Alexander Stroke. And he describes the attitude needed for hospitality in this way. And I think it's so good, I'm going to read it to you. The opposite of complaining is gladness, the willingness to cheerfully accept The inconvenience, labor, and cost of hospitality. Hospitality is a form of giving, and God loves a cheerful giver. 2 Corinthians 9 7. So Let us ask God to give us a cheerful spirit as we practice hospitality. Certainly the ministry and corresponding inconveniences of hospitality can easily rattle our grumbling bones. Hospitality demands old-fashioned work. It may be costly, and it's often inconvenient. It is time-consuming It places a strain on the family. Sometimes guests abuse their Christian brothers' hospitality. And during times of persecution, hospitality can even be dangerous. Hospitality, therefore, is a concrete, down-to-earth test of our fervent love for God and His people. Love can be abstract, indistinct, an idea, but hospitality is specific and tangible. We seldom complain about loving others too much, but we do complain about the inconveniences of hospitality Hospitality is love and action. Hospitality is the flesh and muscle on the bones of love. Through caring acts of hospitality, the reality of our love is tested. I think he said that so perfectly. However, let's look at another possible scenario because I think it may help someone out there listening. There are times that if you had been offering repeated hospitality Let's say that you've been hosting a weekly event at your home for a long time and you find that even though you've tried everything to be cheerful, but you have lost your joy in hosting this weekly event, it would be better for you to graciously say that you will no longer be able to host. We all go through different seasons of life and there's grace. It will not glorify Jesus to keep doing it with a Grouchy spirit I say this because joyful hospitality can't come from guilt Maybe I'm speaking from personal experience, but I don't know. So let's transition to some examples of people who exercised and received hospitality in Scripture. After we talk about preparation that can help your attitude be cheerful So the first thing that can help your attitude be cheerful is an alone time with God in His Word. Jesus tells us in Matthew 6, 25 to 33 all about ourselves. He tells us that he knows that we like to be anxious about everything. We do. We women like to be anxious about everything We like to fret about how much time we have. We're worried about how much time we don't have. And my goodness, what are we going to wear? Good grief. What are we going to eat? And who knows, what are we going to drink? And he tells us. In such a loving way. And your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. Our dear Savior tells us Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. Now, God is talking about our basic needs here. We know that in the context of Scripture. However, The principle of prioritizing and seeking God in the beginning of a hospitality day will serve you well. It takes a lot of faith. It takes a lot of faith to do that. I encourage you to do that. I come before you knowing that if you do that, that even if the casserole burns Which things always burn in my house. And everything goes wrong? You will have spent the most important time doing the most important thing. And you will have sweetness that comes out of you from your Savior. Try it and let me know how it goes. I also try to sing at least one song to Jesus every morning, even if he can't sing. Psalm ninety-six, Psalm thirty-three, some ninety-eight, some forty-nine, Isaiah forty-two, You can always YouTube any hymn or praise song and sing along. It is so much fun. I've really um gotten into that and found amazing things um during this last year being at home You're physically putting forth energy to praise the one that's going to energize you. To love other people. And he multiplies that in his own miraculous way. Try it. Let me know how it goes. Uh number two is sleep and a nap. Some people are going out I don't need sleep and I don't need a nap. And I love you all because those are the people that serve me. Thank you, Hong. A lot of people don't need sleeps sleeps sleep or naps. I need a lot. Um so looking at your schedule a few days ahead of entertaining And thinking particularly about your sleep schedule and whether or not you can take a nap before your guests arrive Is a wise move at making sure you have tea or coffee or whatever special things you need. Number three, repeat food successes. If you make really good French onion soup, then by golly, make it all the time. If you have bought one particular dessert somewhere, then buy it again. You don't have to reinvent the wheel. You may be bored with yourself, but your guest won't be. And you will save yourself the hassle and extra work of trying something that may be harder. Morag Surgeon, who, oh I wish she were here, could serve her could serve me her tomato soup until the cows come home, and I would be the happiest guest ever. Number four, food allergies. This is so prevalent these days. Often we can think If I don't feed someone this and that and this and that, then I'm not being a good host. That puts undue pressure on us and our guests. Sometimes Someone can really only eat a plain piece of chicken breast in olive oil Don't fret about it. That person is going to be so happy to be invited into your home. It's really very hard to have limiting food allergies. And being invited to someone's home to have that simple food is a sweet thing. Number five, keep everything simple and fight guilt You can offer hospitality with a cup of something, period. You add something else and it's bonus. There was a period of time when having people over for dessert was all I could muster up. Probably it's still a really good idea because I can't burn dessert usually. Number six, hospitality can be offered morning, noon, and night. Ask yourself, what is the most energetic part of my day? I'm really not that old, but even in my 40s, I found that entertaining at night is hard. The first dinner eight? Is there anybody that doesn't know what dinner eight was? Well okay, anyway, dinner eight was something that Mel and Moreg um started and You um let's see, summarize it. You get together with a group of six or eight people in our church and they did it miraculously with um making it all different and um you set up times together and even though it's called dinner six or dinner eight when we first did it um I raised my hand and I said, can we have breakfast instead? And it worked out really well. Everybody wanted to have breakfast. So it's it's just a different way of thinking about it. Um and I usually don't burn eggs. Can you see there's a theme? Um Catering services can be very cost considerate and fight guilt. Codoba, Chipotle, Subway, and Wegmans are all places that I have used to entertain and would highly recommend. And number eight, ask for help and fight guilt. What do you gain by being proud? Now, I have been insulted in church for asking people for help. And it bothered me, but I know my weaknesses. And if my weaknesses are going to keep me from enjoying, from obeying what I know, what God wants me to do, then I'm going to do it. Besides, it's fun to work with one another, and the people that help you are more blessed than you. You do believe God when He tells you that it's more blessed to give than to receive, right? So, accept help, ladies. It's really such a sweet thing when we help one another, and it's nothing to feel guilty about when you ask. We are super blessed to have so many resources available to us via the Internet. There are wonderful websites, YouTube videos, blogs, Instagram posts. that can make housekeeping food preparation easier. My plan is to start a hope book post where we can all tell what hopeful websites they use to assist in hospitality. And maybe you can help me. Jessica. A couple that I enjoy are stay-at-home chef, once upon a chef, and minimalist mom. Date helped me this past year and still are. Okay, so now let's transition to some additional scripture examples of the who and the how of hospitality. Fellow believers, Paul is telling the Christians in Rome to contribute to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality. Romans 12, 13. In 1 Timothy 3. 2, Paul says that being hospitable is one of the characteristics needed to be an elder. Therefore, an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable. In 1 Timothy 5, 9 through 10, it's very interesting that one of the marks of a godly widow is her previous acts of hospitality. Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband, and having a reputation for good works. If she has brought up children, has shown hospitality. It goes before us. We don't know what the future holds. Unbelievers. Luke 5. 29. And Levi made him, Jesus, a great feast in the house. And there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with them. The poor and the needy. Luke 14, 12 and 14. He, Jesus, said also to the man who had invited him. When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just. Missionaries are Christian workers. Acts 16, 15 describes a newly baptized woman called Lydia, who offered food and shelter to Paul and Timothy. And after she was baptized and her household as well, she urged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And she prevailed upon us. Foreigners are travelers. The book mentions Genesis 18, 1 through 22, which is the story of the three visitors with Abraham. But I would also say that Lot offering food and shelter to the visitors in Sodom was also an example in Genesis 19, 1 through 3. Other scripture mentions providing housing and lodging. 2 Kings 4, 8 through 17. So this is an interesting story. about a rich widow who provided food every time she saw Eli. So one day Elisha went on to Shunam, where a wealthy woman lived, who urged him to eat some food. So whenever he passed that way, he would turn in there to eat food. And she said to her husband, Behold now, I know that this is a holy man of God who is continually passing our way. Let us make a small room on the roof with walls and put there for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp, so that whenever he comes to us, he can go in there. How cool is that? You're thinking about missionaries that might be coming through our church? And you might get a room ready for them if you can. Sharing material possessions. is mentioned in Romans 13, 20. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by doing you will heap burning coals on his head. James 2, 15, 16. If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to him, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body. What good is that 1 John 3, 17. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? So we've defined the word hospitality, and we've looked at the attitude of hospitality and ways to have a good one. and several examples of the who and how of hospitality in Scripture. Now there are two Bible stories that I wanted to highlight because I think they challenge us to consider another attitude towards the people that we are offering hospitality to. The first two teach similar principles and the third Actually I'm doing the first one. Everyone knows this one. Luke 10, 38 through 42. Now, as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village and a woman named Martha welcomed him him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. But the Lord answered her, Marsa, Marsa You are anxious and troubled about many things. But one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her. Now many of us have studied this passage thoroughly. But let's not miss the principle of being so distracted with the logistics of serving. We miss being with our guests. This is actually really hard to avoid. I would like to suggest that we have to choose to turn off our desire to do the next thing and to force ourselves to sit down and listen. I have really struggled with this. And I watch people who it just comes naturally to, and I admire them greatly and am continually sharpened by that. And so many times I need to keep whatever I offer guests really simple because I'm slow and I don't have a lot of energy And I would rather give you my my eyes and my ears. And I think that you'll feel more loved. And a really good cup of coffee or tea. If you prefer that. So just consider that. Luke seven, thirty-six to forty-seven. Then turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, This is Jesus speaking. Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet. But she's wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss. But from the time I came, she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. John 12, 1 through 3. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at the table. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. What do we take away from these? Last biblical examples. Simon didn't know that he was entertaining God. He just thought he was an interesting teacher. What are we willing to give those who enter our home? If we don't think that they are worthy or as important? What if we treated each person with the value that God places on them? This is why if you go back, your Bible time is really important. Because in our flesh, we're constantly judging. We're constantly evaluating things. Our eyes see and we judge. We evaluate And we're not worthy to do that to other flesh and bones that got in it together in their mother's womb, who are fearfully and wonderfully made. It all comes from Jesus. It all comes from Jesus working through us. That's our hope. That's our energy. That's our truth. That's all we have to offer. And that is enough. And that is the best. What if we fed and gave like we were doing that to Jesus? When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry, and you gave me food. I was thirsty, and you gave me drink. I was a stranger, and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison, and you came to me. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord! When did we see you a stranger and welcome you or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them. Truly, I say to you. As you did it to one of the least of these, my brothers, you did it to me. A couple of years ago Doug and I went to the League and Year Conference and there was um It was the first time we went. There were a lot of um elders teaching. Uh Johnny Erickson Tata was there. And a woman I had never heard of, Rosaria Butterfield. And um I have mentioned her frequently to a lot of people. Um It rocked my world, which she had to share. Um Anybody know her story? A lot of people know her story. Okay. So, um It's another situation of you can't throw the baby out with the bathwater. Some of the things that she believes and teaches. I don't agree with at all and our church wouldn't agree with doctrinally, but there's so much wonderful application of hospitality that she has to offer that I definitely recommend you reading and considering. That part of what she has to write. Her first book is The Secret Thoughts of an Unlikely Convert, an English Professor's Journey into Christian Faith And um it is very gritty and it's good. It's good to read gritty because this is the world that we were in. A couple years ago, I was like, wow, this is This is something that's happening. I taught a little bit about this. the last women's conference and um and now we are here ladies we are in this So I I I highly recommend it. And then this is what she spoke about at um the conference. The gospel comes with the house key. And I would um she spends the preface. How many people have read this book? Okay, a couple. I'm just going to read a little bit of this. She says radically ordinary hospitality. Radically ordinary hospitality. Those who live it see strangers as neighbors and neighbors as family of God. They recoil at reducing a person to a category or a label. They see God's image reflected in the eyes of every human being on earth. They know that they are like meth addicts and sex trade workers. They take their own sins seriously, including the sin of selfishness and pride They take God's holiness and goodness seriously. They use the Bible as a lifeline with no exceptions. Those who live out radically ordinary hospitality see their homes not as theirs at all, but as God's gift to use for the furtherance of His kingdom. They open doors, they seek out the underprivileged, they know that the gospel comes with a house key. And I actually would like to read you about six pages of this, but um it's it's um a hard, these are both hard books. But um it's an it's again a case of ironing sharpening iron and um it's wonderful So I have been super blessed by many here who have offered hospitality. And I before I go to inviting up my three friends, I'm going to mention three people and examples that have had a profound effect on me. And again, there is no guilt here. Any stories that you hear, please Please don't think I'm not doing this uh well because I'm not doing what so-and-so is doing or what so-and-so is doing. Please don't be like that to yourselves. The Lord made you and He gives you your strengths and your weaknesses and He He's got it. Right, Maria? Maria wrote me a little note of encouragement this morning that I held on to tight while we were singing. So the first one is um Sarah Irvine. So if anyone knows Sarah, you know Sarah. And it was Sarah and Larry had Doug and I over for dinner Um and it was um amazing and it was wonderful and um I I just um They both have health challenges and um other things and um and it was really uh wonderful and um If you ever get invited over there, I would highly suggest that you go. The other um person and uh it things are gonna look differently now. Let's see. I've got one, two, three three three boxes of tissue. So I should be okay. Uh is um Sue Leak. And I I'm just I'm gonna just say that. Um Okay. So uh for years um Everybody would go over to uh Pastor Leek and Sue's house. Um and that was after um taking care of her mother-in-law and um all other kinds of responsibilities and a long Sunday morning and everybody knows Sundays are hard. Uh it's spiritual warfare. So Um, if you're tired and um your baby's diaper explodes and everything and you get in fights with whoever's in your household on Sundays, guess what? We're all in that same place. We're all having that kind of morning typically because we're in a spiritual battle, right? Um so Anyway, I watched Sue serve um in just, you know, when she was so tired and everything, and they Sue and Tom always had people over to their house and um And Grace is here. And I just um thank you also, Grace, for um these little children always having to clean up and you know take care of people all afternoon. And that also makes me think of Laura's parents, um, Robin and Roger. who we had church at their house forever in every Bible study, every choir rehearsal, every praise team thing, every youth group thing Everything was always at the Zenders. And so if you ever get an opportunity to to get close to Robin or Roger, they are the type of people who everything seems fine all the time and they have suffered greatly and I just like to thank you Laura also for being one of those little children who also had to clean up everything all the time for all the church people. And um what a blessing. Those those examples to me changed my life. changed my life and I still think about them and the generosity. People are suffering, they're not they don't have any money, and they're just pouring it on in faith. With wisdom, but a lot of faith. Um the other two that I'm gonna mention are first, and I don't see her on here. But um Trina Wilson and Brian, they um were our carpool buddies for school And there's a lot of things that I could say about that. But let's just say that Trina and Brian are some of the most long-suffering patient people that I have ever come across. And um they had a family come live with them for almost a year when a lot of children were um young and there was a lot of pressure and you know every morning we were together and no one ever complained about um the inconveniences or anything going on and that really Wow, that really had a profound effect on me. The children didn't complain. I never heard the Wilsons complain and it was just amazing and I saw the blessings of both families and it was a beautiful, beautiful thing. And the last one is Hong Fine. And Hong also has a very moderately small smaller home. She had a family with like a hundred children. Are you listening? Um Just just k just kidding. Um I'm gonna get in trouble for that. She had a large family come to her house and stay and she um that family um and What? And she uh had a had a great um a great relationship and that's really changed me. And the examples that I've mentioned um have changed me because they've sharpened me and they've they've helped me. And there's many others, and I'm I I apologize for not mentioning everybody um that has loved me with hospitality and our family. So my my three friends that I've invited to come up are Jessica Gillary and Selma and Elizabeth. And um dear Jessica, you can come up. I invited Jessica. Um I've known her since she was um a little girl. And I knew her mom and dad before she was or before her sisters were. And uh And um I treasure their friendship. And I have been blessed by Jessica's hospitality and her families And I thought she had a really neat perspective to share that you could learn from. Um and I also um Yeah, I'll leave it at that. And if you want to share, so she's going to share, and then I'm gonna invite um Selma and Elizabeth up. And then I thought if we wanted to just have you know some questions and talk about hospitality, we could uh if time allows. So um Good morning. Growing up here at Hope, I've had so many women who have helped me to develop a fondness for meal preparation and hospitality. And I've been so grateful for their instruction and example. They've opened their homes to teach me how to can peaches, ice cakes, form dumplings, and bake bread. I have fond memories of gathering in the Leek's kitchen for my homeschool home economics class, learning from Mrs. Esparza how to make applesauce and biscuits and fluffy mashed potatoes from scratch. Not only were these women instrumental in growing my affection for cooking and baking, they also modeled how food can be used to extend sacrificial love to others. They demonstrated that a hot bowl of soup or a plate of pasta says, I care about you, in a way that's different from words, a way that's deeply comforting and nourishing. The love flowing through them could literally be tasted, and it was sweet, like strawberry petzel salad. As a single woman living in my parents' home, extending hospitality may look a little different than it did in the homes of many married women I learned from. It presents its own unique challenges and opportunities. In our home, you can tell when one of us adult children is preparing for guests, when groceries start to appear in the pantry and fridge with our initials written large and black sharpie across the wrappings or boxes. It's not uncommon to have Colossians 2. 21 written in jest on bottles of minimate lemonade or bags of shredded cheese. Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch. From experience, we've learned that unlabeled ingredients can accidentally find their way to the onto the family dinner table. In many ways, the spaces I welcome others into are not my own, but borrowed, and sometimes portable. I'm either borrowing my parents' kitchen and dining room or taking the food I prepare over to someone else's home or a public park to share. However, it's been such a joy to welcome others into these little spaces I've created for food and fellowship. As a teenager, I often wondered what traditions my future family might have, especially around the holidays. Although I'm not starting new traditions with a spouse or children, it's been a blessing to start new Christmas traditions with my adult sister. hosting a group for Gingerwood House Decorating. Sometime in December or early January, my sister and I take over our mother's kitchen equipped with flour, baking soda, molasses, and brown sugar. Those of you who are math-minded might laugh at our attempts to keep a tally of how many total side, roof, and house-shaped pieces we've made. Despite our careful charts on dry on a dry on the dry erase board, we always get off somehow. Over the years, we've hosted groups of single women, elementary school girls, high schoolers, and friends. When extending hospitality to families with young children, it's often easier um if you take the food over to their home instead of having them come over to you. So this year, my sister and I toted our Tupperware of cookie pieces, bags of royal icing, and boxes of candy up the road to share. It was fun to see the kids' creative choices from a house with Kit Catch Walkway to a house with about 10 Mike and Mike and Gumdrack chimneys on the roof. Past hospitality endeavors have not been wonder-free. I once hosted a few families for soup and salad following a Sunday service. Crockpot recipes are typically my go-to choices for Sunday lunch because they can be prepped before Sunday school and are ready to eat after the service ends. I selected a split-free tea and ham soup recipe which I now know takes a few hours longer to cook than the directions say. When we returned from church with my guests right behind us, the soup smell filling the kitchen was delightful and I was glad to have gotten the timing just right, I thought. But the peas were leisurely lounging in the bottom of the crock pot, crunchy as ever. My guests were gracious as I hurriedly dumped the soup into a pot on the stove top and sweet boiled it desperately until the peas were done. They enjoyed it just as much after it was hastily boiled as is as they would have had it uh slow cooked as it was supposed to What have I learned about practicing hospitality? I don't know when or if the time might come when I have my own family to bless with hot dinners and my favorite Christmas cookie recipes. But my experiences with extending hospitality to my local church body in particular, and being on the receiving end of their hospitality, have been helpful reminders that I am not without family. My family is right there around the table, passing plates, sharing stories, clinking silverware, and sipping cola. Also, whether it's through serving subboy sandwiches on paper plates, or planning a formal holiday dinner. Hospitality is one way we can mirror God's generosity and love to our guests. We have been given so much and it is such a joyful experience to be able to spread the table and give to others. So if you wouldn't mind coming up, Mrs. James and Elizabeth I asked them to share a little bit about uh what it's like to uh blend cultures and um and some other things and I'm very grateful for my dear sisters in Christ. Good morning. Um thank you, Diane. I learned quite a bit just from listening to it this morning. And thank you, um Jessica too. Um like Diane said, um we're here to talk about hospitality from the perspective of um somebody who didn't grow up here and who grew up learning hospitality a different way. Receiving people warmly is very much a cultural thing in Nigeria But having been here for 30 years, I forget some of the marks of Nigerian hospitality, and I have to remind myself from time to time. Judges chapter 13 verse 15. In that passage, we're told that Menoah said to the angel of the Lord. Please let us detain you so that we may prepare a young goat for you. Diane already mentioned this, but I also have um In my notes here, Acts 16, verse 15, where Lydia urged Paul and his disciples to s and other disciples to stay in her house. And the Bible says she prevailed on them. That's kind of what it is like, you know, um in Nigeria. I was re you know, reading those passages again reminded me of that custom. Especially when my last my most recent visit to Nigeria after my um father-in-law passed away. Um I was so overwhelmed by their hospitality. I stayed with my uncle and his wife. Now this uncle is about my age. my grandmother had him very late. But um as they went you know went over backwards just to make us feel welcome and encouraged I s I you know, I started thinking back with chagrin, really, that when they came over like um uh three years ago or four years ago I did not do this, I did not do that, you know, I just remembered again so many of the things that I didn't do, but which is part of Nigerian hospitality and You know how when Jesus said, um, Simon, ever since I got in here, this woman hasn't stopped doing this and doing that. You didn't do those things. It just reminded me again, wow, there is so much that I have forgotten that we typically would do. Now, when someone visits Even if you were not expecting them, because back in Nigeria it's a culture where, yes, we have the telephone. from all my years of growing up, we we my family always had a phone in the house. So it's not as though, you know, w we don't have phones. But then people just show up. You know, sometimes they might tell you, oh, are you you know, they might call you and say, Are you gonna be home at such and such a time because we're coming over? You come. In fact I have a friend here who lives in co um just up here And once in a while when you know, after our busy lives have allowed us some time to, you know, connect again, she would you know, she would go, really? You don't know to come visit what about you? Why don't you come visit? You know, the thing is um we we don't wait to be asked That's just the culture. You come. That's how you show that you love. That's how you show that you're thinking about them. So you would just say, oh Um we'll be coming on Sunday, okay, about three o'clock. Okay? And they're excited to hear that because you're coming! And that's all they need to hear But the fact is, even if you didn't tell them and you showed up, they are ready to receive you And they would put everything aside to make sure they show you hospitality. So um they would receive you first by asking you What would you like to drink? Would you want do you want you know they might list what they have available or they might just ask you, what would you like? And they would try and get it for you. Of course you're not going to be asking for something that's unreasonable. But then the fact is they would ask you that and then they would serve you some kind of appetizer to go with your drink. Now typically you don't you They don't you don't tell your um host how long your planning to your visit is gonna be. But Gauging by the conversation, the length of the conversation, oh okay, they've been here an hour, we should fix them a meal. So they would fix you a meal And sometimes it's a question, okay, so you say, all right, um, it's probably time for us to start heading out. Oh no, no, no, no. We're fixing something we're fixing something for you and you have to stay and eat it. That's so you don't go to you don't go to Somebody especially somebody who you're close to, somebody who you're really good friends with or a relative's house, and expect that you're gonna leave at a Uh-huh. It's not happening. So usually when you go to when you go visit like that Expect to spend a good amount of time. So my first few years here, I tried to do that Where somebody would come and visit and say, What would you like to have? What would you like to drink? No, it's okay, I don't need anything. Oh no. You cannot come to a Nigerian's house and say you don't want to have anything. Okay? Well would you like to drink? And what may I fix you? Or y something like that. And it took a while before I began to realize, okay I don't want to offend by insisting that you have to stay and eat. Okay, that was something I had to teach myself because that's just not something we do. I had to um be careful about not going over the top, okay, because the Nigerians don't do things small. You're having a party, it's big. You have people over, it's big. You're getting dressed, it's you know we are just that way. And so it's taken years of Toning it down. You know, tone it down. You know, it's just it so I had to be careful about that. I had to be careful about, okay When do I bring out the fancy dishes? Okay, because in I you know when you're having people over you want to show them how much you appreciate them, how much you value them. So you bring out your nice dishes and you go over b you know, you just you cook okay, maybe it's just four people coming, but you cooking cook enough for nine people. You know, that kind of thing. That's just the way we show hospitality. So um I had to learn how to okay, you know what? I don't have a house help. I don't have a maid like back in Nigeria or so, you know, people who do the you know, the little bits of here and there just prep work for me. I have to do it all by myself. So if I want to have people over as often as I would like to, then I can't always bring out the fancy dishes because then I have to think about how to clean it all up afterwards. So paper dish or paper plates. But then that's just not the usual thing. You know, so it it takes thinking, you know, okay, okay, I would like to have people over. Uh Maybe we should do paper plates. But it's n it doesn't come as, you know, that's not the first thing that comes to mind because you always want to, you know Um something else that I had to you know get used to is the fact that okay I have to be careful to cook differently. Nigerian food is spicy. And so depending on who you're inviting, you know, you have to think about that. So I had to learn how to cook. How to dial it down a little bit. How to cook, you know, in such a way that my guests would enjoy what I think. You know, but then if I'm c you know, if I in fact I remember there was something I cooked not too long ago and Elizabeth said It's not spicy enough. And I think I'm like, oh my gosh You know. She was like, Where's the spice? And I was like, well, we want our guests to enjoy the food too, so I can't put you know And I didn't realize how much my cooking had changed until this was years ago when my mom came to visit and I cook cooked something and I was saying um uh yeah it's a little spicy and she was like You call that spicy. But in my mind I thought it was spicy because I had gotten so used to cooking for people here, you know? And so these are things that whenever we have, you know, Nigerians coming to visit, I have to okay, uh all right, we are having Nigerians now, so yes, put the spicy. And put the you know, so those are things that I have it's almost like living in two worlds, pretty much. Um after cooking a Nigerian d dish Because I know my guests don't recognize the aroma, the smells, and some t a lot of times when we don't recognize a smell, sometimes it smells bad to us. So because of that, I always have to make sure, okay, all the all the smells are gone, you know, open the windows, open even if it's winter, you know, open the windows and open the this and just to get all that smell out. And there are certain dishes I won't cook. if I'm expecting get you know Americans or somebody else from another culture that I won't cook maybe a day before or that day. I just won't cook it because I know it has a strong smell, it will stay in the house and my guests won't understand. To them it might smell bad. So th those are things I always have to keep in mind as I try to be hospitable to my guests. Now hospitality also means spending time, like I you know said before. So we do a lot of talking Now I noticed, you know, here that when you you know when we when people have us over, sometimes they want to play board games and things like that. That's just not something we do in Nigeria. We talk the whole time. You know, there's so much to talk. You know, we're sharing in each other's lives. We're trying to getting to know each other and sharing experiences and things like that. So it's mostly about, you know, just getting to know whoever it is you're spending time with. And something else that we do is we we give some kind of a gift when they're leaving. Now it could be leftover food, some of the food that we you know we fix them, but you know something for them to take with them You know, that's something we also do. Um uh what else was I gonna say Now if somebody came from out of town, I know that um Diane mentioned something about you know being hospitable in that way where you have people over. I remember before you remember Grand Grandpa Joe, before my there's one really dear uncle who used to come visit. Diane knows about his uncle. A lot of times uh we would get maybe three days notice that he's coming and he might be staying three weeks or a month, you know, but we That's you know, because it's that's the culture. Somebody comes to visit, you welcome them. It doesn't matter what you're doing. You well you know you Either put it aside or make it work somehow. And so if somebody comes out of from out of town, you typically don't ask how long are you going to be staying. Because you are communicating that uh I can't wait for you to go, is what you're saying by that question. So you usually don't know unless they offer the you know information. Now if you're close enough to the person that you know that they won't be offended or they won't think you know, they won't take it the wrong way you might ask that question that, oh, how long are you guys gonna be in town? That kind of thing. But usually it's as long as they want to stay And you just do the best you can, you know, and try like I said, I've forgotten a lot of these things And it takes when we have people over or when I go back to visit that I'm reminded of some of these things. So um Did I say people invite themselves? Yes. We don't typically invite people. Okay, now I uh of course I've lived here long enough that I would invite. But we just expect you to say you want to come We just expect that you would say you want to come visit. So a lot of times if somebody you you you know you see a friend or you know family you I haven't seen you in such a while What's up with that? Why why don't you come visit? So we don't we and I remember my first few years here when I would tell people that just come They didn't believe me. You know, they're still waiting for that invitation. And I'm thinking in my head, why won't they come? Why won't they come? I've told you you can come. Just come. You know? And it's I remember when was it we were talking, Diane, and I I I remember thinking, Oh yeah Somebody from who grew up in this culture might see it as being rude or this what you're inviting yourself to my house. That that's uh that's the culture. You know, you just you just come. You just because that's how you show I'm thinking about you and y your house is not so far away that I I feel it inconvenient to come and visit you So you you come. So this is how we show love. This is how we show friendship. Um Sometimes for instance w w the some of my friends I might say, what are you waiting for? Why haven't you come visit? What are you waiting for? Oh you're waiting for an invitation? What? That's you know, it's that's we just expect that you would want to come. Okay, and when you tell me that you want to come visit, oh such and such is coming, you know, and we do what we can Of course, depending on your situation financially, you might not have everything that somebody else might have, but that's not the point. The point is spending time with you. The point is, okay, they offered me a bottle of soda and some cookies. It doesn't matter. It's just coming to spend time with you. So I I was reminded so much of these things when I went home this last time. I remember thinking Pss, I have forgotten a lot. And sometimes, you know, in there somewhere I was also thinking, I have offended Some of my Nigerian, you know, friends or family who've come visit visit. And because i life is different here than it is over there. But the fact still is I'm Nigerian, they expect me to do these things. So the last thing I want to say is, you know, talking and building and strengthening relationships is paramount in Nigerian hospitality. So because of it, the concept of keeping time is not viewed the same way. It's not viewed the same way. So if I was getting ready to go out to some event or something, and somebody comes to the house at the time, I'm gonna stop. I might tell them, okay, um I'm on my way somewhere, but I will still take the time to welcome them And spend some time with them. Of course that means I'm gonna be late. But that's our culture That person is important. That person is valuable. So we're gonna spend time and we're gonna talk and we're gonna listen. And then hopefully because they understand that we are on our way somewhere, they will be willing to, you know, leave at a certain time. But you don't shoo them away and you don't say, I'm sorry, I don't have time, I have to be that is not done. So um Nigerian culture um Um as much as it's very different, you know, it there are things that I read, in fact, in the Bible too, that makes a lot of sense because That's how that's how we do things. So where it tells us that she prevailed on them to stay, that's Nigerian culture. We prevail on you. Come on. Won't you have some more? But I've had it. No, there's more here. You know that kind of thing. Where it tells us that Minoah said Let us detain you so we may prepare a goat for you. That's Nigerian culture. So um I'll let Elizabeth share with you what she has to say. Hello everybody So uh my mom has shared a little bit about what it was like for her to learn American culture and how she's kind of made some changes to be able to entertain both Nigerians and Americans. My situation is kind of unique in that I don't know how many of you know me, but I'm single. Um I I live in my childhood home, but I'm renting from my parents that is highly unique in Nigerian culture. That is true. That is true. You don't leave the house until you're married or you have a job out of state in Nigerian culture. So I'm still at home But my relationship is a little bit more independent. I have a roommate, so I've kind of been learning to work around some of the limitations financially, but also to honor my parents when I want to have people over. Like my mom was saying, um when you want to have people over, the Nigerian custom is to go all out, right? You know, you serve them food, you want to get dressed up, you want to have the whole shebang because you value this person I don't necessarily have the money to do that. I would love to be able to do that, but I can't always afford to and make I work full time, so it's hard to do that, you know, just within time constraints So I'm learning that I can partner with someone. Sometimes that means partnering with my mom or partnering with my roommate or partnering with another single to cook the meal like my um I had a few tea parties where I invited ladies over and I cooked the food but I needed to use the space. my mom's um nice dining room. So I said, okay, hey mom, I would like to be able to have these people over. How can I do that? What what day works for you? Um and she helped me, you know Prep the meal. I mean she has more experience, obviously, more years of entertaining. So she can say, okay, maybe arrange it like this, or cut the sandwiches like this, or you know, maybe you might want to arrange these things differently. So in my attempts to have people over, I was able to invite her into that as well. Or if I have friends over and we're having dinner, I might say, hey guys, um upstairs. Hi. I'm having people over tonight. Would you guys like to have dinner with us? And that way my parents and my family's there with us with their eating, but we're also, you know, able to extend that to other people. And one of the things I've learned actually from Diane Lee was that it doesn't even have to be in my house I can actually invite people over to a restaurant, you know, just to eat, just to hang out and talk and get to know each other. Um in Nigerian culture If I was to invite someone to a restaurant, I would have to pay for all of them. Which in America is not it's not common to do that. Um Nigerian custom is that if you are having people over, you're providing for them. You know, you You serve the meal, you make the food, you pay for everything. Um and Americans don't quite do it that way. They'll they'll often offer, hey, can I bring something? Which is very helpful as a single person. I I can't always afford to do all of it by myself. But um I'm learning to kind of balance those two things. Um one of the things that I've learned from my parents too is like You can work with the culture that you have. You can learn how to extend yourself. A lot of hospitality means making time, you know, preparing ahead of time if you want to have people over. Like your house has to be at least somewhat decent if you want to be able to have people over at a moment's notice. It doesn't always have to be stick and span perfectly clean. But part of being able to host people is maintaining a semi-decent space. Some of it means that you've done your chores ahead of time instead of waiting until the last minute so that when people come over, you can spend that time with them. And I'm not very good with timeliness. I wish I was better at it and I'm learning to be better at it because I know that in American culture, showing up at the time that you said you were going to show up is important and it shows that you value that person's time. In Nigerian culture, you show up whenever. If we have a party and people show up two hours late, that's just that's just what happens. I don't think there's a Nigerian party I've ever been to in which If they said show up at three, people show up at three. Nobody shows up at three because there's nothing happening. So I'm learning to balance those two things. But I think one of the valuable things that I've learned is just that there are ways of making things work. You know, it doesn't always have to be exactly what you pictured. It doesn't have to look like a Debbie Maycomber, you know pie out of the oven kind of thing in order for you to be hospitable. You can work within your limitations and find creative ways to work around those things. Um sorry, I was gonna say okay. She said she struggles with time. Well unfortunately look at who raised her. So I'm sorry. We're getting better. I'm sorry about that. But um there was something you were saying that I was gonna okay, yes. The fact that um I remember also when I you know the first few years here when I would invite people and they would ask me, what should I bring? Bring what it usually hits me between because I'm not expecting that question because in Nigerian culture when you invite somebody You are inviting them and you are providing everything. You're not expecting them to bring no no just come, just come. All we want is your company. You know, so we usually because I guess part of it is also the fact that If they're just gonna show up at your door anyway, I mean they're they're not bringing food when they come. So we it's just not part of our psyche to expect that somebody would bring food And like she said, if you invite somebody to a restaurant, no matter what it is, you by inviting them are saying I'm providing for all your needs, everything you need, everything that you might possibly so that's and I I I guess part of, you know um What I would want you to take away from this is, you know, sometimes when people do or say certain things, we that could be offensive to us just because we don't know where they're coming from. But it's because of the part of the world they come from, the culture, you know, and all of that. And so I too, I remember when I first came, used to be kind of um Taken aback by certain questions, you know, kind of thing. And and that's because obviously It's a different culture and people are doing things differently. It's not meant to be offensive, it's not because somebody doesn't care. It's just a different. I remember a sister-in-law who came to visit once and I remember her referring to someone as being cold. Like, oh, she's so cold. And I was thinking, what do you mean she's so cold? But it was over time as I thought about it that I realized Yeah. To her, this person was not being and she wasn't referring to me, she was referring to somebody else, but she was saying they were not warm in their welcome because they didn't do these things. And so um it's amazing how God has put all of us together as the body of Christ because we learn to um appreciate each other. We learn to not judge as Diane said because we tend to judge Because what they are doing is different from what we expect. We tend to judge, but they're not doing anything wrong. It's just, you know, they're different people. And so we have so much room to Prefer one another to um to to not judge to love each other even with our differences, even when we think okay, that's quirky or that you know We have opportunity to forget about ourselves and how we think, you know, how we feel about something or why you know whatever questions might pop in our heads because this person is acting this way. It's Yeah. I also learned that you don't have to love cooking. Yeah. Because my mom does not love cooking. She does it and praise God for how he's you know, gifted her to be able to do that despite not loving it. But over the years I've actually had to teach myself how to bake things because my mom doesn't bake I've had to learn how to cook things that are a little bit unusual because my mom isn't she doesn't experiment that way. The things that she does make are always wonderful. They're always great. But I'm learning that like You don't have to have an innate love of cooking to do the cooking. You don't have to love having people over, be a huge extrovert to want to welcome people into your home. This is so funny. Karen's telling me I'm done. She's coming. She's coming for me. I gotta tell you that Last night, and I won't say how late it was, but I read over my um lesson, I had uh done this earlier in the week and timed myself And late late last night I timed myself and I went to Doug. I'm like, I only have eight minutes. My whole lesson is eight minutes long and it's this late. Like, what am I gonna do? And so now it's It's about noon. I um I did wanna um give an opportunity for questions, but I I can uh we don't have time. So I wanted to humbly thank, thank you, dear Jessica and dear Elizabeth and dear Selma for sharing the way that God has um enlightened you and blessed you and worked through you in your hospitality and um taught us. And I would like to thank all of you for um being here and um for showing up for one another. Because that's what you're doing. We're showing up for one another in love. And to learn from our dear Savior who gives us such a sweet life here with him and with one another. another. So I'm going to close in prayer. Dear Jesus, thank you for your kindness and thank you for the love that we get to share with one another in you, dear Lord. May we always glorify your name, God. And and please use us, dear Lord, in our hospitality to one another. To increase our inheritance in your eternal kingdom with more souls and more love, dear Jesus. To you be all the glory. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Diane. Thank you, ladies. This was such a treat.