Well I noticed it's that time of the year when uh all the flies decide to come inside. So if you see me flailing my arms around up here, I'm not slain in the spirit. I'm just fighting off the demon hordes This morning, as we open there, we return to our ongoing study of 1 Corinthians. The theme of 1 Corinthians is corrections in the church. Corrections in the church. And we certainly have seen Quite a number of strong corrections the Apostle Paul brought to these Corinthians. This was a church which needed a lot of correcting. The value for us in studying a book like this is that we learn through their corrections. Sometimes we too need to be corrected. Sometimes we just need to be refined, and sometimes by knowing what we're doing and seeing that it's opposite of someone else being corrected, that affirms us that we're doing the right thing Now in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 1, where we pick up today, it marks one of the great transitions within the letter. Up till now, the Apostle Paul has been giving corrections for the Corinthian church in response to some report that was brought to him while he was ministering in Ephesus by Chloe's people. The report was alarming to the Apostle Paul, and after a brief word of introduction and strengthening in chapter one, he then launched into five and a half chapters Of quite strong correction. Correction about their worldly perspective, about sexual sin, about divisiveness in the church, spiritual pride, petty differences. Paul, who planted the church, acts as a loving spiritual father. He knew when they were becoming wayward that he had to be strong. They were sinning, and they were sinning a lot. However, at this point in the letter, the tone changes. Paul calms down a bit. He becomes less combatitive, less rebuking. Yet, even here, there's ongoing correction. It should not surprise us that along with all the other problems the Corinthians had, they also had problems in the home, particularly in issues related to marriage and sex. To deal with these problems, Paul demonstrates, I think, much pastoral sensitivity here in this passage He balances various principles of Scripture to give the wisest advice for a particular situation. He's giving these believers guidance. You know, often people want black and white answers. There are those in the Bible. Some things are clearly black and white. But a lot of life takes applying principles from Scripture and knowing how they fit into the circumstances one is in. That's what Paul is doing in 1 Corinthians chapter 7. That's what he really will be doing for the rest of the entire letter of 1 Corinthians, taking principles of love, holiness, justice, wisdom, and bringing them to bear on various issues that these Corinthians were dealing with. So what I'd like to do today is read the entire chapter of 1 Corinthians 7. We're only going to focus over the next couple of weeks on verses 1 through 16, and today we're only going to get to verse 5. But I want you just to hear the whole sweep of the context so as we begin to unfold what's in here, you understand where he's going. It's a long chapter, so hang in there, but let's just gulp it down in one go here. 1 Corinthians 7, verses 1 through 39. Now, concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman But because of immoralities, let each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband. Husband must fulfill his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does, and likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Stop depriving one another. except by agreement for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer. And come again, come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. But this I say by way of concession, not of command. Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. However, each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner and another in that But I say to the unmarried and to widows, that it is good for them if they remain even as I. But if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. But to the married I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband. But if she does leave, she must remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband, and that the husband should not divorce his wife. But to the rest I say, not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, he must not divorce her. And a woman who has an unbelieving husband and he consents to live with her, she must not send her husband away. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife And the unbelieving wife is sanctified through her believing husband, for otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy. Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. For how do you know a wife whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know a husband whether you will save your wife? Only as the Lord is assigned to each one, as God is called each, in this manner, let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches. Was any man called when he was already circumcised? He is not to become uncircumcised Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He is not to be circumcised. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but what matters is the keeping of the commandments. Each man must remain in that condition in which he was called. Were you called while a slave? Do not worry about it. But if you are able also to become free, rather do that. For he who was called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freedman. Likewise, he who was called while free is Christ's slave. You were bought with a price. Do not become slaves of men. Brethren, each one is to remain with God in that condition in which he was called. Now concerning virgins, I have no command of the Lord, but I give an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy. I think then that this is good in view of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. Are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But if you marry, you have not sinned. And if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Yet such will have trouble in this life, and I'm trying to spare you. But this I say, brethren, the time has been shortened So that from now on those who have wives should be as though they had none, and those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess And those who use the world as though they did not make full use of it, for the form of this world is passing away. But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord, but one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife, and his interests are divided. The woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy, both in body and spirit, but one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband This I say for your own benefit, not to put a restraint upon you, but to promote what is appropriate and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord. But if any man thinks that he is acting unbecomingly toward his virgin daughter, if she is past her youth, and if it must be so, let him do what he wishes. He does not sin. Let her marry. But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, but has authority over his own will and has decided this in his own heart to keep his own virgin daughter, he will do well. So then, both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better. A wife is bound as long as her husband lives. But if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes only in the Lord. But in my opinion, she is happier if she remains as she is, and I think that I also have the Spirit of God. Well, needless to say, there are many fascinating topics in this chapter. You may read one thing that he says and it sounds like he's contradicting something earlier and really he's just trying to balance things and there's a present circumstance and a situation that he's addressing as a pastor Many people try to use this chapter to say Paul gives his opinion and he knew it was really not inspired, it really wasn't from God. That's not at all when he means I'm saying this and not the Lord. When he uses the word Lord there, he's talking about teaching that the Lord, the Lord Jesus that is, gave when he was on earth. If Jesus had taught on the subject while he was on earth, he passed it on. If not, he gave it, and he concludes saying, I have the Spirit of God. That is his way of saying. This is still the command of the Lord. It is inspired. And so many people misread that I'll just throw that out from the beginning in case you had that question. I want you to notice all the way back to chapter seven, verse one, how he cues us in here. that he is addressing their topics and their concerns. He says, now concerning the things about which you wrote. Did you catch that? It's clear that there's a new topic here that Paul is turning to and that he's addressing what they wrote to him in some letter we no longer have. Another clue is the Greek little phrase there, peri-de, translated now concerning. That is a phrase that Paul will go on to repeat throughout the rest of this letter. And each time he does, he's into a new subject. And that new subject is lightly paralleling what they wrote in their letter. Probably some questions that they had for the Apostle Paul. I want you just to notice this so you can see this as you do your studies. Notice down in chapter 7, verse 25, you see that same phrase. And if you have a good study version of Scripture, it stays consistent in how it's translated. If you don't, sorry. Uh look around your neighbor what they got and uh you could change your Bible version. But in chapter seven verse twenty-five it says, Now concerning virgins. There it is again, Perry Day. And he's He's going on to a new subject. Just look at chapter eight, verse one, if you would. Just flip through this with me. It says in chapter eight, verse one now concerning things sacrificed to idols. Big question, big deal back in those days when there were many uh idolatrous worship that was going on in the city, and he wanted to say, well, what about those things that were sacrificed to the house? How do we deal with that? And he's going to deal with that. And he's going to answer their questions. Just jump to chapter 12 in verse 1. You'll see this again. Now concerning spiritual things. Literally, gifts is not there, but it has to do with gifts. Spiritual things. They had questions about the gifts that the Holy Spirit gives to the congregation and how they're supposed to be used. So in chapter 12 Verse 1 and following, he's addressing those questions and answering them. Look at chapter 16 and verse 1 as well. You flip forward, you see again now concerning the collection for the saints. Now we did a study on this back in January In 2 Corinthians, and here he was already giving them instructions about it. They had questions, how are we supposed to do this collection? And he's answering those as well. Down in chapter 16 and verse 12, he has the same phrase concerning Apollos as well. They had questions about Apollos. He was very important to that church, and all of that is brought together. So there was some, you can come back now to chapter 7. There was some kind of a letter that the Corinthians wrote to Paul. We no longer have it, but it appears they were asking the Apostles some questions. Maybe they were arguing, maybe they were debating, maybe they didn't like some of the teaching the Apostle was giving, maybe they were against it, maybe it was a mix of different things. Most commentators and scholars believe it had to do with some questions that they had. That makes sense to me as well as you see that he's more correcting or thinking and he's dealing with that. He doesn't seem like he's debating as much as he's answering questions as you But we really don't know, and we don't know the order of the questions in whatever letter that came to Paul. For some reason, Paul decided at this point in the letter to start with their question on marriage and singlehood and sex. Now why did he start with this? Well notice at the end of chapter six, it's been a month since we've been in this that he ended off talking about sex. So if he's picking up with their questions, it makes sense that he's now dealing with that topic first. He's dealing with the issue of of sex because it was right there in the context. Really, the entire chapter is about marriage. The entire chapter is about sex. It kind of ties chapter 7 together. But really, you know, it's about more than sex. It's also about singlehood. It's also about how do you whether you should change, what should you do, get married or get unmarried, and all the rest of that. And so they're all related You'll notice in verses 2 through 7 of chapter 7 he says to the married, I say, and so he's dealing with that topic, just keep glancing down through the chapter, verses 8 and 9, to the unmarried. You know, we say verses ten and eleven, to the married, remain married, basically, verses twelve through sixteen. You have an unbelieving spouse, what should you do? Verses twenty-five through thirty-eight, what's a man to do with his daughters? In the area of marriage, remember they gave them in marriage in that culture, so that was part of the equation. And then even the the widows are involved in that, verses 39 and 40. So a lot of these are intertwined. Now why are all of these issues intertwined and um what state should you be in what is Paul really getting at with all of this well there seems to be some kind of a disagreement going on in the congregation there at Corinth And maybe even pressures from one group on to another group that they need to do as the other group was doing, either being single or being married. There's a Jewish element that believed marriage was commanded of God. You had no choice. You had to get married to be fruitful and multiply. You know it says that in the Bible. Others were saying, no, no, no, no. To concentrate on the work of God, let's stay single. And so they were probably pressing that. They might have pressure on the married to get unmarried. And so there's various factions. There may have been three or four. We really don't know. As you try to recreate this, it's interesting But there's some kind of a debate and confusion and misunderstanding that is prompting an entire chapter of instruction about this. It appears even that celibacy had become very attractive to some after coming to Christ They had misunderstood whether or not this was a better thing or not. And the apostle seems to say it's better in some cases and in other situations he seems to say marriage is better. And so really what Paul is doing in here is saying that all marital conditions are fine. If you want to get to the bottom line, they're all good. They're all okay, but he's trying to then apply to a situation, okay, what should I do in this situation? He's giving some principles. The married do not need to dissolve their marriages, in case indeed in some cases that would be sin The singles do not have to get married. There may be a reason to do that. There may not be a reason to do that. But one of the main things he says here is stay as you were called. And that's very interesting. We'll get into that in the weeks to come. I want you to keep in mind as we approach this text, it has a lot of interesting things in it. You have to keep reminding yourself that the Apostle Paul is dealing with a very specific situation in a specific church. And he's taking scriptural principle and he's applying it to their situation. So we can't just come to a chapter like this and say Oh, let's uh study this as if we have a systematic treatment of marriage. We don't have a systematic treatment of marriage. There's a lot said about marriage and singlehood that's not in this chapter, and it wasn't meant to be in the chapter, because the apostles just not dealing with that because their questions weren't about that. This is not exhaustive, this is not systematic, this is pastoral. And so what we're going to do, and this is the difficulty sometimes when you do expositions of scripture, that you have to first do your best to understand, okay, what was he teaching them in their situation? You can't apply it until you know that. Once you know that, then you say, okay, what were the principles behind that that made him say that to them? And then how can we take those principles, which would apply to any age, and apply it to our questions and our concerns and our situations that are important to us in this day? And so that's the pattern we're going to be going through. We're going to ask And answer our own questions from this text, but to do that, we're going to have to first see whatever answer the Apostle Paul had in the text as well. Does that make sense? That's the order we're going to go in there, and that's the order we have to go So we're gonna, from verses one through sixteen, and we're not gonna get to all of this today, but from verses one through sixteen, we're going to ask and answer five strategic questions about marriage. Five strategic questions about marriage. You may have many, many more questions than these five, but these five are are more basic. They lay a theological foundation or grid, if you would, to understanding marriage, and then you can take the answers to these questions, explore Scripture in other places and try to apply and think about the question that you have and how the answers to these questions affect your question as well. Alright, strategic question number one is this. Do Christians have to marry? Do Christians have to marry? That's the first question. Might as well start at the very beginning. That may be an obvious answer to everyone, but go back to verse one Do Christians have to marry? Well, now concerning the things about which he wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Well the question they must have asked or debated had to do with marriage and singlehood and how that related to the morality of sex. Must have been some discussion or some debate they had. between the more ascetic-minded people in Corinth, those guys who would defy mature Christian living by denying bodily appetites and comfort to the world. And then there was a group who believed marriage was very important. As I said before, Jews even commanded by God, because of what God commanded in Genesis, be fruitful and multiply. But Paul writes here, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Please don't misunderstand right from the very beginning. He is not forbidding men from ever putting a finger on any female out there. That's not what he's talking about. I remember once a A camp director that I was at telling all of us she should never touch any of the girls. He meant, don't touch them. You know, you're playing threes tag, I guess you can't tag them or whatever. No hands, no hugs, nothing This has nothing whatsoever to do with that. That's not the context here. Whether you physically ever touch them or not, whether you give them a brotherly squeeze or whatever, as long as you're being discreet, that's not addressing this issue. Obviously I hope I don't have to say this, but kissing, doing things with the opposite sex that um and you're not married to them, none of those things are appropriate. They're not they because they lead your emotions on towards sin and that should never ever happen. That's not respecting the other person. When a young man does that to a young lady, that's not respecting her or loving her. But touching a woman here, it's good for a man not to touch a woman. That is a euphemism for having sex. To touch is the verb opto. It means to touch or to grasp or even to cling. The context is about marriage. It's about sex. And that verb was widely used in the Greek literature that parallels the Greek New Testament outside of the New Testament. It was widely used for a sexual union. So he's saying that it is good not to marry and not to engage in sexual union with a woman. That's what he's saying. Now some people think here that Paul is quoting the Corinthians and he's not giving his own view, that it's the Corinthians' view that says It's good for a man not to touch a woman that Paul really didn't believe that. But I think that Paul in his writings always makes it clear when he's quoting somebody else. And someone else's viewpoint. He makes that very clear. And here you can tell as he goes on and writes about it, he actually agrees with this statement, and yet he qualifies it and he modifies. Paul is indeed giving his view there, even if it is also someone's view in Corinth. He calls a life without marriage, a life without sex and marriage, good. That's what he's saying. Now, when Paul uses the word good, I don't know what comes to your mind. That's a very flexible term as well in English And it is in Greek as well, and it depends on the context. He does not mean it's the only good, and we can tell that from reading the rest of the chapter. He's not even saying it's the highest good In other words, well, those of you who are pretty carnal, you get married, but the rest of us who are spiritual, you know, we remain unmarried, and so it's better. He's not saying that. He doesn't mean that it's wrong ever to touch a woman either. Good is is the word kalan. It could be translated in this context, suitable or appropriate, or pleasing. Each context we have to decide what is that adjective mean. Here, even as we use it's okay to do that, or it is alright to not be married and to touch a woman. Or it is permissible, any of those kinds of ideas The scriptures also teach that it is good, and that's the term that's used, for a man to have a woman, right? Genesis 2. He looked at Adam and uh he didn't have a woman, he's naming all the animals, and he says something different between those animals and me And God says the first time in all of creation, he says it isn't what? Not good that the man what? Be alone. So the whole purpose of marriage and having the woman from the beginning obviously was good. And the scripture still taught that, and Paul knew that as a good rabbi, and now as a Christian interpreter, he understood all that And he repeats this even later in the chapter. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 7, if you would. He says, Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. Now he's wishing that. Later he's going to wish that everyone speaks in the gift of God. He's not saying that everyone should. He's just saying I'm having a good time being single. And I'm doing a lot for the Lord as a single man. And so I wish that on everybody. That's what he's saying. He's not saying that this is the better or the best for you. Okay? But then he says, each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner, and another in that. He knows. He knows Paul was single, according to 1 Corinthians 9, verse 5, Paul did not have a wife. But look at verse 8. He says, But I say to the unmarried, to the widows, that it is good for them if they remain even as I. So he's saying that's great. If you want to remain that way, remain that way. There are advantages to that. So if we're going to answer our first question, the answer would be no, Christians do not have to marry. And right now that's all that we've gotten into. He's going to say more about that. Just because marriage is there does not mean it is wrong not to marry. Someone may choose to live a life apart from marriage. They may have other purposes. Paul's going to cover these purposes and these reasons later in the chapter, but he does not have to marry. Now I want to give a little bit of application to us from all of this. I think The norm in our society has been, traditionally, and I think still is for the most part, people get married. And in our church It's been the same. Most of the people were in this church to begin with were married couples and had families and all. And we've had an increasing number of singles come to Hope Bible Church and we praise God for them. But we married people have to remember not to always be bringing up the issue of marriage with our single brethren and our sisters, right? You see them and say, how are you doing? Have you met a man yet? I saw you talking with so and so you gotta you know is it is it is it is that That is not our goal to get everyone married. It may be their goal, praise God, we can help them to find a lifelong mate, they'll be faithful to them, but we need to be sensitive to that, that there is teaching about the benefit of being single. And we we can't make them always have to give a reason why they're single. Some churches won't even allow in the evangelical community a man who's single to be a pastor and preacher, sort of the opposite of some of the uh other traditions in Christianity. That's wrong. There's much that single people can do uh for God, and we need to be aware of that and not put pressure on them, even if we mean well that they ought to get married. Okay? I think everyone heard that. Just be aware of that. You probably do that more than you realize. Let me just say that because I get feedback from the singles about that. All right Strategic question number two. Why get married? Why get married? So you're sitting there, you know you're already married, you might be saying Uh I can't that question's long gone, buddy. I already got married, okay? But many of you are thinking, why should I get married? Some of you younger people might be thinking, why would I grow up and I and get married? You know, uh some of the real young ones in here that that's Yucky, they don't want to think about that. But uh to the others of you that are thinking about it, this is important. Well, look at verses two, and then I want to also bring in verse nine here because I think it applies. Verse two and nine But because of immoralities, each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband. Jump to verse 9. But if they do not have what? Self-control, let them what? Marry. For it is better to marry than to burn. What he means by burn is burn with passion. sexual passion. Well, I think these two verses, verses two and nine, give us the more general rule that covers mankind. No, you don't have to marry, but in general, and here he highlights the reason because of weaknesses, each man is to have his own wife, and each wife is to have his own man. In other words, the marriage state expresses the norm. This is the way most people have done it. Doesn't mean that those that are not the war norm are weird. It just means this is the norm. After all, isn't this again how it was from the beginning? What did Adam do when he saw Eve for the first time? I mean he leapt for joy probably. This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. He was really excited about this. And that was his instant and and natural reaction. And of course God knew that. God knew exactly what he was designing. You know, we read about Cain and Seth, and some people want to know where did Cain and Seth get their wives from? Well he got them from Adam's offspring from Adam and Eve's daughters, obviously, when when there was only two human beings on the planet, Adam and Eve, and he looked at them and said, Be fruitful and multiply. How is that supposed to work? Be fruitful and multiple. There's only one way that works, and that means the sons marry the daughters, right? And that was not prohibited at this time in history. In fact, it was not only not prohibited, it was part of God's plan. It was only later In a later dispensation that God said no more of that. And he probably had some reason for as we're learning science now that that protects the way we are. But very naturally from the very beginning Cain and Seth understood, get a wife. And so they got a wife, and then you read of their offspring, and so it went on. It was just natural what they did. Charles Hodge Great interpreter of Scripture says this. Whatever exceptions there may be to this rule in particular cases or in peculiar conditions of society or of the church, the rule itself stand. That is the rule of marriage. There is undoubtedly an increase of worldly care and anxiety connected with marriage, and therefore it may be expedient for those to remain single to whom the freedom from such cares is specially Important. This, however, does not alter the great law of God, that it is not good for man to be alone. Celibacy is to be the exception, not the rule. Now, in some cases, it may become more of the rule because of external circumstances, and we'll get to all of that. In 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verses 1 through 3, Paul said that men, listen, men who forbid marriage This is talking about as a doctrine in the church. You may not get married. It is wrong to get married. Men who teach that and forbid marriage, the Apostle Paul said in 1 Timothy 4, that is a doctrine that has its origination with demons, not with God. Marriage is a good thing. So he taught that. In Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 4, it says the marriage is to be held in high honor. And so obviously marriage is still good. Now some people think that Paul was telling people not to marry because they thought Jesus was going to come back physically to the earth very, very soon from that point in time. And indeed they did in the early church have that anticipation. You could just read 2 Thessalonians or 1 Thessalonians. And you see, the Lord did not tell them the timing. He said he didn't even know the time of his return, only the Father did. So there was this mystery. It was left unknown. When is Christ going to return? And so if that were the case, that maybe Paul was saying, what's the point in starting a marriage? Jesus could come back tomorrow. Why get into something that's not going to have time to enjoy and last? Anyway. But that was obviously not his teaching elsewhere. He taught elsewhere that people were to marry, so so that was not what he was thinking here either. The problem seems more to be that some in Corinth were ascetic and overly restrictive Just as some were immoral and overly loose, different camps warring within. There was a proud spirituality that permeated that Corinthian church. Remember, pride is a problem with these Corinthians. We've already talked about that at length. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, we covered before, verses 6 and 7, it says, Now these things, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for your sake, so that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written. So that no one of you will become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. For who regards you as superior? Remember that strong rebuke? What do you have that you did not receive? These cutting questions And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? Later in chapter 8, verse 1, he'll say, Knowledge makes arrogant, but love edifying. They had a problem with spiritual knowledge. It puffed them up. And I think that's where people start making man-made rules to restrict the Christian life when God has not restricted it in that way They feel comfortable with all those man-made rules. Over over the centuries, religions develop and they make this rule and this rule and they get very comfortable with that and they begin to express their Christianity with all these restrictions. That can happen whether you're Catholic or Protestant or whatever. It can happen to anybody. But the Christian life was a freeing life, it was a joyous life, it was a powerful life, it was a life of love, and it was not to be restricted with all these man-made rules, so that if I kept them now I was more spiritual than the guy next to me No, it's rather how well you obey the commands of God and love your brethren that showed your spirituality. Well, some might have had an attitude in this spiritual pride that said, um, well See, I I never will enjoy a woman. See, because um I'm sold out for God. See, they might have thought like that. And then others may have said, oh well, shucks, I'm already married. So the hope for me I can never be sold out for God, you know. Maybe I I should abstain from touching my own wife so that I could just disab myself from that. Maybe that's the best that I can do. You know, poor me, woe is me. I just will never never be that great for the kingdom of God. Well sex then at Corinth for some we're indulging and for others we're viewing it as a carnal act no matter what, even in marriage. Well you have to do it, but oh it's always ugly and filthy and yees, you know But Paul's really writing quite the opposite here. He says, because of immoralities, let each man have his own wife. Did you catch that? Because there's a problem with immoralities, what do you mean by that? Well just check out chapter 6. They're going to prostitutes and all the rest of that, right? problems with immoralities because of immorality, because of the problem of immorality, what immorality does to us, to our bodies, to our marriages, to our church, to our society, because of that, let each man have his own one That's the important thing. Marriage prevents against immorality, it doesn't cause it. Of course, this does not mean that marriage is only for the weak as some Have read this. You know, you you feel like, oh, I just have to have! I just have to have it. And so, well, I'm one of the weak ones that has to get married. It doesn't mean that It does not mean that marriage is only to be reduced to a concession to personal lusts. Well, uh the only reason I'm going to get married is, well, because uh I can't stop lusting, so I'm gonna get married. That's not what he's he's dealing with. Again, this is pastoral, it's dealing with a certain situation. You don't get married simply to avoid the sin of pornea, the sin of fornication, illicit sex. But you know, for these Corinthians in that debauched city of Corinth, as we've noted before, immorality It was a huge problem in Greek society. In their city, it was even larger. And marriage was the solution here. Notice that the word immoralities there in verse 2 is in the plural, not singular. It's not talking about the characteristic of immorality, but actual actual acts of immorality. There was a lot of immoralities that were going on in Corinth. Because of those cases of immorality, he's saying, you need to have a a wife. It's not immorality in general that Paul was concerned about, but what was actually happening at Corinth. Again, this is just pastoral advice for a particular situation. Now, Paul omits other reasons and aspects for why to get married. He doesn't even mention them here in chapter 7. Why? Because it's not the issue. It wasn't the questions they had, it's not the issue at Corinth. Um there was a a greater danger with a life of singlehood to give in to sexual temptation and commit fornication. So he's writing to them and he's saying, you know, get away. But there are other reasons to get married. We're going to cover those in a minute. Now listen to Proverbs chapter 5, verses 15 through 23, because in some ways what he says here in 1 Corinthians 7 is illustrated by what's written in Proverbs. Proverbs says this, drink water from your own cistern, that's a well, and fresh water from your own well. Should your springs be dispersed abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be yours alone, and not for strangers with you. He's not talking about water here, people. Okay. Let your fountain be blessed and rejoice in the wife of your youth. The Proverbs go on to write, as a loving hind and a graceful doe, let her breast satisfy you at all times. Be exhilarated always. with her love. For why should you, my son, be exhilarated with an adulteress and embrace the bosom of a foreigner? For the ways of a man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he watches all his paths, his own iniquities will capture the wicked And he will be held with the cords of his sin. He will die for lack of instruction in the greatness of his folly. He will go astray. This was all taught in the Old Testament Here it is. Have your own life. Don't give in to immoralities. Don't spread your waters abroad. Be exhilarated with your own spring. Of course in ancient Rome and in Greek society they were not only drenched with sexual sin, but they actually thought sexual sin was good. Boy, our society's heading that way, isn't it? There's no question that we as a culture are rapidly becoming as dark and as foolish as they were. And so Paul's reasoning has application for us too. When you are in the midst of a society that makes it very hard not to to lust and to burn, constantly putting up pictures before you, men and women, you're out shopping at the mall, it's a disgrace even to walk in the mall these days. You watch TV, oh my. Constantly changing, you see. You get on the internet. Went to the Redskins game last Sunday. And it wasn't I'm not talking about the men running around with shoulder pads either. You go to the workplace, you work next to someone and they have no shame at all how they dress. It's hard. You have to realize the potential for immorality and you have to guard against it. Well, if you're a single man, obviously getting married pretty soon ought to be up there on your list if that's the case. Marriage was a guard against immorality. Why? Because marriage channels sex in the right way, right? Lifelong faithfulness. That's where sex belongs. Sex is too powerful, too wonderful, too important to be just spread here, here, and here, dabbling there and there. It's the most powerful feeling given to a human being and it's to be directed to one person for one lifetime. Anyone who tells you, young people, anyone who tells you they love you and they want some of your body, even a little bit of it, they're not loving you. They're looking out for themselves. Love involves holiness, holy living. It involves respect for other people and their parents. It involves faithfulness, commitment of a life. If that's not there, that's not love. The rest is just talk and deception. Don't ever be fooled by that. Some may have been forbidding marriage in order to be spiritual here, but they got weak, and so they went to those prostitutes mentioned in chapter 6. Not getting married may have led to a lot of burning and stumbling. They were trying to be spiritual and remain single, but they shouldn't have been doing it. They should have gotten married If some were arguing that it was good not to have sex in verse 1, then maybe others would have said it's good not to have marriage either. But marriage was advantageous. And it had advantages that being single did not. Remember, this is the same Apostle Paul who wrote that beautiful marriage picture as a picture between Christ and the church in Ephesians chapter 5 and gave a marvelous, marvelous, beautiful theological explanation for what marriage is all about. It pictures the relationship of Jesus Christ and His church, which is eternal. Well, are there other reasons to get married? Of course there are. Here are a few, I'm going to give them quickly to you. Partnership is the main reason to get married. Partnership. Companionship is another way of putting that. Genesis 2, God said it's not good for the man to be alone, so he made a helper suitable for him. A partner to share all of life with. In the church aids, the partner can also be someone to minister the gospel alongside. Some of the apostles, like the Apostle Peter, brought along believing wise. And you you wonder if the Roman Catholic Church knows that, that Peter had a wife, and it says so right here in First Corinthians. Having a strong believing wife can be a great reason to get married. Someone who will not only help you not be lonely, but to minister alongside of you. I thank God every single day for the wife that I have and how she helps me in the ministry. It's just Companionship is not just sexual, although that is obviously a central act in the companionship, but it reaches out and it touches every area of your life. As the two learn to think and act as one. And that sometimes is a process, right? Particularly if you've been single for a long time, to learn to think and act as one. One in mind, one in heart, one in purpose One in the sharing of belongings and and bank account, one in child raising, one in ministry, one in theology, one in every way Well, another purpose for getting married beyond companionship is to, as I already mentioned, to picture the relationship between Jesus Christ and his church. That's Ephesians chapter 5, verses 22 through 33. In marriage, the husband in that relationship learns to love. And we husbands really need to learn to love, don't we? A husband learns to put off his selfish ways. And in marriage, a woman learns to do what our society screams at her not to do, and that is to submit, which means obey, her husband, her God-ordained head. This is how Christ relates to the church with sacrificial love, and this is how the church relates to Christ with complete obedience. At least that's how we should be. Though often we're not. Notice again, verse 2: Each man is to have his own wife, one-to-one, no one else. Be dedicated to that one woman with sacrificial love, be dedicated to that one man with full obedience. This is how the church relates to Christ. The church is to relate with full submission to Christ A woman is to relate with full submission to that one man, that one man whom she gave herself to in marriage And of course, if you give yourself to one in marriage and then you commit adultery, you're violating the picture that marriage is supposed to be of Christ's love for the church What's another reason to get married? Well, this was the one that we saw also from the beginning. Procreation. Procreation. Having children to extend the family's influence. through the training of children, passing on the faith to them, discipling them, training them up so as they grow up, they learn to follow Christ, they're going to make their mistakes. But as they grow up, learn to follow Christ, deepen in their faith, the next generation will have children also who love the Word of God, love Jesus Christ, know what he taught, and live a life by that. Psalm 127-3 says, Behold, children, our gift of the Lord, the fruit of the womb is a reward. Get busy using it. In Deuteronomy 6 and 11, it outlines the whole strategy for how the Israelites were to pass on to faith from one generation to another. Just a snippet here from Deuteronomy eleven. You shall therefore impress these words of mine on your heart and on your soul, and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontals on your forehead. You shall teach them to your sons Talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk along the road, and when you lie down and when you rise up. You ask God his opinion about his word and how much we should be talking about it in church And talking about it in the home. And he says, everywhere you go and all day long my word is to be before your eyes and thinking about that. So many people say, Well, I have enough of the word of God. You know, we don't want to we don't want to get too serious about this religion stuff, you know But God says, my word is life to you, take it everywhere you go. And talk about it. Pass it on to your children. Some had probably made having children the most important aspect of marriage. Why should I get married? Have kids. That's a command. You know. But uh verse two does not deny the value of having children, but it also clearly shows that there is a purpose for sex, even apart from having children. And it's an important purpose. Again, I have to say this and I feel I feel sad and ashamed in some ways that I have to stand up here and I have to say this, but I'll just point out to you that it says, Let each man have his own wife and each wife wife his own husband. There was never any thought in the Word of God ever that there might be some out there who would legitimately marry someone of the same sex. It's just not even in the thought patterns of the Apostle Paul or the Holy Spirit who wrote this. You know, the presidential candidates at a certain recent party's debates. And I guess I'm not allowed to say which party you figure it out. We're asked if they would mind having their own child's second grade teacher read them a positive story about how a prince one day married another prince. Now the question was a good question. The answer was shocking. None of them had a problem with it, not one of them. You know when our civil leaders don't have the most basic moral compass to guide them, our nation is in a sorry condition. There were plenty of homosexuals in the culture that Paul, he's already even shown that they were changed in chapter 6, but he didn't say, well, in some cases a man can marry a man. Man. No, there were there were more homosexuals in that culture than there are in ours. But he knew what the teaching of Scripture was. It's sad I have to say that, but you think biology would be all that people need to understand God's design, but evidently it's not. Alright, question number three. And I guess we're just going to get started with this. Looking at the clock, thinking, oh well. Verses 3 through 5, question number 3: What is God's design for married partners? What is God's design for married partners? Verse 3. The husband must fulfill his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does, and likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer and come together again. So that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. Well, you could just see the mutuality here. And obviously the his design is that there is a mutual sharing, a oneness, and that is even illustrated in the sex act. What is God's design for marriage in one word? It is oneness. Oneness. Complete oneness. You lose yourself in the other person, the two become one. Now, obviously, celibacy is wrong for married partners. But maybe it wasn't so obvious to the Corinthians. Again, they had this idea, and it's still around in some places, that the body is basically evil. And so giving in to any bodily desire is it's sad, it may be necessary, but it is evil. A super spiritual person does not engage in sex, so they might think They thought that it was better to be unmarried than married. Then it was better for the married not to act married and thus to refrain from sex. Husbands might have said, again, you know, I'm all I have to be all out for God, honey You know, poor wife got nothing out of it, you know. And uh they thought that was better, but they were actually ending up tempting their own wives to sin and commit immorality. And the wife might have been doing the same thing. But the Bible, again, right here, teaches that it is a duty to give your body in marriage to your married partner. It's not just that it is a good thing to do, as verse 1 talked about. It's not just that it is a better thing to do. Paul calls it a duty. An obligation, off fallet, a debt, an obligation, what you are required to pay, a duty There's a textual variant here. Some of the versions smooth out the word duty and make it marital kindness, but duty is the accurate word. It is a duty. If you are married, you have a duty to give your body to your married partner. To withhold your body is sin. It is a violation of your marriage covenant. The verb have there, has authority. Used with the word authority. Shows that it is a present, tense authority, has. Yes, we are to offer our body, the living and holy sacrifice to God, so says Romans chapter 12 and verse 1, but if you're married, you have obligations to offer your body to your spouse, simply put. You must give your body to your married partner when he asks, when she asks. To refuse that is to misunderstand marriage, and it is to tempt the other to sin. Paul just wrote in chapter 6 that the two become one flesh. Well, if you're one flesh, you're one flesh What's hers is yours, what's yours is hers. You're joined. So the issue of whether you should or shouldn't, that was all settled at the altar when you said, I do. I think it's wonderful here too that not only God but the Apostle Paul is concerned for both male and female. Do you see that in here? People say, you know, the Bible it's uh It's against female and all the rest of that. Just just look at this. There is an equality of the sexes in the act of sex here in the marriage. The wife does not have any less of a right than the man does. The rights go both ways. He wrote it exactly parallel, so there could be no misunderstanding about that You know, often men, you know you know how we are, right? We think we can have it on demand, right? We're gonna have it on demand. What about when the wife's like, honey, let's do something? We act like we don't have to respond. It's not what it says here. Well, we act like the Roman male, I think, sometimes. They were uh strong, they dominated their wives. In a Christian marriage, the Roman attitudes to change. You, your body, men, belongs to her. The Zonder Van Illustrated Bible background commentary. They write, this teaching was radical for a Roman audience Men felt free to have sexual intercourse with slaves or other women. Sexual fulfillment was seen as an end in itself. Paul was reminding husbands and wives of exclusivity of their relationship. Extramarital activity is not acceptable for Christians. And then within The marriage obviously one must give oneself to the other. Notice that the man is to make sure it is done in his home, because even though the statements are parallel, who's given the command first? The man is, right? The command is to the man first. He must make sure of this mutuality and sexual behavior in his own home. That means the wife can have it on demand too, fellas. She has authority over your body. Oh, we have so much male pride and prejudice. We like to say we don't. Just read the scriptures, guys, and see what God is saying. Some of you are saying, whoa, is a woman really supposed to act like that? And she's supposed to be demanding that kind of stuff? I mean she's just supposed to submit. Just keep quiet, look pretty. When it comes time for that moment, yada yada, just you know, just do what I want you to do. Now she says she can have she has a desire And she has rights and she has authority and you owe her a debt. Brother, she owns your body. She has to get something out of the deal, right? Something You have to make yourself available to her. Now some of you out there saying, that's no problem, you're talking my language right there. That's all I wanted her to hear anyways today But actually there is a problem when we men go looking at pictures we ought not to be looking. And uh we start to train our eyes to think in a certain way, we start to get our expectations up, and that actually hurts our ability to respond to our wife when she says, honey, this would be a good night. And so we do our wives a disservice when we let our eyes wander around Notice how strong Paul gets here. Just for one phrase, he gets very strong. Stop depriving one another. That's a present tense command. Depriving may even be a weak translation that kind of has the idea of withholding, but the word has a connotation of cheating or robbing as well. Quit robbing your wife, quit robbing your husband of their marital rights Well this has so many applications and I I I don't even have time for them. I I have a whole list of applications and things to get into here. I just talked slowly today. I don't know what happened. But um we'll pick up right there with some of these applications and some of the issues that are involved in a marriage relationship, the difficulties of coming together. We're going to talk about some of those next Sunday as well. And uh so just stay tuned. Put your finger right there and remember where we are. Study the text. It's a very fascinating and wise and the helpful practical passage of Holy Scripture. Let's close by praying. Would you join me? Our Father and our God, we are grateful for the instruction here today and we ask for a growing awareness and understanding of your pattern and rules and plan and design for marriage. and for singlehood and for sex. Help us not to be deceived in any way, but to rely on your good wisdom Lord, you never change, your wisdom never runs out. What was true and good 2,000 years ago is good today. Help us to be humble, receive this teaching, hunger for it. For it is your word. It is inerrant. It is infallible. It is true down to every word and every letter. And we thank you for it. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.