Now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. But because of immoralities, each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband The husband must fulfill his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does, and likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Stop depriving one another, except by agreement, for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer. And come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. But this I say by way of concession, not of command, yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am However, each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner and another in that. But I say to the unmarried and to widows, that it is good for them if they remain even as I But if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. But to the married I give instruction, not I but the Lord, that the husband that the wife should not leave her husband But if she does leave, she must remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband. And that the husband should not divorce his wife. But to the rest I say, not the Lord That if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, he must not divorce her. And a woman who has an unbelieving husband and he consents to live with her, she must not send her husband away. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified through her believing husband, for otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or the sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace. For how do you know, a wife, whether you will save your husband Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife? I very much appreciate the interest in this topic from our congregation, also some of the feedback I received from the first message to be careful with the details on such a topic as this as we try to make application to ourselves And to our situation. I have tried to take that into consideration. I also, however, have received feedback that much of the detail that makes some uncomfortable actually benefits blesses, edifies, and guides other people. And our commitment here at this church is to preach the full counsel of God's Word. That includes some of the difficult to hear and difficult to preach sections of God's Word. But I believe that the maturity of our congregation needs such a commitment. It depends on learning the full range of subjects. that God in His wisdom chose to embed within Holy Scripture. And that includes that we also take time to understand how to apply them to our lives. Sexuality, marriage, and singlehood are very important topics for our people and also for the families and for our church And I, for one, find them to be quite appropriate to speak of from the pulpit even in detail. My children, I would remind all of you, sit in this room as well. While the world screams its fallacious opinions at our young people from a multitude of voices, and they are listening. And while it insists on its sinful expressions in many of these areas, we who know the mind and the revelation of God must not be silent, we must be bold. when we must be clear about the truths contained herein. This topic, beloved, must be brought out from the shadows as it often remains in God's church and given its full due. Parents, you need a church that speaks openly on a subject that others, other churches Other places will not. Your children are listening to voices outside the context of God's Word. So are your young people, and we need to be very clear about what God says. I know that you may be personally uncomfortable with this topic, and I understand that, but from my perspective and dealing with married couples, young people, singles, I know that there is much teaching and counsel from God's Word that is needed. There is just too much deception, too much deception that is going on in the world today. If you open your eyes, you'll see that it's there. We have to be clear on this subject. So I will treat this passage today the same way that I do any other passage of Scripture. Now last time we began using this very text where the Corinthians had their own particular questions to ask the Apostle Paul in order to answer some of those questions about marriage. Largely last time we covered verses 1 through 4 and a little bit into verse 5. And last time we answered two of our questions. Number one, do Christians have to marry? Seems like a strange question for us to ask, but it was one they wrestled with quite a bit. And question number two, why get married? And if you want the answer to those two questions, read the text or you can also get our message from last time. Also, we began question number three last time, and we left off in the middle of it, and that was what is God's design for married partners? We mostly covered that question. We left off towards the end of that question. Particularly, we were considering the issues of oneness and mutuality in the rights of one spouse over the other in the area of physical intimacy. The fact that the man has authority over the wife's body and the wife has equal authority over the man's body is something to be taken seriously by all married couples. And it has some practical implications for how we are to behave in our marriages. These are divine musts and commands, not suggestions. For sex is a gift from God to be used, and to be used in a proper way, in the context of lifelong commitment. In marriage. It is the very central physical act of what it means to be married. And it pictures the very oneness that God wants the two to understand. He gave us a physical example to understand a spiritual reality. And that is its purpose and its importance. Since each married partner has authority over the body of the other, and since God, through the Apostle Paul here gives a divine commandment, stop depriving one another. Then we must say, by way of application, never should a man or a woman in marriage for any prolonged period of time withhold themselves from their married partner. Never. That is God's command. Now, obviously, things such as frequency are a private matter. They have to be discussed between the couple, and they should be discussed with love and with understanding. That, oh well, I am not interested, attitude doesn't fit a married person The constant cold shoulder, the changing the subject, the lacklustre of participation. That has no place in a Christian marriage. Some are too busy, it seems, with work, with responsibilities, and they will pass on that information to their spouse. That too is dangerous to a marriage. Often a wife at home is too distracted with the children and she just doesn't want to feel a certain way. That also is something that has to be guarded against. You better believe that Satan would seek to divide and destroy our homes through this neglect. Some in Corinth for their own reasons. We have speculated that, given the other statements of the Apostle Paul, it was spiritual super pride that they had in their knowledge of spiritual things, they were denying the others their conjugal rights. Paul said that had to stop He said it is sin. He said it will break apart a marriage. He said it would lead to immorality. And so the command stands for us, beloved. It is for us as well. Now I know, and I have been told, but I know this anyways, that some of you have struggles in this area. Sometimes couples never want to admit it. They don't want to talk about it. It's private. It's shameful. It's hard to speak of. But nevertheless, it is true. You're having problems. And the problems in that area will hurt your marriage. I just want to survey some of these with you and give you some hope. I won't get into great detail, but I want to mention each one of them. And you can talk with us more about this if you need to. One problem just simply might be as you are maybe a younger married couple and you've come to marriage and you find out that you actually have some physical challenges, some physical problems. So see a doctor. There's no shame in that. Go to a doctor, work it out. It's far too important of an area and far too urgent for you to neglect that area and put it off. Others may have no physical issues, but they have some emotional issues. There's anxiety, there's fear about performance. How will I be thought of? Will I meet expectations? You know, the first word that I would say to you is go ahead and relax. If someone has already chosen to spend their entire life with you, they've looked you over from head to foot, and there's something there obviously that they have appreciated Just relax with love and patience, marriages that were arranged without any knowledge of who the two were, somehow they were able to work things out over time with patience And I think that you can remember that there is a lot of wisdom in God's word. If you just remember love conquers fear and you work things out. Another problem for many is that churches spend so much time talking about the immorality of sex. Passage after passage of scripture says it. And we get accustomed to hearing whenever the topic sex comes up that we are talking negatively about it. It's immoral. And if you grew up in the church, that's what you hear, month after month, year after year. So you start to think that this thing is a problem. that it's dirty, that it's dangerous, and that actually develops such a protective nature in some that they don't know how to make the adjustment when it's time for marriage. They think the topic is something to avoid. They don't even want their mind thinking about it. Brothers and sisters, that is an imbalance. That does not express God's wisdom. Did you know that God in his wisdom put an entire book of Holy Scripture within the context Right there of the Old Testament, the Song of Solomon, to do nothing other than to celebrate physical, romantic love between a husband and his wife. Conservative religious people must be very careful not to fall into this ditch of avoidance. God is a good God, a generous God. He is a God that fills us with joy, and he wants us to have joy and intimacy. And every man and his wife needs to trust his design. Learn to enjoy what God has provided. Listen, do we stop eating because we know that some foods are bad for us? No, we do not. We learn how to eat nutritionally. So the same in this manner as well. Retrain your thinking. And then there's just the problem of selfishness. We come into marriage often, pick on the men here for a moment. The man has been waiting two or three years and he's ready to dive in. He wants to eat his full course meal right from the beginning. To him it is about getting what he wants Min, your wife is a person to be loved, not an object to be devoured. She needs to know and understand that you care for her tenderly. Women are treated far too often in society as objects. They sell cars with their bodies. They sell just about everything with their bodies, including their own bodies And that is an attitude that many men, whether they want to admit it or not, bring into their Christian marriage. That has to be changed Charlie read from 1 Peter chapter 3, it said we need to live with our wives in an understanding manner. What does that mean? That means be patient, and you apply what that means in this situation. Be timely Be sensitive. Be understanding. Pay attention to details. Be kind. And then there are just some people that I guess you'd categorize them as they're just very practical kind of people. They're business-like. They would rather consume themselves and their responsibilities, their studies, or their employment. They don't really know how to stop and smell the roses in life. They don't seem to have much interest at all in romance. It seems a waste of time. But romance aids oneness in marriage, people. It aids oneness in marriage. And God is concerned with oneness in marriage. So if that is you, you have to repent. You have to repent of your lack of desire for oneness. God would have you learn another side of life, a side that you've left undeveloped for years. You need to learn to develop, to be a more complete person, as God would have you. Be humble, be teachable Don't let unbelief or pride keep you from experiencing God's best for your marriage Of course, in some cases, resistance to intimacy stems from some traumatic experience earlier in life, abuse. And it's remembered and it's hard to overcome. It's very hard to overcome. Unfortunately, the number of sex offenders is on the rise in our society. And as a church, we're going to see more and more of this. You leaders need to be ready to deal with that. And you need to know how to help people in that situation. If you yourself have been through something like that, this demand by Paul, stop depriving each other, may seem to be insensitive at best and unworkable at worst. But, beloved, again, I say Paul is giving more than a command here. He's giving guidance to help you. Stop depriving one another is not something that will hurt you, it's something that will help you. Remember, if you were a victim that though you were a victim, everyone has to respond to life as God brings it to them. God's in control of your life. God is in control of the details of what happened to you in the past. You can't keep living as a victim. That's no way to live the Christian life. If you rightly understand the grace of God and how it works, its power within you, you should know that None of us is deserving of anything pleasurable or good in our lives at all. If we have things that we enjoy and if we have things that work well in our lives, we should give thanks to God because that's something we don't deserve. A victim mentality is a dead end in life. It goes nowhere. It will cripple you and your relationships and your marriage. You'll never accept responsibility when you accept the label that you're a victim. You won't know how to face evil and overcome it because evil faced you and it has crippled you for life and you don't know what to do with it. The loving name of Jesus Christ, you've been given power to overcome that, but you don't believe that. The truth, beloved, is powerful if you believe it. And here's the truth. You are now a new person, a changed person. You are in Christ. You are a child of God. You possess the power of overcoming faith. You've been graciously granted a new identity in Christ. You're not the old person. Even talking about what happened in the past is somewhat irrelevant to you. You were new, newly created. You're a whole new person. That's what God says, and that's what you have to believe about yourself to overcome these things. You need to learn to trust God. I know you believe in Him, but you need to learn to trust Him in your situation and give of yourself to your spouse and to the will of God. You know that is the way that God works his powerful love within people. The more that you are wrong, you actually have the chance in that wrong to express the love of God in a way that someone who is not wronged like that can't. They don't understand the depth of love and the depth of forgiveness because they haven't been harmed or hurt, but you have And God had that happen to you for a reason, that he might demonstrate the depth and greatness of his love through you, if you will believe him. Your being wronged is a stepping stone to experiencing the greater love of God. Ephesians 4. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and Slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Those are the things that develop in a heart that's been wrong. And be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Listen, with any of these hindrances that I surveyed here today, those who keep making excuses for themselves will not change. They will not grow. Excuses simply deny God's power. They resist God's will and they weaken your marriage. You may hide forever behind some label that society pins on you and calls it scientific. You can't love that way because. You can't function like other people because. You can't get over this because. Who are you going to listen to? Them? Or God. Who knows better? Those people don't know God's word, and they don't know the amazing power of the Spirit of God. It's just a matter of who you're going to trust, who you're going to build your life off. None of those things are an exception to Paul's command in this context to fulfill your duty, your oughts within marriage. Yet he does give one exception. Did you see it? Right there in verse 5. Except, except by agreement for a time. So that you may devote yourselves to prayer. Except is expressed by the Greek a mét, which is exactly that. It is an exception. To the rule. There is one thing that is so important to our lives, it trumps even this duty of the physical bond in marriage temporarily. Prayer. The spiritual pursuit of God. We believers need some intensely spiritual times, times focused on God alone, an intense time of prayer. During a time of intense prayer, a person wants to focus on God. He doesn't want to eat. He doesn't want other bodily pleasures. He doesn't want to be distracted with relationships He is so focused on God and consumed with God because of his need for God. Just like David expressed in one of the lowest moments in his life in Psalm 63, verse 1. O God, you are my God. I shall seek you earnestly. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh yearns for you. In a dry and weary land where there is no water. There is that intense focus. But keep this guideline even there, where the Apostle Paul says it is only for a time. Paul doesn't specify the length of time. It clearly wasn't for months, because he tells them, come back together again, lest they be what? Tempted. Tempted. Why might some married person need to have such a time alone in prayer to devote just to the Lord? Well, it could be a spiritual battle they're going through. Some spiritual warfare that they need to fight against indwelling sin. It could be a burden that they have for someone else or for some ministry they want to see accomplished. Something that consumes them spiritually and emotionally It may be that they want to be devoted to something for a period of time. God has spoken to their hearts and they know it. They can sense the pressure of God's Spirit. Business will not be as usual for the next few days. And they need focus on God. It could just be a time of grief. Grief changes the entire mood of the home, and it may require much attention to the Word of God and to prayer. You know, in Exodus chapter 19 and verses 9 through 15, it was an example of where God commanded even married couples to abstain for three days. God commanded that. Why? No intimacy whatsoever. God was going to visit his people. He was going to come down upon Mount Sinai and He was going to boom forth the Ten Commandments. And they were to be ready and prepared to hear the law of God. You know, the key to making this period of abstinence work is that it is mutually agreed upon. Do you see that? It has to be by agreement. The husband can't turn to the wife and say, this is how it's going to be. The wife can't turn to the husband and say, no, this is how it's going to be. It forces mutuality in the decision. Do you see that? This is just a beautiful example of how a married couple is supposed to work things out. Work decisions out jointly together. Men you should never be making major decisions for your home apart from your wives, and you should never be making these kinds of personal decisions apart from your wives. Do you see that? And the same is true for the wives. In fact, you men, as the leaders of your homes, should be the first to take the initiative to communicate well. If there's not good communication in your home, men, it is your fault. It is your responsibility to initiate the communication. It is your responsibility to make sure your wife's needs and interests and feelings are taken into consideration. And here Paul wisely instructs both to work together and to make sure abstinence was not ongoing, lest they fall prey to immoral temptation. Dr. John MacArthur brings out the wisdom of this exhortation, and I quote: When the time of concentrated prayer is over, he writes, normal desires and temptations will return, often with greater intensity. Satan knows that Christians can be especially vulnerable after a mountaintop experience. Our defenses are apt to be down and our pride may be up. Or because of the experience, we may simply not have the desire for sex. for a while afterward. Our spouse, on the other hand, especially if he or she has not shared in the prayer, may have developed a particularly strong desire during the separation. As a guard against falling into temptation ourselves or of causing our marriage partner to fall into temptation, sexual relationships are to resume immediately. Unless it is by mutual consent for a specific prayer need and for a brief period of time, sexual abstinence can become a tool of Satan. It is never to be used as a pretense for spiritual superiority or as a means of intimidating or manipulating one's spouse Physical love is to be a normal and regular experience shared by both marriage partners alike as a gift from God. Satan's temptation was already in the Corinthian church. We saw back in chapter 5, a man had his father's wife, and in chapter 6, they were visiting prostitutes to take care of their bodily desires. Certain safeguards were obviously needed for them, but they are also needed for us. Don't let immorality in your home. Don't let immorality into your marriage or into this church because you neglect. your marital duties. Now if you look back at the text in verse 6, there's a sentence there that many have found very hard to interpret and pin down. Paul writes this next. He says, this I say by way of concession and not command. But what is the word this referring to? Well, certainly it's not referring to the commands the Apostle Paul gave in this passage in verses two through five. There are oughts in there. There are shoulds with clear moral authority there. So he doesn't mean those. Those were not concessions, those were commands. He's not referring to coming together again after prayer separation. That was, as we saw, a must. He's not backing off his command in verse 2 to and verse 3 to give yourself to your spouse. That would be self-contradictory. It is a command. What is the concession? Well, there are two main options, and I'll let you take your pick because I'm not really sure. Option number one is that the concession is the time of prayer itself. No one really has to come apart for a time of prayer. That wasn't a command from the Apostle Paul. That was only a concession Many believe that option, and they believe that because it's the closest antecedent to the pronoun this, and so that makes sense. The problem with that view is when you get the verse 6 You see the word yet at the very beginning and that doesn't seem to flow together. The flow of thought gets strained at that point in time. That's why many choose option two and I prefer this. that he's taking the confession all the way back to verse 2. Paul is not commanding people to be married. It is a concession, not a command. Marriage is not commanded of God for all. Singlehood is allowed and it is good. And we covered that last time as well. And that is why in verse 7 he wishes all were like him. That option seems to fit the flow of thought better, for he was single. Singlehood, he's saying, is good. Marriage is also good. You just need to weigh which one is best for you. Well, and that naturally brings us to the next question. Question number four in our strategic questions in the series is what factors should I weigh? before getting married. Now we spent some time talking to the married here. We're going to address some concerns the singles have as well. Look in verses 7 through 9. Paul writes, Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. However, each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner and another in that. But I say to the unmarried and to the widows that it is good for them if they remain even as I. But if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. Now, verse 8 specifically states that he is giving instruction to the unmarried, the agamos, those not in wedlock. I think there's a lot of questions you can ask yourself, singles. Now if you're if you're a single, this applies directly to you. If you have children that are going to be looking for a married partner, you can think about these principles as well. If you work in the singles ministry, this will help you as well. There are lots of reasons to learn these principles, even if you're married. There are some questions that we can ask ourselves using these principles And in asking ourselves, this will help give guidance. Should I be one of those that gets married? It's a good question. It's an important question, a relevant question. The first question we should ask is: how can I best serve God? As a married person, Or as an unmarried person. Now I know that's a question that many don't even want to think about, much less ask. They're dead set on getting married, and so they don't even want that question brought up But Paul tells him right here that he wished all men were in the same marital status as he was. And he, yes, was what? He was single. Some, by the way, believe that the Apostle Paul was a widowed man. They believe that because normally Jews were married and married from a very early age. He was studying under Gamaliel to be a teacher and a rabbi, and they would have been married. But no one really knows that for sure. If he was married, Paul never mentions it, and that would be kind of strange. Nor does he mention any children from the union. But here he says he has a gift from God to be single. And so it would make more sense that that's been his life's calling. And not only he says that he has a gift from God to be single, he wishes that everybody else was as he was Do you find that kind of strange to read in God's Word that he's wishing everybody was single just like him? But that's what it is. It's a wish. The verb fellow is to wish or to desire. It doesn't mean that he went around trying to make everybody single and break up marriages. He's not an anti-marriage. Later in chapter 14, Paul will write that he wished all people would speak in tongues just as he did, and yet he wrote also in that very context that he knew that God didn't give that gift to everyone, and there were many that didn't have that gift. So he knew it was just a wish. He was just simply saying, I wish you were like me. The state that I'm in is a good option. It's a good state to be in, and I wish you were like me I'm not ashamed of my position. It's not an inferior position, you see. And he wants others to think about that choice. He looked at his situation and said, I look through my life and I say I made a good choice to remain single. I can serve God better this way than I could marry. You don't find the Apostle Paul moaning about not having a believing wife as others did. And so I would say, single people, this is something that you need to weigh quite carefully. If you want to do the will of God, you need to take this into consideration. I would say you need to take this into consideration more than any other question you'd ask yourself. How can I serve God better, married or single? How can you best be a blessing for God's kingdom? How can you serve the King of Kings better? In which way? Hey, the Apostle Paul got a lot done for the kingdom of God, wouldn't you say? He didn't have to put time into building a family. He didn't have to take time to raise children, three or four kids or five or whatever. He didn't have to take time to please his wife and energy into that. His mind wasn't distracted in that way. He spent all of his time and energy and focus building up the forever family of God, the church of Jesus Christ, whom he calls his own bride. He spent all of his time winning and discipling hundreds, yea, thousands, maybe tens of thousands of spiritual children, building them up for the kingdom of God. I want you to notice down below in this passage, still in chapter 7, look all the way down to verse 32, because he elaborates a little bit on his motive here. In verse 32, he writes, but I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. Verse 33 But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife, and his interests are divided. The woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be both holy, both in body and spirit, but one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. This I say for your benefit, not to put a restraint upon you, but to promote what is appropriate And listen, here's his motive, here's his concern, to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord. Married people simply have to spend much time devoted to the spouse, and that is fine. That is good. That's what married people are supposed to do. They're supposed to focus on Marriage. Paul is saying that the focus on the Lord's work 24-7 is even better. And singles have an advantage when it comes to that area. If that is God's design for you. Beloved, that is not to lower the family in importance. People read that the wrong way. What he's doing is he's elevating working for the church full time and with full concentration. He's elevating the church in importance. The Church of Jesus Christ is the priority of God in this age. It is the apple of his eye. See, too many read their Bibles thinking we're still in the Old Testament, and they don't understand the church and its import in the New Testament Dedication to the family, beloved, is a good thing. I don't want to be misunderstood. No, it's a very good thing. I'm very concerned that my family gets my attention. And I want to know that I can Learn how to be a better teacher to my children and a better husband to my wife. I want to set a better example. I want to love them. I want to meet their needs. That is a commendable action. That's a holy calling. That's a command for husbands and fathers. But singlehood is also a wonderful position in service for God. In fact, it has an advantage because it promotes even more time and energy and focus onto the eternal kingdom of God. It has its place in the church and it has an advantage. I know there are a lot of people who call themselves Christians that could care less about being productive for the kingdom of God. They like coming to church and all, but they don't really think about their life being productive for God's kingdom and that's sad. They really don't want to witness all that much. They don't want to be involved in ministry. They don't want their time constraints put on them. They don't want to have to give money to the church. They just don't want to really have to To spend a lot of time thinking about it. They're content without having any godly ambition. But if you're single, you really need to make sure that you will serve God better married than unmarried. You have to think long and hard about that. You should think about yourself a lot. Think about your needs. Think about your giftedness. Think about how God is using you, how he could use you, what faith he's granted to you, see. Don't appreciate the importance of service in God's household. And just assume, because there's pressures and expectations on you that you want to be married. Again, do you notice he even says this to the widows, even those who were accustomed to being married and now are not, they lost a spouse. Even to them, he says, there are advantages for you not remarrying. And so think deeply about that question. Well, here's another question a single person can ask. What gift do I have from God? What gift do I have From God. At the end of verse 7, he talks about each man as receives a gift, obviously from God. God grants some to be able to be single in that state for all of light and to be strong and to be productive Not everybody is gifted this way. In fact, since marriage was the norm for mankind, we would say fewer are gifted this way than the other way. Being single and satisfied and productive, that's a special gift from God Paul recognized that others don't generally have this gift, but he didn't want people diminishing in it, so he held himself up as an example. Again, each man or woman must evaluate whether or not he or she has this gift from God. You say, how can you know that? Well One way to do this is to ask the question from verse 9, do I burn with passion? Do I burn with passion By the way, please understand this. Paul is not talking in burning here about burning in hell. It's funny how the commentaries get that stuck into this context. It's not here at all. He talks about self-control in this context. His point is that not that it's better to marry, otherwise you'll go to hell, but uh So that you do not burn with passion and commit sexual immorality. Lacking self-control is the Greek word enkratuo. It means to have power over oneself. We say exercise self-control, to have power over your passions. God gifts some people with that. They have power and they have control over themselves. And it's a blessing from God. And it allows them to be a blessing to other people. Burn is the verb pura'o, it means to set a flame to fire to burn in this sense it's being used metaphysically Paul uses the same idea when he is referring to the sin of homosexuality in Romans chapter one, verses twenty six and twenty-seven. He writes for this reason God gave them over to degrading passions For their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural, and in the same way also the men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another, men with men committing indecent acts And receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. There the burning was an unnatural burning. Here, the burning is natural, but they lack self-control to know when it is to be used. They may not yet have been committing acts of immorality. Some in Corinth obviously were. Others were just struggling, maybe as you are, with fantasy, getting dangerously close to committing an act of sin. That is why Paul gave advice in 1 Timothy 5 and verse 14 to the younger widows, and he said, This, therefore I want younger widows to get married. Bear children, keep house, and listen, give the enemy no occasion for reproach. Through sexual immorality, the enemy would have occasion for reproach against the church So you come in here and you need to realize that your passions that work in your body will have implications on this church if you do not guard yourself. And they will hurt us. Satan is always looking for opportunities. Remember how Peter describes him? He roams about as a lion seeking someone to devour. He's going from person to person to person, from local church to local church to local church. He's sending out his temptations, and he's looking for the weak link. Just as a lion always looks for the weakest one to pounce on. So he's looking who has the weakness, who's not listening to God. Whose heart is not hard fast after God, they will become Satan's target. And so it's very important not just that some of us understand this, but that all of us understand this. We must preserve integrity, purity, and unity in Christ Church. Singles who have thought about this gift And they prayed long and hard about it, and still their heart longs to be married, and they know why, and it just seems to be a stronger desire in them. They don't have the ability to have self-control, they can tell that, then they likely do not have the gift of singlehood. Guess that goes without saying. However, when singles have prayed and prayed about getting married, and they're convinced that they do not have the gift of being single, yet God has not answered their prayer, God has not brought them a spouse They need to double check this, because it may be more the expectations of society that are guiding them than really God and His Holy Spirit. Go back and double check your heart and your giftedness. You know, I think our society, particularly our Christian subculture, puts a lot of pressure on people to get married. That it is the better state, that it is the norm. I think many singles feel they have to get married. I think some of them would be feeling scared not to get married, maybe even embarrassed, lonely. They don't have a partner by the time they're 25, or God forbid, by 30 or 40, or whatever. They again begin actually to feel like a failure. And sometimes that is the church's fault, the way we talk. They were not able to secure a partner as all of their friends did in high school, in college, or whatever. And so they feel like a failure. And yes, we parents add to this persuasion as well. You know, we really do expect our children to grow up and what? Get married. That's what we expect. I mean how many parents, how many of you parents pray for your children to grow up and have a life of spiritual product productivity for God in the kingdom of God as a single? Have you been praying that prayer? I'd be curious to know if anyone did. No, you begged God to send a godly spouse for your Son or daughter. You want a nice son-in-law, a nice daughter-in-law. Hold those fat grandbabies one day. Dream about a large family. Visiting you in your retirement. And that's your dream. And that's what you talk about, and that's what you pray for, and that's what all your friends do, whom your children also see. And it creates a climate where marriage is almost a must. Listen to me, married people. Single people are not failures. I thank God for some people who have extra time to give to service in this church. It is a joy. to have them here. There was one single who did a lot for the kingdom of God, and he was the Apostle Paul. And I dare say any of us would say he wasted his life. And in case you would be bold enough to say that, there then was this other man named Jesus, who also was singing. Now, a third question that you should ask yourself, and what are the times in which you live? And I'll try to go through this quickly. There was persecution looming in the air as the Apostle Paul was writing this letter to the church at Corinth. If you looked briefly down at verse 26, you can see down in that verse, verse 26, that Paul speaks of a present distress, present distresses, times of trouble that would be coming upon the local church there at Corinth. If they got married during a time of persecution or duress, that would be tough on the wife, not to mention the little ones. Born into a hostile environment would be hard. During times of unrest, people might do better to wait to obtain children, and work rather to obtain spiritual children, to snatch the unsaved out of the fire, as Jude writes in his epistle. to see them one to Christ, to build up spiritual children. You may remember back in chapter 4 and verse 15, this is what Paul did as their church planter. Paul was the one who proclaimed the gospel first to the church at Corinth. He led them to Christ, and so he was spiritually speaking and humanly speaking their spiritual father. Sometimes hard times are about to break out. Maybe there's war in the air, persecution, whatever. That's not a good time for marriage. You know, we're so used to political stability here in the USA and no direct persecution like this that we usually don't even take things like this into consideration. Maybe one day we'll have to However, in our case there might be something that is a bad timing. Maybe in your particular situation as you're weighing it, there might be a family tragedy, there might be hard economic times, it might not be the right moment to get married It's not the right timing. It will be a greater hardship for a new wife if she gets married to a man and then the man instantly goes off to war. There was a law in the nation of Israel that a man was not allowed to go off to war until a year after he was married. Maybe he would take her to some foreign country after they're married, and that would be hard. Might be the wrong time to get married It might be better to wait and let those hard and difficult times pass and then get married, give that new union a chance to get started and grow strong and not be hindered in other ways. And then a fourth question you singles would ask is, what about some personal issues that I've taken care of? Have I taken care of my personal issues? They're not really mentioned in the text, but if you think about these principles If you weigh them, I think we can sort out some other things to ask ourselves. Some of you are wondering about marriage, well how old are you? And more importantly, how mature are you? That's not a question you should ask by yourself, by the way. You should ask someone who knows you well. If you can't keep your room clean, if you can't hold down a job, you have too many bad habits, you're not reliable for others in church. You don't finish your homework on time? Well, I have news for you. You're not ready to get married. You're just not ready. Young men, you need to ask: Am I ready to take care of a woman? You may be very strong, strongly attracted to her. You may find yourself thinking about her day and night But you ought not to pursue a relationship with her until you can look her dad's eyes, right in her dad's eyes, and say, Yes, I'm committed to her and to her purity and I can take care of her. Here's my job. And I tell you, no dad worth his salt is going to let a bum marry his daughter, right? So where are you going to live? What job are you going to keep? How well do you do in controlling your spending? Where's your checkbook? Let's see. Another personal question is, are there godly believers out there for me to marry? Some of you sigh after that question because you've been looking. You may have concluded that you don't have the gift of singlehood, that you would serve the Lord better with a spouse, but there aren't any around I have to speak differently to the men and women here. The women should not have to press the issue with the men. That's not their role. But they can make themselves known. And parents can help them. And a church can help them. I see nothing wrong with churches of like precious faith getting together and having a singles conference. and helping them to find whom they're praying for and their parents are praying for. There's nothing wrong with that. You know what Abraham did to get a bride for his son? He sent him hundreds of miles way out of the land, sent his trusted servant Eliezer to get a bride. Can't we be hunting and looking as well? Matchmaker, matchmaker. Can't we be like that? You know, in our singles ministry, actually we're hoping to do that, to join with other churches, be in prayer about that, because I think that's important for our our singles. Young men speaking to you, if you're ready for marriage. You're ready for marriage. There's some ladies out there who are waiting to be asked. You know you need to you need to get some courage up. You need to quit dragging your feet. You need to pray about your situation carefully, and you need you need to ask the right person at the right time. You know, there might be someone who's really counting on you. And there's some parents that are just really waiting for that moment. You just weigh your motives carefully. Are you pursuing first the kingdom of God? That's the best way to know you're getting a right spouse Your heart is right. You're pursuing God's kingdom, and you find someone whose heart begins to click with yours, and then you know You know, there's a wealth of wisdom in this passage here if we just apply our minds to it. Truths that can guide our decision-making process It's not a mystical decision who you get married to. There are principles from Scripture. One last thing I want to leave you with. Look at the very end of the passage at verse 39. You may marry there, you're told, whomever you wish. Verse 39. But there's one restriction given to you. It only must be in who? The Lord. Marriage of an unbeliever or someone who says that they're a Christian, but they're Christian only in name They have no clear testimony for Christ, either in word or in deed. Marriage to someone like that is prohibited by God. Because God loves you and He's wise and He's saving you problems and trouble Such a bond would be sin, and it usually results in greater harm. But God, within those constraints, has allowed you great freedom. It's not a mystical process. Please have something glow over the one I'm supposed to ask to marry me. Marry whomever you what wish. Marry whomever you wish. Whomever you enjoy being around, whomever looks good to you, whomever you can see spending the rest of your life with. That's the point. God is good, God is generous, but you must, you must, you must trust His instructions for marriage. Now we're going to continue next week with part three. It doesn't say that in your bulletin, but we got part three. And we'll ask the question, what is when is divorce and remarriage allowed? And we'll also ask, what guidance is there for believers who are married to unbelieving spouses? That's all next time.