Many of you heard of the scandal recently involving Reverend Ted Haggard. He's in the news. He's a pastor of New Life Church in Colorado Springs. The church is going through a lot of heartache right now. Pastor Haggard was exposed publicly, and then he made full confession of his sexual sin. including some homosexual behavior. In part of his written confession to his church, he writes these words, I am so sorry. I'm sorry for the disappointment, the betrayal, and the hurt. I'm sorry for the horrible example I have set for you. I am a deceiver and a liar. There is a part of my life that is so repulsive and dark that I've been warring against it all of my adult life. For extended periods of time I would enjoy victory and rejoice in freedom. Then from time to time the dirt that I thought was gone would resurface. And I would find myself thinking thoughts and experiencing desires that were contrary to everything I believe and teach He also wrote in this confession: the fact is I am guilty of sexual immorality, and I take responsibility for the entire problem. I created this entire situation. I alone need to be disciplined and corrected. An example must be set. In that extended confession to his church, he went on to speak of his Love for his wife, the accountability he now has placed under some men of God, and his agreement that he should never return to church leadership. Given the fact that Pastor Haggard was a pastor of a mega fourteen thousand or so member church, and even more prominently, the head of the National Association of Evangelicals. Needless to say, his public fall rocked the evangelical world. Another setback, it seems, in our reputation in our country. A terrible act of carnality at the top of the evangelical church once again raises the question: can a man live like that and truly be a Christian? In Ted Haggard's confession, there are many positive signs. Time will tell. But this issue is not just for the headlines or the news or something that is distant from us. It's a personal issue to us. You and I are surrounded by many professing believers in Jesus Christ whose lives just don't seem to look that way. Nor do they seem contrite as Pastor Haggart seems now, nor do they make confession of some of the things they do, or change, or repent when confronted and corrected. Nor do they even seem to seek out God's word in order to have their lives transformed. Yet they say they're saved. There are evangelical churchgoers who commit acts of fornication without repentance and whose churches do not discipline them, who have oriented much of their lives around success and material gain, not one or two years, but throughout their lives, who do not lead their homes with love and with wisdom. And even claim to be homosexual and still have a relationship with Christ. You and I may even have loved ones very dear to us, close to our hearts, or even former Hope Bible church members or attendees who you have in your mind as you think of this issue and we're concerned for them. And their words and their lives are incongruent. They just don't match up But beyond that, to truly make it personal, if we are honest, we would also say that we also have a sense within us of the potential for committing great sin ourselves. And we have thoughts that come into our own minds that we would never want shared with anyone around us. Thoughts that are sinful, sensual, and wrong. So this is not an abstract, detached theological puzzle we have to solve this morning. How carnal can a true Christian really be is a personal and important question for all of us to be able to understand and answer well. Our text today is going to lead us right into the middle of these disturbing questions, but I believe this text will also lead us out into the comforting light of God's Word. Ask all of you to open to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 once again. We're going to begin with a verse we ended with last week, verse 14, and we'll Go all the way into chapter 3, verse 4. 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 14 through chapter 3, verse 4. Please follow along as I read. Paul writes, but a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself is appraised by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he will instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual men But as to men of flesh, as to infants in Christ, I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are not yet able, for you are still fleshly. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? And are you not walking like mere men? For when one says, I am of Paul. And another I am of Apollos. Are you not mere men? Now this, whether you realized it or not, is a central passage which a significant number of Strong Bible teachers have used to defend a doctrine that they call the doctrine of the carnal Christian. The carnal Christian. Lewis Sperry Chafer of Dallas Theological Seminary taught this doctrine in his Systematic Theology, a massive work. In volume seven, he writes about this very passage, quote, together with two other doctrines, that of the natural man and that of the spiritual man, the doctrine of the carnal man completes the threefold division of the human family. So he sees the human family in three categories And throughout his systematic theology, a continuous state of a Christian called the carnal believer who is saved, just as saved as you and me. but lives like unbelievers is not only explained but defended. And the teachings of Dallas Seminary, which otherwise has been an excellent seminary have had great influence all throughout the American evangelical church, particularly in conservative and Bible-teaching churches like ours, the Bible Church Movement in America. Dr. John MacArthur, in his book entitled Faith Works, in a section called The Myth of the Carnal Christian, I guess you can figure out what his position is, wrote this. Chafer popularized the carnal Christian idea in his 1918 book, He That Is Spiritual. Chaefer's friend, C. I. Schofield, included a similar scheme in one of the notes in the Schofield Reference Bible, which was a very popular reference Bible a century ago, and even 50 years ago. In recent years, the idea of the carnal Christian has been disseminated through a series of tracts and booklets published by Campus Crusade for Christ, MacArthur writes. And the basic argument for this doctrine, which is very popular, goes like this. There are some who are saved, but who live in a continuous state of carnality even many years after their conversion to Christ. They have received Jesus as their personal Savior, but have not yet accepted Jesus as their Lord. So their lifestyle is still very much like unbelievers, if not identical with it. So they encourage saved people who are still carnal to make a second decision besides accepting Christ, to take a second step. They are exhorted, and maybe you've heard this and you have been taught this, they are exhorted, now that they're saved, to dedicate their lives to Jesus Christ. now to accept him as their Lord. And this supposedly brings them up to a higher state of living, a higher Christian life, one now that is spiritual rather than carnal. And from my observations, I would say this teaching is quite prominent in the church still. But did Paul really teach that right here in this passage? I want to remind us of the flow of thought in the epistle up to this point in time because it will help us to understand. If you think back with me, those of you that have been here, in this passage, Paul is bringing to an end here an argument An argument he's been making of the superiority of God's wisdom over that of human wisdom. Human wisdom cannot know God and cannot know truth. God's wisdom is superior to that Unfortunately, the wisdom that the Corinthian believers had valued more was not the wisdom of God on the cross, but was a worldly wisdom that came from Greek philosophy. And that valuing of worldly wisdom was the root of all their sectarian and jealous actions, the spirit that they had in that church, which was carnal, and which was Paul's immediate concern at the beginning of this long letter. So Paul applies all that he has been teaching about the wisdom of Christ's cross, and he takes all of that teaching and applies it again directly to that specific situation where there was strife and jealousy and ambition there in the Corinthian church. Notice in chapter 3, verses 1 through 4 again, he returns to his use of the personal singular pronoun and talking to them in an IU relationship, as he reflects on the relationship he had with the Corinthians, both that past relationship and when he came and taught them and planted their church and even the present relationship where he writes to them from Ephesus. Two clauses in particular in verses one through four tell what Paul is thinking about. He says You were not yet ready then to receive these things. Indeed, you still are not ready. And you can hear disappointment in his writing. Maybe even frustration, their lack of Christian development up to this point in time. Indeed, the Corinthians thought they were so spiritual. They thought of themselves in such a great way. But Paul starkly rebukes them here and calls them fleshly. He calls them carnal, which indeed was true. But this description of the Carnal Corinthians has led to much misunderstanding throughout the years, as we already mentioned, which I want to clear up this morning in this message. So in this passage, we are indeed going to see three descriptions of men, but we're going to look at what they mean. And that's our outline: three descriptions of mankind, or three descriptions of men. And we want to compare these three descriptions to one another. I'm going to give them as we go. First, the natural man, verse 14. The natural man, the first description. Where he says in verse 14, but a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him And he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. Now, a lot of this is reviewed from last week, but I want to expand on it as well. A natural man is a man without something. What is he without? The Holy Spirit of God, that's right. The word natural is sukikas. It is he's called natural because he doesn't have anything supernatural. He hasn't been touched hasn't been put in touch with the things of the Spirit of God. He's only able to draw on natural resources what he was given from birth. He's not yet a new man in Christ He is his old person from birth. The natural man Ephesians chapter 2 tells us is dead in his trespasses and sins He is in a condition where the Spirit of God has not yet moved into his life, does not indwell him, has not made him born again, and he's unable to respond to the teachings of God The natural man, it says in verse 14, does not accept the things of the Holy Spirit. He doesn't accept the spiritual words. You may remember back from verse 13. Nor does he accept the spiritual thoughts embedded in those words that come from God's mind. He rejects all of that truth and all of that wisdom. He doesn't want it, he doesn't like it, he doesn't yield to it, he doesn't believe it, he's not attracted to it, he doesn't accept it Why not? Two reasons, and we learned this last week. One reason why he rejects them is that in his mind it's all foolishness. It's moria. It's stupidity. It makes no sense to him at all. He can't process it. He can't see the value in it. He can't see anything there that's worthy of his belief. In fact He just doesn't value God's truth at all. And secondly, the second reason that he does not accept it is that he can't understand it. He doesn't have any capacity to understand it. The word again there is dunami. It's a word that says that he doesn't have the power to do it. He doesn't have the capability to believe it. The emphasis of the word is on inability, and it's a present tense, present condition for him. To know the things of the Spirit of God that come through spiritual words and scripture takes insight and knowledge and appraisal that only the Spirit of God in a man makes possible. Appraisal. Ana Krino means the ability to examine something, investigate it. The Spirit of God must be received to be able to examine, investigate, and judge the value of the words and the thoughts. Without the Spirit the natural man cannot discern its beauty, its power, its wisdom. Only the Spirit of God, and we have to emphasize that, only the Spirit of God penetrating his darkness will bring him to the light He must be, in the words of Jesus, born again so that he can see the kingdom of God. Okay? Now what does it mean to be reborn? To have a new birth? We use that term, born-again, born-again Christians is even popular in society. What does it mean? Well, it means to be regenerated by the Holy Spirit of God, to receive a brand new life. And that life is in Christ and is given by Jesus Christ. Now a dead man, you know, you can poke him and he's not going to respond to anything. He's dead and he's unresponsive. He's unresponsive because he's dead. People that are dead to God, they're still walking around on earth, but they're unresponsive to God. They're not capable to respond to God. They need new life. They need what Galatians chapter 6 and verse 15 calls a new creation. They have to be created again. In John 3. 3, Jesus spoke to a Pharisee named Nicodemus. And he told this very religious man, Truly, truly I say to you, Nicodemus, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God Being born again is the equivalent to what John 3, verse 3 and verse 7 also call being born from above, that is from heaven, from God. Ganaan Anothan, being born from above. It's a birth given not from the earth, not from mama down here, but from God up there. The body, the flesh, has one kind of birth, Jesus said. And that makes you a natural man, but the Spirit must also have another birth. We must be born of the Holy Spirit, because it is only the Holy Spirit that imparts life to anybody. In John 1, 12-13, it says in that gospel, as many as received Christ, to them he gave the right to become the children of God, even to those who believe in his name. So you get salvation by believing his name. But verse thirteen, listen. These people were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but were born of God. Now one of the premier verses on regeneration in the New Testament is in 1 Peter. I want you to turn there. 1 Peter 1 and verse 3. 1 Peter 1 and verse 3 say this: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again. To a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. A great statement of God's love and mercy, causing us to be born again to this wonderful new hope. This new spiritual birth then is a drastic new beginning. How do I know that? Because that truth is gleaned from the very image of a birth itself, the symbolism of birth. Birth is a beginning event. It's something that initiates something. When you're born, you enter into something, right? When we were born, we we began our life in this world. We began all the things that we would would do in this world began at birth. So the same thing is true in the spiritual realm. When you're born again, now you're into the life of God and now you can begin doing things for God and living for God Born again is new life in Christ. Being born again is not a reform of your old life. God doesn't take the old life and fix it up and dust it off and make it look a little nicer, make it a little more religious, and then present you and say that's okay. No. The old life is dead. The old life is unacceptable. You need a entirely new life. A different kind of life that has new capabilities That's why 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if any man, and that applies to women, ladies, is in Christ, he is what? A new creation. It says new creature, but it means creation. Creature sounds a little weird. The old things passed away, it says. Behold, new things have come. Now it's not that you receive a soul when you're born again. Every human being has a soul in them, but it's unresponsive to God. It's dead to God and to his life So the new birth imparted at God's life into the human soul so that you and I would believe and obey and respond to the living God. But a natural man is not a reborn man. Come back to 1 Corinthians 2. And that's why Paul also speaks in this passage of a second kind of man, an entirely different kind of a human being. And that's second, the spiritual man in verses 15 through 16. Let's look at that. The spiritual man. But, he says in contrast in verse 15, he who is spiritual A praises all things. Yet he himself is appraised by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him but we, spiritual ones, have the mind of Christ. Now let's break this down so that our understanding of the spiritual man will be clear and we can compare it with a natural man. First I want you to notice the spiritual man's designation or his title. But he who is spiritual. Now who is that spiritual person? Who does Paul mean? The spiritual person, pneumaticas, is the one with the Holy Spirit of God now residing, living, dwelling within him, within his own body. Being spiritual does not just mean being non-physical. Sometimes we use the word spiritual to mean things that are not physical. That's not how he's using the word here. The word spiritual means it pertains to the Spirit of God. Spiritual is something granted and given and developed and born by the Holy Spirit of God. That's what it means. There are other intangible things that we might say are spiritual, like demons. They're spiritual, but in this sense they're not spiritual because they don't pertain to the Spirit of God. So the spiritual man is not some special class of a Christian. There aren't some Christians who are spiritual and some who are not. This does not refer to someone who's more advanced spiritually than another Christian, someone who's made a second step of obedience of some kind, or been baptized by the Holy Spirit. This is a description of every single saved person, every single believer in Christ. He is made alive by the Spirit of God, he has the Spirit of God living in him, and so because of that He gets this designation. He is spiritual. If you believe in Christ, you are a spiritual man. Romans 8. 8 also teaches us. who are in the flesh cannot please God, Paul writes there. Verse 9, however, you Christians are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. You have the Spirit of God living in you? From salvation, then you're not in the flesh, you're in the spirit, and so you are spiritual. I want you also to notice next the spiritual man's activity. What does he do? His activity He appraises all things. Do you see that? Same word there, anachrono. To appraise also means to discern or to investigate Or to evaluate. It was used in Luke's writings in the judicial examinations. You can look up on your own Luke chapter 23 and verse 14, Acts chapter 4 and verse 9, or Acts chapter 28 and verse 18. To examine someone in a judicial way, to evaluate them, to appraise them and try to understand them, to investigate them You'd investigate them, examine them, and that would prove who they are. You might decide in a court case they were guilty or they were innocent, and you'd pass judgment. Passing judgment would be the end of the appraisal. First came the appraisal, and then you pass judgment. Now, Paul says a spiritual man gets to appraise what? All things. All things. That is a phenomenal statement. He is now, with this new spiritual life that he possesses, and new eyes the Spirit of God has given him, able to see every single thing in his life differently and clearly. He's able to reassess everything now, reevaluate things, and see life and relationships and situations for what they really are. It's like the fog has been lifted, and now we can really see. Now please remember this is not an invitation for believers to go around judging one another. I can appraise and judge everything. You know, you're bad, you're bad. I don't like the way you live, you're ugly. It's not, you know, we're not we're not to be We're not to be obnoxious. This is not a call for spiritual policemen in the church who think they have the gift of making other people upset or whatever it would be It just points to the fact that every believer has been given new life and new eyes and new understanding. We have an ability the unbeliever doesn't have. We're ahead of the game. We're way ahead of them That's one reason we shouldn't go to them to be our teachers. We should go to believers and try to understand the world through the eyes of believers, because we're ahead of them, not behind them. And this spiritual man is supposed to use all the spiritual equipment that he has to look at his world and look at his life, look at himself, look at his family, to see differently. That's why it's been provided for him to use that. And this is true for all believers. Yes, some are more gifted in discernment, some are further along in their ability to see this, but all have this. Now, third, I want you to notice the spiritual man's distinction. He says next, yet he himself is appraised by no one. Now don't get too excited there. That doesn't mean that nobody in the church can understand you. The no one there applies to the unbeliever. That's the contrast that's being made. In other words, the spiritual man can look at the unbeliever and say, I know what's going on in your life. I know what's going on exactly in your life. Even if you don't know what's going on in your life, I know. And you know what? You don't know what's going on in my life. You can't even understand what's happened to me. You're not even in that realm. You're below that. You've never experienced it. You can't penetrate that knowledge. I have it. It's been given to me, but you don't. He is appraised by no one, it said. 1 John 3. 1 says, For this reason the world, that's the unbelieving world, does not know us because it didn't know Christ. They didn't know Christ. They didn't understand him. In fact they crucified him. We have the Spirit of Christ in us. They don't know us. They can't understand us. That's why they often hate us We now have a spirit-directed life and they don't get that. Again, this is not a statement that should lead to any boasting at all on our part. That would be a misuse again of the statement. Someone would say, well, I'm spiritual. And because I'm spiritual, nobody can judge me. None of you can appraise me, not even in this church. I'll live and do whatever it is that I want to. You know, leaders could take advantage of this, could they not? No one, no one can understand me But this says that all those who have the Spirit of God can appraise each other. We're accountable to each other. Leaders are accountable to the congregation. You all are accountable to all of us because we all have eyes to see. We know what's right and we know what's wrong. We have the Spirit's words here, and we have the mind of Christ, and we can use that in appraising what's going on around us and use it to help one another and to learn to be holy and not make excuses for sin. But we are distinguished from unbelievers. Now, fourth, I want you to notice the spiritual man's capabilities. That's verse 16 And this is fascinating, for who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him, but we have the mind of Christ. You say, who's he talking about? He's not talking about me. I don't have the mind of Christ. My mind is not like Jesus Christ. That's exactly what he said. We have the mind. Now Paul had sin in his life, and he still said that and he clued himself in that. Maybe you can see the flow of thought of what Paul is doing here, for it's truly amazing. This quote, by the way, is from Isaiah chapter 5. 40 and verse 13. Who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him? He again reminds us that God's understanding is so much higher and greater than any teaching we get from the world. Who has known the mind of the Lord? Who can instruct God? We don't know the answer to that. Nobody. Then Paul writes the most incredible thing: we have the mind of Christ. Have is a present possession. We have this mind. We believers will all have it. That means we have his thoughts. We have his understanding. We have his mind. Let's set the truth up in a flow chart. Maybe it'll help you to understand better. Here's how it works. Go back to verse 11. The Holy Spirit alone is the one who knows God. He probes the deep things of God. He knows every thought that God has. The Holy Spirit knows. Then verse 12, it says, the Spirit of God then reveals it to his apostles and prophets in that context. They receive the Spirit, and whatever the Spirit of God knows now, he's revealed some of that Particularly the things that we're going to get as believers all of our inheritance. He reveals that to his holy apostles and prophets directly, like the Apostle Paul. What is that act of revealing called? Very simple answer. Revelation. Some of you remember from last week. Thank you. Revelation is the process. The Holy Spirit reveals that to the prophets and apostles. That's a revelation. Then comes verse 13. The Spirit then combines God's spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. So that now we are taught through the words, through Scripture, God's thoughts. That process is called what? Inspiration. That was a little better. We now have the Spirit of God in us to open up our minds to that very truth that we're reading, and that last process of opening our minds is called Ooh, that was very good. I'm stunned and shocked. It's not new revelation in our minds. It's the same revelation, but our minds are given the capability of seeing it and understanding it. Verse 16, then, is the finished product. We now have the very thoughts of God where? In our minds. We have the mind of Christ. An amazing transfer of truth. It's such a blessing, isn't it? Again, this is not about a mystical subjective thing. I have the Spirit and I just have all these thoughts myself and they come to me. It comes through the teaching of the apostles and prophets as in scripture. That's where the spiritual thoughts come from. from those spiritual words. To have the mind, the noose of God, of Christ means his understanding, his thoughts. It means we think As Christ thinks, the thoughts of Christ, the priorities of Christ, his will becomes our will, and we have that And since no one can instruct the Lord God, and since we have the mind of the Lord God, there is no unbeliever, no leader of any other religion or philosophy that can properly instruct the Church of Jesus Christ. It can't be done. If you're ever looking for a statement on the sufficiency of the Bible in the life of the church, there it is. We have the mind of Christ. What else would you want? Dr. John MacArthur writes this what nat what natural man thinks God's thoughts? None. Unbelievers frequently want to correct believers who argue about the truths we believe and follow, but when they contradict spiritual teaching, they are not arguing with us. but with God whose thoughts they do not understand. They are trying to instruct him what folly. But the Corinthians were not unified in one mind of Christ. They were divided, not physically divided, but in their spirits, they had a spirit uh of just being at each other's throats and competing with each other. Why were they not like that? Well the shocking truth comes next. And that is third, the carnal Slash spiritual man. The carnal slash Spiritual men. Verses 1 through 4 of chapter 3. Let's read them again. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual men But as to men of flesh, as to infants in Christ, I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are not yet able, for you are still fleshly. For since there's jealousy and strife among you, that is among the church, are you not fleshly and are you not walking like mere men? For when one says, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos, are you not mere men? Now who is this? What is this? What kind of a category do we fit these people into? Here's where the controversy is. Are the Corinthians, according to Paul, spiritual? Or are they natural? Or is there a third category? Carnal. I want to take this in two steps and build your understanding through this. Step number one, what Paul does not mean. What Paul does not mean here Paul is not saying that they are men of flesh. He is not teaching that they are just Mere natural men. Never in this passage does he deny that they are true Christians. In fact, look at verse 1. He calls them their what? Brethren, their sin as bad as it was, and it was bad, did not stop them from being true brothers in Christ. And that's important. By the way, it's worth remembering how Paul began this letter back in chapter 1. Look back there a moment in verse 2. To the church of God, which is at Corinth. To those who have been, listen to what he says, sanctified in Christ Jesus, holy ones, that is, saints by calling, with all who in every place call in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and our Christ was their Lord. They were sanctified in Christ. He is not retracting any of that at this point in the letter. And they would not be called babies or infants in Christ if they were not already begotten of God. Alright, now, step two, what Paul does mean, and this will take a little bit longer. If you read very carefully, you're going to see that he writes As to men of flesh in verse 1. See that word as? He writes as to infants in Christ. And he describes their actions and attitudes as fleshly. He does not say they are in a fleshly state or in a fleshly condition. Again, he writes that they are walking as mere men, not that they are mere men. Three times, notice in verse 1, he uses a subordinating conjunction, hose, means as And it clearly is meant to draw a comparison. They are as this and as that. And he's not happy about that. So the following statements in verses 2 through 4 have to be understood with that word as in verse 1. In other words, he had to write to them and speak to them and teach them as if they did not have the mind of Christ. As if they were men of flesh, that they were Sarkonas, acting fleshly, too much controlled by the natural man. In truth, they had the Spirit of God, so they were spiritual. They were spiritual men, not natural men in reality, but practically. They were unspiritual because they acted very fleshly. And to a church that prided itself on spiritual gifts and spiritual knowledge and all the things they talked about, for Paul to call them fleshly was a real rebuke. They were not of the flesh, but nevertheless they were acting like the flesh. They were boasting in themselves and not in the cross of Christ. He also calls them as infants in Christ, infant Napios. That's not an endearing term. There's a word It could mean dear child, he doesn't use that word. It has neg negative connotations like selfish little babies, infants They were not, in fact, brand new to the Christian faith. They were not infants in Christ, but they were acting like babies in Christ. Now of course acting like a baby is okay if you are a what? Your baby. That's fine. Look how cute the little baby is. That's the way they're supposed to act. But no one wants a five-year-old baby. Or a seven-year-old baby. That's not cute. Paul had ministered to them, then the Paulus had come along. He was eloquent in the scriptures and had taught them, so they had been taught through the years. But here Paul feels like he's still just giving them milk to drink like babies because they couldn't digest any meat yet. And it's sad. So they were spiritual people acting like carnal people, babies in Christ. And because of that, some say, see! There it is! There is a carnal Christian! Not so fast. No one denies that true Christians can sin No one denies that true Christians can act quite carnally at times. No one denies that Christians can be slow in their spiritual development. No one denies that. But those who believe in a carnal Christian or a backslidden Christian as it's called in some circles, Baptist circles Believe more than that. They believe that a truly saved person can be in a continuous and listen unchanged state of carnality with no fruit, no change of life at all from their unsaved state. And that is why they believe the carnal Christian is a whole different category of man, distinct both from the natural man and distinct also from the spiritual man. We've already seen that these people are in the category of spiritual. They are in the second category. They are spiritual. There is no third category. Paul never in any of his letters talks about three categories of humans. There are those in Adam, there are those in Christ. There is no third category. And that is why Paul is so shocked and is so dismayed at their actions in this church. So, beloved, the real questions in solving this that we have to answer are these: how carnal? And maybe you've had this question yourself. How carnal can someone be and still truly be saved? And for how long are they allowed to act that way before we conclude they're not saved? And must there be at least some evidence of a changed life for us to conclude they've been born again and are saved? Now I want you to answer this with me as you look back into the text and think again closely and carefully about these Corinthian believers. And this is so important because we're going to be dealing with this throughout the whole book of 1 Corinthians. On the one hand, We have to look at how carnal they indeed did act. And let's just get the specifics out. Let's just show all the ugliness here so we can see what they really were like. Proof number one of their carnality, if we want to look at it that way, they were people who had been taught the Word of God, but were still acting like babies in Christ. So they were not people untaught. It's not that there was no discipleship provided. They had Paul in their church. That's not bad. Wouldn't you say? They had had some teaching. It's not like they'd been out there somewhere and had never received any good teaching. These folks had had some teaching, but they're still acting like babies in Christ. MacArthur says milk is the more easily digestible elementary truths of doctrine. You can look up the use of milk and meat in Hebrews five verses eleven through fourteen as well. Proof number two of their carnality. They had and were characterized by jealousy and strife in their congregation. This is what characterized their entire congregation. And their jealousy had to do with pride. Their jealousy did not come from love. It was self-centered. They also had strife. They were not getting along. And that came from their jealousy and their pride. They were treating the church as a place to jockey for position, to advance their status, like they used to do when they were unbelievers in the Greek world. In Galatians 5, 19 through 20, we read in our scripture reading it calls jealousy and strife deeds of the flesh So, yes, real believers can unfortunately act with jealousy and strife and selfish ambition and pride. And jealousy and strife can cause and does cause all kinds of problems in the body of Christ. It's true that Christian maturity should lead us to reject that party spirit and live for Christ. And as we live for Christ in the scriptures, we find unity in that, but they didn't have that. They were saying, I'm Apaul. No, I'm Apollus. And he gives them the shortened version here He named a couple more back in chapter one. Proof number three of their carnality. He says they were walking as mere men They were walking as mere men. Now you know that verb walk has to do with step after step. It shows a pattern of their lives, and their life was not good. And we're going to see a lot more of this as we study the letter together. So much more of this sin. Just some samples. In chapter 5, they were tolerating a man who was engaged in sexual immorality. He had his father's wife. Just as an ugly preview. In chapter 6 it says they were taking each other to a pagan court and suing each other. In chapter 7 it says when they were married, they weren't even providing sex in their marriage. They were withholding that. Chapter 11 says they were abusing the Lord's Supper. Chapter 12 through 14 talks about disorderliness in their worship services and boasting in their spiritual gifts and on it goes. Clearly, the Corinthians were acting and thinking carnally in some serious ways. This wasn't light. So there is no question that Christians can sin and sometimes sin in terrible ways. And that they can have quite a bit of worldly mentality still in them that persists for a period of time and that can even characterize an entire local church. Let's not pull any punches on the Corinthians. It was the pattern of their church. And it was a shame to them. But, and this is very important, let's be careful not to overstate how worldly they were, and even more importantly, not to create a category of a Christian that God's word does not allow. We know that they were carnal, but we need to see the whole picture to know the whole extent. The whole picture puts some parameters on this that will help you out. And I'm just going to do this by way of evidence. Evidence number one. You can just jot these down. This will help you. By the time of the writing of 1 Corinthians, the Corinthian church, though they were not brand new to the faith. still had only been in the faith for about four or five years. From about fifty-one A. D. to fifty five A. D. These were not like some people who say, yeah, I was saved 25 years ago, but you know, the whole time I haven't really been walking with Christ. People can really take liberties with this concept and go way beyond even the Corinthian situation, you see. I never really followed Christ. I haven't been following. It's just the way it's been. I received Christ when I was 11. I'm 53 now. And well, I know I've been saved all those years. That's how people misuse this today. Evidence number two. Paul really did expect more maturity from them even after five years. Just five years, that is. There's a real note of astonishment and disappointment that they had not grown more. Compare that to the letter he writes to the Thessalonians. They had been in Christ only maybe even just a year or two By the time he wrote 1 Thessalonians after he planted that church, certainly wasn't more than three years after their conversion, and they were growing and he was praising them. They had some problems, but he was growing them and teach they were growing and he was teaching them. And there's quite a comparison there. And that shows in Paul's mind what should what should normally have been happened when a church was planted and the Spirit of God came into a place and people were reborn. That's the norm. Paul did not expect carnality to be an ongoing state of people in church, as those who advocate that doctrine say is a fairly normal state for a large number of Christians. Evidence number three. The man who engaged in gross acts of sexual sin at Corinth and whom the rest of the church tolerated, Paul had the label in chapter 5 and verse 11a, listen, so-called brother. He wasn't sure. In his mind, someone who can engage in that kind of carnality might have been saved, but he wasn't sure. Why? Because he was engaged in that. In Paul's mind, that was a shock. There was a limit of carnality for a true believer that even he had in his mind. Evidence number four. The Corinthians were not carnal through and through. Now, this is where I'm making some distinctions that I think are still important, though you might find hard to follow. They had gone through some major changes in their lives from their pagan days. Now to see that I want you to turn to chapter 6 because I think this is so clear In chapter six, uh let's start with verse nine. He's shocked here, but he says this Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? And there he doesn't say the unbeliever won't inherit it, but he talks about the The actions of someone, someone who's unrighteous. They will not inherit the kingdom of God. And he goes on to say this: do not be deceived, neither fornicators nor idolaters By the way, that's people who worship in other religions. Can you get to Christ another way? Can you get to the kingdom of heaven through other religions? He says, not idolaters Nor who else? Nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous Nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Now look at verse 11. Such were what? Some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. He doesn't say you still are that. He says you were that Some of you. So there was change. There was fruit there. There was something the Apostle Paul had seen. People used to be adulterers and homosexuals and drunkards, and now they were not. They had been changed. There was some fruit. To Paul, he wanted to see a lot more. He was still shocked at the jealousy and strife that was going on, but that doesn't mean there was no fruit, and you need to know that. John Calvin, writing about Paul's meaning here, says: Paul does not mean that they were all together carnal, so as to have not one spark of the Spirit of God. But that they had still greatly too much of carnal sense. Evidence number five After receiving this strong and long letter of rebuke, 1 Corinthians we call it, we read about a change of mind and heart in this church in 2 Corinthians. And that is clear evidence that this church did respond to the Word of God. They responded to some of the hard things. Paul says they repented, they had a godly sorrow, and they may change it. And that's important. We don't have time to develop that, but you can do that by reading 2 Corinthians. Evidence number six. Even at the end of 2 Corinthians, when the church had gone through all of these changes and this repentance Even at the end of 2 Corinthians and chapter 13, he still feels he has to say to some people there these words, chapter 13, verse 5, test yourselves to see if you are in the faith. Examine yourselves, he exhorts them. Or do you not recognize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless indeed you fail the test. Still, with some of them, he wasn't sure. Remaining carnal is not an option for a Christian. One may be in carnality, one may be struggling with carnality. But that must and will change. And if it doesn't change at all, there's likely no conversion there at all. No fruit, no root. Evidence number seven. Paul directly says, and we just read it, that there are no such thing as carnal Christians, at least the kind that we're being told from these movements. The carnal Christian, he directly tells us there are none in that chapter we just read, chapter six. Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit The kingdom of God. You say you're saved, but you live unrighteously. There's no kingdom of God for you. There's no inheritance for you. That's a direct statement that they're outside the kingdom of God. They're unsaved. I don't know what could be plainer. Galatians says the same. We read this morning, Galatians 5, and in Ephesians 5, he also makes the same statement. And last, evidence number eight, and this is an argument from silence, but Paul never tells them, and I think this is significant. Hey, you guys, you're kind of carnal. You need to get baptized in the Holy Spirit. You need something more. Brothers and sisters there in Corinth, there's a second step of God's grace that you haven't you had yet. I'm sorry I didn't tell you more about this when I was there. But now writing from Ephesus, I'm going to fill you in on it. There's a higher Christian life. There's the second step, the second blessing. You need to dedicate your lives to Jesus Christ. Never does he write like that. But he still expects them to change. Why? Because they already have Christ as their Lord. We saw that in verse 2 of chapter 1. He told them this is wrong and this is the right way to think. And this is the teaching of the cross. It just goes along with believing in the cross, and I expect you to change based upon that. Well, here's the conclusion. We are indeed committed to the teaching of Scripture that once a person is saved, he will change and he will bear fruit. Sometimes it's slow and sometimes the fruit is hard to see, but it's there. The act of God saving us is much more than God wiping our slate clean, just cleaning us up and then allowing us to get dirty again, and then that's it. Salvation also involves the receiving of the very Spirit of God into our lives and being granted a brand new nature. As 1 John chapter 3, and those of you in 1 John will be learning this: a new seed planted within us To bear fruit for God. That new nature makes us people of the Spirit of God, people with new desires and new eyes and a new mind, a new way of thinking, a new way of relating. So it is wrong to think of a carnal Christian as a distinct class of people. However, that doesn't mean That there won't be ugly and persisting sin in true believers in your life and in my life. And when we sense that and feel that, we need to know that doesn't mean we're not saved. It means we're engaged in a battle, the flesh against the spirit. Spirit. And we need to yield to the Spirit of God, walk by the Spirit of God. And if we do so, Galatians 5 says we will not carry out the desire of the flesh. And then we have to think about applying this teaching to other people, and I want to give you two cautions as we end here First of all, first caution, don't be fooled by so many who say, I'm born again, and and you know them, you know them well, but you cannot see a changed life in them. Don't be fooled by that. Many want to just come into the American church. There's no persecution here really, not that much to speak of. People don't like us as much. Maybe we don't get as many promotions as we ought to. But we're not being thrown in jail. We're not being whipped and beaten and stoned and killed for our Christian faith. You know what I mean? And so it's very easy for the natural man to come on in here and look outwardly like the spiritual man, but he's unconverted. Don't be so quick To say, oh, this guy's born again. Oh, I heard that guy, that great football player or that that movie star, oh they're born again. Look, they talked about Jesus. Oh, they're saved. Don't be naive in that way. Look for fruit. What Jesus said in Matthew 7, you will know a man by his fruit is still true. 1 John 2, 4. Again from 1 John, the one who says, I have come to know God and does not keep God's commandments is a what? A liar. And the truth is not in him. On the other hand, and maybe some of you need this caution. I know that I do. Don't be too quick to call someone an unbeliever also. You see sin in his life. You see her doing this. And you go, let's not be saved. That's that's too quick. It might be too proud. That might mean I mean just look at yourself and think about what you know you're capable of. Think of the the hatred thoughts that you've had, the lustful thoughts that have been in your own mind. Think about that and realize, yes, you're capable of doing that. And I am too. Not just Pastor Haggard. And we could still be saved and do some of those things. And it brings reproach on the name of Christ And if that's possible for you and for me, let's not be so quick to judge other people. Let us be discerning, discerning, yes. But let us be humble in our discernment and careful and balanced and realistic and always be asking the Lord to help us. to use our new mind to look at all things properly and carefully that we might not misappraise anybody. Amen?