Free audio postproduction Biophonic. com Well the date was October 5th 1703, when Jonathan Edwards was born in East Windsor, Connecticut Both his father and his maternal grandfather were both pastors, and so Edwards himself was highly influenced. In this family that was committed to the Word of God. Edwards was the only son among ten daughters. Guys, imagine what that would be like. He was raised among some of the most respected families in Colonial America. It was his father Timothy who faithfully instructed him as he served as the pastor of their church in East Windsor for over 60 years of his life. And likewise, his grandfather Solomon Stoddard, who you probably have heard of, pastored another church in Northampton, Massachusetts for almost sixty years. No doubt both his father and his grandfather were significant examples to Jonathan during much of his early formative years. So much so that here is just a sampling of Edwards's upbringing. He began his studies of Latin, Hebrew, and Greek at the age of five. This was probably due to the fact that early on Jonathan showed himself to have an insatiable curiosity, and his father, then, was a brilliant teacher This definitely showed itself to be true when at the age of eleven he wrote a very extensive and exhaustive paper on the nature of flying spiders. Parents don't underestimate your children when they write something so remote History tells us that his father gave him, along with many of the town's children, a first-class education At 13, his father enrolled Jonathan at the newly founded Collegiate School of Connecticut, which later became Yale University. He then graduated at the age of seventeen, and essentially Edwards went on from there to complete his master's degree, and then he pastored several churches. The most famous being the church that his grandfather pastored in Massachusetts called Northampton Church. The point of my sharing all of this for you is not just to give you data. It is that to look at Edwards' life, to understand him. If there was one word that could define Jonathan Edwards, it would be the word resolved. He was resolved. And this is because when he came to saving faith in Christ at the age of 17, not only were his eyes open to the saving gospel of Jesus Christ, But he resolved to glorify God with every fibre of his being. As history tells us, he felt a burning desire to be in everything. A complete Christian. That commitment alone stretched him. It stretched him in ways that he couldn't possibly imagine As he gave himself to careful and critical thought to the priorities that would ultimately prove to be the guiding principles of his life Again, he was converted to Christ at the age of seventeen, and the very next year, Edwards began writing his own resolutions. He eventually composed seventy purpose statements designed not only to guide his Christian life. But to remind him that just as he was spiritually reborn in Christ, so also Christ was made manifest in him. Well that assurance, born of faith and love, most definitely impacted Edwards' new life in Christ. And it is that same gift of assurance that God has given to each and every one of us. That what is given as a gift of new life is really a life lived in obedience to Jesus Christ and proven by our love for one another. That's the truth that I want you to listen to this morning as we then return to 1 John 3, verses 23 and 24. That not only are we to fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, but because of Christ. The indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, we are made to live different from this world So different that as Jesus said it in John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35, the world will know that you are my disciples simply by your love for one another. Well, today, as we return to our study of 1 John, John is going to remind us that our attention must be fixed firmly on Jesus Christ. That we must be resolved to know exactly what it means to live an authentic Christian life And so, if there was one resolution that the Apostle John would love for us to keep, it would be resolved to learn what it means to truly abide in Christ. So that our assurance of faith would be born out of a truly believing heart in Christ and loving one another just as He loved us. Well, if you haven't already, please turn to 1 John chapter 3. And today, again, we're going to look at just the last two verses of this important chapter, verses 23 and 24. My message is entitled Assurance Born of Faith and Love. And the reason why I've chosen this title is because faith in Christ and our love for one another is made manifest in our life by the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit abiding in us. And faith and love is what gives us the assurance that we need to know that we truly belong to him. It is because This is how we know that we are truly made a child of the living God But before we begin our study of these two verses, let me first read the text for you, and then we'll look at the details. 1 John 3, verses 23 and 24. John writes, and this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as he gave a commandment to us. And the one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him, we know this: that he abides in us by the Spirit whom he gave us. Now those are just two very simple but straightforward verses, but they are jam-packed with spiritual truth that affects each and every person who truly names the name of Jesus Christ Now, just to bring us back up to speed, we've been working our way through the first epistle of John. We've been focusing on the test of an authentic Christian life. And over the summer, we made it through most of chapter 3. Now we come to the last two verses of this amazing chapter. In essence, John 1 John chapter 3 is all about what it means to be a child of God And most significantly in contrast to those who continue to live in a pattern of unrepentant sin. John makes it absolutely clear that being a child of God means living righteously. Rejecting sin, and ultimately showing sacrificial love, because this is how the Holy Spirit manifests Christ's presence in us and through us. One of the most prominent aspects of the Christian life is manifesting Christ-like love, and particularly self-sacrificial love. that is given within the body of Christ. As I mentioned in the past, Christian love is repeated at least four times. four significant times in this epistle. It is because Christ-like love is one of the most important themes of John's life. And it's one of the most important themes of this epistle alone. This theme occurs in chapter 2. We saw it in chapter 3. And now it's going to occur two more times both in chapter four and chapter five. And the major emphasis of Christ-like love will take place in chapter 4, verses 7 through 11, and verses 19 through 21. But it's here, at the end of chapter three, that John stresses this virtue as the obvious difference between a child of God and the children of the devil. He makes it clear to us that a true child of God is that person whose life is characterized by self-sacrificial love. And why is that? Well, it's because God Himself is the epitome of love And we see the fullness of his love in sending his son to die and to be a propitiation for our sins. It's his love demonstrated in the person and work of Jesus Christ that brings this issue to the forefront of our Christian life. Love is one of the many overarching attributes of God And the example that he provides for us in Christ's earthly life is what is crucial to the gospel of God's saving love. Christ is the living embodiment of self-sacrificial love. And as Paul said, we follow Christ. Paul says, follow me as I follow Christ. For those of us who are spiritually reborn in Christ, it is the most important evidence of a truly authentic Christian life It is what distinguishes the child of God from those who would be called the children of the devil. It is God's gift of salvation that transforms us from the inside out, from being a child of the devil. to then being an adoptive son of God. It is this gift of salvation that literally transforms our lives And unlike Cain, which John mentions earlier in this chapter, as an illustration in verse 12, who murdered his brother out of self-centered envy and resentment. The love that originates from God will always put others first. And that's because it's the one virtue that is the complete opposite of hate, envy, and resentment. It is because godly love will always be a demonstration of the faithful obedience that we have to the one who is the epitome of love. And this is because, as John will write later in this same epistle, that we love because what? He first loved us Again, as a child of God, John tells us that he is more concerned about the needs of others than they are or should be about their own personal needs. We love because God's love is truly what meets the needs of others. As one commentator put it, it is a practical love that it finds its motivation in helping others. It is not static, it's dynamic, it's actionable. And where this love does not exist, John says, it raises the question about whether a person's saving faith is real. John writes in 1 John 3, verse 16. And let me just say this is a wonderful reference to memorize because of its corresponding reference in the Gospel of John. But John writes here in 1 John 3, verse 16, By this we have known love, that Christ laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay our lay down our lives for the brothers. That just as John 3. 16 tells us how a person may be saved 1 John 3. 16 tells us how to demonstrate Christ's love by laying our lives then down for others And for those who truly belong to God. Well, as we come to verses 23 and 24, John returns to this very same theme of love by reminding us About the Christian's commandment and what that really means. He defines what happens when we are resolved to keep God's word just as he gave the commandment to us. And if you think of verse 23 as the fruit of verse 24, then you'll begin to understand how important John's argument is to living a truly authentic Christian life. And this is because here are the two verses that we have from God that help us to understand Christ's commandment that has been reinstated here. And we also have the promise of Christ's commandment then reapplied. And that promise, John says, is in fact the assurance of true saving faith. Now my outline is going to be very, very simple today. And this is because we're going to look first at the commandment restated, reinstated. in verse 23, and then we're going to look at the promise reapplied in verse 24. These are the guardrails on the road of where we're going to understand this passage. Well, let's begin first with a commandment reinstated, verse 23. Once again, John begins by writing, and this is his commandment. Let's stop there. The word commandment here occurs 14 times in this epistle alone. Most of the time, it refers directly to the precepts of Jesus Christ. John says the precepts of God can all be summarized in this one saying: that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another just as he gave a commandment to us. This is how that you and I can know that we are a true child of God Because we believe in Christ and we love one another. Back in verse 11, John told us that the children of the devil are those who are characterized by an unloving heart. Which is full of murder, hatred, and spiritual indifference. In sharp contrast to that, those who are a true child of God are those characterized by believing in Christ and then loving one another. How do we know this Because we live out Christ's commandment to us. We do what the commandment says Those who are characterized by God's love, John says, are those who have the confidence and conviction to know that they truly belong to God, that they are in fact adopted into his family, and that is a permanent adoption. Now why do I say this? Because looking back at verse 22, John says we keep his commandments and we do the things that are pleasing in his sight. That's the simple truth here. Here in verse 23, John brings that point home to a major crescendo when he writes, and this is his commandment. What commandment are you talking about, John? The commandment that is the rest of verse 23, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, and we love one another just as he loved us. When John uses the word commandment, keep in mind he is not referring to the legal demands of the law of Moses here. He is referring to the moral requirements that encompass the entire planoply of Scripture. This commandment represents everything that Christ preached that he proclaimed, that he lived, that he principalized when he then fulfilled the Mosaic law for us. The word that John uses here when he uses the word commandment is most accurately defined as the precepts and the person and work of Jesus Christ alone. Yet it encompasses the entire counsel of God's Word. When John refers to the moral commandments of Christ He is talking about a commandment that is designed to produce internal obedience as opposed to external compliance It is one that's designed to be written on the heart of every believer because we have been made a new creation in Christ. It is a commandment that the Holy Spirit impresses upon the heart of every child of God as Christ is manifested in and through our lives. It has to do with the internal desires and motivations that characterize the whole of our Christian life. And it's the commandment that ultimately Christ then fulfills for us. It's not based on a fear of God, as the Mosaic Law often demanded, but on our friendship with God as Christ modeled his life after us or for us. John says it manifests Christ-like obedience that truly pleases God. And John says here in verse 23, it's that fundamental commandment that has two essential parts to it. It defines not only the presence of faith, but the practice of love. It includes the presence of saving faith that then leads to the practice of Christ-like love How do we know this? Notice again the first half of verse 23. John says, and this is his commandment that we believe in the name of His Son, Jesus Christ. Those who believe in God's Son, Jesus Christ, have the presence of God's saving faith abiding in them. Notice right away the first person plural pronoun that John uses here when he says we This pronoun is so important because John includes himself in this group of individuals that he is writing to. That like his readers, John says, I also am under the same conditions of this commandment. This is the commandment that doesn't just apply to you. It applies to me as well This commandment has an intense personal implication for all who name the name of Jesus Christ. And the reason this is so intensely personal is because the expression of this part of the command involves the concept of personal faith and personal believing. The verb believe has to do with the expression of trust, the expression of faith. It's something that is, quite honestly, outside of us, and that we have no capacity to produce You cannot will to do what God requires. You do not have it in you to even measure close enough. To living and fulfilling what God requires. In fact, Jesus said it this way in Matthew 5. 48: You must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. That's the standard. That's the plumb line. And so it has to be a gift that is given And this is why Paul then wrote Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, for by grace you have been saved through faith, faith and what? That not of yourselves. I want to emphasize that so much here this morning because again, we can just breeze over that without ever thinking about it. But by grace you've been saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God and not of works. Why? so that no one can boast. I cannot boast of the saving faith that is the gift that was given to me by God. And you neither can boast about that in and of yourself. You cannot boast about saving faith because it doesn't originate with you. It comes from God. It is His gift of saving faith that then transforms us and gives us the faith to believe. That gift of saving faith is defined for us in Hebrews 11:1. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. It is a gift given to us by God. It's both an assurance from God, it's a conviction born of God. And faith is that concrete reality that every believer who puts their trust in Christ belongs to him. To believe biblically is just another way of expressing our confident assurance and conviction that the message of the gospel is absolutely true and it's worthy to be trusted. Only God can give us that kind of trust internally. Another way of putting this is it's not belief in something that we deem worthy, It is a response to something that God has already deemed worthy to him John says the object of our saving faith is nothing less than God's own trust in His Son, His beloved Son, in whom He was always well pleased. That is the person of Jesus Christ. It's specifically faith and the name, John says, of his own son, Jesus Christ. Now I just want us to k again put on the brakes a little bit, think a little bit more about this, and to think very carefully of what John is saying here. What is most significant about this verb believe? Is that the tense of the verb that John uses here indicates that it is something that has already occurred in the past? John says, you have already believed this. The point here is that faith just keeps on going, it keeps on growing, it keeps on trusting, and it finds its perfection in Jesus Christ Himself. And especially as we walk faithfully with him, it never stops. And the truth here is that it never will. John says this is a faith that has already been made manifest in your heart and in my heart. Otherwise, you wouldn't be a believer in Christ. Well, this saving gift of God will never let you go. Why? Because God Himself is the one who gave you that faith, and He'll never let go of you. It's a faith that's packaged in the person whom the Father loves most supremely. And if you love the gift that God has given you, then that faith will prove itself to be true The question is, do you love Christ? Do you love him more than anything else John uses this word name. He's making reference to all that Christ is and everything that he has done The name Jesus represents every aspect of his incarnation, and most importantly, it tells us why it is that he came in the first place. Jesus literally means Yahweh saves. And as Matthew tells us in his gospel, Jesus came to save his people from their sins. That's why he came. The word Christ is similar here in that Christ speaks of his deity, his messiahship And so when we see these two words used together, they speak of the only perfect Savior, the only perfect God who could come and give his life, a ransom for many, and rescue us. From the domain of darkness and deliver us and transfer us into the kingdom of his Son. Paul puts it this way in First Timothy two five. There is one God, one mediator also between God and man and men, the man Christ Jesus. One mediator, and that's God's Son. The fact that J John calls Jesus God's Son tells us that there is this unqualified equality that exists between God the Father and God the Son, and both persons possess the same divine nature that makes them uniquely God So what John is saying here to us is that our faith is centered on Jesus, who is God in human flesh It is his loving sacrifice that is the only sacrifice that saves. And the moment, the moment that God makes us alive with Christ, that is the moment that he gives us the saving faith to believe. For those who are truly born again, this is an absolute necessity that we not only affirm What God says about his own son, Jesus Christ, but that we place our trust completely in him without any reservation or doubt. What God gives us here is a faith that is a concrete resolution to believe And to hold fast to that. John says, and this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his son, Jesus Christ. The reason we believe is because this is what God has already accomplished in our hearts. And please take note that this is his commandment, not ours, and not John's He is the one um God is the one who has already commanded this, and he is the one who has given us the divine enablement to then believe unto salvation in his Son. The object of God's saving faith here guarantees our divine adoption as his sons and daughters And not only do we know and trust in Jesus, but that saving faith then leads us to the practice of loving one another. And that brings us to the second aspect of God's commandment restated. Before we go there, though, let me just say that the faith that God gives us to believe. will make a difference in our life. It will. It'll change how you think It'll cause you to have a whole new perspective regarding the world around you. It'll reorient your thinking and transform your behavior. And it will manifest itself in the practice of Christ-like love, John says. And that's because this is what it means to believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ that we truly love one another. First there must be the presence of faith, then second the practice of Christ of Christ-like love Faith is the objective truth that holds God's family together, and then it produces the practice of Christ-like love. Look at the second half of verse 23. John writes, and this is his commandment that we believe in the name of his son, Jesus Christ, and then here it is. And that we love one another just as he gave a commandment to us. This second part of the commandment is really putting the first part into action. Consider it this way. Love is faith in motion. God's love is what makes our faith work. And the aim is so precise. It is to love one another. John uses this verb love to strengthen his case. against those who profess faith in Christ, but do absolutely nothing to demonstrate the authenticity of it. The point here is that anybody can say that they believe in Christ But the kind of faith that proves itself authentic is a lifestyle of Christ-like love. The world does not understand this. The world has no capacity for comprehending this. The world fights against this. John says this is a faith that works itself out in the practice of Christ-like love. And again, that's the point of what he is saying here. One of the best ways to express this is what Paul wrote to the Galatians in Galatians chapter 5, verse 6. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything. But here's what does mean everything. Faith working through love. Faith working through love. And this is exactly what John is saying. We have a faith that works itself out through love. Those who are the true children of God trust in Christ. for who he is and what he's done, and now that saving faith is working through love. The commandment to love expresses what it means to live a truly authentic Christian life. And just to make the principle absolutely clear, John says, please note the final phrase in verse 23. It is to love one another. And here's the key preposition. Um, or the key phrase, just as he gave a commandment to us Again, a true disciple of Christ. Or as a true disciple of Christ, our mind and our heart must be resolved to think and behave in one direction. And that is to do what pleases God. Why? Because this is the commandment that He gave us. This is the commandment that encompasses the panoply of Scripture This is the commandment that tells us who we are and what we do. We believe in Christ and we then love one another. It's that simple. This is not complicated. You don't need a degree to understand this This is exactly the simplicity of the gospel message and the promise that a commandment is reapplied to us then in the Spirit of Christ. again helps us to understand that we will then experience a deep abiding presence of God through the through the indwelling presence of His Holy Spirit It's that assurance that then brings us to verse 24. John writes, and the one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. We know this, that he abides in us by the Spirit whom he gave us. Again, this is how God reassures our hearts. This is how we know that we truly belong to Him. John says the one who keeps His commandments. Again, he uses a present tense verb to reinforce the idea that this is an ongoing habitual pattern of obedience. We keep doing what he says, even though at times we fail miserably. But we keep his commandments. Why? Because we love him with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And again, to keep here is a word that could be translated watchful or observant obedience. It is a word really that has everything to do with safeguarding the gospel of Jesus Christ. Again, it applies an internal conformity to the will of God rather than simply an external compliance The implication that John is making here is that this type of obedience is not the result of external pressure. Again, this is one of those statements that as As we look at laws around us, it is not a law that forces us to obey. We're talking here about an internal motivation that emboldens us to do what pleases God. We can't help but do what pleases God. The obedience that we're talking about here is more than just the act. of obeying Christ's commands. It involves an internal desire to do what pleases God simply because we love Him. We keep his commandments because of an overwhelming desire within us to do what pleases him. And it's internal rather than an external fear of the consequences when we disobey him. Because we know, like a f a gracious, loving father, he will discipline us, but he does it because he loves us. It's a saving faith and a Christ-like love that drives us to do what pleases Him. And the point here is that we believe in love because God first loved us. He put his love into our heart. He made it work. And now we're seeing it on the outside as we interact with people. John says the one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. That promise, reapplied each and every day, reassures us that we truly abide in God and in Christ. The fact that he uses this verb here, abide, describes the type of intimate fellowship that we have with God. And this is the language of relationship that John is giving us here and true spiritual intimacy that we have with God. It's descriptive of the type of relationship that we experience in a close-knit family That even though we read the words of that John uses here, truly there is no way that we can comprehend or plumb the depths of what this relationship really involves because all we can say is that we are at home with Christ What I love about verse 24 is that John emphasizes a mutual abiding that we enjoy with God when we are born again spiritually into his family. This is the promise. The promise that God makes himself at home in us and with us One of the best ways of describing this relationship is really welcoming someone wholeheartedly into your house. It's welcoming that person into a home where no space is off limits, where every secret is exposed. where every space is occupied, where every aspect of the relationship is one of intimate fellowship and true communion. And I am so convinced that the backdrop of this precious truth that John is giving us here comes directly from Jesus' words back in John chapter 15. Let me tell you publicly right now, I cannot wait for Gabe to get to chapter 15 and preach this passage because it is rich. Again, in John chapter 15, I'm just going to read a portion for you. But Jesus identifies himself as the true vine. The only way for us to bear true spiritual fruit is if we abide in him and he then manifests his work through us. Jesus said in John chapter 15, he said, Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit from itself unless it abides in divine, so neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him. He bears much fruit For apart from me you can do nothing. If any one does not abide in me, he is thrown away as a branch and dries up And they gather them, they cast them into the fire, and they're burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish And it will be done for you. My Father is glorified in this: that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples And then verses 9 through 11. And I want you to listen very closely because this is so profound. Just as the Father has loved me, Jesus says. I have also loved you. Abide in my love If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. Just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I've spoken to you, so that my joy may be complete in you, and that your joy may be complete Christian life is all about a love relationship with the Father and with His Son. Here in verse 24, and just as Christ has said in John chapter 15, John is telling us that when we keep Christ's commandments, we prove conclusively that we are his disciples. The verb to abide literally means to dwell or remain. And it's this permanent and fixed relationship that we have with Christ because of what he has done for us. It means that we are at home with him And with every believer who names the name of Christ. One commentator put it this way: it marks the heart of a vital Christianity It marks the closest and most permanent union that exists between the human and the divine. And it's the a life that is lived in constant intimacy and close familiarity. It is the perfect experience of an ongoing relationship with God. It promises perfect assurance through the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, John says. And that's why the second half of verse 24 is so important. It is because as John puts it, we know this. Again, let me say that again. We know this. By this that he abides in us? How do we know this? By the Spirit whom he gave us. That's the kind of heavenly assurance we need. John Stodd in his commentary on 1 John gives a wonderful explanation of this verse, and he writes this: the Spirit whose presence is the test Of Christ abiding in us manifests himself objectively in our life and in our conduct It is he who inspires us to confess Jesus as the Christ, come in the flesh, as John immediately proceeds to show us. It is also he who empowers us to live righteously and to love the brethren. So if we would have assured our hearts When they accuse and condemn us, we must look for evidence of the Spirit's working and particularly whether He is enabling us to believe in Christ and to obey God's command to love the brothers. For the condition of abiding in this comprehensive obedience, and the evidence of abiding is in fact the gift of the Holy Spirit. The gift of God's Spirit guarantees his promise of new life in you and me And the fact that the Holy Spirit indwells us tells us that His presence is not something that we can earn through obedience. It is a gift that must be received. To put it simply, he is the gift that God gives at the moment that we are born from above. He permanently then comes and makes himself at home in us. And what John is describing here for us is that the Holy Spirit is the one who assures us that when we manifest the presence of saving faith, we will in fact practice Christ-like love. This is the work of God. It is solely the work of God, plain and simple. I am so grateful As we are reminded and were reminded of this last last Friday at Marion's funeral, that he who began this good work will in fact perfect it on the day of Christ Jesus. Wow When I think about the application of these two verses to my own life, I'm convinced that the Apostle John is calling me to be resolute in what I believe and how I need to practice my relationship with God. He reminds all of us how we ought to think about the Christian faith. Only when our mind is turned towards glorifying God can we fully understand and learn what it means to live the Christian life. This is why we must be resolute in our thinking. Historians tell us that when Jonathan Edwards wanted to get away to find a place to think and to ponder his life and ministry, he would often go out for a daily ride on horseback and find a place to quiet his own soul. He loved to ride out into the woods, people tell us, and because of this, it provided the perfect solace to think and to write. Apparently when he went out every time he brought along a pen and scraps of paper as he rode He would jot down his thoughts of contemplation and commitment. And then he would then pin those pieces of paper to his jacket. When he returned, he would later transfer those notes to a journal. Those who were aware of his routine said that he would go out for a ride at noon. on a warn warm summer's day and he'd return looking as though he had been through a snowstorm, covered with tiny scraps of paper He was a man committed to Christ. He was a man resolved to chase after Christ. He was a man who knew the promise of Christ. He lived with a Christ-centered perspective. And I know that this may come across as just a simple and maybe trite analogy. But let me just say: given what God has commanded us here in these two verses. Are his precepts and promises written all over you? More importantly, do you believe God's word When Jonathan Edwards sat down to write the first twenty-one of his seventy resolutions, he began with these words. Quote, being sensible that I am unable to do anything without God's help, I do humbly entreat Him by His grace to enable me to keep these resolutions. So far as they are agreeable to God's will, that they be for Christ's sake My prayer is that as you and I live for Christ, we will both come to Him with great humility and constant devotion. Pursuing a deep and abiding relationship with Him through obedience to His Word as He enables us I think the reason why so many people fail to discipline themselves to live a godly life is because they try to accomplish God's will in their own strength. Only in Christ can God's strength be perfected in our weakness. Abiding in Christ is something that we do in response to what God has already accomplished in our life That assurance of conviction is then born out of faith and love. And so my prayer is that God will give you the presence of His saving faith and the practice of Christ-like love to reassure you. that you are indeed a true child of God. If perhaps you are sitting here and you do not know God My prayer is that you will look to him and look to him only for your salvation. That Christ's love, his sacrifice would be born in your heart through faith. And that you will receive his gift of salvation for you. Let's remember and As John says, in this is his commandment that we believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another, just as he gave a commandment to us. and that the one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him we know by this that he abides in us because the Spirit whom he gave us Assurance born out of faith and love. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful for what you have shown us in your word about yourself We're so grateful for your truth and how it applies to us. And we are so grateful that Lord, through Christ Jesus We can not only have the gift of saving faith, but we can have born in us Christ-like love to love one another I pray, Lord, that we as a church body would be a church that expresses strong, confident faith in Jesus Christ alone for our salvation. But I likewise pray that we would be a church of love, always looking to meet the needs of others Always praying that we would put others first before ourselves. Always considering the words that we speak, the actions that we make. And that through living our Christian life before others, people would look to us and see Jesus Christ. O Father, work that in our life each and every day. For we thank you for all of it. In the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and our Savior. Amen. Fri audio post production bij Alphonic dot com.