I stand in awe of the Son of God would be a good introduction also for today's passage, because it is a passage that accentuates the greatness of the Son of God. The Bible teaches that Jesus is the only begotten Son of God. He is unequaled. He has a title and he has a position that no one else in this universe. Owns. The Bible also tells us that God the Father made a decision to send God the Son. into this world. We ask, why? Why was that so important? The usual answer we give, which is true, is that God the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. That's biblical language. That's true. He was sent to die for sins. He was sent to conquer death and to rise from the dead. And that is true. That is Related to Jesus' priestly office. Jesus was prophet, priest, and king. His being the savior of mankind is related to his priestly role. Yet Jesus was also sent into this world with a prophetic role, that is, with a role to reveal an invisible God. Earlier in the Gospel of John, we read these words: no one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him. God is spirit, and thus he is invisible to our eyes. God is also totally holy, and in man's sinful way of thinking, he can't understand God and draw close to God. The Son of God has come to bridge that gap. To bridge the gap of understanding, to show us what God really is like. And to reveal the invisible Holy Father to us. And the Son is able to do that He is able to do that quite well because the Son of God is of the exact same nature as God the Father. He is every much as God as God the Father is and God the Holy Spirit is. He has the same character as well. As God the Father is holy, so God the Son is holy. As God the Father is loving, so is God the Son. And so when we come to study the Son of God in these gospel passages, we are learning about God Himself. We are learning who he is, what his character is like, how we can come to know him personally if we're not sure that we know him personally yet. but also for those of us who already know him personally, to get to know him better and to deepen in our walk with him When we study Christ, we learn how to be Christ-like, and thus we learn how to be like God. But that again is our aim, we read in John chapter 2. Verses twelve through twenty-five this morning. That is our text, John chapter two. Go ahead and open there. I tell you to take good notes today, but I know you'd be struggling without a bulletin, so listen the best that you can Verses 12 through 25. It's a passage that shows us the Son of God in action. After this, that is the wedding at Cana of Galilee. He, Jesus, went down to Capernaum. He and his mother and his brothers and his disciples. And they stayed there a few days. The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And he found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves and the money changers seated at their tables. And he made a scourge of cords and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and the oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And to those who were selling the doves, he said, Take these things away. Stop making my father's house a place of business. His disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. The Jews then said to him, What sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews then said, It took forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he said this, and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken. Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs which he was doing But Jesus, on his part, was not entrusting himself to them, for he knew all men And because he did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for he himself knew what was in man. Well, verse 12 records that after the wedding at Cana, Jesus went down to the town of Capernaum With his mother, his brothers, and his disciples, and that they stayed there a few days. There is no indication of the length of the interval between what happened in Cana and this trip to Capernaum But since it's roughly the same group of people, it implies it wasn't too long after the miracle at the wedding. The trip to Capernaum is Not the same more drastic and permanent move that we read about in the other gospels, in Matthew chapter 4 and verse 13, for example, also in Luke chapter 4 and verse 31. That is where Jesus gave testimony to his hometown, was rejected in his hometown, and indeed they tried to kill him, and he abandoned Nazareth as his hometown of operations, and he actually moved his home to Capernaum That move would happen after the imprisonment of John the Baptist. This was a trip that was taken prior to that. The walk from Cana to Capernaum, if they went directly, was about 16 miles. To the northeast of Cana. It would be to the northwest shore of the Sea of Galilee. The modern site that's there is called Telhum, and it's uh well known. It could be reached with 16 miles in a day's journey, so it might have just taken them a day to get there. And we read that he traveled with his family and with his disciples. Now that's interesting because his brothers were not believers in him yet It says in John chapter 7, much later than this, that they hadn't believed in him yet. We don't know that they really came to faith until after Jesus' resurrection. So this is an interesting transitional verse, and it indicates to us that Jesus' ministry, right here still at the very beginning, was going through kind of an opening phase. Where he was becoming less and less identified with his family and more identified with his disciples. There's a bit of a separation that's happening at this time. In fact, interestingly, this is the last time that the Apostle John will mention Jesus' mother being around Jesus at least until we get to chapter 19 as Jesus is dying on the cross. And so they fade out of the picture. And as I said, Jesus' brothers really don't seem to come to faith until after Jesus' resurrection. So they've come down and they've gone to Capernaum, and Jesus, it says, stayed there only a few days, and then he went up to Jerusalem to the Passover, Feast of the Passover. And as he does this, as he comes to the Passover, we're going to see him in action. We're going to see three attributes of the Son of God on display. And I want us to think about these attributes. We're learning about God. We're learning about how to be close to God. Three attributes of the Son of God on display. And may the Lord just teach us from this. The first attribute is Jesus had zeal for God's holiness. Jesus had zeal for God's holiness and indeed for God's house. And we read about that again in verses 13 through 17. Look at those verses again with me. It says the Passover over the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And he found not what he wanted to find, he found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves and the money changers seated at tables. And he made a scourge of cords and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and the oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And to those who were selling the doves, he said, Take these things away. Stop making my father's house a place of business. His disciples remembered that it was written, zeal. Zeal for your house will consume me. So here we have the Passover, an annual feast. The Jews would indeed travel to go up to Jerusalem for the Passover. In fact, from all over the world, they would come back to the Holy Land for this purpose. Going up to Jerusalem is to be taken literally. They came from the south, that's not the up part, but I mean they came from the north and came down south, that's not the up part. But they had to make a climb and elevation to get up to Jerusalem. And this is the first of three Passovers that the Apostle John in his gospel will mention. This one here, the second one will be in chapter six and verse four, the third one in chapter eleven and verse Some think that there was a fourth Passover in between chapter 4, verse 35, and John chapter 5, verse 1. That's possible. Since the Passover, as I said, was a yearly feast, it indicates that Jesus' ministry was at least three years in duration, probably around three and a half. And when Jesus arrived in Jerusalem for celebrating this feast, he now is beginning to let himself be known to the nation. Remember he told his mother, My hour is not yet. He made he gave a miracle in Cana, but it was kind of a semi-public miracle. It wasn't all that public. Well now he's getting public And he comes to the house of God and he comes to cleanse it. Now next Sunday is Palm Sunday, and we're used to thinking about the cleansing of the temple and its association with Palm Sunday, which is In the last week of Jesus' life, right? We we know that Jesus came in, they hailed him as king. He goes to the temple, he cleanses it and uh he spends a week there teaching and doing other things. But John here has recorded the cleansing of the temple toward the beginning of Jesus' ministry. So interpreters naturally ask, and we need to ask this as well: was this the same event as in the final week? Well, clearly, John has this cleansing at the beginning of Jesus' ministry But it's also clear that the description of what Jesus did is very similar to what we read about at the end of his ministry. The only conclusion is either that John was mistaken and he misplaced it. And that Matthew, Mark, and Luke got it right and John made a mistake, or that there are two times that Jesus cleansed the temple. Those are our options. Once he did it at the beginning and once at the end. And I guess we could infer he might have done it a third time as well that's not recorded. The solution is going to be found in trusting God's Word and understanding the zeal of Jesus Christ. This was a very fiery kind of zeal that he had for his heavenly father. With that kind of a zeal, It would be hard to think that Jesus would go up to the temple at any time, see all of the corruption that he beheld, and not cleanse it. Makes much more sense to me that every time he beheld the abuse of his father's house he came and he corrected it. It would be expected that Jesus' reaction would be the same time each time he came to this holy place this house of prayer, this house of God, and saw it being corrupted by the unregenerate, unsaved leaders there in Jerusalem. Indeed, I think Jesus takes all of this rather personally. He doesn't just look at how it's set up and say it ought not to be this way. He says, quit making my father's house this way. He takes a person. His reaction is clearly strong. It doesn't even seem to indicate that he waited to ask anybody else to help him cleanse this giant temple complex, a very, very large, large area. Herod's temple was. He has a reaction of anger against it. A kind of zeal that the scripture said consumed him, if you can understand that. Because that's hard to understand in an age where we're not supposed to be consumed by anything, we're just supposed to get along with everybody and believe nothing. This was the very place where God lived among his people. And he is the high and the holy God of Israel. And all who came to this temple were to know the God of Israel. They were to bow low before him. They were to understand as Gentiles that they didn't have as close access as the people of God did. And there was limited access into God's presence. Even the high priest was only allowed into the most holy place once a year. God could be approached, but he had to be approached carefully. Indeed, there was a death penalty on those who proceeded too far and got too close inside the temple. He was to be treated with the highest kind of reverence and honor. People would come, they would give gifts, they would bow low, they would sing praises, they would honor God, they would know they were in the presence of the God of all the earth. And sadly, Jesus saw that the worship of the high and holy God of Israel had become big business This was especially true during the feast times, when people would come from all over the world and pour into Jerusalem and fill it to overflowing and bring not only a worshiping heart, hopefully, but a lot of money as well. But they needed money to travel and they needed money to worship. Now the term for temple that is used in verses 14 and 15 that Jesus cleansed out is not the Greek term naos, which would mean the actual sanctuary, the inner part of the temple. where the articles were. But Yeros, it's indicating the entire temple complex area, particularly probably the outer court of the Gentiles. That outer court of the Gentiles had by now become a regular place for conducting business. Oh, of course it was sanctified, it was religious business. The money changers in the temple performed a useful service, we might say, if we looked at it practically speaking. People had to come from all over the Roman Empire and they would bring coins. bearing all kinds of images, and they had to be exchanged. The offerings were required to be made only in Tyrian coinage, and so a service was provided. And those who sold sacrificial animals performed the necessary function as well. Worshipers under that dispensation needed to bring the animal and they needed to offer the sacrifice. And of course how conveniently they would find something wrong with the one they brought and say, we have a better one here that you can buy from us. They'd be happy to supply whatever they need for a price. It was all set up. It was rigged. And of course for many of them, particularly those who were poor, they couldn't afford the animals, they couldn't afford to bring them on a long trek if they came from a long distance. And so they couldn't take them up the steps to the priest, who would then take them up more steps to the place of sacrifice. So they had to pay for these things. And If the law required salt or other seasonings or even oil as part of the sacrifice, all of that could be found there as well. Everything was provided. It was so convenient. It was practical. It was orderly, it was well stocked, it was convenient, and it was badly out of place. Badly out of place. Of course, there was a profit to be made by the temple aristocracy. Annas the high priest was, as the gospels tell us, an evil man who extorted the nation and coveted power and made his allegiance with Rome. Given the fact that they had control of the entire temple area, it's not surprising if their prices were quite elevated. Furthermore, they had at their disposal a temple guard. With authority to keep order, to slay any Gentiles who would attempt to enter beyond the court of the Gentiles and to enforce whatever rules they had. Jesus somehow, with all of that, was not intimidated. He walks into this massive area with thousands, maybe tens of thousands of people there. And what does he do? He makes a whip. He puts together a cord of some kind, and he takes that thing above his big carpenter, or some people think a stonemason body of his And he starts going around and he starts cracking that whip on the backs of people and of animals and shoving them out and shouting and kicking over their tables and throwing over their chairs And just making an utter ruin of the entire place, shouting out, take these things out, quit making my father's house a place of business. Amazing. Holy zeal. Something we know very little of, it seems, in the modern church. Get out of his way. I'm sure when they looked in his eyes, they saw not only a man who was very determined, but a man who was outraged, absolutely outraged. Spilling everything. He could care less about the coins, the animals, what belonged to who, how it was all going to be set up again. He cared less about anything except get it out and get it out now The place would have looked like an utter mess by the time he was done. People were looking into the face of a holy God in the body of a man. You can just see the money changes scrambling for all of their money, trying to get what was theirs and collect it all and make sure they count it. People trying to retrieve animals. That was mine over there. People running out of his way, running this way, that way. Shouts of disorder. People scrambling. People just dodging out of his way. He made utter samples of their setup. He said, Your bazaar's over, the business is ended. Jesus was like a holy storm that hit with fury and without warning. Now how does that scene of Jesus of Nazareth fit in your mind about what Jesus was like? You know the little bracelets we wear, what would Jesus do? Make a court of whips and whip people in a certain circumstance In a certain setting, yes, he not only would, he he did. That's Jesus. That's the Jesus of the Bible. That's the Son of God. Revealing to us something very important about God that we must learn, we must understand. Well, one thing we learn is that God's not a cute, cuddly teddy bear. He's not a dispassionate, pliable grandfather. God himself has a zeal for his own holiness, and so does the Son of God. I think many in church today fail to see that side of God that burned with anger against sin and against hypocrisy. He would be yelling out these words again, I think, if he saw how many people treat the gospel in church today. Not that this is the Father's house, we're in the New Testament dispensation. We the church, we people are indwelt by Jesus Christ, and so we are the temple, and yet at the time of worship, so much that is called worship is not. I want to ask you if you really can relate to this kind of zeal. I mean I mean can you have have you ever met somebody that came close to having this kind of zeal for God? It didn't look like a crazy man? That wasn't someone you wanted to call the cops on and have dragged away. Can you even imagine what was going on in his mind that would drive him to such a reaction? Does your do your thoughts ever get to that point where you have uh an anger towards what is going on with the way God is treated and his name is treated and his law is treated and his church is treated. Jesus hated the hypocrisy of the Jews, acting like they were worshiping God while profiting from it. It was a racket. They loved money, they didn't love God. There were really worse later it would say that in in in the the second time he cleansed the temple, he would call it not a place of business. He would even Steepen his language and call it a den of thieves. And really they were worse than that, for they did their stealing openly with no shame at all, making rich off of the worship of Yahweh. Please understand this that Jesus was not merely protesting dishonest business. Even more fundamental, Jesus violently objected to the common and mundane way the temple of God was being used. Turning the preeminent place of bowing before a holy God into a common place of business, even if the business was legitimate. Even if it was a practical setup, it was still greatly offensive to God. Jesus desired to keep the worship of God pure. God was far too great and holy to allow distraction or competition during that time of prayer and worship. And what passion he had for the purity of God's temple. That quote about the zeal of God is from Psalm 699. Zeal for God's house, that jealousy that God's house be treated in a certain way would consume him. It would eat him up, it would control his thinking, it would be at the inner part of his being, it's what motivated him more than anything else. And it would come out at a special time like a time where he saw the corruption of it He loved the Father. And all of this was talked about in the prophet Malachi in chapter 3, where it says, Behold, I am going to send my messenger, and he will clear the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. Christ's deal was for God, for his holiness, for his truth, for his house. And this was a zeal that was with knowledge. He wasn't a crazy fanatic that didn't know what he was doing, didn't understand how to be dedicated to God He had true knowledge of the Holy One of Israel, and from that knowledge, from proper teaching, he expressed his anger and his zeal at the right time. Again, I want to ask you, do you have zeal for God? Now I know that we have zeal often for the things that we would like to do. If you think about things that really get you up in arms, there are things that have to do with uh your agenda or my agenda. We may look at something that's very important to us and if someone gets in the way of things we'd like to do We can get kind of bent out of shape with that, can't we? We can have a lot of uh zeal for our own accomplishments, the things that we want to see happen in our lives, the way we want our lives arranged The way we want our business to go, or the way we want our family to go, or whatever it is. But do you ever get this kind of a reaction to when God is a dishonor? I'm asking you to think about that. Do you have within you this same kind of holiness that says, look, I get upset when God has disobeyed When God's name is profane, when his church is taken advantage of, when the Bible, the Word of God, is made fun of or twisted. I get upset about that. Is that in your heart? Are you Christ-like in that way? Do you have zeal for a holy God? Those who know God well do. Those whose relationship with God is strong and they understand who God really is, they have that kind of reaction. And I just challenge you as you look at this example to say, Lord, how can I be like that in my heart as well? Seek to honor the name of God. Speak up for him when he is mocked. Use wisdom as to how to do it, but speak up and show zeal for God and for his truth. The second attribute I want us to see from the Son of God today is his power over death in verses 18 through 22. Jesus' power over death. In verse 18, it says, the Jews then, this is how they reacted to all of this, said to him, What sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews then said, It took forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he said this, and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken. Now when it says the Jews there in verse eighteen, that designation usually means the Jewish leaders. It doesn't always mean that, but it usually does. And here I think it likely means that. Delegation sent from the ruling body, the Sanhedrin there. It might have been some of the temple authorities, but there was someone in charge. These leaders, after watching the temple being cleansed Ask Jesus for a sign. Now, that's what Jews do. They were, you know, they like to do that. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul said that he said Jews asked for signs. Just like Greeks were known for those who searched for wisdom. You thought of Jews, what would they do? They would ask for a sign. That's what they did. They were impressed by miracles. And they expected if someone was truly speaking for God, was a prophet of God, that they would show a sign to prove that. Moses had provided two signs for the Jewish elders when he appeared Out of the wilderness in Exodus chapter five to convince them that indeed God had spoken to him and that his people were to leave Egypt There was the stick that turned into a serpent and then back into a stick again, and then there was a hand that was put inside of his cloak. It turned into leprosy instantly. with the white-colored skin, and then put it back in, and it was restored. Those two signs convinced the elders God had spoken to them. And so the Jews were conditioned to ask for signs to know someone was speaking from God. This is also related in Deuteronomy 18, verses 20 through 22, in talking about future prophets, and also Deuteronomy 13, verses 1 through 5. So it was a very natural thing for Jews to ask for a sign. Except that here, they didn't ask for the sign to prove that the temple needed to be cleansed. Surely they knew that. They they didn't approach this cleansing by Jesus in a humble fashion. Doesn't seem like what they said is, you know You're right about this. Irregardless of who you are, we should never have allowed this to happen. Thank you for this reminder. No, there was no humility here from them at all. It doesn't look like they received this strong rebuke from Jesus at all. But rather they turn everything back on him and put the pressure on him. They put the spotlight on him. You authenticate yourself now and give a sign. Now, one thing that is apparent from their request of Jesus is that they did not think that Jesus was a crazy man Obviously, the way he presented himself in that temple showed them that he was no madman to be hauled away by the authorities. He was summoned to be taken seriously. They saw enough in him to realize that this may be a prophet, and they wanted a sign to authenticate him. Jesus, of course, would often be asked to give a sign, and he gave hundreds and hundreds of such signs, but sometimes he refused to give the signs In Mark chapter 8 and verse 11, it says the Pharisees came out and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him sign deeply in his spirit, Jesus said, why does this generation seek for a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. The exception he made was the sign of Jonah, him being raised after three days, just as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days Days. In Luke chapter twenty-three and verses eight and nine, King Herod was very glad to see Jesus, it tells us, for he had wanted for a long time to see him so he could see a sign. This would be exciting. This would not be the usual entertainment a king would have. One thing, of course, that all of these people seem to have missed, you would think, Is that the cleansing itself was kind of like a sign there for them. Here, the Son of God had come to the temple as Malachi had said, and he cleansed it. Didn't that mean anything to them? Wasn't that a sign? This already fulfilled prophecy. Well, instead of providing them a sign, Jesus cannot be manipulated. Jesus makes a claim instead, an amazing claim, but a misunderstood claim. He said, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Well, that claim would later be used against him at his trial. In Matthew 26 it says, starting in verse 59, Now the chief priests and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus so that they might put him to death. They did not find any, even though many false witnesses came forward. But later on two came forward and said, This man stated, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to rebuild it in three days. The high priest stood up and said to him, Do you not answer? What is it that these men are testifying against you? But Jesus kept silent. Even on the cross, as he was being crucified, you may remember that this claim was hurled back at him in Matthew 27. Verses thirty nine and forty. It says those passing by were hurling abuse at Jesus, wagging their heads and saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days save yourself if you are the Son of God come down from the cross, there being the temptation of the devil. Well to destroy or to desecrate any temple in the Roman Empire was a crime punishable by death. But of course they twisted Jesus' words. Jesus never said, I will destroy the temple. He said, You destroy, and I will raise. That's what he said. And they not only exquisite his words, they misunderstood his words. His reference was to his body, not to that building there. You destroy my body, I think is what he was saying. His body, which housed God and was a temple, and I will raise my body back again. He was not calling them to tear down the temple, he was not challenging them to do it, he was not inviting them to do so. It means that if it is destroyed, or when you destroy it, referring to his own body, I will raise it. That will be the sign you want. My bodily resurrection. You seek a sign, that'll be the sign that I leave this generation. Please notice in verse 20 that the objection Is that it took all this time to build it in the first place? The work of Herod's temple, we are told, began in either twenty or nineteen BC and this was around twenty-six or twenty-seven AD, and so there are the years that they spoke of. It was actually still in the process of being built. Parts of it were completed, the inner part was completed parts would continue to be worked on all the way until 63 A. D. , but they're referring to the years of building up to that point of time. They took him literally, quite literally, and he meant something very different, and they were confounded by that. By the way, throughout the Gospel of John, you will repeatedly see the same theme: that Jesus says something profound and spiritual, and the people take him literally and physically and have no idea what he's talking about. Nicodemus, for example, is told that if he wants to enter into the kingdom of heaven, he has to be born again, and he asks, shall I enter a second time into my mother's womb and be born? How does that work? The woman by the well was told, if you drink the water that I give you, you will never thirst again. And she said, Good sir, give me some of that water so that I'll never thirst again. In chapter 6 and verse 52, Jesus said, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourselves. And not only did some people get that wrong then, but even millions of people today continue to get that wrong and think they have to literally eat The body and blood of Christ and consume it. But Jesus taught only the Spirit gives life in that passage. Of Lazarus, he said that he had fallen asleep and the disciples didn't know what the fuss would be if he just fell asleep. And what he meant is that he had died in chapter eleven and verse thirteen. Hey, when we say that we interpret the Bible literally, we don't mean that every portion of the Bible is to be interpreted literally. I really rather call our literal interpretation normal interpretation, which lets the context, the author, the grammar, and everything explain to us what the author meant. Clearly here he's referring to his body. John even tells us that's what he meant. He's referring to the temple of his body. Jesus' body is a temple. It was a body that was prepared for him. Remember back in John chapter 1 and verse 14 it says The word became flesh and lived among us. What does that mean? He took on a body. God was now housed in a body and walking around on earth. He tabernacled among us, literally, it says in that verse. Herod's temple built in Jerusalem was merely a type of Christ. It too was going to be destroyed, but he would not rebuild it. The old temple, as beautiful as it was, was no longer needed. Jesus told the woman by the well, God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. It's not going to matter whether we worship in Jerusalem or whether we worship on this mountain here. And so really what Jesus gave them, rather than a sign, was a riddle that they didn't get. The sign would come later. They'd get the sign. Sign of the resurrection, and many Jews would believe at that point in time, but here he confounded their unbelief and their poor motives with a riddle that they could not understand. Jesus' body indeed was going to be raised. It would be the start of a new temple, his church in which he would live, and we ourselves as believers would house him. He would indwell his own people. And so in a very early and veiled declaration, here we have him speaking of his resurrection. Something new and better had come. Jesus would be the new system of worship. He would be the new economy, the new way to relate to God, the new temple. But they did not understand his words, and neither did his disciples, by the way, until much later after he was raised, then they got it. The disciples wouldn't see any need for resurrection because they didn't think there was any need for Jesus to go and die. But of course, after the resurrection they remembered, and it says they believed the scripture. That's singular. It says the scripture, and we don't know what scripture John is referring to because he doesn't tell us. It could likely be Psalm 16 and verse 10. which is quoted in the book of Acts as referring to the resurrection of the Messiah. It may also have been Isaiah 53 in verse 12. I want you to focus for a minute now on this astounding claim of Jesus. I, this is essentially what he's saying, I Will raise myself from the dead. Imagine meeting someone who said that. Go ahead and kill me. I will raise myself from the dead. Nobody can say that. Nobody. Unless he's who? God. Unless he's God. Jesus knew and was aware that he had power, life-giving power, of such a kind that he could bring himself back to life. He said, I thought God raised Jesus from the dead. He did. The work of the resurrection is attributed to the Holy Spirit, it's attributed to God the Father, and the scripture also attributes it to the Holy Spirit. In fact, later in the Gospel of John, when we get to chapter 10, verses 17 and 18, Jesus will say these words, For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, so that I may take it again No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I received from my father. I have power over death. I have life-giving power. Now, when we think about this attribute of the Son of God and we realize God has the power of life, in him as well. We are brought to our knees in dependence before God because we are creatures who die. And we have no life in ourselves. And we know that we will face death and we will have loved ones whom we will see die. And there is much agony and sorrow and hopelessness in this life. But Jesus wants us to know he has power over death and he possesses this as an attribute. He has life Giving power. And what does that do to creatures who are dependent on someone else to give them life and to give them everlasting life beyond the grave? It forces us to put our full and complete confidence in him and him alone. Yes I need Jesus Christ. I have no life. He has to give it to me. And you need Jesus Christ. He has life-giving power And you need to be aware of that and be driven to your knees humbly before him, asking him for life, telling him over and over that you're so grateful for the life that he has already given you. And trusting in that final day when he will raise you from the dead. In John 6, verse 40, Jesus said, This is the will of my Father. That everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life. And I myself will raise him up on the last day. He not only will raise himself up with that power that he has, he will raise you up if you behold the Son and believe in him. That is his power, his attribute. And those two, his holy zeal and his life-giving power enough to cause my heart To want to continue in worship of Christ. This third one may even be more meaningful to you than the first two. The third attribute is that Jesus has the knowledge of man. Jesus has the knowledge of man within himself. Verses 23 through 25. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs which he was doing. But Jesus, on his part, was not entrusting himself to them, for he knew all men. And because he did not need anyone to testify concerning man. So we see here Jesus remained at the feast for some time longer. Passover connected with the feast of unleavened bread would have taken about a week. We can assume it was about that long. Other signs right then and there, not wait for the resurrection sign. They had plenty that they could go see. John didn't record them. John's purpose, he tells us, is not to record all of Jesus' miracles. John wrote his gospel, remember after the other three, he assumes a lot of the knowledge from those other three gospels. He's just picking certain signs to reveal Jesus to us. What we can tell from this early stage of Jesus' ministry here that as he's doing a lot of these signs and as the leadership is not yet organized against him, Jesus is quite popular, and his ministry is growing. Many, it says, many were believing in him as they observed the sign. Now that's an important point. For that points to the credibility of his signs. There are lots of people who go to the so-called miracle workers today, and some who are very emotional come away saying it was fantastic. The miracle was done, but skepticalized to stand around and watch and say it was a trick. I didn't see any miracle there. But as people watched Jesus' miracles, they came away convinced This guy's for real and they believed in him. This guy's for real. People's minds were convinced They were given information that came through their senses. They saw healings and other kinds of miracles, and they're like, that can't happen. I've never seen that happen in all my life. That doesn't happen naturally That God is doing signs? In fact, what was going on with these guys in chapter 2 really is verbalized by Nicodemus in chapter 3. Would you just look forward to verse 2 and see what was in Nicodemus' mind? Because he's one of these people here He says rabbi, that means teacher. We know that you have come from God as a teacher Why? How does he know that? How did he come to that conclusion? For no one, no one can do these signs that you do unless what? God is with him. That's what they were thinking. That's what these believers in chapter 2 were doing. They looked at the signs. There are a lot of signs, and they said to one another, God has to be with his teacher. He has to be sent from God. Look at those signs. God's with you. God is working with you. We see God's power in you. But here's the shocking part of the verse. The very shocking part of the verse. But Jesus would not entrust himself to them. You see that? Did you read that? They're believing in him. He is not believing in them. Literally, it's the same Greek word there. Pestuo, same Greek verb. He had no faith in their kind of faith in him. Why not? Well we're told. Jesus had knowledge of man. Jesus had knowledge of what was going on inside of man. His knowledge was both penetrating, that is, he could see right into the heart of these people, and it was also a knowledge that was extensive. It says he knew all men, and he knew what was inside of man And he didn't need to do what you and I need to do, and that is to have testimony about a person. We try to figure out all the time what's going on in each other's minds, don't we? You know, and sometimes we just can't. But the way we try to figure it out is we need some evidence, some testimony, some words, some actions that a person took, something like that, so we can figure out what's going on. Jesus didn't need any of that He just looked straight into the mind, straight into the heart. He could read the motives. He knew what they were thinking before and after. He knew them better than they knew themselves. Because he's God. The attribute of omniscience to see like that is something that only God has. He can do that. We can't. It's interesting that in 1 Kings chapter 8, in a prayer, verses 39 and 40, we read these words. here in heaven your dwelling place, and forgive and act and render to each according to all his ways, whose heart you know, for you alone know the hearts of all the sons of men, so the prayer says. The Jews understood that only God knows what's going on inside of every man. It's a divine attribute. And it was an attribute of the Son of God. We will see this demonstrated when Jesus talks to Nicodemus, hopefully next week. When Nicodemus doesn't really even ask a question, he makes a statement and then Jesus goes off talking about the new birth. And you're like, Why is he talking about the new birth with him? Because he knows what's in the heart of Nicodemus. And he gets right to the point. The Samaritan woman by the well wants to, you know, talk about religious things, and and Jesus knows what's going on in her heart and tells her about a four or five husbands that she had prior to that point. It says like, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. How'd you know that? In Revelation, when Jesus speaks to his own churches, the seven churches, he says in chapter two, verse twenty-three, I am he who searches the minds and the hearts. Wow. It's kinda scary, you know, someone might break into your computer and search all the things you have on your computer. Have you ever thought about that? Some hack who's out there and he breaks in and he scans everything you have Downs loads it somewhere and he uses it all against you. Well, you know something? God's scanning our brain all the time. He knows what's going on. He knows our motives. And people think they're going to stand before God on judgment day and they're going to kind of convince him that they ought to be led into heaven because there are such good purposes and he knows every foul stinking motive in our hearts. It's kind of scary, isn't it? If you don't have a Savior. Really what's shocking about here is it says in John 1, we were already told this earlier in John 1, as many as received Jesus to them he gave the right To become the children of God, even to those who believe in his name, and here are people believing in his name, and he doesn't receive them and he doesn't accept them. That's shocking. What was it that when he looked down into their minds he saw that was unacceptable? Well, first let's talk about what was acceptable. What were they doing? First of all, we could say they had a belief, they had a faith. We could say it was a public belief. They were saying, hey, we believe in this guy. He's doing those signs. It's based on seeing miracles. And it's not just a general faith in God, but it was a faith particularly in Jesus. So what's wrong with that? Why would Jesus not accept that? Why was it not the right kind of faith? Because their heart wasn't right. Jesus looks into the heart and the motive and he sees, he knows what's going on. He saw this stopped at their cognitive level. There was no repentance from sin in their heart. They weren't saying that Jesus, because you've done these signs, we now recognize you as Lord and we're willing to change our evil ways and follow you. No, that wasn't going on. It was just I think that you are the son of God because you do these signs, and it stopped at that this is what I believe level in the head There was no change of life. There was no turning away from personal sin. There was no commitment to Jesus Himself. And so it wasn't saved faith. Dr. MacArthur in his ministry for many years has battled the evangelical church, which he never intended to do and never thought he would have to do in his ministry. to get the church to preach and understand what true saving faith is and what it is not. For there's so many that say they believe in Jesus but are unsaved And if they were to die today, they would have no chance of heaven at all because their belief is a deficient kind of a belief. And he writes these words. Jesus knows the true state of every heart. He saw in these people a superficial facade, a mere outward attraction to his spectacular signs. But genuine saving faith goes far beyond that. It demands wholehearted commitment to Jesus as the Lord of one's life. Jesus' Lordship goes hand in hand with his deity. As the God of the universe, he is worthy to be worshipped and obeyed. Reverently adored as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Listen, I fear that some of you who come week after week to our church have a kind of a faith that doesn't save. It doesn't save Your faith is the kind in James 2. 19. You believe that God is one, you do well, even the demons understand that and believe that, and they shudder with fear because they're under the judgment of God. Is the kind of faith that you have, a faith that you gave your whole life to Jesus Christ. Take my life and do with it what you want. You're my master and my Lord. That's the kind of faith that saves. You can't play games with Jesus Christ. He knows what's going on in your mind. You can't avoid his judgment. He knows what your motives are. He sees right down into you. Has your life been genuinely changed by Christ? Have you come to him because you're a sinner and who's lost and that you know you need salvation? Is that true of you? You could do that today. I ask Jesus, forgive me. I've been I've been playing church. I've been going along with my parents. I've been just relying on a baptism that happened years ago or something that someone said to me years ago, but my life was never changed. And I know it in my heart. I've been living for myself. I don't really want to follow Jesus. And I know that's what it's been. Lord, forgive me. I want to I wanna I want to follow you today. I want to make sure I'm right with you today I want to have saving faith. I want to know when I die you'll accept me and not reject me. I want to have that kind of a faith. I ask you, please, don't deceive yourself. Ask God to show you what He already sees about your heart. Make sure, examine your heart. Examine your faith. Make sure you want to be a follower of Jesus Christ and His Word and Scripture. And that that's true of you today. And if you need any help, come talk to an elder. Come talk to one of us. We'd like to help you with it. Make sure of your salvation. Make sure you understand that this attribute of the Son of God will be used against you in the judgment day if you do not believe in him now. And there's the warning from the passage as well Well, Jesus has a holy zeal for God's holiness. He has life-giving power, and he has understanding of the very mind and heart. Of mankind. May a meditation on those attributes cause you to know God more closely Our Heavenly Father, we acknowledge that our entire lives is a journey to understand you and know you better, but we pray for those who think that they have started the journey already and have not, and are self-deceived. Maybe there's some of our children here today, Lord. They've been listening for years, but their heart is in love with the world. And they love money or they love whatever it is and they're not converted and they don't know you. Please, by your mighty life-giving power, save their souls today. We also pray, dear Lord, as we continue to go through this gospel, as you use your church here. Give us a heart for the lost, to let this be a time where we're outreaching, bringing people in so they might hear of these messages from your word, O Lord, and you might save them. Use your people. Cause them to be bold and zealous for your name. For we ask it all in the name of Jesus, thanking you for this time of worship. Amen.