All right. Well, um we're on lesson two, except um I want to go back to lesson one. We didn't have enough time to uh touch all of the items front at the end of last week. And I didn't want to cover all that, but There are a couple of things I think are going to be a good segue to what we're going to talk about today. On page eight, we started the whole topic of interpretation And uh we talked about exegesis, isegesis, normal interpretation. Um But something we didn't spend a lot of time on was the literary devices that we use all the time, and pretty much every language I'm sure has them. And so the context here is we want to understand Scripture literally, but there are times when understanding it literally recognizes that what's being used is not to be taken literally. We recognize that from the context and the word usage. The easiest ones are a simile and a metaphor. Right, you're used to those. Um the more a little bit more challenging is Parable, which is basically a story to To make a point, right? And we should understand the point that's being illustrated in that story. But on page nine There are a couple of things that I think it would be helpful to highlight. And one is idiom. Idiom. Not idiot, but idiom. You know what an idiom is. It's a it's a a figure of speech that's typically cultural. um that we know isn't meant to be taken literally. And so when we say someone lost his head We don't interpret that. His head is no longer attached to his neck or his shoulders. But well how do we understand that? What do we mean by he lost his head? He wasn't thinking clearly. Yeah, he made an irrational choice, that kind of thing, right? And we understand that. Do we take that literally? Well, we take the intent of that literally, but we understand what that idiom means, what the author meant, and what he wants us to understand, right? Do you see some problems with that? If you're if you're reading something from another culture And you're not familiar with their idioms? You could be led down a a path of interpretation that wasn't intended, right? So do you think that's going to come up in the reading of scripture? Yeah. Yeah. Now many of us we we've gotten kind of accustomed to some of those, but probably not all of them. And that's where other tools can help us to get the broader background of the cultural, the language, even the idioms. And that's one of my segues into today's topic. The next one on page nine is idiom, I'm sorry, hyperbole. Hyperbole. What is hyperbole? It's an exaggeration. The an exaggeration for what purpose? To make a point. Yeah. And it should be pretty obvious what the point is when you when you say that. And so there's some examples of that here. You know, take the log out of your eye before being concerned about the speck in your brother's eye. Right? Is it a log that's actually in the eye? No, it's it's a it's a hyperbole, it's an exaggeration to make a point. Right? And we understand what that point is. It's pretty clear Um those two seem closely related. I'm sorry? Those two seem closely related. Which AM I AM In this case they they sort of are, yes. Um but I I don't know that this was an idiom in that it's it's a type of s it's a it's a phrase that people would be widely using I think it was used first by Christ in his teaching. And is it kind of a metaphor too? Because it's not literally a spectral bot in your eye. Yeah, that's kind of a metaphor also. The better example, I think, of uh hyperbole is in 1 Corinthians 13, where the beginning of it You know, it's talking about spiritual gifts, right? Starting in chapter 12 and all the way through chapter 14. And 13 is sandwiched in between there, talking about love, right? And so he begins by saying, if I speak with the tongues of man and of angels, in other words, I could speak any any language out there. That's just hyperbole. If I have the gift of tongues and I was able to do all sorts of languages, but I don't have love, then it m it profits nothing, right? But he continues Um if I have the gift of prophecy and I know all mysteries and all knowledge Now, having the gift of prophecy doesn't mean you have the gift of all knowledge. Having even having the gift of a word of knowledge doesn't mean you have all knowledge. But he's taking this to the extreme. If if if I had all the knowledge possible out there but don't have love, it profits people nothing. It's making more sense. Yeah. He's going to the extreme He's going to the extreme to make a point. Yeah. And um The gift of giving. If I give all my possessions to feed the poor, all my possessions, taking that to the extreme, right? But don't have love. It profits nothing. And then the last one here I guess it's also related to the gift of giving. If I surrender my body to be burned. But don't have love. It profits me nothing. So there's a lot of hyperbole there to make a point of the importance of love with respect to these spiritual gifts. It these are people who want to take, especially if I speak and tell the man with angels, meaning angels have a time. Well, I'm sure they do. But um created Yeah. But the point he's making is that If if I was able to speak every language out there, even ones that we don't have here on Earth. W whatever those are. I know we I know we know that, but how do we And oh a friend, she said a ha Show him that in the context here he's got multiple examples of hyperbole. Taking something to the extreme to make a point, and the point is love. In fact at the end of the chapter he says three things endure, right? Faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is what Love. He's making that point in chapter thirteen and he's starting off with hyperbole. Even if you had These any of these spiritual gifts to the extreme, to the max, beyond even perhaps what we can imagine, but don't have love, you're missing it. That's his point. You just look at the context. Don't take something out of the context and try to make a doctrine out of it. Yeah. Okay. So I wanted to highlight those because Our general approach to interpretation ought to be the same that we use everywhere, and that is just normal expectation that everything is to be taken literally, unless it's clear from the wording or the context, that it's Not literal, uh, but it's illustrative or hyperbole or whatever. Alright? I know good Christians disagree on the the story of the rich man and Lazarus as to whether that was the real story that Jesus was telling, I think in Luke or if it was a parable. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's a interesting question, the rich man of Lazarus. Um I I think to a large degree it doesn't really matter whether it was an actual event that Jesus was describing or a parable to make his point, because the truth he has in it It's still true. Um So we shouldn't lose a lot of sleep on either either way but to really focus on okay what is the message or easy yeah. Jesus I don't think anything Jesus said indicated that he was offering it as a parable. Um but I think there were other illustrations that he gave that were similar to that. Uh including um um The Good Samaritan? Oh yeah. Um which we take to be clearly a basically a parable, a s a a story to make a point. Um but he just Laid it out there. Yeah, somebody was traveling down to Jericho and so on. Yeah. A few weeks ago we were talking about the seat for Stewart and Luke 60. Would you consider that passage to be hyperbolic? Like such an extreme parable, just to make a point, not that we're supposed to To be slipped like the deceitful steward, but to use all the blessings, the world's blessings that God has given us to invest right in other leaps. Yeah. Um the call Yeah. I'm not sure it's it's all that important to draw fine lines between what is hyperbole and what is parable and that thing. Yeah. Um The critical thing of course whether it's whether we can identify it literally uh from l as a literated device that is as a parable or something else isn't as important as what? We actually get the point that he's trying to make. Yeah. But I just wanted to alert you to these things, especially hyperbole and idioms, because um We can easily be led astray if we think that was something that was not meant to be taken literally in the sense that all the details are literally But rather it's it's it's a literary device to help us see the main point. Right, yeah. Um I just would say that we shouldn't really worry about which exactly it is per se because Sometimes you can have more than one you can have an expression and you can apply um more than one literary device to it. Right. So it's just fun. I mean it's just that's literature that's Um that's the fun of words and language. And so um yeah, I just wanted to say don't get stressed out if there's more than one if you can You know what the term play on words is? You're familiar with that? You see that in scripture quite a lot too. Particularly in Paul. But you lose it if you don't see the nuances of the various words. And so digging into the words and how they're used and so on uh often gives us insight that, yeah, they're having fun with the language to make a point. Um upon this rock, I would build my church. That is a play on words, actually. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So let's skip to page 13, our lesson for today. We've given a very high overview of Bible study um uh methods, I guess you could say. Oh, and by the way, I I assume you all got the hard copy, maybe even the electronic copy of um Pastor Mike's nice, concise checklist essentially of the things we've been talking about. Anyway, today I wanted to look at some basic Bible study tools. And you know what I mean by tools, right? It's it's something that helps you to get the job done. Right? Without it you'd be a lot longer. You know if you try to get that nail in without a hammer, you're gonna be a pretty long time getting that nail in where it needs to go. That's probably a pretty poor example. Um is that a metaphor or uh anyway. The point is well taken, whatever. So we're going to cover a very a variety of categories here, but I brought with me some of my hard copy tools that I have used and Uh Karen, why don't you just go ahead and start passing them around? People can just take uh as I'm talking, they can just glance and kind of see the kinds of things in each of these tools. And when it gets to the end, you can kind of make it circulate to the other chairs. And some of these we're actually going to talk about. Okay, so back on page 13. I want to read that intro paragraph here. It's clearly very helpful to be proficient in biblical Hebrew and Greek, right? How many of you are likely to be very proficient in biblical Hebrew and Greek? I'm not. Um Yeah, we we struggle enough with English, don't we? Um however, and this is the point, regular Christians and I think that includes us, right? Regular Christians can and should study the Bible well even if they don't know those original languages. Fortunately, a wide variety of Bible study tools are available, particularly in English, and some other languages, but I mean we've really been blessed in the English language to have lots of tools That can help you analyze biblical text in great depth and clarity. So let's take a look at these. I'm going to put them in what I think might be a priority order, top priority first, in your uh toolbox, if you will The first would be a study Bible. I'm assuming that probably this is the most common tool everybody has here. If you don't yet have a study bible in one of these translations, I would say that's your first priority, get one of those. Partly because it's translated as faithfully as possible from the original languages, but it also provides other tools, notes. Um cross references. Uh Jeff, do you mind yep. Um And so you're probably fairly familiar with the benefits of having a study Bible like that. They might have some of them have maps and charts, uh little intros to um each book of the Bible and maybe some outline of of how the the book goes. It different study Bibles have different resources within them. But it's it's the text of scripture and a lot of things that help you understand what you're reading. Right? Those are all very good. I I will um mention, however, in that item three where among the things that you might find in the study bible would be explanatory information. That often includes commentary. And so I have commentary way down at the bottom on the page fourteen. Let me just go there now. On page 14, item J, commentaries. Think of a commentary as somebody else's Bible study. Okay? Somewhat like an expository sermon. Ideally, the commentary you're reading is the fruit of someone else's study, and they probably preached this before they wrote it down in their commentary They can be extremely helpful, but you don't have to read more than several commentaries before you realize what they're not all saying the same thing about the same passage Now that could be good, that could be bad. It could be good because multiple insights on the same thing can actually help to clarify where where the kernel of truth is, right? If you if you have a steady diet of only one You're likely to miss some things because other people have had perception and have written that out. So it could be a good thing, but it could be a bad thing if you take someone else's opinions, someone else's conclusions, and treat that the same as scripture. You don't want to do that. Right? Only scripture is inerrant. But having multiple uh insights from multiple sources can be a very good thing But if you have a study bible you're gonna you're only gonna get one. If you have any commentary in there, it's gonna be one person's commentary, typically. And that can be very good. I mean I have that. But you also need to think more broadly. Don't don't take that commentary as inerrant. But rather as being helpful and suggestive. Make sense? Okay. So after a st a good study Bible I put down here an exhaustive concordance. Anybody having a concordance? A few? Yeah? Concordances were uh very bread and butter staple necessity bible study tool Um before the advent of computers and electronic apps and and so on, they've pretty much, I think, been superseded by electronic means to do the same thing but even more. Um yeah, Steve. So Was that a metaphor or an idiom or uh that was a Stevism. Yeah. Okay. Um However, it's important to understand the background of how a concordance uh worked, and if you have one still works. So every word except even the exhaustive ones don't list the occurrence of every little article or like a, and, or the Those are pretty insignificant in the overall scheme of things. But all the nouns and adjectives and verbs and just every single one that's mentioned in scripture is listed alphabetically First the Hebrew and then the the Greek. And um this guy named Strong Years ago did enormous labor to assign a number to each one of those. Every single word. Exhaustively. Exhaustively. Yeah. Yeah, that's the guy's name, actually. And so that organizational system, that numbering system for each word, continues to be very helpful today. It's kind of a unifying thing across sources and and so on. And so even if you have an electronic version of what is essentially a concordance, Um using strong numbers, strong's numbers is extremely helpful. Not all apps are keyed to S uh Strong's numbers, and so you want to get one that is. Um and The limitation of a concordance, however, and basic even basic Bible study apps is it can be keyed to the strongest number But let's take a verb, for example. It's listed there as a verb, but of course verbs come in tenses and and um uh Well I think we already talked about it last week, didn't we? Yeah, page seven. So things like for verbs, what is the tense? What voice is it? Active or passive, for example. Um the mood, is it indicative just saying something, or is it imperative? Is it a command? Or is it subjunctive, something that may happen in the future Uh is it first person, second person, third person? All those things are not none of those things are drawn out in a concordance. What's there is the root word, which for verbs would be, I guess, the infinitive. To love, to help, whatever. And uh you see where that verb in its infinitive or in in its in any form appears in the Bible But if you want to know more specifics about how it's used in a particular passage, the concordance is going to get you to the passage, but it's not going to help you interpret the details. Okay? We'll talk about that in a minute But that's the limitation of a concordance. Which is why I I wouldn't recommend if you don't have one, don't bother getting one, because there's something even much better now. If if you have a computer. Yeah Okay. Third, I listed multiple good translations. So even if your study Bible is in one of these three It's helpful to have access to probably both of the other two. And they don't have to be uh hard copy. You can get those electronically pretty easily as well. But it's good to compare how the how these faithful translations um well compare to each other. And it gives you greater insight. Okay, a Bible dictionary. Now when we think of dictionary, we think of the meaning of words, and that is included in a Bible dictionary. But um usually a Bible dictionary would go beyond that. Not just words, but um places, a little bit of historical background on the the word. It could be a variety of of things like that. And they're very helpful. It gives you context, cultural, historical context. Make sure that you're not misinterpreting even the word. The word may not be the way we always use it today in English. And so it's helpful to have a dictionary to To do that. Okay, then there's an expository dictionary. This is getting at word usage in the original languages. Primarily Greek and Hebrew. And here is where it um It gets into all the tenses and all the past, present, and futures and all the the variations of of these things. A um I think I did I do I have vines? You got it there, yeah. Um You can get the the most common one is Vine's Expository Dictionary, which covers both it used to be one volume was Hebrew, one volume was English. They're now combined into one volume, so it's really handy. Um But again, you're probably going to have access to electronic things that are probably handier and no more expensive than getting the hard copy. Maybe cheaper. May I ask um what makes you put the Bible dictionary in order of preference above the exp expository Yeah, that don't read into this priority that I put him in too finely, but I think my thinking was if you need something basic Um the Bible dictionary is probably going to give you a lot of context that it's readily understood. The expository dictionary starts getting into Um it's all Greek to me. You know? And uh it's good to delve into that and have guidance from something like this. But you may actually end up spending more time with the Bible dictionary to make sure you've got context and and so on pretty well covered. Yeah, good question. A topical Bible. Now again, um I used to have a hard copy of this. I don't think I'm circulating this, but um Knave's topical Bible is has been a standard in English language Bible study for many, many years. Uh again, named after a guy named Naes. Um What it does is you uh look through in in alphabetical order uh any particular topic you're interested in. Uh the topic could be uh people or it could just be a subject matter or whatever. And Uh it gives a little bit of information, but the main thing it gives is cross references. So that um You can see where this this topic comes up in the context of a related topic. Um examples in the life of people, uh just straight up teaching. And it really gets you started on any topical study to make sure you're seeing sort of the breadth of the treatment of that topic in scripture. But again That's available electronically and it could be keyed to everything else you're doing uh on your computer. Is it cheating to use that for this class for the possible No. Oh I would highly if you got it if you've got it or something like that, use tools to get the job done. You know, use good tools. to get the job done. And Naves is a is a very common one. Um and again, um I'll show you in in a minute how to do that actually electronically. Yeah. I was just going to say the topical bottle is great because it gives you not just all the verses, but it gives you the jugular ones. So if you're like working on a verse, it's like, ah, I didn't understand that. The cross references can give you a host of verses that may be more clear to shine light upon. Or at least taken together. Taken together, yes. Yeah. Okay, letter uh yeah, Steve. Um there's also a MacArthur topical bible that the kind of happened on. It's gotta be like thirteen hundred pages. I I just bought it wasn't prepared for it it's it's exhaustive as well. Because it it weighs a lot. Yeah. Um There are bound to be others. The most common one that's been out there for many years is knaves. Top of page 14, a Greek lexicon and a Hebrew lexicon. I'm not necessarily suggesting that you get something like this. You really need to prepare to get into those original languages um to a fair degree to make use to make the best use of these. However, I will say that there are uh electronic versions of this that make it actually even more helpful than just looking up in a book. And I'll show you that in a minute as well. But a lexicon basically does some of the things that that we've already seen. It'll take any given word and say, here it is, and it's um Or it uh here's the word that's actually used in the verse, okay? And it answers those questions, you know, what is i is a past, present, or future, is a singular or plural, and all those different elements to understand the word, that's how it's represented in the Hebrew or the Greek. And Um things that are helpful to know, like for example, um And here's a a limitation of English. You know it says when Scripture says Something about you, is that singular or plural? Well, we don't know. English doesn't specify. You have to know how From the context. Well you can read it in scripture and you still don't know, even though you know the context what it's talking about, you don't know if he's talking about you one person or you a collection of people in that particular verse and sometimes your interpretation and application might Depend on knowing whether that's singular or plural. Well you're going to find out here from a Greek lexicon or the equivalent of it on uh on your computer. And that's just one example. Um a Bible handbook is very helpful and there's one passing around here, uh the MacArthur Bible handbook, uh which is also very helpful. Much of the information in the Bible handbook is included in some of the things we've already talked about. The Bible dictionary and study Bibles and whatever Not necessarily everything, but it's a good overview of every book of the Bible typically, with a lot of context and and um you know who wrote it, when it was written, and and those are valuable things that you might also be picking up in some of these other tools I've listed. A Bible Atlas, again, extremely helpful. But you may have some of the basic maps that are going to be helpful to you already in a study bible or something like that. But there are a couple of books I've passed around that are even more detailed and a good reference as well. And then we talked about commentaries. And there are other things as well, but I think those are the top the top ten. Okay. That leads me to electronic alternatives. to paper. I know my wife doesn't like how many books I have, but I was born too early. All we had was books. Now I'm replacing a lot of that with computer stuff. So, um what are some advantages of electronic Bible study apps? Well one speed. Uh it can be right at your fingertips and very quickly you can get like every verse that has this characteristic or this word or whatever. And it's it's right there. And now you've got a long list, sometimes long, sometimes only one, but a list of of things to be exploring to understand how that word is used, how that uh whatever it is shows up in the Bible. And so speed is definitely uh to its advantage. And here really it is exhaustive. You've got the whole Bible, and these things, if they're keyed to things like Strong's numbers, and you can even search on English words, let alone the Strong's number. You can search on Hebrew words. You can search on Greek words. And you got it. Very helpful. And it's it's searching the entire Bible. It's exhaustive. Number three is important, the bundling of tools. So we talked about a number of tools here, but can you imagine having them all together in one place? and where they're keyed to one another. So you're working through a Bible text and you can learn That that's dealt with in um not only these passages, but in this other tool like um a topical bible or m more importantly probably more f frequently uh some commentary or some s some um Some other kind of study tool that's on your system, you can search all of them for that word or that concept or whatever, and you can bring all these tools to bear. uh when you even just study in one verse. It's it's it's a great thing to bundle. Now it's also helpful that you don't have to have a bundle, your toolbox doesn't have to be filled to the brim right when you start. But as you get more and more experienced, you say, man, it would sure would be nice to have such and such a tool in my system here. And you can just one by one over the years add on a new tool. Particularly when you've seen, yeah, it really helped me in my Bible study to have such and such a tool. then go ahead and invest in it. And it's probably going to be no more expensive electronically than it would be on paper. And it takes up a lot less space on your bookshelf. And everything's linked together, which is good. Multiple translations. You can have in the same app multiple translations. So you're on a passage, and just the click of a button, it transforms it to the other translation. Click the button again and it goes to a different translation. If you want, you can put them side by side and compare them and all those sort of things. Very helpful. So you you can imagine having books open and kind of flipping pages on all of them and and whatever. That's possible. That's what people always used to do. By the way, I'll I'll um caveat everything I'm saying here about the benefits of electronic thing. John MacArthur Bless His Heart just died. He didn't have a computer in his heart in his house. He was born even before I was, and so he got he had all his tools ready and if it ain't broke don't fix it, right? Of course, computers can have other problems, not just advantages. And I don't know if that was in his thinking, but I'm sure he had his system down long before computers made it even easier. Anyway, for what it's worth. Being able to do it on the computer, I think, is uh an efficient way, particularly for us who um This is not our full-time job, and so we want to be efficient in our study of scriptures, but we want to be as thorough as possible, right? Okay, number five advantage here is personal notes. Do any of you kind of make a note in in the Bible text on the pages of your Bible? Sure. Used to be that's all you could do. Right? Um some people shy away from that because oh it kind of desecrates God's word. Um But you can do it on an app. You can put a little sticky on that verse and you can key it to your own um topic uh heading that you can make up and you can even search and and it's there. And so in my case I I have a I'll talk about it in a minute. Um a Bible study system. Um That's on my computer, it's on my iPad, and it's on my phone. And they're all linked. So if I make a note, like I'm in service, worship service, and in sermon I hear something that I really need to make a note about that. I put it on the relevant verse, and it's a little sticky, and I type the the the note, maybe a list of things that the pastor is going through or whatever it is. But that same note is on my my my laptop, it's on my phone, they're all connected. And you can search on your notes. Also, I know I made a note about that somewhere. Where was that? That's why you put a little little uh uh heading on it. So notes are helpful, especially if you can refer back to them easily. Right. Uh highlighting tests. Anybody use a highlighter when they read the scriptures? Different colors? Sometimes you can do the same thing electronically. And uh the colors can mean whatever they mean for you, that's good. Um And yeah, highlight to your heart's content. I mentioned before cross-platform synchronization, so my computer, my iPad, my phone. If I if I make a note or uh make some kind of um well any app that I get, it's then accessible from all three, not just one. And when I when I make a note or something like that, it's all synchronized. Pastor Allen, quick question out of curiosity, when you make notes, is this Does that information exist only in at a website somewhere or is it actually on your hard drive? It's on my device But then it's on all three devices because they're they're synced together. I was just wondering about the the risk of not being able to retrieve But I guess there's a pretty high chance that you'll have it when you want it if it's on your hard. Yeah, the w the one I'm using, you don't have to be online to use it. It's synced and on all the devices, but it's also in the cloud service, like I use logos Yeah, I don't. It's um and if you have a new device and you uh uh upload the app to it and sign into the app on your device it will download all your device. So even if you don't have Wi-Fi, it's still there on your own. I I don't know that they're all identical. Um I can speak from my experience, you know, Sean speaks from his experience, they're different apps. So if you if you put a note on your app and you don't have Wi-Fi And you go to another computer before syncing up, then the note won't be on the other device until you sync up. Exactly. Exactly. But it's all there. You don't have to enter it a second time. But what can you say? I need is like Bible used to be called a carta and I have all my notes it's in that app so if that app crashes one thing, everything's gone. Well that's actually a good reason to back up your device. Yeah. Exactly. So is there any way that you can download it all into those things or is it only a patient I think they're kind of like eversion where they don't put in there. Okay, I want to speed along here so I can give you some examples. On page 15, number 8, expandable. We talked about that. You don't have to get everything all at once. You can get like a like a bookshelf. You don't have to get a whole library at one time, right? Get the basics first. Uh cost in many cases uh a basic app and one translation of the Bible are free. They kind of get you started. And it's not all that costly to expand that to other translations and whatever. And then of course you get updates. You get the benefits of the app being improved over time. And uh, you know, with books you get like a second edition, a third edition, and new improved and whatever, but that's all happening for you electronically Okay, some platforms. Two basic approaches here. One is online apps. That is, you have to go online through a browser to take advantage of it And there are websites out there where you can get the scriptures, various languages, and there's a lot of value to that. Um disadvantages, these are usually have far less functionality in terms of the kinds of study we're talking about here than a standalone app would provide you. So they're basic uh and not very not very uh uh robust. So some popular online apps where you go through a browser, and these are linked in the PDF if you've got a PDF of these nodes. That's why they're underaligned, and I think they're blue. U version has lots of translations available. I've used that actually for Spanish. When we went down to Colombia, it was very helpful to get the Spanish translation. And actually there are multiple Spanish translations as well as multiple English translations and I got some tips about which which Spanish translation to use and it was there and I got the Spanish translation easy. So just going online to do something like that is is very helpful and it's free. Um probably did your Spanish app here uh actually speak as well or no? Um I didn't have to do it. I didn't test that. I don't know. Um so this was just again, I just went online. Um it wasn't an app on my computer, I just went online to a website and And you can choose what you want there. Bible Gateway is another one pretty much like that, lots of translations. Bible Gateway Seems like it has a lot of ads too. So if you get fed up with ads, that might not be your cup of tea. There's another one called Bible Study Tools. Which is kind of similar to Bible Gateway I've found. I haven't explored those a lot because I don't use them. Okay. So those have a place, but I think mostly what I would recommend to you all would be a standalone computer app. And there are there's a wide range out there, so I wanted to give you a high-level uh overview here. Uh Bible Gateway Plus has a lot of free stuff. Um And but mostly um you need a free s uh you need a subscription. So a subscription is sort of like for a magazine. Um I know um Uh consumer reports. Anybody familiar with consumer reports? It's not Bible consumer reports, but if you're interested in in researching any reviews they've done of things, um you get more by subscribing to their online version than you get in the the monthly catalog or the monthly magazine. And that's similar to the the paradigm here, where if you pay a monthly subscription, you get access to a whole lot, but you keep paying every month Just to have access. The next one's called Online Bible, and unlike the title, it's not online. You don't use a browser to use it. It's a standalone app. And that was the first one I used. It's more limited. But everything in it is free. and it has some value. I still to this day use it, but it's not my primary one anymore. The one I do use is olive tree. Um that has a wide range of tools and uh functionality within the tool. Um it's available on all your devices, which is good. Um and so for example, um If you want NASV, it's 30 bucks. So it's probably not a whole lot different from a hard copy Bible. Make sure it's with strong numbers, however, so you can just click on them. They offer it both ways, with and without, but you always want it with strongest numbers. The Legacy Standard Bible which is actually an update to Nasby ninety five. That's only twenty bucks because of the royalty differences. And the ESV with strong numbers is also just twenty bucks. So I think I don't think you can get those study bottles for only twenty dollars, hard copy. And then useful add-ons that you could consider would be the MacArthur Study Bible notes I often I I've got that and I often look up his notes to see if he got it right. Right? And usually he teaches me, no, I had it wrong. But I don't agree with everything he says, but it's very helpful. He I know where he's coming from and um it's very helpful. Uh Nay's Topical Bible is available. I got it for f I think it's still available for only five bucks. And the ESV Greek English Hebrew English Interlinear text, you know what interlinear is, it's got the Greek and right below it the English or the Hebrew and the English. So you can you can you're not just looking it's not like it's all Greek to me, right? You're guided as to which word has which meaning generally and then you can dive in from there. Um Oliver Tree also has a monthly subscription, but my guess, given my experience And given the fact that they often run sales on some of these tools that you really would are on your wish with, sometimes they have sales where it really becomes cost effective to grab it while you got the opportunity to expand your library. Logos, that's what Pastor Gabe uses. Think of that as a very high-end Bible study system. And they've gone to an only subscription basis now, and it's not cheap. But if you're expositing the scriptures for your your um your livelihood. Expository preachers in our circles are keyed into logos. Just a note, Pastor Connelly. For anybody who has ties, alumni or whatever to Liberty have discounted prices And as a liberty student, I have it for free right now. So right now. So it's the perpetual student here. But but if anybody has any ties to liberty, um they're offering it up now and it's discounted for a Gabe was grandfathered into a a cheaper pricing plan as well. Okay. So those that's kind of a high level. There are others as well, but this is kind of an overview of kind of what to expect out there. So In the next few pages here I wanted to give some examples. And it wants me to identify who I am. Alright, can you read that? I had to enlarge it so that you probably can't read this Over on the left are various sort well so this is um in Nazby Strongs. I can just click on this and it it gives me the same well if it took the click. That's ESV. Same passage. Or uh what else do you want? Um L S B. Where is here it is. LSB. Nope. Oh that's the dictionary. Okay. So I've got some other translations here because they were free, but I never use them. It's leaning. It's leaning this way and it's a little bit angled this way. Okay. So maybe you have to have your head kind of like app this is This is uh the olive tree thing. Um this is subscription, subscription monthly? No, this is just standalone. And if I'm interested in another tool in their system, I just buy it. Just like a book that you would put on your shelf. And it just gets incorporated with everything else. Okay, so um again this is very helpful for word studies. I'm on page 17. Uh so let's go to It's disgraceful for a woman to speak in church? No, I could not speak Catholic to highlight. I didn't highlight that one, good thing. John uh twenty one. Oh I don't see that I don't even see that. Okay, so on um on page seventeen that word love, a lot of people have commented on this where Christ is saying Simon, son of John, do you love me? And they go back and forth three times, right? In the English, it's always the word love. because English isn't all that sophisticated. But as you so the first time here, Simon said of John, do you love me? Well you can just click on this word. And what's it tell you? That's agape love. Now agape-oh, that's just the infinitive form of the verb. It's not specific. to in this particular case whether you know what kind of verb form it's taking. We can get that elsewhere. But the point here is this is agape love he's talking about. And then his response, Yes Lord, you know that I love you. What's that? Philadelphia, city of brotherly shows, right. Um, And I'll also indicate here that many words, and you know the verse numbers and these note numbers sometimes look alike, but the note numbers are a little bit smaller. In these good translations, it will highlight some of this stuff for you how it's being used in in these subsequent passages. Here's an example as well. There's a superscript A. You know how you get Side notes in your study bible? Well that's basically a side note and it gives you cross-references. Um Uh here's here's a um a note and a side reference And these side references are cross-references to elsewhere in Scripture, you can just click on one and it brings it up. And you can read it and say, ah, okay. So there's a lot you can do just with the basic text and clicking on it on words, on verses, on notes, and so on. Can you all of the offer ways being the tense? Yes. Yeah, we're getting there. We're getting there. Um in fact let's look let's look at this next one. Ephesians 5. 18. Do not get drunk with wine, for that's dissipation, but be filled with the spirit. And then I've highlighted here the various participles that are used to explain what being filled with the spirit results in. But the main verb here, be filled, in in point A on page 17, it's from the infinitive to be filled, plareo, um that's in the middle voice, in other words, not either active or passive. Present tense, imperative, it's a command. And so the point is that learning that, we see that We're commanded to be filled, but we don't do the filling. In that sense it's passive. But who does the filling? the Holy Spirit. And so we need to be yielded to Him. We need to be um cooperating with Him. And so it's it's kind of a dual thing uh co co of cooperation. And my limited understanding is that's What's happening with this middle voice? It's not pure passive, it's not pure active. Turns out Greek has a whole range of everything in between And this is an attempt to kind of um uh simplify it for us, neophytes. But the other interesting thing you can do there is you can see, okay, that verb form be filled. Present tense imperative, um middle voice, present tense imperative, all those combinations of qualities of the verb, you can search on that combination of qualities of that verb. And I did that here. And here's the first several that came up. And so I wanted to look at Matthew six nine. Sermon on the Mount. Um Pray. Pray then in this way. He's uh introducing what we call the Lord's Prayer. Um and so you can do the same thing here. Except let's Look at the inner linear. Can you see that okay, sort of? Um pray. There's the Greek term with the same kind of ending because it's the same Thing. It's a verb, present, middle, imperative, second person plural. And their way of abbreviating that is verb present tense Middle voice, male, second person plural. Uh if you get used to the lingo, it's pretty easy to see, but they spell it out here as well. And then you say, well, we can search on that word that's conjugated in that way, elsewhere in Scripture, or you can search on all the words that take that form. that tense and and so on. And there you've got it. And there they're listed. Now this currently let me make this bigger Because you started this path from the interlinear version, it gives you all these things in the interlinear version, which can be helpful. But here's another one. Be glad. Whoops, whoops. Read it here it is. Be glad. Same thing. Verb, present, middle, imperative, second person, plural. And so depending on what your question is, you can learn everything you need to know, pretty much, just by the click of a few All right. Um Let me do another one. Go to um First Corinthians seven ten To the married I give instructions, not I but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband. What does that mean? Well The word is corizo, the the infinitive form, and it's translated a very variety of ways. This is NASPI Um but again we can look at that same passage in the interlinear Uh she should not separate leave. This is now ESV. And so you can search on all the all to do to do Now let's do this. Okay, search. So we're going to search the entire New Testament. For um what is the Greek word there? It's Greek, this is how it's number five five six three, that's Strong's number in the Greek. So I can just say Greek five five whoops Five, five, six, three. And it brings up all references to it. I don't want articles. I want Bible. And there they are. Sometimes it's separate, sometimes it's leaves, left. Uh separate and leave seem to be the prominent ones. And then you have different tenses and so on, but it's the same core word. So This helps you to answer the question, okay, I see this word. How is it used elsewhere in scripture? Um what sense of meaning does it typically have? And in those contexts are they similar to my context or are they different? And you get greater insight into how that word is used in scripture rather than just You know, our translation might have the word leave in a given text, but that may conjure up more or less. than the breadth of this term using scripture, so you can just see how is it used elsewhere. It helps often a lot. The next example on page nineteen uh you can look in a um uh A Bible dictionary is pretty easy to bring up um uh a chart, for example, uh with With knaves for a topical thing. Here's one. Um The example is anxiety. Well, if you go to anxiety, it says see care. So things are listed under care, different kinds of care. and anxiety and so on. And it just gives you linkable references elsewhere in scripture. So if you're doing a topical study, it's a good start. The cross-references built into the text of any passage are also a good start for looking elsewhere. I think you can read the rest and make sense of it. We have to go. Yeah. Um the purpose of our presentation is it one just to show that we can go through systematically how to break a passage or is it To give a exhortation sermon, or is it all the one? I don't know what you're looking for. Yeah, for this class, your two presentations Ought to be structured and given as if you're giving it to a class like uh the women's breakfast or men's breakfast or uh uh Sunday uh class of some kind You don't have to impress them about what study you've done to come to your conclusions, but how are you going to teach? You can't teach it unless you kind of learned it, right? But how are you actually going to teach a group of people what you've learned? So uh the point is not to to impress me that you've got all sorts of tools and you've got all sorts of whatever. But use those tools to do what you really want to do to teach people. Make sense? Yep, so necessarily show how we actually broke this down. Right. Do that. Do that in order to teach people. Yeah. But he says that was your personal Bible study and then after you've done all your study at the very end. Now you can learn things and go share it Yeah. Yeah, it's all about that bottom line. But in the process, we get edified too. Yeah. Alright, let's close in prayer. Father, we do thank you for your word. We're so blessed that so much effort has been put in over hundreds of years to provide very good study tools for studying your word. And I pray that you give us wisdom and diligence to make good use of them so that we can be edified, so that we in our teaching can edify others. And we pray that all of this would be for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen