I think every once in a while we come across something in our lives that forces upon us certain questions. And forces us to maybe deal with decisions that we don't want to deal with. Tough questions we have to ask about ourselves, about where we're going, what we're doing. To look our face in the mirror, so to say, and ask ourselves, what's going on in my life? Where is it headed? To be honest about the answers to those questions. Do I really want to keep this job? Maybe you ask that every Friday. Or is it time to search elsewhere? Is this even the right career for me? Is this girl I'm dating D one? Or should I be looking elsewhere? What if my health doesn't get any better despite fervent prayer? What will I end up doing and what will I be able to do for Jesus? Another important question every Christian must answer at some point Particularly as they've been walking with Christ for a while and they lifting up their heads and they're looking to the future, looking down the road and saying, wonder what's coming up. It's this question: how far am I willing to go in following Christ? Believing in Jesus, of course, means following him. Faith without following is a phony faith. But will I really go where he leads me to go? How far will I really follow? Oh, sure, it's kind of easy maybe now, but what about then? What might Jesus ask of me? And when he Does present that before me, how will I respond? We just sang this morning that we would follow Christ Bid me to come and I will follow. Sometimes we sing, I have decided to follow Jesus, no turning back, no turning back. But maybe some maybe some would turn back. Let me press this just a bit further. Starting kind of heavy this morning. Maybe I can squeeze out of you a question lingering somewhere inside of you. Can I really hang on to my Christian faith and still be popular with my non-Christian friends? Can I do that? Or do I have to give them up? What will they think of me when they find out I'm just so devoted to Jesus and to the Bible? Can I keep a bold Christian testimony in the workplace and still be respected in the corporate world by my boss, by my co-workers? What if I start a workplace Bible study and put something up on the bulletin board at work and everyone knows now I'm part of the God squad? What's going to happen to me? What if my extended family really does kick me out of the house or restrict me in some way from family gatherings or whatever? Because I keep bringing up the gospel of Christ. What if I lost academic respectability as a teacher or a student because they find out I believe the Bible's literally true What if being an educated person and hardworking and responsible and kind and good sense of humor isn't enough for your non-Christian friends? That just because you're associated with Christ, they think lowly of you. Will I continue to follow faithfully? Well, I know a man I know of a man who was known exactly that way in the world, as weak, as foolish, was derided because of his commitment to Christ. And you know of him too. And I believe it's God's design, as hard as this subject may be, that this day we learn from his personal Christian example. thinking quite carefully about what he faced in his life, and then relate that as much as we are able this morning to ourselves. The man, of course, is the Apostle Paul. The text is 1 Corinthians 4, verses 9 through 13. Let's read it and let's think about it. 1 Corinthians chapter 4 again, this time starting in verse 9 down to verse 13. Paul writes, for I think God has exhibited us apostles, last of all, as men condemned to death. Because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are prudent in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are distinguished, but we are without honor. To this present hour, we are both hungry and thirsty, and are poorly clothed, and are roughly treated and are homeless, and we toil working with our own hands. When we are reviled, we bless. When we are persecuted, we endure. When we are slandered, we try to conciliate. We have become as the scum of the world, the dregs of all things, even unto now I don't know. It just seems hard as I read that, a modern American Christian, someone who's never really suffered from my faith to the degree that Paul has, and maybe you feel the same way, to relate to that passage. To relate to what the Apostle Paul talks about was his own experience and that of the other apostles But that's exactly what God wants us to do. That's why it's recorded here in Scripture. He wanted the Corinthians to relate their experience to his, and he wants us as readers of this scripture to relate our life to Paul's life. In these verses, Paul is doing a comparison. He's comparing how he and the other apostles live with the way the worldly Corinthian church was living. He's comparing a life that is lived in this world which fully embraces the cross of Jesus Christ and everything that comes with embracing the cross. With a Christian life that's trying to fit in a worldly mentality with their Christian faith and sort of coexist in the world that way as compromisers. If you were here last time and you remember back in verse 8, if you glance back up there a moment, Paul had got to the point where he had to so strongly correct their pride that he mocked their elitist position. The position that they had made for themselves in their own minds. They had a pretty high view of themselves, needless to say. But Paul by no means considered himself to be as full as they were full, or as rich as they were rich, or reigning as they were reigning. And he hoped, I think, by contrasting himself with the Corinthians, not to boast in himself. That wasn't the purpose at all. If there was any boasting that was going on in himself, it was boasting in his weaknesses But rather to teach them not to boast in themselves, but rather in Christ. Garland, in his very helpful commentary, puts this succinctly. He writes By contrasting the cross-centered lifestyles of the apostles with the Corinthians' vain glory, Paul hopes to supplant their egotism With the wisdom of the cross. That's what he's doing in the passage. That's it in a nutshell. Get rid of your egotism. Embrace what it means to live as a Christian who has embraced the cross in this life. The cross-centered life is a life that will seem very foolish to the world, just as the cross itself seems very foolish to the world. Remember 1 Corinthians 1 18, Paul says The word of the cross, that is the message of the cross is what? Foolishness to those who are perishing. They don't know, they don't understand. But the cross of Jesus where he was crucified for the sins of the entire world really does demonstrate a higher and greater wisdom and power, a kind of transcendent wisdom that the proud and blind people of this world can never understand. Don't even really want to understand. And so he finishes that verse, 1 Corinthians 1:18, and says, But to us who are being saved, that same message is the power of God. And that's why Paul would also write later in Romans 1. 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Why? For it is the what? The power of God and the salvation. For all those who believe. You know, a fool for Christ, a fool for the Lord Jesus Christ is a true and a sincere follower of Christ. He's one who picks up his cross and follows after Christ. He follows Christ into suffering if need be, into shame if need be, and waits for the glory that is to come in the next age, not now. A fool for Christ embraces the power of the cross and the wisdom of the cross, no matter the opinions and the rantings of men. Beloved, as you listen today, if you're anxious or you're feeling weak, as you think about what Christ may ask you to do, to follow him, or what others may think of you, as you become known more and more as a strong Christian, a growing Christian, a vibrant Christian. I want you to remember the promises of God as we go through here that have already been written in this epistle. 1 Corinthians 1 25, where he said, the foolishness of God is wiser than men. Just remember that. Just remember that. If you're afraid of being called a fool for Christ, it is the foolishness of God that is wiser than men. And not just that, that God has chosen the foolish things of this world to shame the wise. So you're something God is using to bring glory to Himself and shame the proud and the wide. You know, God's wisdom will always win out in the end. So my advice as you listen as you struggle with these words is this: go with God Because God's wisdom will win out. You won't be disappointed. Now there are three commitments in this passage that Paul is giving us through his example, three commitments that we would have to make if we wanted to be a fool for Christ. So you're enlisting in a job this morning. Give me the application. What am I applying for? You're applying to be a fool for crime You ready to make the application? Well, there's three requirements for you, three commitments that you have to make. First, you have to accept your humble role in the world. That's verse 9 Second, you have to be distinguished from the world. That's verse 10. And third, you have to be willing to endure poor treatment by the world. Verses eleven through thirteen. Accept your humble role in the world, be distinguished from the world, endure poor treatment by the world. Please notice in every case it has to do with our relationship to the world. All right, our first responsibility, our first commitment. Accept your humble role in the world. That's in verse 9. Look at it. For I think God has exhibited us apostles last of all as men condemned to death because we have become a spectacle to the world, both the angels and the men. Here in verse 9, we encounter the examples of the holy apostles. Those men chosen by Christ. And we see Paul's view of himself once again coming out, how he viewed himself and the apostles. He says, For I think, that's the verb dakeo. It means for it seems to me Now the Corinthians had a view of themselves as reigning. Paul looks at his situation, he thinks about his situation quite differently. And not just himself, but all of the apostles as well. He says, God has exhibited us apostles. Now exhibit is is a past active verb from apodec numi. It means literally to point away from oneself. He's pointing out, or he's showing forth, or exposing, or viewing, or exhibiting the apostles in a certain way in this world. It was like God was saying, look over there, look at those men, those chosen apostles of Christ, watch them, because you're going to learn something from them. See how they live. God was exhibiting them, pointing them out, showing them forth to the world. An apostle, remember, is one who is sent out. That's literally what the word means. He's an ambassador, one who's sent out on behalf of the other. Christ He said, You'll be my witnesses, and he sent them into the world to speak on his behalf. Christ never wrote anything. Everything we know about Christ came from his hand-selected apostles And as they lived, they lived the life of Christ before the churches and the people, so everyone would look at them and understand what it means to be a Christian in this world. When God sent Jesus into this world, you may remember, he put Christ up on a public cross at his most shameful moment in all of his life. He put him up there publicly, and it says in Romans 3. 25 that God displayed Jesus publicly as a propitiation in his blood. He wanted everyone to look at the cross and learn something. God hates sin. And the wrath, God's wrath fell on Christ on the cross. He was a propitiation for our sin. Well, in a similar way, God has put the apostles of Jesus on display also for the rest of us to view and understand. Jesus was disappointed Displayed in his violent death on the cross. Notice in verse 9 again, the apostles too were exposed. They were exposed last of all as men condemned to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, Paul writes. God was not putting on a flattering exhibition of the apostles here. This is not, you know, put on your best Sunday clothes, sweetie. Let's make a good impression for the world. No. This was men condemned to death. This description in verse 9 refers to a very low and base social rank within the world. God placed them in the world not first but last and condemned to death. I would say that's pretty low in the social totem pole. Paul likely has a more specific image in mind than just general base social rank. When he wrote these words, it's Quite probable, and most of the commentaries pick up on this, that he had in mind the procession of a Roman general entering into a city following a military conquest. This procession was apt a triumph. The Zonder Van Victoria Encyclopedia of the Bible explains a Roman triumph this way. The procession was elaborate The magistrates led off, followed by the Senate, trumpeters, spoils captured from the enemy, the white oxen for sacrifice To their gods, the principal captives in chains, that'd be like the kings and all that, the lekers, the victorious general himself in a four-horse chariot, and finally his army The general wore the dress of a king, including scepter and crown. When he reached the capital, he placed a laurel wreath on the lap of the god Many triumphs lasted more than one day. This was an elaborate festival. Where are the apostles in all of this procession? Dr. MacArthur points out that there were also some that followed far behind those victorious troops. In his commentary he says this behind those would come a group of prisoners in chains. With the conquering king and his officers prominently displayed for all to see and mock. The prisoners were under the sentence of death and would be taken to the arena to fight wild beasts This is the spectacle to which Paul refers. In other words, Paul is declaring that God has put the apostles last in that procession, and they're being led to an arena to be thrown to wild animals and consumed. That's who they are. That's their status. They're not at the top. They're not in the middle. They're at the very end. They're last of all in this procession. Condemned to death. A spectacle to the world. And they were certainly going to die because that is what always happened at the end of the show. The wild animals would win. And that's just how Paul viewed his own life and that of his fellow apostles. You see, the embracing of the life of the cross lies behind this entire statement here. Isn't this what Christ said to his disciples? Isn't this exactly what he said? You want to be a Christian, what do you need to do? He said, Jesus said to his disciples, if anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself. Take up his cross and follow me. Was there anything unclear about that? For whoever wishes to save his life, Jesus went on, will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my faith will find it, just in case there are those with wobbly knees and they thought about the horrors and shame and pain of the cross. And they didn't want to pick up a cross and follow. He says, whoever wishes to hang on and save his life, you're going to lose it anyways. You can't hang on to it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. And then he ends with a question, what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? No one has an answer to that question. What will a man give in exchange for his soul? Your eternal destiny depends on following Christ, so if it scares you to pick up a cross and follow him, just look behind what it'll be if you don't. When Jesus called Paul to be his apostle in Acts 9, verses 15 and 16, he was talking to a man named Ananias, and he said, Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to bear. my name before the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel, for I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake. It was laid out for Paul right from the very beginning. He'd have to carry the cross. Only a little more time before that axe of Nero would come down upon this apostle and sever his head from his body Paul's execution would only serve as God's tool to usher this man of God into his glorious presence. Listen, the apostles had all seen with their own eyes the resurrected Jesus Christ. A man who died in public and was raised from the dead bodily, and they saw Jesus had conquered death, and it filled them with a kind of boldness the world had never seen. They weren't afraid of dying. They even taunted death. 1 Corinthians 15, 55, 57. O death, where is your victory? All right. Oh death, where is your sting? Bring it on. You got nothing. The sting of death, the sin, the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, that was not a slogan to memorize. That's the way they lived. Ripped apart and devoured in an arena on earth, lifted to eternal glory and everlasting life. In the heavens, awaiting their resurrection. Indeed, scripture and tradition pass down to us that each of these apostles, savoring, except for John, I mean, suffered martyrdom. Just for preaching the message of the cross. Good men. Even John suffered much. See, God purposefully made a spectacle out of the apostles. In an arena where everyone would be watching them, the world. Just to teach the rest of us, that word spectacle is theatron. Sound like anything? Put in a theater. A place in which games and dramatic spectacles are exhibited, a public show, a spectacle. You know how it is? You go down to the ball game. Romans went to their games. They're a little more violent. Get your program. Popcorn, peanuts, take a seat. This is a good view. Bring your family along. You're going to have a great time. Watch the apostles get eaten up and devoured, suffer and die. You know, the Corinthians thought that they had season tickets to the box seats up at the top. They just thought they had it made. The apostles said, We're the ones down in the arena fighting the wild animals. Ever ask yourself why? Why why does God let that happen? We had this whole Virginia Tech massacre this past week. Everyone's asking why That was a terrible tragedy. It's hard to know what to say to people that go through something like that. You can't say something trite. Their pain is real. And not to be insensitive, but none of us are innocent before God. We've already been told that all of us are under a death sentence from God. We're all going to die. It's just a matter of time. None of us deserves a quiet and peaceful and prosperous life. Where did we get that idea from? Life is short. The world is cursed due to sin. It's God who's holding back the world from becoming as evil as it could be. These small glimpses should just remind us how bad it should be, but for the mercy of God. We fail to give thanks to God every day with all the wonderful things He puts in our life. It seems hypocritical when things don't go well, or even when tragedy strikes, that we complain against God This is a planet that's drenched in sin. A holy God exercises tremendous patience with us every day in not destroying all of us and giving us exactly what we deserve. I can somewhat understand why tragedies happen to all the rest of us. But why would they happen to men like these apostles? These were the best servants of Christ. The world didn't even deserve men like this. And they loved Christ. Look what God let happen to them. God even set it all up that way. Why? The linguistic and exegetical key of the New Testament gives an answer. God is the one who set up the spectacle and used the weakness of his servants in order to demonstrate his power and strength. You see, it's all about God. It's all about what God is proving He can do. It's all about what God and His power can accomplish through weak vessels. It's all about God's glory. God's going to raise them from the dead. God's going to give them a chance to reign. God's going to give them glory. God's going to take care of the apostles. God's going to be shown to be loving and merciful. He's also going to be shown to be in charge and be sovereign. It's not our universe, people. It's not our universe. We don't set up the rules. It's God's. Notice who was watching the apostles. This is interesting. They were a spectacle to who? To the world. How's that defined? Both the angels and the men. Interesting. Women, you're included under men. You might have thought you were the angels, but you're the men. It's common in biblical theology to note that part of the purpose for what goes on down here on earth is instruction for other beings. God is teaching mankind through human history indeed, but there are others who are learning. There are other creatures in this universe who are watching. There are spirit beings. There is a cosmic dimension to the spectacle because its importance transcends what goes on here on earth. Heaven is watching this. Angels are in attendance also. Holy beings from on high are gazing down and learning. That word angels, by the way, is always used to mean good angels. If evil angels were intended, Paul would have used some other descriptive word such as principalities or powers. Good and holy and elect angels are watching what God was doing through the church, and particularly those apostles. They're not being entertained by watching the suffering of Christ's chosen apostles, they are being instructed. And they're very, very interested in what was happening. Because you see, they're learning. They're learning about God and what God does and why he does it and how he does it. You say, do angels really watch what's going on down here on earth? Do they really watch the church? Absolutely. The scriptures are clear about that. 1 Peter 1:12 speaks of salvation going on on earth, and it says it's things into which angels long to look. You know, they're they're putting on their glasses if they have that in heaven and they're looking as carefully as they can. They're talking about and discussing what's going on They want to see it. What is God doing? They've never seen any of this before. This is all being played out in human history 1 Timothy 5. 21, Timothy as a preacher, gets a charge. He says, I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus. Well, that's good enough. And his chosen angels. What are they doing in there? They're watching To maintain these principles without bias, doing nothing in the spirit of partiality. You got angels watching you. 1 Corinthians 11:10. I want the women to have a symbol of authority on their head because of the angels. So they're watching your heads, ladies. You say, what does that mean? Well, we'll get to that in chapter 11. We'll get to that. Angels are not just watching over me, as the song says, they're watching me. And you. See, Paul was fully aware of this. He was aware of the universality of his example. He knew his suffering for the cause of Christ in this world was put on display, both the men and the angel. And the point that we and those Corinthians were to get from all of this is this example of the apostles. Follow it. When you choose to follow Jesus Christ as they did. You have to accept the reality that in this evil world you will be treated as a second-class citizen at best, and unwanted outcasts at worst. You say, but this is talking about the apostles. Wasn't this just for the apostles? I mean, we don't have to suffer, do we? 2 Timothy 3, 12-14. Indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted But evil men and impostors will proceed from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. You, however, continue in the things you have learned and become convinced of You know, when you're constantly told, and you hear out there by popular preachers, that the Christian life is about prosperity and getting rich and having ease and honor in the world and your best life now That's not the whole story. They're distorting the message of the cross. They're not giving it straight to you. They're lying. They're perverting the message of Christianity. Yes, they're blessings. They're tremendous blessings for being Christians, but there's also a lot of suffering. A lot. And you have to accept that. You have to accept that following Christ means you're going to be maligned. You're going to be made fun of. You ready for that? You want that? When you follow Christ, you have accepted that. That's your job description. That's who you are in this world. Same with me. You have to accept that humble treatment. Yes, there's coming a time where it will all reign. The apostles were told this in Matthew 19, 28. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me In the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. That's then. But that's not now. What Jesus said for now still stands in Mark 9. 35. If anyone wants to be first, he shall be what? Last and the servant of all. Yet we gain strength from this. We read verses like Romans 8, 36-37. They mean more to us now for your sake. Lord, he's praying, we are being put to death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered, but in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer. Those people thrown in the arena and being eaten up, they're going to win, God's going to make sure they're the champions and they win. We overwhelmingly conquered through him who loved us. Alright, well here's your second commitment you have to make if you want to be a fool for Christ. To be a fool for Christ, you need to be distinguished from the world. It needs to be obvious that you're not one of the world, that you're different. You live different and talk different and think different. That's verse 10. It kind of does us backwards. He says, we, we apostles, are fools for Christ's sake, but you, you Corinthians, are prudent in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are distinguished. But we are without honor. Some sharp contrast here, wouldn't you say? And he's just amplifying what he just wrote. You know, the word but actually isn't even in this verse. You know, in the Greek it's not in there, but it could have been because it's all about contrast. He puts them side by side. We are fools. You are wise. You get the contrast just by putting them side by side. And in Greek, the we and the you are emphatic in front of the sentence there. We are this, you are that. We are this, so you are that. You are this and we are that. It's almost like he made a chart and said, let's draw off the chart. Let's kind of look at where we are here on the chart. We have a column for the Corinthians and a column for the apostles Hmm, let's look at this. Alright, Corinthians, this is your column. Let's just see how you work out here. And this will be the apostles' column right over here. Let's see, let's uh check the issue of wisdom Oh, um, too bad. Look at our column. We're foolish. Oh, but look at your column. You're you're wise. Right. Well good for you. That's very good. Well let's see what goes on with strength. Let's make a little contrast here. What does our say oh there it is again, we're weak Let's see what you have over in your column. Well, look at you. You're strong. That's wonderful. Great. Looks like you bested us again. You see, the problem with many Christians in many churches today is that they want to look good in this world to unbelievers. They want to be known as wise and strong and noble and come to our church, we're relevant for you. You'll like it here. You'll like us. That's a problem. The apostles, they've just fooled for Christ's sake. Notice please it's all for Christ's sake. They didn't just say I'd like to volunteer to be a fool. I don't want to be a fool. You want to be a fool? I don't want to be a fool. It's a fool for Christ's sake. Does he deserve me to be a fool for him? Answer me. Does he deserve for us to be fools for him? He suffered and died on a cross for us. We can't even let someone call us a name for being a Christian. Someone calls you the God Squad this week, wear it as a badge. Oh, there they go. There they are again talking about that. Oh, you just think you're so wearing is a badge. It's the shame of Christ. The apostles were moros. Morons, stupid, fools. That's how the world thought of that. But the Corinthians were phronimas, prudent, wise. Well, we can help the gospel and the church better if everyone thinks highly of us. See? We just have to make sure that everybody thinks that we the church we're we're really Great people. We're neat people. Then they're going to come piling in here and then we can give them the gospel. Except that you lied to them about the gospel from the beginning. Because you're not coming to Christ unless there's shame for your sin. Many church leaders explain the Bible so that it can be culturally acceptable. Society will think that's okay. Well just those are controversial things anyway. We just well you know the I know the Bible says that, but make sure you don't talk about that one from the pulpit. Put that one to the side. We don't want to outright deny the Bible. Just shove that one aside a little bit. Because you know we're gonna have people coming in from the outside are not gonna understand that. I mean not gonna come back. You know, we got a building project going on, we need some money. You know, so just just hit the just hit the popular themes. You know what I'm saying? There's a lot of good stuff in there, you know. The Lord is my shepherd. Yeah. Just say that. Christian schools seek accreditation and often they're tempted to compromise with the world's doctrines. Evolution, well we we teach that. We teach that a little bit and that, yeah, we do that. The Bible being sufficient? Well, that was in those days. We have psychology now. Christian bookstores. Go walk in there, we're gonna find New York Times bestseller list. So where's the Bible? Where's where's scripture? Where's the great teaching? Where is it? Well it sells. See. Helps us to meet our quotas. Publisher looks good. You look at some of the Christian material for teens these days that's coming out, some of these new magazines and stuff. It's cool to be a Christian. It's pizzazzy. You don't have to give up your reputation. You can be everything like you are in the world and just follow Jesus. They're lying to you. They're lying to you. Now you follow Christ. If Christ were in the world today, they'd spit in his face, they'd punch him out, and they'd throw him up on an electric chair. No cross today. Hey, these Corinthians wanted some power too, not just wisdom. Apostles were weak. They didn't have that power. They didn't hold political positions. They weren't rich landowners. They weren't coveted speakers for their dinner to raise thousands. They didn't found any respected schools, get their name etched in somewhere. There's no great financial backing of the apostles. Remember the apostle Paul when he wrote back at 1 Corinthians 2. 3, I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. Second Corinthians eleven thirty. If I have to boast, if you Corinthians are gonna push me to boast, I'm gonna boast. Get ready because I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna boast in my weaknesses. I'm going to tell you about how weak I am. I'm going to tell you about what a frail person I am. I'm going to tell you about how I have nothing. And anything that happens through me is Christ, not me. There, I boasted You say, I don't get it. How is God glorified in our weaknesses? Why shouldn't we want to be strong in this world? Mighty movement for God. Yeah, but that that's not our mind. That's his mind. You know, um, one of the weakest things that anyone ever did in this entire human history was allow himself to get captured in the Garden of Gethsemane. Allow himself to be treated so poorly with mock trials, spat upon, beaten upon, stripped, scourged. Have to carry his own cross, which he can't even carry, stumble under it, get nailed publicly to a cross and die. Weak and pathetic. How do you get more weak and more pathetic in this world than that? And God took that one act, one act, and he unleashed his power to save tens of millions of people The power of God through weakness. That's what he wants us to learn. That's what it means to follow Christ. Well, they wanted honor too. Corinthians get listed this time first. You are distinguished. We are ahimas, without honor. You know, you're in the front of the Roman procession cheering with the crowds. Confetti. We're in the back. Chained long, drudging long. No honor. Paul rolled into Athens, one of the elite cities in the ancient world. The Epicurean and Stoic philosophers wanted to hear him. And they said, what would this idle babbler have to say? That's all he was to them. The founder of Study Guide commissary says if Paul had remained true to his work as a rabbi, he might have become as celebrated as Gamaliel or Hillel. Those were famous rabbis of their day Instead, he consented to pass as a fool. The Corinthians managed to make their teaching of the gospel a means of gaining personal esteem. Corinthians wrote in the front of the bus. Apostles, you go to the back of the bus. You know the irony is that the majority of these Corinthians were not really of noble birth and all that rich and powerful in the world. That's what it says back in chapter 1, verse 26. But somehow they gotten the opinion that they really thought that they were. You know, there are still men who seek to gain esteem of the world in fabulous crystal cathedrals, etc. And don't be fooled about what they are seeking, because it's obvious what they're seeking. Esteem from the world. You'll notice there are many churches and Christians today. Some of them I know are unsaved. They're false brethren, but some of them are saved. And they're behaving and thinking far too worldly, and they're around you, and you see them acting in a completely different way. You don't see them subject to Scripture the way you are. You don't see them living the life that you are And you can get confused by that. You can even use their lives and say, well, they're they're living that way. Well, why don't we also do that? Why do we have to be so different? Be distinguished. Be distinguished as a Christian. You're following Christ. Christ was different. Be like Christ. Be different. Be distinguished from the world around you. That's what they're saying. If you see compromises, don't join them. Don't excuse them. Be distinguished. Just walk humbly with your God and see what he does. Set an example for them. Maybe that example will encourage them to change. that you know the humble way of the cross. Well, there's one more uh commitment you have to make to be a fool for Christ. This is third. To be a fool for Christ, you have to endure poor treatment by the world. And that's the remaining of the passage, verses 11 to 13. Endure poor treatment by the world. To this present hour we are both hungry and thirsty and are poorly clothed and are roughly treated and are homeless. And we toil working with our own hands. When we are reviled, we bless. When we are persecuted, we endure. When we are slandered, we try to conciliate. We have become as the scum of the world, the dregs of all things, even until now. And in case anyone admissed the picture that Paul was painting of himself here, Yes, they were thinking something different, thinking, wait a minute now, Paul's talking this way about himself, but wasn't this guy greatly honored? I mean, isn't this the Apostle Paul? This guy could do miracles They must have been astonished at that. That was magnificent power. He had power, lots of power. And he had to talk to kings, so kings and governors and people like that listened to him. He had prestige. Well, Paul says, let me give you a few snapshots of my life Come and take a walk in my shoes for a mile. And notice all of this is present tense. He's not talking about the past and now that that's not me anymore I have something good in the world now. This is all present tense, verse 11, to this present hour. Verse 13 ends, even until now. This is going on now for Paul and the apostles To the Corinthians with their overrealized eschatology celebrating prematurely the millennium, he says Let me tell you what's going on with me right now. We aren't reigning. We apostles aren't sitting yet on our twelve thrones. And news for you, if we aren't raining, ain't nobody raining, including you guys. Well, what is going on? Well, he lists six hardships, followed by three responses to the world with those hardships, and then with two reputations in the world. The six hardships will go through them quickly. They're all present tense verbs in the list. We are both hungry and thirsty. That's one and two. That's right. The great apostles sometimes didn't even get a good meal. Sometimes they were very thirsty, expending themselves for the work of Christ You know, we grumble if we don't get the donut we want in the back sometimes, don't we? If the coffee's not hot. Which of us have ever suffered so that we were hungry because we were serving Christ Which of us ever has labored for Christ so hard we're thirsty? Do we think we are above it? Paul had learned, and he says so in Philippians 4, 12-13, I know how to get along with humble means. I also know how to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance I've learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering needs. I can do all things through him who strengthens me Third, they were poorly clothed. The Corinthians were dressed in royalty as they sat on their thrones. Paul was still in his little rags. Boy, it's hard to relate to this in modern America, isn't it? We have so many clothes everywhere. The worst clothes among us probably look better than anything. The clothes that we toss away probably look better than what the Apostle Paul had on. But he didn't pursue those things, so we ought not to either. Fourth, we're roughly treated. That refers to the rough treatment a slave might get when he was struck, even struck in the face with fists, blows, insults, tooth You know, Christ himself was punched out on his face by the soldiers. The apostle Paul and Philippi was arrested, and he and Silas were beaten with sticks. thrown in the jail. I wonder which one of us would be willing to be beaten for Christ because we love him and we preach the gospel. Fifth, they were homeless. See, not everyone who's homeless is homeless because they're a drunkard or because they're a drug user. These apostles as missionaries traveling throughout all of the world bringing the gospel often had to sleep nowhere, right out in the open. No home to be in, no inn, no holiday in express at the next town No visa air miles to travel by either. Travel and inconvenience constantly. Are we willing to do that for Christ's work? Are you willing to be inconvenienced for the work of Jesus Christ? Are you What inconveniences do you suffer right now for the gospel of Christ? How do you measure how far you're following Jesus Christ now? Some of you aren't even willing to be insulted by one person because you're a Christian. Not even one. We ask for guys to come out and move some furniture. It's nothing. It's nothing. The commitment is nothing, people. It's just baby steps we're taking. Then he says we toil working with our own hands. You say, what's so bad about that? We all work with our own hands. Because these guys' work was preaching the gospel, and they were supposed to be supported by the people they preached to. And Paul often chose not to. I mean, after being treated all this way, you think at least you get money from the people he's preaching to, and so he wouldn't even take a paycheck sometimes. And he did it because of the weakness of the faith of the people who is preaching to. He comes to this in 1 Corinthians 9, 11 and 12. He says, If we sowed spiritual things in you Is it too much if we reap material things from you? If we gave you the greater, why will you not give us the lesser? You'd think that a man setting out to do all of this stuff to bring the good news of Jesus Christ would be treat would be treated well But he wasn't. He was treated so poorly. And then you think that he would get bitter after being treated poorly. I don't need these people. Hey, all of you treat me like that. I don't know do this anymore. Just have them do it themselves. Get bitter. Not the apostles. Notice their three responses real quickly. And here you really see the Christ-likeness of these men. The attitudes and action. Remember Christ, blessed are the poor in spirit, blessed are the gentle and humble, blessed are the peacemakers and merciful. Well, look at this. The first response, when we're reviled, we bless. The blessing is imploring something good upon the heads of others rather than punishment. Someone curses you and you bless their head. God bring blessing to them. Only the best people with the highest morals and love would ever return blessings for revilings. It's what Jesus did. It says in 1 Peter 2. 23, while being reviled, he did not revile in return. It's what Jesus taught in Luke 6, 27, and 28, I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. This appears to many people to be a weakness, but rather it is a strength. Their second response is when we're persecuted, we endure. Think of all the responses they could have had to persecution. Well, I'm done with that. Did my two years of duty? I'm done. I'm out of this. Fold under it, compromise. No, they endured. And echo to hold up in the middle voice there, it means to hold oneself up, erect and firm, to sustain, to bear with, to endure under pressure Their third response is when we're slandered, we try to conciliate. Literally, we answer kindly or with encouragement or with comfort when we are slandered. Romans 12, 18, the apostle wrote, If possible, so far as depends on you, be at peace with all men. They did that. They lived that out. They were reviled. They were persecuted. They were slandered, but they blessed and endured without retaliation, and they made peace with everyone they could, encouraging them. Man, these are the best kind of people the world has. There are no more beautiful people than this These are the kind of people you want as your friends. You live your whole life to find a friend like that. To find someone who works that way in cooperation with others. The best kind of human being. How did the world treat them? Well they gained two reputations in the world. First, we have become as the scum of the world. Peri Katharma, off scouring, refuge, the filth of the world. This is the stuff that's removed by cleaning. You rinse it away, you don't want it. It doesn't get any better with the second description either. The dregs of all things, even as a noun. Peri psa'o is the verb related to this noun. It means to wipe off all the way around. really has more to do with scrubbing, what's scraped off. It's the scrapings. They're just the scrapings and the dirt and the filth that washed away as far as they were concerned. I mean, that's just not fair. I mean, if ever anybody was going to say that's not fair, I say that's not fair. Not to these men. It just gets me mad when good people are treated this way. It's not right But this was their life. This was a mile in their shoes We're running out of time, but I want you to turn real quickly to 2 Corinthians eleven. I gotta read another passage to you quickly. 2nd Corinthians eleven. Starting at verse 23. Well, let's start back at verse twenty one. Second Corinthians eleven twenty one To my shame, I must say that we have been weak by comparison. But in whatever respect anyone else is bold, I speak in foolishness. I am just as bold myself. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? So am I. Are they servants of Christ? I speak as if insane. Aye more so, in far more labors, in far more imprisonments, beaten times without number, often in danger of death Five times I received from the Jews thirty-nine lashes, three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, the night and a day I spent in the deep I've been on frequent journeys and dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from my countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the wilderness, dangers on the sea, dangers among false brethren. I have been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights in hunger and thirst, often without food and cold and exposure. And on he goes. By God, what he endured for the sake of the cross. When Christ said, follow me, he followed. Are you going to follow? God won't even ask that much from you in comparison to these apostles. Not even that much. You're called to suffer and give up something for Christ. Are you a believer in Christ? Are you a follower of Jesus Christ in this world? What are you willing to give up for him? Isn't this just how Jesus was? Isn't this what the prophecies in Isaiah 53 said? Speaking of the Messiah, he grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of parched ground. He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him, no appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised. And we did not esteem him People, that's whom you have chosen to follow, that's Jesus Christ in this world. You know, we don't want to admit it. We don't. We don't want to face those questions. We don't want to look up at the mirror and sometimes ask this question. We don't want to. We want to avoid that question. But I think it's likely we have more in common with the Corinthians than we do with the Apostle Paul. And that ought not to be. We spend our time looking for beauty and power and the wisdom of this world, a good education, a good career, live in a nice neighborhood, drive a nice car. All these things are far too important to us. Young people, you willing to give up all your friends for Christ, all of them? If you're not, you haven't even begun to calculate what it means to follow Christ. Men and women give up your reputation and the work world wherever you are for the sake of Jesus Christ, willing to do that. Speak up for him. Speak up for him. Maybe just by staying quiet, you're showing your unwillingness to be shamed, your unwillingness to suffer. Speak up. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4, momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. Do you believe that? There's one man out there right now that no believes it. I asked you, do you believe that? Do you believe that? An eternal weight of glory is being produced by your suffering on this planet for Christ. Do you believe that? I don't. I don't believe it. I don't believe it anywhere near as close as I should believe it. And I'm not sure you do either. I hope and pray to God that we do. But I think far too often what we think, what we want, is right around us now. Beloved, we need to ponder that. Look ourselves in the spiritual mirror and say, do I want to live like that and follow Christ, no matter where he takes me? God in heaven, I just pray that you would humble us and teach us. Please teach us, Lord. We thank you for being gentle with us. We're American Christians. We're so spoiled. We thank you for being gentle with us, Lord, for moving us along, for being patient with us. We also thank you for the amazing example of Paul. We thank you for how he followed Christ so well. We thank you that this is a true picture of what the Christian life in this world will lead to. We pray for growth and faith and for sincerity and honesty in our following of Christ. And we pray it in Jesus' blessed name who suffered and died for us. Amen.