Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17 has become for me a very sobering verse. Hebrews 13, 17 says Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls, as to those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would be unprofitable for you. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account. What if I were to stand before God and give an account to him by saying Lord, half of the people at Hope Bible Church are hungry for your word. Isn't that amazing? That's way more than the national average. Lord, you know that in most churches, ten percent of the people do ninety percent of the work? Well, at hope Forty percent of the people do 90% of the work. Isn't that great? Or what if I said, Lord, twenty percent of our people are actually using their spiritual gift? You think you'd be impressed? Lord, 5% of our people are actively involved in sharing their faith in Christ with unsaved people. Or what if I said, Lord, 30 of our people come out to pray Sunday mornings with us before the service? Wouldn't that be impressive? Or what if I said, Lord, thirty percent of our people are giving to your work consistently, cheerfully, and sacrificially. From their time, their talent, and their treasures. For most churches, Lord, 5% max. That's where they're at. What's wrong with those statistics? They might not be accurate, but what if they were? What's wrong with them is that God wants how what percentage? A hundred percent, right? God wants mature disciples of all of us. The standard for comparison is not the national average. But rather the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, right? That's why Paul testified in Colossians 1, verse 28. We proclaim him admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom so that we may present every man. complete, that is mature, in Christ. I want to repeat that again, and when I say every man, I want you to repeat that with me, okay? We proclaim him admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom so that we may present every man complete. or mature in Christ. My intent in this message is To do just that, or at least to work along that lines, to proclaim God's truth, admonishing every one of us and teaching each one of us. With all wisdom, so that you and I may one day be presented mature in Christ. And by the way, I'm not the only one who's going to have to give an account. Romans 14, 12 says that each one of us will give an account. Of himself to the Lord. Now, although the the application of this message can broadly apply to pretty much every facet of the Christian life I want to focus today particularly on the last topic I mentioned in my hypothetical accounting to God, that is our financial stewardship. before the Lord. These, as many people have been noting, are uncertain economic times, and I'm convinced that We wouldn't be in the economic mess we are in if more people had been applying three principles that I want to share with you today. Three principles that are foundational in our handling of our finances. The first I call the ownership principle. The ownership principle. As creator, God ultimately owns everything. As our Creator, God ultimately owns everything. Our ownership of things, whether it's our time, our talent, our treasures. That ownership is delegated, and it's temporary, and so it's not full ownership. God's ownership is sovereign ownership. Scriptures are replete with announcements, proclamations of that sovereign ownership. I read earlier from Psalm 24, verses 1 through 2 say, The earth is the Lord And how much? All it contains. The world and those who dwell in it. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. Psalm 50, verse well you can write down verses seven through twelve, but verse ten says, For every beast of the forest is mine. The cattle on a thousand hills. I know every bird of the mountains and everything that moves in the field is mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine and all it contains. God says. Dot down Psalm 89, verse 11, as well. I won't read that, but again, it confirms God's sovereign ownership. Now, you know, architects and engineers design and they build things, but they do so For a client, typically, right? They're not really building their own their own um edifice. What they create is not really their own, but God created everything that there is from nothing And sometimes I think we treat God the way we view architects and engineers. We think as if he created the world for us. We think that he created us for us. But he created us and the whole world for himself. It's his. He's the sovereign owner. He is king. He is Lord. You know what Lord means? I I say this almost every time I get an opportunity. There's an acrostic, L-O-R-D. Lord means he is leader. But it also means he is owner. It also means he is ruler. And fourth, it means he is our deity, our God. L-O-R-D. Leader. Owner, ruler, and deity. Man's ownership, as I mentioned earlier, is delegated. We see examples of of human ownership of property plenty of times in Scripture. For example, in Genesis 23 verse 9, Abraham purchased the cave of Matpilah, right, as a burial site. Matthew 19, 22 refers to a rich young ruler who owned much property. It was just the fact he owned a lot. Mark 12, 44, Jesus commended the widow He said, who put in all she owned into the offering? All she owned. In Acts 4. 37, there are examples of uh in the early church where the believers uh sold some of their property. So as to make available some funds that would help people who were visiting in Jerusalem because of the feast and everything, who had become Christians, and were there to be taught They were away from home, they hadn't planned to be there that long, and so people sold from some of their possessions to meet the needs of some of these people. You know, the Ten Commandments actually has two that are addressing the private ownership of property very directly. One of them, Exodus 20, 15, says, you shall not steal. Right? You shall not steal. That is respecting the private ownership of property. Another one in verse 17 says, you shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor. God intends us to exercise ownership over property, but that is to be a delegated ownership A delegated ownership. And delegated ownership of property is temporary. Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 6, 19 through 21. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also Now he's not saying not to have temporal things, but realize they are temporary. That's not where our priority should be placed. And as we're often reminded, you can't take it with you. It's because it's delegated ownership. The second principle that people often Misunderstand and misapply. The second principle is what I call the stewardship principle. The stewardship principle. God created us to be stewards over what he created. And as stewards, we are to be, and we will be, accountable to him. As his stewards or servants, we benefit temporarily from the use of the things that he's put into our care. And that's a good thing. But is ultimately to be used for his benefit God entrusts more to those who are faithful to that responsibility. That's the stewardship principle, and I want to address several important aspects of it as we look into the scriptures. You know, it's in fact, it's because we are God's stewards that we are accountable before Him. Not just accountable in terms of our financial um uh management, but accountable across the board because we are his servants. And that, by the way, is not because of sin. That's God's original design. As you look right back to the very opening chapters of the Bible, before sin. In Genesis 1, verse 28, we read, God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, and rule over. The fish of the sea, and the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So he's given us authority, but it's delegated authority. Right. God also provided for their material needs. It says in verse 29. Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant, yielding seed that is on the surface of the earth, and every tree which has fruit. Yielding food or yielding seed, and it shall be food for you. God put them in authority and he gave them the resources they needed to succeed, to fulfill that authority and their mission. Likewise in the second chapter that of Genesis where it it gives an expanded account of that sixth day of creation In verses 7 through 9, then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living being. And then the Lord God planted a garden toward the east in Eden, and there he placed the man whom he had formed Out of the ground, the Lord caused to grow every tree that is pleasing to sight and good for food. And the tree of life also in the midst of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. God placed Adam specifically in that garden to be his steward and he provided for all of his needs. But he gave Adam very specific work to do in verse 15 of chapter 2 of Genesis. Then the Lord God took the man, put him into the Garden of Eden, why? To cultivate it and keep it. So right from the beginning, man was given authority, he was also given responsibility. But he also gave Adam boundaries because he was accountable to God. The next verses, verses 16 and 17, say, The Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you will surely die. Boundaries, accountability, right from the beginning. And that's before sin. Our accountability to God is not because of sin, it's because of the way God created us. It's our role, it's our position in God's creation. Now, there are two kinds of stewards. There are good stewards and there are bad stewards. Jesus gave us a parable that gives a lot of insight about that kind of stewardship, both kinds of stewardship, in Matthew 25. Turn in your copy of the scriptures if you would to Matthew 25. I'll read from verses fourteen through thirty. Now, you know, uh in as in all of Christ's parables He used examples from everyday life that were just common knowledge to the people he was speaking to. In order to make a lesson. Well, I'm not focusing so much on the lesson today. I'm focusing on the common example because these days, this is no longer a common example for us. the relationship of slaves and owners and so on. But there's insight here that I think we need to latch on to. Matthew 25, verse 14. For it is just like a man about to go on a journey who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them. To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, each according to his own ability. And he went on his journey Immediately, the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. In the same manner, the one who had received the two talents gained two more. But he who had received the one talent went away and dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. Now, after a long time, the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. The one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, Master, you entrusted five talents to me. See, I have gained five more talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. Also, the one who had received the two talents came up and said, Master, you entrusted two talents to me. See, I have gained two more talents. And his master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You are faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. And the one also who had received the one talent came up and said, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed. And I was afraid, and I went away and hid your talent in the ground. See, you have what is yours. But his master answered and said to him, You wicked, lazy slave, you knew that I reaped where I did not sow, and I gather where I scattered no seed. Then you ought to have put my money in the bank, and on my arrival it would have received my my money back with interest. Therefore, take away the talent from him and give it to the one who has ten talents. For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away. Throw out the worthless slave into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Now, I think as we read this, we can make several observations about stewardship. First is that stewards are slaves. The words steward and slave are basically the same thing. A steward is a slave. Secondly, their master owns what he entrusts to them. They haven't received wages. It's not a gift. They are managing resources on the part of their master. In fact, we see emphasized in here in verse 14, they're referred to as his own slaves. That's how it is with slaves, isn't it? They are owned by their master. Third, stewardship is the obedience of slaves in advancing the interest of the master, not their own interest. Stewardship is the obedience of slaves in advancing the interests of their owner, the master. Fourth, it should be obvious as Jesus gives this example, he's likening us to those slaves. We are, in fact, God's stewards. God's slaves. Romans 6. 22 says, but now having been freed from sin, we are enslaved to God. You derive your benefit then, resulting in sanctification and the outcome, eternal life. First Peter two sixteen Act as free men and do not use your freedom as covering for evil, but use it as bond slaves of God. So all of us are God's slaves by creation, but his children particularly are his bond slaves. before him. And like any master, fifth, God holds us accountable for our stewardship of what he entrusts to us. Accountable. The test of that accountability is to what extent have we advanced his interests? And this parable makes clear that he doesn't accept our merely ensuring that we return to him what he gave to us. The problem with that third slave was that even if he was lazy, he could have put the money in the bank and advanced the interest of the owner by earning interest, pardon the time. Right? The problem was partly that he was lazy, but partly that he was also not in tune with advancing the interest of the owner. And six, like any master, God entrusts more to those stewards whom He finds faithful. But you may say, I didn't sign up for that. I don't want to be a slave. Well, I got news for you. You don't have any choice. Romans 6 teaches that there are only two kinds of people: slaves of sin and slaves of God. Which are you? Unless you created yourself, we're all slaves of God. The question is, who is your master? Matthew 6, 24 says, No one can serve two masters. For he will either hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth. That's Jesus saying. While we can't choose whether we're going to be stewards, we can choose what kind of stewardship We'll pursue. Either good steward, good stewardship that advances the interests of our owner, God, and results in reward and blessing, or bad stewardship that ignores the interests of our master and brings shame Either way, we're exercising stewardship. Is it good stewardship or bad stewardship? You might say, well, I just want to mind my own business But you don't have that option. Look at that third slave, minding our own business, which is what he did very well. doesn't advance the interests of our master. We don't have that option. What are we to do? Well there's some let me give you some practical advice first. Some practical advice on good stewardship. Three things. Three things. First is hard work. Involves diligence, productivity, creativity, serving others as you do what God has given you to do. Secondly, budgeting involves planning, prioritizing, and evaluating as you go along so that you can make the most of the resources that God has entrusted to you for His glory. And third, I'll call it executing It doesn't do any good to have a budget and ignore it, right? You need to follow the budget, monitor the cash flow, and exercise self-control guided by that budget. Now, when it comes to budgeting and keeping your budget in balance and in tune with our master's interests, There's one thing that determines everything else, and it's not how large your income is. You notice in that parable, they were given three different amounts, according to their abilities, it says It's not how large your income, but it's rather this third principle. And I'll call that the tithing principle. The tithing principle. You know, God required the Israelites to tithe, and yet, like the keeping of the Sabbath, tithing is not specifically commanded in the New Testament. But the key principles are still operative today, and I want to highlight for you four kind of sub-principles under this tithing principle. Four sub principles. First of all, believers should commit ahead of time To devote to God a fixed percentage of all their future, that is gross, income. Devote to God, commit to Him ahead of time, a fixed percentage. Secondly, this percentage is right off the top. The Old Testament is very frequent in saying that it's from the first fruit. It's right off the top. It's not what happens to be left over after we finish doing everything we want to do, right? It's right off the top. Speaks of priorities. Thirdly, and this is crucial, this giving is to be an exercise of faith Trusting that God will enable us to live off the remainder of the income. It would be so natural for us to in fact for most of you maybe or many of you maybe it still is, so natural to consume everything we can imagine out of the top of our income, and then if anything happens to be left over, we'll consider giving some to God. But that flips it on its head. It's to be an act of faith. We commit to God first and believe Him, trust in Him, that He's going to provide for our needs through the remainder of what He's provided for us. Fourth subprinciple, 10%, that is a tithe, is a reasonable percentage. After all, he commanded it in the Old Testament. It's a reasonable percentage. Although some may start at a slower uh at a lower percentage and increase that percentage over time as their as their faith and their their discipline grow 10% nonetheless is a reasonable percentage. Well, let's take a look at commands to tithe in the Old Testament briefly. Numerous examples. I'll read from Leviticus 27, verses 30 through 33. And consider God's heart here as He makes this command. Thus all the tithe of the land, of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord's. It is holy to the Lord. Holy here means set apart. It's God's. It's set apart to God. If therefore a man wishes to redeem part of his tithe, that means to kind of borrow it back He shall add to it one-fifth. So when you pay it back, you're going to pay back one-fifth to it. For every tenth part of the herd or flock, whatever passes under the rod, The tenth one shall be holy to the Lord. He is not to be concerned with whether it is good or bad, nor shall he exchange it For if he should exchange it, then both it and its substitute shall become holy, set apart to God. It shall not be redeemed. Numerous other scriptures in the Old Testament speak of this need to set apart a tenth to the Lord. Let's look at the nature of tithe. What was the amount? Well, it was ten percent. In fact, the word tithe in Hebrew in Hebrew means one-tenth, the tenth part. I just read from Leviticus 27, for every tenth part of the herd or flock. Well, a tenth of what? Well, it's first of all to be a tenth of everything. That is our gross income. Deuteronomy fourteen twenty-two says, You shall surely tithe All the produce from what you sow, which comes out of the field every year. It's comprehensive. What kind of forms did the the tithe take in the Old Testament? Well, um I've already made some reference to the fact that it was from the produce of the land, which was a common Common occurrence in their society. Likewise of produce from the herds and the flocks Sometimes actually there was provision for income being converted into currency, particularly for those who had to travel some distance. What about the quality of ties? The verse I read from Leviticus 27, 33 indicates that it's to be representative of of all of our income. It's not the the the uh offcast. stuff, right? It's it's one tenth right off the top, representative of all of all of our income. Now, actually, Numbers 18, 28 through 32 gives an actually higher standard for the Levites. It says the Levites were to tithe from the best of what they received. How were tithes to be used in the nation of Israel? Well, uh multiple reasons. Numbers 18, verses 21 through 24 says that a primary purpose of these tithes was to support the Levites. The Levites were not given any portion of the land, but they were scattered throughout each of the tribes. to serve as God's priests and the rest of the tribes were to support them through the tithes. Secondly, Deuteronomy 12, 7 through 14, as well as chapter 14, 23, It actually says that some of the tithes were to be um eaten as a feast of thanksgiving. And rejoicing before the Lord. Likewise, Deuteronomy 26, 1 through 11, speaks of the tithes being used in connection with worship and thanksgiving. And fourth, Deuteronomy 26. 12 says that the tithes were used to help support widows. Orphans, aliens, those who didn't have uh opportunity and the resources to provide for themselves Did you realize that God's word is abundantly clear? That He promises some very good things. To those who obey him in this regard. Deuteronomy 14, 29. The Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance among you. And the alien, the orphan and the widow who are in your town shall come and eat and be satisfied, that is from the proceeds of the time. In order that the Lord your God may bless you. In all the work of your hand which you do. Proverbs 3:9 and 10. Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first of all your produce. So that your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. You think God is capable of enabling us to live off the remaining ninety percent? You betcha he is Malachi 3, 10 through 12. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house. And test me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you a blessing until it overflows. Then I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruit of the ground, nor will your vine in the field cast its grapes, says the Lord of hosts. All the nations will call you blessed, for you shall be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. Reminds me of Jesus' bottom line that he gives us in that chapter six passage from the Sermon on the Mount. Where he says, look at the the the lilies of the field, look at the birds of the air, how God cares for them. He cares for you the same way. And then he says, seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things, the clothing, the food, the things that you need, that he knows you need, all those things. Will be added to you. But seek first his kingdom. The lesson from these various promises Is that God is as concerned with the giver as he is the recipient? He's as concerned with the giver as he is the recipient. We're going to talk a bit about how that plays out in a little bit I wanted to highlight a couple of examples of tithing in the Old Testament, a couple of prominent examples actually from the book of Genesis. You're all familiar with Genesis 14, 20, in which Abraham gave a tenth of the spoils of battle to Melchizedek, the priest of the Most High God. Likewise, Jacob in Genesis 28-22, when God first appeared to him, Jacob said, This stone, which I have set up as a pillar, Will be God's house, Bethel. And of all that you give me, I will surely give a tenth to you. Now you know what's interesting about both of those examples, some of the most prominent examples of tithing actually happening in the Old Testament? Neither one of them was done according to the law. Why? The law hadn't come yet. Both Abraham and Jacob gave from the heart as a testimony of their faith. And so it is to be, even when it's commanded. to be by faith. Tithing in the New Testament. I mentioned that it's not a specific command, but tithing involves making a prior commitment. To give back to the Lord the first ten percent of your income in whatever measure he blesses you. Giving, or you might call it charity, is over and above that ten percent. And involves responding to needs as they arise rather than making a prior commitment. You see how the two go together. Although tithing is not commanded in the New Testament, giving is. Furthermore, Even though many of the various uses of the tithe in ancient Israel are no longer applicable today, the principle of making a prior commitment to the Lord to honor him from your first fruits Is consistent with New Testament teaching. And I'd like you to turn, if you would, now to 2 Corinthians 9, verses 1 through 15. 2 Corinthians 9, verses Verses 1 through 15, the Apostle Paul is reminding the church in Corinth that they had made a previous commitment to help fellow believers who were in need. In Jerusalem, I believe. And he was making preparations for them to give that gift. And he says in verse one For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the Macedonians, namely That Achaea has been prepared since last year, and your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I have sent the brethren in order that our boasting about you may not be empty made empty in this case, so that, as I was saying, you may be prepared. Otherwise, if the Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, will be put to shame by this confidence. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that they would go on ahead to you and arrange beforehand your previously promised bountiful gift. So that the same would be ready as a bountiful gift and not affected by covetousness Now this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart. Not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that always having all sufficiency in everything You may have an abundance for every good need. As it is written, he scattered abroad, he gave to the poor His righteousness endures forever. Now, he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in everything for all liberality, which through us is producing thanksgiving to God For the ministry of the service is not only fully supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing through many thanksgivings to God. Because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ. And for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all. While they also, by prayer on your behalf, yearn for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. I want to highlight here a number of attitudes that should become clear to us in our giving. First, we are to give, as I said, by prior commitment. Verse 5 says your it makes reference to your previously promised gift. Verse 7 says, each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart. So we need to decide in advance what percentage to give before the income even comes. Verses 1 through 4, moreover, emphasize the need for being prepared. How can you be prepared? That speaks for the need of a budget, right? You need to set it aside and live by the budget so that when it's ready to be given, it's there. The second attitude. We need to give genuinely. Verse five says not to give covetously. Verse 7 says, not grudgingly or under compulsion, we're to give genuinely. Actually, the the previous chapter, chapter 8, verse 3 Gives an example. It says they gave out of their own accord. It's genuinely. And you might jot down Luke 11, 37 through 41, where there's an example of giving from the heart. Our third attitude, we should be giving bountifully, as it says in verse six. Or liberally, w with liberality and generosity in verses ten through eleven and verse thirteen. Romans 12, 8 echoes that theme. Fourth, we need to give cheerfully. God loves the cheerful giver, it says in verse 7. And fifth, this is key, we need to give by faith. By faith. I find it very interesting that Paul uses an example here of sowing and reaping Have you ever thought about why he put that in here? What does a farmer do when he sows the seed, the crops come up? What does it do with the crop? He consumes it, right? Well, yes and no. One of the things he does with that crop is he takes some of that seed and sets it aside for next year. Now, he might feel inclined to consume all of it or to sell it and to buy things or whatever, but he knows he needs to set some of it aside. Or he won't be a farmer next year. Right? That's what God is telling us, that we need to set aside the top. The first fruits, the top ten percent, and he'll see to it they were able to live off the ninety percent that remains. In fact, he um he promises here in verses eight through eleven that he provides for those who tithe. You see that in verse um 8. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, that always having all sufficiency and everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. And he applies it very specifically to this sowing and reaping example in verse. 10. He says, now he who supplies seed for the sower and bread for food, see both what he sets aside and both what's consumed, God supplies it both. In the same way, God will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and the increase of the harvest of your righteousness. Just like that. Sixth, our sixth attitude. We need to give obediently Verse thirteen says, makes reference to your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ. Paul here is linking our Our stewardship and our obedience in this regard to our obedience to the gospel itself. Now there there are three other um attitudes I want to highlight from elsewhere in Scripture, and the and the the next one, number seven, is actually from the previous chapter. We didn't read that. But in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 3 Paul writes, for I testify that they gave according to their ability, that is, by a percentage, and even beyond their ability. The the principle here is that we are to give sacrificially. Sacrificially. The eighth characteristic of our giving is that it ought to be done privately. You remember Jesus' instruction, contrasting with the hypocrites. In Matthew 6, 1 through 4, that our giving must not be for show, but rather from the heart, genuine and private. And then ninth, 1 Corinthians 13, 3 reminds us that our giving must be done lovingly. Lovingly. Without love, you're nothing. Now, what are the results? Verse 6 says you will reap bountifully. Verse 7 says you will experience God's love more fully. Verse 8 says, God will make all grace abound to you. Verses 8 through 10 says you will have an abundance for every good deed. Verse 11 says you will be enriched in everything. Verse 11 through 15 says that others will offer thanksgiving and glory to God. And verse 14, others will even pray for you because of your ministry in their lives. I think one way to illustrate much of what I want to say here is to to picture how most people out there in the world think of giving to God. What they view is that God has this huge pot. It's huge. What I have is this little cup. And I'm looking at that big pot, and I'm looking at my little cup, and I'm thinking, he doesn't need it as much as I need it, right? I'll I'll think about it maybe if there's something left over, but man, mine is so small and his is so big. Why bother? That's a very worldly perspective on our stewardship. What's the truth? The truth is God's got that big pot. And that little cup that we have, it's a part of that big pot. Okay? Well, if that's true, and if God owns everything, And if he's going to accomplish his will, whether we give or not, why should we give? You know, the answer to that question is very similar to the question if God is sovereign and he sovereignly draws all people whom he has elected to himself for salvation, and he grants them repentance for salvation, why do I need to get involved in evangelism? If I don't, he'll cause somebody else to do it. I think the answer to these two questions is basically the same. There are three reasons. The first is God wants to build our faith and dependence on Him. Secondly, he wants to shape our priorities and discipline, preparing us for stewardship over greater things. And third, to allow us to be blessed by blessing others. How do we apply that? I know that many of you are tithing. My exhortation to you is check your attitude. Are you giving cheerfully, not grudgingly or under compulsion? Are you giving by faith and not by works? Are you giving lovingly? I would also exhort you to trust God even more, so that you would give bountifully with all liberality and generosity, as we read. That you would give sacrificially for a master Perhaps there are some of you here this morning who are not in the habit of tithing. And to you, I would also say: check your heart. Are you submitted to the Lordship of Christ? I would exhort you to develop a budget that commits 10% of your gross income right off the top. And then prayerfully prioritize all of your other needs, including your saving. And allocate the remaining 90% to those priorities in declining priority order. Some of the things that you thought were important may actually be down at the bottom and might not get financing just yet That's okay. In fact, you need to be making your spending decisions based on your budget, not spur of the moment Desires. And that may require in fact, I can almost guarantee you, that's going to require a change of lifestyle. And that's a good thing. It may mean a small change, it could mean a big change of lifestyle if you get your priorities aligned with the masters. Let me give you some examples here. Um there are obviously big ticket items, housing and cars. You need to be very careful about those big ticket items. But you know, the money you spend on those little habits really adds up. And if you were more disciplined in those areas, you would be surprised at how easy it is to live on the 90%. The other caution I would give you is, unlike what our culture is saying to you through the commercials and so on, you don't need to have everything all at once. In fact, most of those things you don't need at all. And definitely don't borrow to get things now that you don't need or that you can save up for At some later time. Work toward your financial goals by planning, by saving, and by exercising discipline. That's not a dirty word. Discipline. That's a good word. And men, husbands, don't balance your budget on the wife of your back on the back of your wife. Don't depend on her income to establish your financial budget. Because as soon as you do that, you're going to be undermining your other responsibilities in the home. And her responsibilities in the home. Well, if you don't get anything else out of this message, let me leave you with three summary thoughts. First, God owns us. And will hold us accountable for our stewardship. Secondly, the test of that accountability is how well we advance God's interests, the interests of our master, not our own. And thirdly, tithing is to be an exercise of faith How I desire and exhort that all of us would long to be commended by our Lord Jesus. That he would say of us, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. Let's pray. Father, we do indeed desire to serve you as faithful stewards. Give us the discipline, give us the conviction to do so with joy, for your sake and for your glory. Amen.