Well, I would invite you to turn in your Bible with me to Psalm seventy-three as we conclude our series on understanding what it means that God is our portion, though I confess I have a hard time with that, just as we're singing, I'm like, I don't know, I want to keep thinking and meditating and proclaiming the glory of God in this way So far we have seen that to say that God is our portion is to say that He is our only protection, our only hope Our only joy, and today we will meditate on the reality that he is our only satisfaction. In ways that we don't have time to thoroughly explore. For God to be our satisfaction requires that He be our only protection. Otherwise, we would be constantly losing our satisfaction. And for God to be our satisfaction requires that He be our only hope. Otherwise, our satisfaction wouldn't last forever. And for God to be our satisfaction requires that He be our only joy. Otherwise being satisfied in him would not be desirable at all. And so for those reasons and more, the truth that God is our only satisfaction, is not just the fourth in a series of truths, but it's really the culmination of all of these truths together. And so, since this is at least at this point our final message, I'd like to read the entirety of Psalm 73 with you once again to get it back into our minds as we consider that As our portion, God is our satisfaction. Follow along as we read. A Psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped, for I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked For they have no pains until death, their bodies are fat and sleek, they are not in trouble as others are, they are not stricken like the rest of mankind, therefore pride is their necklace, violence covers them as a garment Their eyes swell out through fatness, their hearts overflow with follies, they scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongues stretch through the earth Therefore, his people turn back to them and find no fault in them. And they say, How can God know? Is there knowledge in the most high? Behold, these are the wicked. Always at ease, they increase in riches All in vain I have kept my heart clean, and washed my hands in innocence, for all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning If I had said, I will speak thus, I would have betrayed the generation of your children But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God, then I discerned their end. Truly you set them in slippery places, you make them fall to ruin. How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors Like a dream when one awake, O Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant. I was like a beast before you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever For behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you As for me, it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. What songs become popular in the culture is often a mystery to me. The twenty twenty-one version of the list of the five hundred most or the rather the five hundred greatest songs of all time Song number 31 is one of those songs. This song was released in 1965 and it was entered into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1998. To this date, it's the only song by the Rolling Stones that has been added to the National Recording Registry of the Library of Congress. The melody of the verse is almost monotone, made up of just two notes, which perhaps isn't surprising for a song that was written in his sleep, as Keith Richards claimed. The lyrics of the verses are forgettable and uninspiring, nor do they develop the theme of the song in any way that would punctuate the chorus. But that's okay apparently because what really catches the listener's attention aside from the catchy guitar riff is the chorus. And if there's any evidence of thoughtfulness that was put into the writing of the song, it's that the strain of the chorus builds in intensity as the strong as the song progresses. and matches the frustration in the words. I won't sing it for you But let me give you the words, the main lyrics of the chorus. I can't get no Satisfaction. The other line of the chorus is because I try and I try and I try and I try. Those lyrics express the endless and fruitless pursuit of satisfaction Whatever else one might say about the song musically or lyrically, for my taste, its popularity can only be explained by the fact that the chorus resonates with the human heart in its natural condition. I can't get no satisfaction is the the cry of all people who don't have God as their portion. And the words, because I try and I try and I try and I try is the autobiography of everyone who does not know God. Society really is driven along by this pursuit of satisfaction. The endless pursuit of satisfaction explains the sexual revolution and the homosexual revolution and the transgender sexual revolution And all the industries that have flowed from those, they are all expressions of this craving for satisfaction through physical pleasure and personal fulfillment. The endless pursuit of satisfaction explains the unstoppable trafficking and use of drugs Once somebody tastes the experience that drugs produce, and that experience wears off, there's a craving to experience it again and for a longer period of time, leading to enslavement. The endless pursuit of satisf satisfaction explains our culture's obsession with alcohol. On the front end, our advertisements entice consumers with the satisfaction of leisure and relationships and delight. And on the back end, many people use alcohol to help them forget how empty their life is. The endless pursuit of satisfaction explains the exponential growth of psychotropic drugs and antidepressants around the world. They may have their proper place, but the over-prescription and the overuse is largely driven by a craving to alleviate the pervasive sadness of dissatisfied lives. The endless pursuit of satisfaction explains the world's denigration of marriage, where marriages are often ended so that each person can pursue personal happiness. And far fewer people these days are getting married so that they're not locked into a relationship, but rather have this perceived freedom to enjoy and pursue a satisfying life. We could go on. The endless pursuit of satisfaction explains the world's obsession with wealth and riches, from overworking to claw up the ladder of of success to hoping for quick money through casinos and sports gambling to pay or the the schemes for uh full-time pay for part-time work to the worldwide popularity of the prosperity gospel everywhere you look People are trying to get more and more because they're not content and satisfied but by what they have The endless pursuit of satisfaction explains our culture's obsession with diet and exercise such that there are constantly a wave of new fads for how to achieve peak appearance and performance And their advertisements are geared and targeted toward everybody's lack of satisfaction for of how you feel and look. So much of what causes this world to go round and round is this pursuit of satisfaction. And why is that? It is, this is critically important, it is because we were made to be satisfied We were made to be satisfied. The desire to be satisfied is not sinful It is not a result of the fall. It is built into us by God. What sin does is it distorts God's design by causing us to seek satisfaction in all kinds of things that do not satisfy. But God designed us to be satisfied only in Him It was St. Augustine who said, our hearts are restless until they find their rest in you. Only when he is our portion can we experience true and lasting satisfaction Now what what is satisfaction? Well, we all understand at a basic level that satisfaction is not being in need, having uh your desires met. It's having your hunger filled, your thirst quest, your desires fulfilled. We know the ache of an empty stomach and the satisfaction of a good meal. We know what it is to cr uh uh have our our mouths parched, and yet the satisfaction of a cup of water Or the longing to see a friend that we haven't seen in a long time, and the joy and delight of spending an afternoon with them But satisfaction is more than just the absence of a craving. You can be satisfied knowing that soon you're going to need to eat and drink again. But to be truly satisfied is to have access to a reservoir that not only satisfies you now, but can keep satisfying you. A lost hiker may have their thirst quenched by their last cup of water, but they will not be satisfied if they don't know where else to find water A starving child might be filled with a meal, but if they don't know where their next meal is coming from, they won't be satisfied But when you find the source and you have access to that fountain of whatever it is that you desire, true satisfaction produces strength and energy that leads to flourishing because it frees us to live in service to others rather than focusing on our real or perceived needs and desires. So true satisfaction is having your needs and desires met by a life-giving fountain that frees you to flourish. Without a reliable source of provision, your life will be consumed by the search for satisfaction For a time Asaph lost sight of his true source of satisfaction. Look at verse three. He says, for I was envious of the wicked when I saw, or rather, envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked He was envious. He was jealous. He looked at what the wicked had, and it looked a whole lot better than what he had. And he knew that what the wicked had was based, at least apparently so, on the life that they were living, and what he was experiencing in terms of suffering was the result of the righteous life that he was living, and so he was tempted. to walk in the way of the wicked just so that he could experience that prosperous and trouble-free life that he perceived they had His life of suffering is not what he wanted. He wasn't satisfied with the life that God had given him, and so he considered exchanging his life for one that looked better, or at least that's what he thought. But as we saw last week, the envy in his heart melted away when he came into the sanctuary of God and gained a whole new perspective. The Word of God renewed his mind, and everything he saw everything in a new light, and so now he could look on the prosperity of the wicked without an ounce of jealousy. He could look at their wealth and prosperity, he could look at their well-fed bodies, he could look at their troubled trouble-free lives, and not desire any of it. How? How is it that the things he once craved with such longing that almost turned him away from God became so undesira desirable to him. Well, look at what he says in verses 25 and 26. Whom have I in heaven but you? There is nothing on earth I desire besides you My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart in my portion forever. He's saying, Because I have you, O God, I don't need anything else I don't want anything else. I don't need to be prosperous. I don't need to be free from trouble. I don't need to be healthy. I don't even need my own life I have you, so I have everything I need. I am satisfied in you. And so, with his soul satisfied in God, he was impervious to the desires of the world, the flesh, and the devil Now, Asaph wasn't the only person who's had these thoughts about God. David says in Psalm 16:11, You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy, and at your right hand are pleasures forevermore. In Psalm 90, Moses prayed, Satisfy us in the morning. with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all of our days. The Apostle Paul exclaimed in Philippians three eight, Indeed I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for His sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. You ever wonder do you ever hear passages like that and wonder how they can be true? Do they ever sound to you like hyperbolic religious language that doesn't pass the test of real life? I mean, who among us hasn't heard John Piper's famous statement that God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him? And wondered How can I bridge that gap between the ideal he expresses, which seems so glorious, and yet the realities of my life that I experience on a day-to-day basis? Well my aim in this message is not only to convince you that God should be your portion, which if you are a believer, you're Certainly almost already convinced of that, but I also want to help you see that he is our only possible satisfaction He is our only possible satisfaction. If we don't understand why only God can satisfy We will keep buying the lies that other things will satisfy us, and we will keep losing our battle with sin. But once we understand that only God can satisfy us, we can drink freely from the water of life and know that nothing else will do. And we will be able to say, Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth I desire besides you my flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart in my portion forever. I really just have one point. If you want an outline, it's a one-point outline. Only God can be your suitable satisfaction. Only God can be your suitable satisfaction. Look again at verse 25. Whom have I in heaven? but you. There is nothing on earth I desire besides you. Asaph here declares that God is his only suitable satisfaction If that wasn't true, then there would be something else on earth that he desired. But only because God is his only suitable satisfaction, he can say there is nothing in heaven or on earth that he desires except God. Now the language of suitable satisfaction may seem a little odd, but you'll quickly see here why It's important that we use that language. What ASAF discovered is that it is what God built into creation, which is To say that God is our suitable satisfaction is to say that the nature of humanity as designed by God can only be satisfied by God Himself. He established the world and everything in it, and he made mankind on the earth such that there is nothing in heaven or on earth that can satisfy the soul of man except for his Creator. Who is God? Listen to this illustration from Nature by George Swinick, a Puritan The Prince of Philosophers, Aristotle, observes that creatures are only satisfied by those things that are accommodated to their various natures. The birds, beasts, and fish live upon and delight in that food which is suitable to their distinct beings. The ox feeds on grass, the lion on meat and the goat on branches. Some animals live on dew, some on fruit, and some on weeds. What is the reason for all this? Nature must find its rest and delight in that which is suitable to its own appetite and desire God has made every creature with its unique needs and capacities. Though the stomach in every creature effectively fulfills the same function It responds in every creature uniquely according to its design. What gives nutrients to some will poison another. What will fill one is woefully inadequate for another. And beyond food, each creature is designed by God to live in particular environments. Some, of course, can live in many different kinds of environments while others require very specific climate. Some thrive in heat, some thrive in cold, some can only live under water, some can only live above the water And some animals can live outside their natural habitat, but only with accommodation, as we see with animals and creatures in the zoo. All of this, which is apparent when you think about it, it's rather obvious, points to the reality that God has created every creature to live and to be satisfied according to its design. And when that design is violated, sickness and death are the result. Again, in the words of Swinnic nature, it must find its rest. and delight in that which is suitable to its own appetite and desire. What is true of The natural world of animals is also true of mankind. And what is true of us physically regarding our diet and our environment is also true of our souls. But what we intuitively understand in the natural realm, we don't intuitively understand in the spiritual realm. And it's because of this ignorance and rebellion to God's design that mankind perpetually searches for satisfaction. leading to endless suffering, broken marriages and families, and enslavement to substances and immorality And all of the guilt and shame and anxiety and depression that flows from endlessly drinking from false sources of satisfaction. So we need to dig into God's design so that we can find Him to be our only satisfaction and be freed to live and flourish. Well, unlike every other created being, God made mankind, Adam and Eve In his image. Genesis 127 says, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. What does it mean to be made in the image of God? Well, there's a lot we could say, but in the narrow terms of our nature, we can say that we are spiritual, rational, relational, and moral beings. We are spiritual in that we have a spirit or a soul, which is the immaterial part of us that, in union with our bodies, makes us who we are. We are rational in that we have a mind to think and to reason and to learn. We are relational in that we exist in complex relationships with God and with others that play a defining role in our life. And we are moral in that we make judgments about what is right and wrong, what is good and evil Animals don't have spirits according to Scripture, which is why they don't live beyond their physical life. Animals can think to some level, but Humans think at a categorically higher level. All creatures relate to one another and each other, but again, humans relate to others at a categorically higher level, and no creature except humans have the moral capacity to make judgments of what is right and good And so these capacities, spiritual, rational, relational, and moral, these capacities are not just capacities given arbitrarily to humans. These are modeled after the nature of God. We are made in his image. God is spirit. God is truth. God exists in perfect relationship eternally between the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And God is just, and he loves righteousness, and he hates wickedness. And more than these capacities being modeled after God's nature, we experience the highest functioning in an environment of a relationship with God. Just as the eagle thrives in the sky, and a clownfish thrives in the ocean And a cheetah thrives in the grasslands. Our soul requires a relationship with God, our Maker, to thrive You can put an eagle in a cage, you can put a clownfish in a tank, and you can put a cheetah in an enclosure, but they will not be able to thrive the way that God designed them in those limited environments. In the same way, people can live their whole lives without a relationship with God. They will still be spiritual, they will still be rational, they will still be relational and moral. But like a cheetah born in the zoo, something in their nature will crave for an environment where they can run free without hitting a wall. God made Adam and Eve in His image, and because He is spirit and He made them spirits, they could engage, we can engage with Him in a relationship Unlike any other in all creation. And because they were in relationship with him, they experienced the ability to reason intelligently to relate intimately and to act uprightly. Think about the fact that Adam was able in a matter of hours to name every kind of creature that came to him. That requires creativity and insight beyond what any of us can imagine And then when the Lord brought Adam to Eve, he exploded with words of personal devotion and commitment. He said, This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh and And because Adam and Eve were in relationship with God and with one another, Genesis 2. 25 says, And the man and his wife were both naked, and they were not ashamed. There was no sin or evil that produced shame and guilt in their lives And God cared for them and he provided for every need that they had. He said, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for on the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die From the moment that they were created, they lived in relationship with God, in harmony with one another, and as long as they walked in obedience, they enjoyed their relationship with Him and with one another to the full without any hindrance in their experience of life. They experienced satisfaction not only in that they had their basic needs met, but they received the light of truth. They were in perfect relationship with God and in one another, and they walked in obedience to Him. They thrived in that environment They didn't need anything else. They didn't want anything else. They could easily have said, Whom have I in heaven but you? There is nothing on earth I desire besides you. Their lives were full of truth and love and goodness. Or at least that was their life until the serpent came into the picture. The serpent deceived Eve into questioning The goodness of God as the fountain of life. She knew that God spoke truth, but the serpent deceived her into questioning whether God had lied to them, you shall not truly die. The Eve knew that God was good But the serpent caused her to doubt that and and caused her to think that God was holding her back. God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will know good and evil, and you will be like God. And that was enough to turn Eve's heart against the Lord, such that instead of looking to him for satisfaction, she decided that she could find it on her own And once she and Adam ate, Genesis 3 says, the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sowed fig leaves together and made themselves loinclaws, and they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Instantly, their rebellious act produced shame into their relationship. It produced fear in their relationship with God. And their thinking was distorted such that they thought it would be better to shift blame rather than take responsibility for their actions. So sin broke their relationship with God, and because of that, their spiritual, rational, relational, and moral compasses were broken. They were still souls, and they were still able to reason and relate and make judgments, but they lost their relationship with God. from whom all truth and love and righteousness flows. This is the fall of man where we fell from The domain of the kingdom of God's light into the domain of darkness. And since that fall, humanity has groped in the darkness to understand the the nature of reality and who we are and why we exist. And apart from God's revelation, mankind has never found a satisfying answer to those questions. And as a result, countless religions have been invented to replace our relationship with God. Since the fall, humanity has groped in the dark to experience love and happiness through sex and family and community. And while by God's common grace we can experience a measure of joy and delight, that experience is often marred, if not completely overshadowed, by brokenness and selfishness and death. Since the fall, humanity has groped in the darkness to know how do we live in this world? How do we know what's right and wrong, what's good and evil? And while many have embraced the law of God that's been written on the heart, there's not a single person in the world who hasn't violated what they know to be good and right. Because all people born into this world are born hostile to God, alienated from him, doing evil deeds, as Colossians 1. 21 says. People live their whole lives looking for satisfaction wherever they think they will find it And the reason we don't experience satisfaction even when our needs are met, as it were, is because we can feel satisfied. by things and in ways that end up increasing our craving. Drinking a cold Coke on a hot day may quench your thirst for a moment, but it doesn't satisfy your body's need for water. A full plate of dessert can fill your stomach, but it won't satisfy your body's need For thriving. One of the universal symptoms of the human heart is that we look for ultimate and lasting satisfaction in people and things that cannot give it. And because we get a taste of it at times, we keep going back, hoping for more The Lord rebuked Israel for this in Jeremiah 2, 13. He said, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and they have hewn cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water. And that was true not only for Israel, but really for all people. Romans chapter 1, verses 22 and 23 similarly says, claiming to be wise, they became fools. And they exchanged the glory of God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things Psalm 107 says, it is God who satisfies the longing soul and fills the hungry soul with good things. But humanity rejects God, and so they look to anything that's not God to do for them what only God can do. This is not just a problem for people out there. This is a problem that we have if you believe in God. You and I, even though we have God, we do the same thing in many ways. We may have God and yet have never learned what it means that He is our portion and that He can satisfy our souls, and so We look to him for the salvation of our souls, but we look to the things of this life to satisfy our life. We put our hope in him for our eternal future, but we put our hope in other things to satisfy this life. Like the Apostle John who was tempted to worship the angel who gave him a tour of heaven. We often worship the good things that God gives us, expecting them to satisfy us. And what's worse, we battle with sin. Because we buy the lies that tell us that satisfaction in founding those things that are actually poisonous to us The reason that you keep looking at pornography is because you think it will satisfy you in ways that God can't. And the reason you can't stop looking at pornography is because it doesn't. And yet, against all the evidence, you keep believing that maybe this time it will. The reason you keep drinking too much alcohol is because you think that if you just drink enough, it will fill up your empty soul, or maybe it will help you forget that your soul is empty. And the reason you can't stop is because the emptiness keeps coming back. The reason you keep scrolling on social media is because you think that if you see enough posts Your curiosity will be satisfied, you'll know enough, and now you can move on into your day fully informed. But the reason you can't stop is because the eye is never satisfied with seeing and the mind is never satisfied with knowing And even though it adds no benefit to your life, and it only creates envy and anger and discontentment, you keep going back as if you needed to survive. Now for you, it might be drugs or video games or family or work or hobbies or a lifestyle. It can be anything. When we reject the fountain of life. As our source of satisfaction, we will look to anything and everything to satisfy us. And we will look to many things because no one thing, nor anything collectively, can satisfy us. Whatever momentary delight or pleasure we feel, which keeps us coming back, we never can say, I found it. I found the source of satisfaction. I don't need to keep searching. I'll just sit right here and keep drinking from this water. So some spend their lives looking for satisfaction in religion, some spend their lives looking for satisfaction in education or knowledge, some sp spend their lives looking for satisfaction in relationships. And some spend their lives looking for satisfaction in doing what they think is good Everyone in the world and so many in the church try and they try and they try and they try and they just can't get no satisfaction. And the reason is because they look to unsuitable sources for satisfaction. They look to created things, they look to fellow fallen people, they look to subjective ideals. They devote themselves to false gods, and none of that can satisfy. But the good news is that God doesn't leave his people to languish No, he has always offered himself to any who would turn from those false broken cisterns to come back to the fountain of living waters. At different times and in many ways, God offers Himself as the only source by which we can be satisfied. Isaiah 55 is one of those Passages where the Lord says, Come, everyone who thirsts, comes to the waters, and he who has no money, come, buy and eat Come by wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which doesn't uh that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen to me and eat what is good and delight yourself with rich food. Incline your ear and come to me and hear that your soul may live. Or Jesus, who is God in the flesh, cried out in John 7: If anyone thirsts, let him come to me. And drink. And whoever believes in me, as the scripture says, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Only God is able to satisfy us. Only God is a suitable satisfaction spiritually Because God is spirit, and our spirit comes from him. Psalm 100, verse 3 says, know that the Lord He is God. He, it is He who made us. And we are his. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. He is the source of our existence, and therefore it is only in him that we can experience wholeness and fulfillment. In Ezekiel, he promised that he would give a new heart and a new spirit to his people. To replace that stone, hard, cold heart. And that promise was fulfilled by the Holy Spirit Whenever he redeems a person, Titus 3 verses 4 and 5 says, But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us Not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. Material goods cannot satisfy us, physical pleasure cannot satisfy us, popularity cannot satisfy. The moment you try to connect with something that you think will satisfy you and try and draw satisfaction from it, you will blow its fuse because it does not have the capacity To serve you in that way. Only God, who is our maker, can supply all that we need for life now and forever. We are everlasting souls made in the image of God. We are new creatures in Christ. If you're a believer in Christ. We were made, we were reconciled, adopted, and redeemed to worship and to serve the one true and living God, to know him and to be known by him, to glory in the perfections of his being, and to reflect the refractions of his glory, and so nothing will satisfy your soul except for knowing and living for him. Only God is a suitable satisfaction for us rationally because God is truth. And all truth comes from him. Romans 11:33 says, O the depths of the riches and the wisdom and the knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and inscrutable his ways! In Jesus, Colossians 2 says, are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. People can know many things, but if they do not know God, they cannot know anything truly, because all things are from Him and through Him and to Him You can search the world over from the highest mountains to the lowest depths of the ocean, and you will not find wisdom or knowledge that compares with God. The world is full of lies and half-truths and theories and conjectures, and only in God can you hear absolute, unchanging, life-transforming, hope-giving truth, therefore you can have your mind satisfied in him. Only God is suitable to satisfy us relationally Because God is perfect in love and faithfulness, and he always works for our good, and he never fails us. He never leaves us or forsakes us. He is a perfect friend who is with us every moment of every day, always strengthening, always comforting, always encouraging, always helping. He is patient and kind and generous. He brings us near to himself and shares his heart with us. He tells us his plans for the future. He gave his life for us. So how will he not freely give us all things? Nothing can separate you from the love of God. Because He purchased you with His blood, and He cannot deny Himself. No friend or spouse, no matter how loving they may be, can satisfy us like God. Only God is suitable to satisfy us morally because God is just and righteous and good Only from him can we know what is objectively, absolutely right and good. Psalm 89 says that justice and righteousness are the foundation of his throne. Psalm 119, 68 says, He is good and he does good. There's never a contradiction in God. There's never anything morally questionable in God. He cannot lie and he does not change. Beloved, God can satisfy us spiritually, rationally, morally, and relationally because He is the same from everlasting to everlasting. He does not change because he cannot change. Our finiteness cannot touch the beginnings of his infinite knowledge and wisdom. We cannot exhaust his infinite love. We cannot outpace him in doing good You can go to him who is the fountain of living waters and drink and drink and drink, and you will never begin to deplete him. You can read every book and every library, and you will never know the beginning of what God knows You can befriend every person in the world, and you will never be loved the way that God loves you God and God alone is a suitable satisfaction for those whose appetites and desires are trained on Him If all of this is true, why is it that people made in the image of God don't want Or find satisfaction in God. Well to paraphrase George Swinnick elsewhere, he says, It's because though God is a perfect good he is not suitable to their depraved natures. Now that makes sense, but then why is it that we who have been given new life and new natures, Struggle to find satisfaction in God? And I think the answer is because though our nature has been changed, we have not lost the appetite for things that do not satisfy. Our natures, though new, are not yet perfected. We lack a perfect desire for God, and we have lingering desires for things that don't satisfy. We know we want to be able to say, and maybe there are times when we can say, There is nothing on earth I desire but you. But we often have competing desires And so the way to experience more satisfaction in the Lord is to retrain your desires The way to do that is to follow the same path we've seen earlier in our series from Ephesians 4, 22 to 24, where it says Put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and put on the new, or rather, and be renewed by the spirit of your minds and put on the new self, created after the likeness of God, in true righteousness and holiness. The way to lose your appetite for things that don't satisfy is to stop eating it. Stop believing the lies, start believing the truth, and eat what is good. And over time your cravings will change. When temptation comes and you're lured by the thought that this object of desire will satisfy Speak the truth to yourself that if you eat this fruit, you will only find guilt and shame Then turn to the Lord and drink from the well of his wisdom. Commune with him. And instead of serving yourself, find a way to serve him in that moment. Because only by knowing and following the way of Christ can you experience true and lasting satisfaction Beloved, only God is our suitable satisfaction. Not only is he perfectly suited to our everlasting souls, but he secures you with protection. Ensuring that nothing can come into your life except what He intends for your good. Not only that, but as you find your suitable satisfaction in God and experience the security protection that He provides He sustains you with hope. You can anchor your life to him because he is good and perfect, and he will fulfill all he has promised. That's that your satisfaction can last into eternity. And not only that, but as you find your suitable satisfaction in him and experience his secure and protection and are sustained by hope, he gives you strengthening joy. In every circumstance, you can orient your heart around his and his view of reality So that you can experience enduring delight and strength that stays with you through the sunny days and the dark nights Securing protection, sustaining hope, strengthening joy, and suitable satisfaction This is what you have when God is your portion. So, Father, we come to this end and We sense the glory of this truth. For those who know you, it resonates with our souls because you have made it to. And yet we feel dissonance at the same time, because we are still in the flesh. And so we say that the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak We desire to say that there is nothing on earth we desire besides you, but we confess that we have competing desires And so we ask that you would wean us off the things that cannot satisfy and fill us with yourself so that we can say How my flesh and my heart may fail. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Do this in us for the sake of Christ we pray. Amen