What are you living for? What gets you up in the morning? Uh what fuels you in so so you can keep going day after day? What What sustains you in the dark of night? If somebody were to ask you and me that question just on a one-on-one conversation I wonder how many of us would stumble over our words and not really be sure how we're how we want to answer that question. We're often so caught up in the flow of life that we don't think about big questions like that. Many times we're just flowing down the stream, trying to catch air while the rapids take us down. But such questions are not merely philosophical drivel. The answers to such questions are not only what fuel your life But what cause you to make the decisions that you make, they direct your life. The decisions that you make, directly or indirectly, are based on what you are living for. Or, you could say, what you are hoping in. Not only is it true that whatever comes into your minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us, but it downstream from that truth is the truth that What you hope in will in some measure shape your life That was true of Asaph, the author of Psalm seventy three. You can turn there, if you haven't yet, for a moment In the midst of observing the prosperity of the wicked and experiencing suffering as one who sought to live his life according to the law of God, Asaph lost sight of his hope His suffering clouded his mind, it really blocked his vision, and for a time his hope became anchored in the experience of this life. And we know that because he says in Psalm 73, verse 13, All in vain I have kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. In other words, if honoring God doesn't lead to blessings in this life, what's the point? He was nearly ready to give up on what's good and true and right. But then he went into the sanctuary, and the truth of God, the word of God, brought clarity to his mind. It expanded his vision to see God's eternal purposes, and so he came To this settled conviction in verse twenty-six, My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever Because he concluded that God is his portion, he went from merely giving up on God to, as he says in verse 28, saying But for me it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge, that I may tell of all your works What you hope in will shape your life today. And it's with that aim, with the aim of shaping our lives today, that we're taking our time to meditate on What it means that God is our portion. We've seen that. To say that God is our portion is to say that He is everything we need. He is everything we need. Two weeks ago we saw that God is our only protection. And that means that He alone stands between you and meaningless suffering and utter destruction. When you have God, you can be certain that everything that happens in your life The good, the bad, and the ugly, everything is being woven together by God to prepare you for everlasting glory. And then last week we saw that God is our only hope. By virtue of his being and his nature, which is to say his power and his character. He alone is the one to whom we must entrust our welfare. Only to him and his promises can we set our expectations and never be disappointed. He is our only hope. But we left last week with this open question of what does it mean to live In light of our hope, or or to wait for our hope. And it's to that critical matter that we will give our attention today The hope that we have in God and His promises should lead to such a life that those who do not have God would ask. What do you have that makes you live the way you do? Why are you able to be so joyful and have peace? Well, may we be able to say to such questions, I have God, and God is my only hope. Well, as we think about this important issue, it's we need to remember that it's one of the unique properties of our hope in God and His promises is that they are not based on a known timeframe. Our hope in God and the fulfillment of his promises are both imminent and uncertain. We might see the next stage in God's plan of redemption today. May that be true. Or we may live out our days and be in the presence of Christ when He takes the next step in the plan of redemption. Because of this, we we can neither sell all of our possessions and go up to the mountain and wait for his return, nor can we live for ourselves for our lives and then when it seems like his return is near or we think we're about to die, then shape up our lives and and get everything straight. No, our hope in God and his promises means that we must live expectantly since he can come at any moment We can die at any moment, or we might live for many years before he comes or we die. So how are we to live in such uncertainty What does that kind of life look like? I want to walk through four habits, four habits of a hope-driven life. These are habits because thinking about, looking for, and living in hope doesn't happen by accident. It requires intentionality And it's and because it's a way of living, it it's not something you can just check off a a list every single day. It's a lifestyle, and lifestyles are made up of habits. And habits not only require intentionality to begin, but habits also need to be maintained. Any habit can be lost by neglect. And so it is with thinking about, looking for, and living in hope. So you see these four habits on the screen. The first one is anchor your hope in God. The second habit is flee from sin. The third is pursue godliness. And the fourth is wait for the Lord. That's our outline for today. Now, if I can give you a fair warning, since we normally are digging into one particular passage of scripture, I don't often have you turned to various passages, but today each of these is going to find their home in a different passage of scripture. So we're going to do some page turning today and encourage you to follow along with me so you can see each of these passages. So let's begin with the first habit of a hope-filled life, and that is that we need to cultivate the habit of anchoring our hope. in God, anchoring our hope in God. Turn in your Bible to Hebrews chapter six. Hebrews chapter six. Hebrews is getting close to the end of the New Testament. It's before the book of Revelation, which is the last book of the New Testament. Hebrews is unique in the scripture in that it is a sermon. And it's a sermon about the supremacy of Christ over all things, especially the Mosaic covenant with its tabernacle, its priesthood, and its sacrifices. And here at the end of Hebrews 6, the preacher encourages believers who are suffering persecution with the certainty of God's promises, which are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Follow along as I read Hebrews chapter six, verses seventeen to twenty. The preacher says, So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise The unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath. So that by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, We who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain. Where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek Notice that in verse 19 he says we have this as a sure and steadfast anchor What is this? What is the anchor? Well, verse 18 at the end of it refers to it as the hope that is set before us. And then the rest of verse 19 calls it a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain. This hope which anchors our soul is Jesus Christ, who after making his perfect sacrifice, ascended back to the presence of the Father in glory and sat down at the Father's right hand. Heaven is the temple of God, and so by Jesus ascending back into heaven, that's what he means by he entered into the inner place behind the curtain. He went into the heavenly temple. But the point I want to focus on here is that our hope in Jesus Christ is a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. Jesus is an anchor, but we must anchor our hope to him. The funny thing about anchors is that anchors don't do any good if they're sitting on a deck. The strongest anchor in the world doesn't help anybody when it's just hanging on the side of the boat To benefit from an anchor, it needs to be let down and it needs to hook on or engage with the ground underneath. We can sit in a worship service like this. We can sing about our hope in Christ. We can hear about our hope in Christ. But if you do not set the anchor of your soul unto Christ, He will not be of any benefit to you. You may like the idea that Jesus is an anchor, but if you have anchored yourself to many other hopes, You will be tossed to and fro just like those who don't know God. The only way for our hope to be in uh for our hope in Christ to have any benefit is if we cultivate the habit of anchoring our hope in God. Now this is a habit that's hard to develop and maintain because The world around us, the flesh inside of us, and the devil and his angels are dead set against us keeping our hope in Christ. Every form of media you consume urges you to set your hope on a better life today. Fulfilling relationships, a lucrative job, exciting vacations. Your own flesh craves for a future free of trouble, a future of ease and delight, pleasure And the devil and his angels are constantly trying to find ways to cast doubt on God and his promises. The chorus of the world, the flesh, and the devil begins with the words, if only If only you had more money, your life would be better. If only you had a spouse, you wouldn't be so lonely If only your children would obey, life would be so much easier. If only your boss could see your value, you would climb the ladder. What if only statements do you make in your life? What is it that if you had the power you would change To improve your life. Well, of course you don't have that power. Otherwise, you would make that change because you believe that that change would be good for you. Now consider that God does have that power. But he doesn't make that change. If you believe that God loves you and wants what's good for you, and He knows what's good for you even more than you do. Then consider that the reason that God isn't making that change in your life is because in His infinite wisdom and eternal perspective, God wants something better for you than the change that you desire. God knows that what you desire is not as good as you think it is You see, we idealize the future. When we project what we think will be good for us, what we forget to account for is the curse of sin. Even if it even with the benefits that we might receive, the curse of sin ensures that what you think will make your life better will not be as delightful or as easy or as satisfying as you think it will be. It might even be bad for you because if you were to get what you wanted, it would draw out of you sin that you don't even know is inside of you. Such as the sin of thinking that you don't need God God knows that what is far better for you and for me is that we would uh that what we desire uh what's far better than what we desire is that we have our hope anchored in Him where the curse of sin cannot reach, and where we cannot be disappointed. Jesus put it this way in Matthew 6. nineteen to twenty one Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is their your heart will be also. Now, in the context, Jesus is talking about money, but the same principle applies to our hope. When we feel the pull to place our hope in anything other than God, we must remember that everything except God will disappoint us. Everyone except God will let us down in one way or another. Everything except God will falter or fail or break or lose value or get used up or get worn out or get stolen. And so we must develop the habit of reminding ourselves that God is my only hope. Whatever happens to us, we can say, God is my ultimate hope All blessings are but a foretaste of what God will do for us in the future, what He has in store in glory. All trials are a reminder to us that this world is not our home. And the Apostle Peter launches into his first letter by encouraging his readers who are suffering persecution to rejoice because of what God is doing through their suffering. And it's in light of the glorious future that awaits us that he says in chapter 1, verse 13, therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope. fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. We have to cultivate the habit of setting our hope on the Lord. You know, it's common for trials to lead people to question the goodness of God. Maybe to to pull back from other believers or ultimately to reject God altogether. When we do that, when we feel that that pull in that direction, what we're seeing about ourselves is that our hope is not in God, but in the things that are causing our suffering. If our hope is anchored in God, we will suffer, but we will be held fast by our hope in God and His promises. That all things are working together for good, and one day he will make all things right. When when we face blessing or trouble Pain or delight, joy or sorrow, we must keep anchoring our hope in God When we realize that our anchor has slipped and it's gotten caught on somebody or on something, we need to reset it on the Lord Only then will we be able to endure and respond in the way that glorifies God and puts his glory on display for others to see. So the first habit we need to cultivate in a hope-filled life is to anchor our hope in God. The second habit is to flee from sin If we're going to live a hope-filled life, we need to be fleeing from sin. Turn over just a little bit to Titus chapter 2. Titus is a small letter, easy to pass by, Titus chapter 2. Paul wrote this letter to Titus as an SOP, a standard operation manual for Titus to train churches on the island of Crete And in Titus 2, verses 11 to 14, Paul gives what I believe is the most comprehensive explanation of the gospel in the Christian life condensed into one sentence. Look at Titus chapter 2, verses 11 to 14. It says, For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age Waiting for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us. from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works Now we'll come back to the positive side in a moment, but for now, notice that in verse 12, he speaks of fleeing from sin. He says that grace trains us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passion. waiting for our blessed hope. One of the great deceptions that we all entertain in our hearts Is that we can go ahead and sin because we're never going to be perfect in this life. And one day God will perfect us. So why should we spend so much effort trying to bridge that impossible gap? And so we say to ourselves, well maybe I'll try harder tomorrow. But today it's okay, I can sin. And so we sin in anger or lust or covetousness or whatever. This is a great deception because it takes the truth of forgiveness and it takes the truth of glorification in the future, and it mixes those beautiful colors with the corruption of sin to paint a distorted picture that rationalizes evil. The very truth that ought to bring life and motivate and empower righteousness are twisted to justify sin. Beloved, our hope in God and his promises should never be used to validate or excuse sin. They are in fact designed by God to make sin repulsive to us. This is the lesson, as Paul puts it, that grace teaches us. Again, in verse 14, he says that grace appeared in the person of Jesus Christ to redeem us from all unlawlessness or from all lawlessness. To redeem means to rescue, to set free. Jesus came to set us free from our rebellion and hostility to God in thought and word and deed. And having set us free, having cut that chain that once kept us enslaved to the law of sin, Jesus trains us not to keep going back to the cesspool of sin. But rather to experience the abundant life and freedom in Him and His righteousness Do you know what will make the coming age so great? At least part of it? We won't sin We won't desire sin, we won't purposefully sin, we won't sin on accident. We won't speak a cross word to each other. We won't lust after each other, we won't lie to each other. And because we won't sin against each other, we're going to enjoy glorious relationships. Because we won't sin with our minds, we won't be living under the cloud of guilt and shame. Because we will have God fully and completely. We won't struggle with jealousy or contentment or discontentment. Our sinlessness will lead to inexpressible joy And wonderful relationships, and freedom from the relational consequences of sin. And above all, because sin at its core is an attack against God Since we won't sin, we will enjoy a relationship with God that's that's full of joy and love and peace. And so we set our hope in God and His promises that that day will come But in reality, we can experience a great measure of life-giving righteousness today You don't have to wait until that day to experience at least some of the blessing and joy in life that is in store. God's grace to us in the work of Jesus Christ. God's grace to us in the indwelling Holy Spirit God's grace to us through the revelation of the truth of Scripture, God's grace to us in placing us into the body of Christ, all of these ways in which God extends grace to us are the means by which we are able to flee from sin that so easily entangles us The entirety of Romans six speaks of the freedom from sin that Christ purchased for us. He says in verse four that just as Christ was raised from the dead, we too were raised to walk in a new kind of life He says in verse 6 that just as Christ died, we too died so that we are no longer enslaved to sin And then he said this in verses 11 to 14 of Romans 6: So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey his passions. Don't present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace. Why do we still sin? It's not because we're enslaved to it. It's not because the devil made us do it. It's not because we have a mental health disease. It's not because we have an addictive personality It is because we put ourselves in a frame of mind and in situations that make sin desirable and possible. But by God's abundant grace, we can flee from it Spurgeon called sin decide, the murder of God. At its core, as I said, sin is an attack against God. Really It's the desire to remove God from His throne, to overthrow His rule in our lives. And this is why living in hope cannot coexist with sin. Sin doesn't want God Sin doesn't want to the future that God promised. And so you can either live in sin or you can live in hope, but you can only have one master. To hope in God is to flee from sin, knowing that sin will always let you down. It only knows deception. It always leads to guilt and shame and death To hope in God is to flee from sin, knowing that righteousness leads to life and joy and peace. And so, beloved, hope in God and cultivate the habits of anchoring your hope in God and fleeing from sin. Well, that brings us to the third habit, which is to pursue godliness. To pursue godliness. Look again, we'll stay right there for a moment in Titus 2. 11. Let's just read the whole passage again. For the grace of God has appeared, verses 11 to 14, so that in every um So for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce on godliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good deeds. Fleeing from sin cannot happen on its own. If you were wanting to tell a runner how to run a race, you wouldn't just tell him where not to run. You have to tell him where to run. You can only flee from sin by pursuing godliness. Notice again there in verse 11 that grace trains us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. And to live self-controlled and upright and godly lives in the present age. And then verse 14 says that Christ redeemed us to to purify a people for himself, for his own possession, who are zealous for good works. And so for our purposes, I'm bringing all of that together under the habit of pursuing godliness. We must cultivate the habit of pursuing godliness. Jerry Bridges in his book, The Practice of Godliness, helpfully defines godliness as a devotion to God that leads to a life that's pleasing to God. Devotion to God that leads to a life that's pleasing to God. And he further defines devotion as the love of God and the fear of God, which fuel a desire for God. Love of God and the fear of God that fuel a desire for God. Now we don't have time to unpack all of that, but I mention it because it draws our attention to the reality that godliness is not, as we often suppose, what you do on the outside. Your obedience, your standard of living. Godliness is obedience, but it is obedience that flows from a heart that's oriented around being devoted to God. You could do the same things that a godly person does and not be godly yourself. There are plenty of people in this world who do not know God. But they don't use profanity, they don't cheat on their taxes, they don't look at pornography, they don't mistreat their children, whatever other outward good things you might identify They work with integrity. They fulfill their responsibilities. Maybe they even promote good in the community. But because they're not devoted to God They are not godly. Or more directly, what rules them is something other than God, therefore they are in active rebellion against God. And so we cannot measure godliness by the same standards that would allow someone who doesn't know God to check the boxes. So when we say that we must cultivate the habit of pursuing godliness, what we're saying is we need to pursue increasing devotion to God that leads to a life that is pleasing to God. We need to pursue a life of increasing devotion to God that leads to a life pleasing to God. Now what does that look like? in practice. How do you pursue a life of increasing devotion to God? Turn back with me a little bit further to Ephesians. From Titus back a few letters to Ephesians. Ephesians 4. Those of you who are in the Ephesians class, if you haven't learned it already, you you you you may know or you'll learn that Ephesians is broken up, basically split in half the first three chapters. Focus on the work of redemption that God has done for us. In the last three chapters, talk about how we should live in light of the redemption that God has accomplished for us. And the Apostle Paul transitions between those two emphases by saying in chapter 4, verse 1, I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. He goes on then to explain how our redemption should shape our relationships with other redeemed people, especially in the local church. But then he begins to focus on life as a whole in verse 17. And as we read verses 1724 to 24, I want to encourage you to pay attention to the contrast between our former manner of life and our new life. And also the process by which we pursue godliness. Follow along, starting in verse 17. Paul says, Now this I say, and testifying the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do. in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart, they have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality greedy to practice every kind of impurity. That is not the way you learn Christ. Assuming that you've heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus, to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, which uh and is corrupt through d deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness The key terms that describe our former manner of life are futility, darkened, alienated, ignorance, hardness, cowice, sensuality, greedy, impurity, corrupt, deceitful. In different ways and in varying measure, that describes our life when we were enslaved to sin That is not how Christ lived. And that is not how Christ taught us to live. Instead, we were taught, he says, to put off the old self, which is another way of saying, flee from sin. And we were taught to renew the mind, which is to receive and embrace God's truth. And we were taught to put on the new self, to take what God has revealed and live it out in the context of our lives. That's the summary of the life and teaching of Jesus. Jesus constantly taught people to put off, to stop pursuing a sinful life and to renew their mind according to the truth, and to put on a new life, imitating the character and righteousness of God. By renewing the mind, we, well, with the truth, we cultivate a right fear and love for God, which then fuels our desire for God. And out of that growing devotion to God flows a life that pleases God as we reflect His character and will. So we pursue godliness by renewing our mind with truth and increasingly living it out by the power of the Spirit Now if you're interested in what that looks like on a practical level, Paul goes on in the section, you can read it on on your own, to illustrate those principles in the areas of lying and anger and stealing and sinful speech and in conflict. But really, the whole letter of Ephesians is written to renew our mind with the gospel and consider how the gospel should change our life. And in fact, the entire Bible was written so that we would renew our minds with a richness of its truth, and it sets forth the blueprints of what it means and looks like to be devoted to God and live a life pleasing to God. In First Timothy four, Paul admonishes Timothy to train himself for godliness. And then he says, For to this end we toil and strive, because we have set our hope on the living God. Our hope in God leads us to turn away from all false hopes and devote ourselves to Him, pursuing a life of godliness. When we place our hope in God and He is our portion, we must cultivate the habits of assetting and resetting our anchor to the Lord. We must cultivate the habit of fleeing from sin and pursuing godliness. And finally, we must cultivate the habit of waiting for the Lord. Waiting for the Lord. Now turn back, we're just kind of going backwards in the New Testament here, turn back to Romans. Romans chapter 8 And as you're turning there, let me remind you that it in Titus two thirteen, Paul says that grace teaches us to flee from sin and pursue godliness, waiting for our blessed hope. The appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. So we must cultivate the habit of waiting for the Lord. Now waiting might seem like a an odd habit because we often think of waiting as a passive activity. It's what you do when you're not doing anything else. You're just waiting for the next thing But waiting for the Lord is an active habit. It's actually a painfully active habit. Look at Romans chapter 8, verses 18 to 25, and pay attention to what waiting looks like, or even more specifically, sounds like. Romans 8, 18 to 24, 25. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it In hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only creation. But we ourselves, who are who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we eagerly wait for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. The central idea if we were to bring it all Together is in verse 23 there, not only creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for the adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. Speaking to those who are suffering, Paul writes to remind them of our hope in the completion of our salvation when our adoption is finalized. Our Father takes us to Himself, and we will dwell with Him forever in redeemed bodies. Until that day comes, we wait. And while we wait, we groan. Now it's always precarious for a man, especially an unmarried man, to use childbirth as an illustration for anything, but Paul is inspired by the Spirit when he describes in verse 22 creation groaning as in the pains of childbirth. as it awaits its freedom from the curse of sin. Now it's not clear here or really anywhere what Paul might be thinking of when he thinks of creation groaning But perhaps he's thinking of when we see creation breaking down and decaying and dying, there are often sounds of anguish. Whether it's the cries of a dying animal, or the rushing stampede of a mudslide or the crackling of leaves as they dry and fall. Creation is constantly decaying and dying, and creation groans for its freedom from the curse of sin In a similar way, we ourselves groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption. Now it's true actually that everyone experiences the curse of sin and sorrows over its consequences Believer and unbeliever alike hear news like we heard this week of the earthquake in Afghanistan and we feel the pang of sorrow for the thousands who have to Rebuild their lives, many of them in the face of extraordinary grief and loss. Everybody, believer or unbeliever, experiences that But there is a unique kind of groaning that believers experience if God is our portion and if our hope is in Him. The unbeliever knows nothing of the created world. Before the curse of sin. And they know nothing of the glorious new earth which will be free from the curse of sin. Since most believers believe that the universe has only known meaningless chaos and death. To them, what is always has been and always will be. There is no hope, so they groan in hopeless meaninglessness of it all. But the believer knows that God made this world very good, and it enjoyed peace and harmony at every level, even if only for a brief time And so we groan on the one hand because we ex what we experience is the result of our first parents' rebellion against God And there's something in us that longs to go back to that day in the garden and wish we could somehow make the decision different than how it was made. On the other hand, we groan because we know what is to come. We know the promise of a time when Jesus will rule on this earth and in that day Isaiah eleven says, The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together, and a little child shall lead them Even before the curse of sin is completely eradicated, Jesus will bring harmony and peace to this world. But more than that, we long for the new earth, where the curse of sin will be no more Revelation twenty-two says, No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and the Lamb will be in it, and the servants will worship him, they will see his face, they will reign with him forever and ever. We long for that day. As it relates to our bodies, Paul writes in Second Corinthians five For in this tent, in these earthly bodies, we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling. For while we're in this tent we groan, being burdened, not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed So that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. When our bodies remind us of their limitations and their decay. We groan with longing for that day when we will have bodies fit for everlasting glory The more that we know Christ, the more that we become like him, the more our perspective and our desires are shaped by his, the more we realize that this world is not our home. And so we wait for the day when we will be home. Philippians 3. 20 says, Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior. the Lord Jesus Christ. We're waiting for Jesus to come and and take us home to himself. Or we read passages like all of these, and we groan with longing for that new age when righteousness and justice and glory fills the earth. Life in this world gives us endless reasons to groan and wait with eager longing and expectation. Every physical weakness Every temptation to sin, every grief and sorrow, every difficult relationship, every celebration of wickedness, every evil deed we hear about, every natural disaster Every evidence of the manifestation of the curse of sin in our hearts, in our lives, in the world is a reason for us to groan and say, Come, Lord Jesus. Psalm 130 is a song sung by many Jews as they made their way up the steps to the temple It's a song that puts into words the groaning of God's people who were waiting for him, especially those who were burdened by their own sin. The song goes like this. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Yahweh, O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy If you, O Yahweh, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared I wait for Yahweh. My soul waits, and in his word I put my hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchman for the morning, more than watchman for the morning. O Israel, hope in Yahweh. For with Yahweh there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. The watchman that the song speaks of is a soldier charged with guarding a city by night. And with only the light of the moon, and that on cloudless day nights, the faithful watchmen would give their full attention and their their keen eye to the surrounding land in case enemies would dare to sneak up toward the city. And there is nothing that a watchman longed for more than the morning. They longed for the morning not only because it meant the end of their shift, but more importantly, it brought an end to the darkness and the dangers of night. And so for that reason, the watchmen didn't just long for the morning. They didn't just wait for the morning. No, they looked for the morning. They kept looking for that glow of light that would soon mark the dawn of a new day. And so, in the same way, we live in hope by waiting for the Lord As we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, every sorrow in sin is a reminder that we are not yet redeemed. That He hasn't perfected our soul yet, He hasn't redeemed our body yet, He isn't ruling in righteousness on the earth yet. And so we wait with groaning, we long with expectation. Do you know what the final words of Jesus in the Bible are? If you don't count the benediction. The last words of Jesus are found in the last sentence of the Bible. And the last words of Jesus are, Surely I am coming soon. When Jesus says he's coming soon, there's only one thing to say, and that is found as the last words. of the Bible, again, if you set aside the benediction. And it's a saying, it's a response to which we can say again And again, and again, day after day. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus That's how you live in hope. You cultivate the habits of anchoring your soul to Christ. Fleeing from sin, pursuing godliness, and waiting for the Lord to come. Now, the Spirit may have already prompted you to consider what are one or more of those habits that you need to give attention to in your own life. But let me encourage you to consider how we can do this together. As you saw earlier when Chester was doing announcements, the theme for our men's and women's breakfast this year is Knowing God for Life. The book we're gonna use as kind of a base text is the Blessed and Boundless God, which I've mentioned in at various other times, which is basically just a book about who God is, what he is like, his attributes. And so we're going to spend time each month meditating on who God is so that we can anchor our souls to Him more and more. I'm going to teach the first two months for both the w men and the women, and then others will continue the series throughout the rest of the year. So I just want to encourage you, men, to join us next Saturday at 8 a. m. In the fellowship hall, so that we can grow together in knowing God and anchoring our hope to him. And women. To join together two weeks from now at 9 a. m. So again, we can sink our anchor deeper and deeper into him Living in hope is not anything we can do on our own. We need one another. So let's do it together. Let's pray. As I pray, the men who are coming to serve Lord's Supper can come. Father, we thank you for these truths. Really, this is just a snapshot. You've given us so much more in your word. And so may you work in us bringing appropriate conviction as each one needs. But more than that, would you fuel our love for you? Would you cause us to fear you, so that we would desire you more and be devoted to you and live lives of hope. And may our lives be such that the world would see our co workers, perhaps, our Unbelieving relatives, others that we know, may they look at our lives and ask What do we have so we can proclaim the hope that we have in you? For Christ's sake, we pray. Amen.