What comes into our mind when we think about God is the most important thing about us. As many of you recall, those are the first words of A. W. Tozer's book, The Knowledge of the Holy. What comes into our mind when we think about God is the most important thing about us. That is true today for the youngest among us. That is true today for those of us who are middle-aged. That is true for those who are in their sunset season of life. And that is also true, if it could be said, even most especially true, for those who are on the doorstep of death. I once had the privilege of sitting with a man who was days away and he knew it from breathing his last breath. All he had to do. Was wait for his disease to take its final course. We sat there in his home, surrounded by medical equipment. Few possessions, pictures of his family, papers strewn around. And we spoke About life and everlasting life. And as we talked, it was as if we entered into that realm where this life was over and we were beginning to see the onset of eternity. It was as if this life had passed even though we were still in this life. It was the first time I'd ever experienced what it might feel like to be on the doorstep of death. Where all of life is over, and you're about to enter into eternity You've paid your last bill. You've driven for the last time. You've eaten your last meal. You've worked your last day of work. You've cried your last tear. You've laughed your last laugh. You've said your last goodbye. You've settled your last worry. You've released your last concern. All of the ties of life that connect you with people and possessions have been loosed And there you are, suspended as it were between earth and heaven, naked as it were. If you were to find yourself there, when you find yourself there, what will you have? My prayer is that you will be able to say the same thing that Asaph says in Psalm 73. Turn there if you haven't already. We're going to focus this morning and for probably the next few weeks on Psalm 73, verse 26. Where Asaph says something about God that is true for everyone whom God has saved, but which, if understood at all, is often buried under layers of earthly concerns and cravings. But beloved, if if we could begin to grasp this truth that God is our strength and our portion. And if we could get to the place where we could declare it for ourselves, and more than that, if God would enable us to live in the light of this truth. It would change our lives. And it would change our church, and the world would see how great our God is. Follow along as I read Psalm seventy-three, a psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to Israel. To those who are pure in heart But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped, for I was envious of the egg arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked For they have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore, pride is their necklace, violence covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness, their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens and their tongue stretched through the earth. Therefore his people That is God's people. Turn back to them and find no fault in them. And they say, how can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the wicked. Always at ease, they increase in riches. All in vain I have kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence, for all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. If I had said, I will speak thus, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. But when I thought to understand this It seemed to me a wearisome task until I went to the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end. Truly you set them in slippery places, you make them fall to ruin, how they are destroyed in a moment swept away utterly by terrors, like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, you aro when you arouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant. I was like a beast before you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel And afterward you will receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far off from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you. But as for me, it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. This is the word of God. ASAF was appointed by King David to be the chief musician for the tabernacle. He was also a prophet, And as one of the leaders of Israel who was beset by weaknesses and suffering, Asaph models for us here That what comes into your mind when you think about God is the most important thing about us. In verses three to fourteen, what came into his mind when he thought about God as he observed the prosperity of the wicked, and as he experienced his own suffering? What he thought about God is that God is unjust. God is not good. God is unfaithful. God is not concerned about the wicked, and he doesn't care about the righteous. Those are the thoughts that came into his mind when he sat in the darkness and solitude of his suffering. And because those were his thoughts, he was tempted to give up on God, or at least to stop trying to live up to the standard, the law of God, which only seemed to bring him pain. Beloved, what if what comes into your mind when you think about God is that what he has revealed in his word is not true? Dissolution will lead you down the path where you will live according to your desires. If what the Bible says about God is not true, you will simply do whatever you think will make you happy. But Asaph here turns a corner. Instead of searching for the truth in his own heart, he Goes to that place where the Word of God is found, the sanctuary. And in seeking answers from outside of himself and from God, he learned the truth. About God's wrath for the wicked and his ri His reward for the righteous. And so having embraced God's truth in verses 18 to 28, what comes into his mind then when When he thinks about God is that God operates from an eternal perspective that takes into account what happens after this life. So God is able to measure what is just and what is good on scales that are beyond our comprehension. If you were to hear of a man who earned ten billion dollars, but then quickly lost it, and spent the rest of his life in poverty. Would you call that man prosperous? How much more then would you re-evaluate should we re-evaluate the lives of those who spend perhaps up to 80 or 100 years? Enjoying all of the wealth and all of the pleasures of this life, but who will spend an eternity experiencing the wrath of God? Or if you were to hear of somebody who spent their entire childhood in extreme poverty and difficulty and And yet one day came to a position of great affluence and influence and spent the rest of their life under that condition, would you call them poor? How much more then should we reevaluate our lives when even if we spend eighty to a hundred years of intense suffering? And yet we will spend all of eternity experiencing the glories of heaven This is the calculus that Paul encourages us to make in Romans 8:18, where he writes, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing. to the glory that is to be revealed to us. So Asaph here comes to understand God's justice and God's goodness. in a radically different way that changes his disposition toward his suffering and motivates him to walk faithfully with his God. But there is another truth about God that comes into Asaph's mind that dramatically changes his perspective, and it is found in verse 26. In verse 26, he says, My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. That language may be familiar to you or it may not. Whether or not it's familiar to you, I'm convinced that all of us need an infusion of understanding of what this means. So that we can deepen our conviction and say, along with Asaph, my heart and my flesh may fail. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever The word translated strength here in verse 26 is literally the word rock. It's translated strength because the idea of God being a rock means that he is a firm, unshakable, unbreakable, immovable foundation in life. And when God is your rock, you have the strength to overcome any trial. God is called a rock throughout the Bible. In Deuteronomy 32, Moses sings his final song before he dies. And in that song he says this in verse 4. The rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is he. And several more times in his closing song at the end of his life, he refers to God as the rock of Israel. A few hundred years later, the songwriter of Israel, as he's sometimes called, King David, also sings of God as his rock Samuel, 2 Samuel 22 records the song that David wrote after Saul died and David experienced victory over his enemies. And he says there in 2 Samuel 22, the Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge. And then later in the song he says, For who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except our God? Again, he says, the Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be my God, the rock of my salvation. In seventeen of the Psalms, we see this metaphor used. For example, in Psalm 62, this line is repeated twice: He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. And then in the New Testament, Jesus picks up on this metaphor for God and explains to us what it means to have God as our rock. He says at the end of the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 7. 24, Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall because it had been founded on the rock. God is your rock when you build your life on the foundation of who He is and what He has said. When his truth and his values and his morals and his wisdom is what you live by, you will find that you can weather any storm that comes your way. When life swirls around you, disorienting you, when the winds of life threaten to topple you When the rain of trials spray on your face, making it hard for you to see If your heart is anchored to God in his word, you will endure. And that's because a storm has no effect on the rock You will never see a mountain swaying in the wind. Storms don't move mountains. Mountains move storms. And so if you plant yourself on God as your rock, if you anchor your soul on the bedrock truths of his word, if you stand on the high ground of Christ when the floods come, you will have strength and stability for your soul that sustains you even in that moment when you take your last breath. On the other hand, If you face the storms of life and you comfort yourself saying, at least I have my savings You will find that foundation quickly washing away. If you face the storms of life, Standing on your relationships, and you say, At least I have my family. Soon you will find that for various reasons your family won't be able to support you. Whether they're gone or they can't spare the resources or they have their own storms to deal with. If you stand on your intellect in the midst of storms and say, Well, at least I have The ability to always get a job, you will find that changes in government or economics or Changes in technology or your own aging body and mind will one day leave you stranded. If you stand on your health. And you say, at least I've taken good care of myself and I have energy and I have strength, you will find that one day an accident or a disease or an injury will Cause your health to fail and your confidence will be removed. If you stand on your possessions and you say, At least I can enjoy houses and goods. You will quickly realize that the law of entropy will render your possessions more troubled than they are worth, more easily lost than kept, and ultimately unable to protect you from devastation. If there is anything on which you stand as a rock in your life, anything that That is your foundation for confidence in the storms of life. Know that if it if it's something you earned, it will be lost. If it's something you were given, it can be taken away. If it's something of value, it can be diminished. If it's anything pertaining to this world, You will not be able to take it with you when you die. There is only one rock Only one sure foundation on which you can build your life and have guaranteed strength and stability, even in that moment when your life comes to an end. God alone is a rock on which you can stand now and forever. Well, that brings us to the next truth about God that comes into the mind of Asaph. Asaph declares that God is the rock of his heart, and he also declares that God is his portion. The word portion simply means allotment It can refer to something as small as your portion of food or as big as the inheritance that is to come to you. Your portion is that which belongs to you. It's what you own by right. And the reason the tribe of Levi didn't get a portion is because the Lord had said to them in numbers, Chapter eighteen, verse twenty, you shall have no inheritance of the land, neither shall you have any portion among them. Why? Because I am your portion and your inheritance among the people of Israel And that promise from God to the Levitical tribe was a foreshadowing of the fact that God would be the portion for all of his people. So the Levites didn't receive a portion, but the tribes, the rest of the tribes did, and those portions that were given to each tribe were then broken down into smaller portions for every family and every individual. And those portions of land were an inheritance by God handed down from generation to generation, providing every family with security, with a home, and with income. To lose one's inheritance was effectively to be consigned to poverty, homelessness, and the loss of generational security. So the Lord gave Israel laws to ensure that those portions, those inheritances, were kept within the families that belonged that that they belonged to. Even when they needed to be sold for paying off debts, that those uh uh those sales were temporary and would be given the property would be given back at the year of Jubilee. Of course, inheritances, portions were lost when Israel lost territory in the face of enemies, and they were almost completely lost when Israel was exiled by the Assyrians and the Babylonians. In a very real way, an Israelites' portion, their inheritance, was everything to them. And so it's significant, even as Pastor Christopher read this earlier, that Jeremiah, when he wrote Lamentations, as he watched the destruction of Jerusalem, and as he lost the property that he owned, he wrote in chapter three, verse twenty-four, The Lord is my portion, therefore I will hope in him Jeremiah experienced the loss of all earthly goods, and yet he proclaims that his hope was not tied to the earth. His hope was found in knowing and having God as his portion. Jeremiah understood that having God as your portion is not a a consolation price. As if you could lose everything that you own and somebody can just No, put their arm around you and say, well, at least you have God. No, to have God is to have everything that matters The one who has God and no earthly goods is infinitely wealthier than the one who does not have God and yet has all of the land and gold in the world. Well, here in Psalm 73, Asaph is a Levite. He didn't have a portion of land to call his own, but he did have life and a body. And while he doesn't give us the details of his suffering, by saying here in verse 26, My flesh and my heart may fail, he declares that even if his body fails, And his life comes to an end, even then he is not left destitute. No, even if his life ends, he's s Still has a possession of infinite value that provides all that he needs. God is my portion, he says. As it relates to all earthly and temporal things, Job rightly said, Naked I came into my mother Naked I came into this out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. But as it relates to God and eternal things, every sinner who has God in this life can say, naked I came from my mother's womb But I leave fully clothed and richly endowed. When you have or rather when you find yourself between earth and heaven, as it were, having Nothing but what you can carry into eternity, what will you have? If you do not have God, you will be found naked, empty-handed, and worth only to be cast in the fire. But if you have God, if you die having God as your portion, you will possess an incalculable inheritance. Do you know that there are no guests in heaven? There is only the owner, his family, and his servants. God is the owner of all things and therefore has infinite wealth. His servants, the angels, own nothing, but God gives them what they need for their daily service. But those who are the children of God are rightful heirs of all that God owns. It's only those rightly related to God who have Him and through Him have all things as their portion. Ephesians 1:3 said, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. It's only being in Christ that we possess the blessings of heaven. 2 Corinthians 8. 9 says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. So that by so that you by his poverty might become rich. Not rich, of course, in the things that will just pass away, but rich in the things that will last forever. Christ didn't give up the eternal riches of glory so that you could have a nice car. He gave up the riches of heaven. He became poor in this world so that we might join him as co-heirs of the riches of heaven. God or rather Christ came and died and rose again so that you could have God as your portion. In his book, God is the Gospel, John Piper rightly argues that we too often think about the gospel as the way to heaven, and perhaps I've been guilty of speaking in that way. But the gospel is not an access pass to a place. The gospel is the way to God. The gospel is what reconciles you to God. Consider this question that Piper asks. If you could have heaven with no sickness and with all the friends you ever had on earth and all the food you ever liked and all the leisure activities you ever enjoyed and all the natural beauties you ever saw all the physical pleasures you ever tasted and no human conflict or any natural disasters, could you be satisfied in heaven if Christ was not there? That's worth taking time to think about how you would answer. He writes People who would be happy in heaven if Christ were not there will not be there. The gospel, he says, is not a way to get people to heaven, it is a way to get people to God. It's a way of overcoming every obstacle to everlasting joy in God. He says, if we don't want God above all things, We have not been converted by the gospel. That's a sober word to those of us who love Christ and know Christ on the one hand. And yet, on the other hand, we're so full of the blessings from Christ on this earth. that we might be tempted to think we would be satisfied with those blessings as long as there weren't any ravages of sin along with them. Could you enjoy the gifts of God forever if you didn't have the giver of those gifts? Now we know we're supposed to answer no to that. Every child who receives gifts from a distant parent knows that they would rather have the parent than those gifts. But if we're honest with ourselves, the gifts of God can be so good that we lose sight of God Himself. And we know this is true when we would like To delay going to heaven so that we can enjoy God's gifts on earth. That kind of mentality considers heaven loss. So much of our lives are occupied with enjoying, uh working for, maintaining, repairing, replacing, obtaining. good things from God that our relationship with God takes a back seat And when the good gifts from God show their wear or they break, when relationships end or people fail, Instead of responding with hearts full of contentment because we have God who is greater than all things. We often respond as if we've lost everything. We can become like the young man who failed to win the heart of a young woman and said to me years ago, If I can't have her, what's the point of living? When people lose their job or their relationship or their treasured possession or their health or their reputation They will explode in anger, or sink into depression, or drown in alcohol, or pursue foolish pleasures. Or even take their own life. Why? Because even if they would say, yes, God is my portion in that I know I'm going to have God forever They don't believe that God is their portion in this life. And we are all susceptible to that. So my burden is to help my heart and yours see that when God is your portion, you truly have all that you need. Not just to survive, but to thrive. To say that God is your portion is to say that God provides all that you need to thrive. Well what do you need? I don't know that this is exhaustive, but consider these four needs that you have. You need protection, you need hope, you need joy, and you need satisfaction. Protection, hope, joy, and satisfaction. And whatever or whoever it is that provides those things for you needs to last at least as long as you last. And that is forever. Protection, hope, joy, and satisfaction. These are the things that every person longs for and seeks after because We are designed to need them. The problem is the things that we often think will provide them for us are cheap substitutes. Inadequate, and they don't last. We are designed to experience protection, hope, and joy, and satisfaction in God. But because of our sin, we look for them elsewhere. But when God redeems us, he gives us the privilege of finding in him all that we need. And growth in godliness in the Christian life is weaning ourselves off of the artificial substitutes and increasingly knowing God as our protection. And as our hope, and as our joy, and as our satisfaction. Because He is those things for us now and forever. And so that's what we will spend the rest of today and probably two, if not three, weeks considering What it means to have God as our portion. Today we'll just finish considering What it means that God is our only protection. Because, beloved, God is your only protection. In both fiction and in real life, perhaps the most frequent false promise that people make is this. I will never let anything bad happen to you. And the second is like it. I will always be there for you. Now, obviously, those promises are born out of a good desire for the welfare of a loved one. But no matter how well-intentioned the person is, often a mom or a dad. No one has the ability to keep such promises. Except for God. But we make those promises because we live in a dangerous world, don't we? Inside of us, in our bodies, and outside of us are threats to our well-being and our safety and our very lives. And so in response, there's all kinds of things that we consciously, purposely do to protect ourselves against such threats. We eat well. We exercise, maybe. We take supplements and medications. We wear helmets and protective clothing for certain jobs or activities. We lock our doors, we build fences, we install alarms and cameras, we use passwords and multi-factor authentication. We buy insurance for home, health, car, pets, disability, unemployment, liability, fires, floods, death, and more. And through our taxes, we fund law enforcement and court systems and prisons to deal with those who are a threat to us. There are many things that we do and many dynamics of life that exist because of the potential threats around us. Under the curse of sin, both literally and figuratively, thorns grow up and threaten our productivity and our livelihood, and death is always around the corner. And so we live in a a dangerous world and we do everything that we can to protect ourselves In light of that, what do we mean when we say that God is our only protector? Because obviously, we don't mean that we should live carefree and unconcerned about the dangers of this life. Because after all, God won't let anything bad happen to us. No, that's not what we mean When we say that God is our protection, we obviously don't mean that He prevents us from getting sick or injured or mistreated or abused or attacked or even killed. So, what do we mean? To say that God is your protector, get this, is to say that he will never let anything happen to you that will not lead to your ultimate good. To say that God is your only protector is to say that He will never let anything happen to you that will not lead to your ultimate good. This means that everything that happens to you has a purpose For the Christian, there is no meaningless suffering Everything is part of God's eternal good plan for your life. Again, to say that God is your portion is to say that God is your protection from meaningless suffering and ultimate harm and destruction. Nothing, and I mean nothing, can cause such deep harm in your life that serves no purpose Or that overpowers God's good purposes for you. Though pain and trials do come God says, I will never let anything bad happen to you because I will always be with you. And bad is according to his definition, not ours. Now consider two texts for this. First, the familiar Romans 8, 28, and 29. Which are in the context of suffering. Paul writes in that passage that we know that for those who love God all things all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. There are many good things that Scripture tells us that God does in our lives through trials and suffering. From building character to loosening our grip on this world, from correcting our view of life to drawing us closer to Christ. But every good thing that God does finds its highest expression in that it conforms us to the image of Christ. It makes us more like Jesus. And this is to say that suffering roots sin out of our life and builds godliness into us In the words of 2 Corinthians 3. 18, beholding the glory of the Lord, we are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. From the smallest pain to the most debilitating suffering, seeing God as your portion infuses purpose and meaning into your experience in that. God's aim is to make you more like Him for His glory and your joy. Consider a second text. Second Corinthians 4:16-18, Paul writes, So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light and momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Notice how there Paul contrasts our outer self, which is our body, with our inner self, which is our soul. It is possible that your outer self, your body, is breaking down and wasting away from age or disease or injury or torture. While your soul is flourishing and getting stronger and stronger and stronger Through one lens, it may appear that the realities of this life are causing you to diminish. But from another lens. The realities of this life can cause you to grow stronger. Notice also how he contrasts light momentary affliction. With the eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. When measured against this life only, when measured against the physical pain scale or the impact of intense suffering on one's health or one's relationships or finances or the experience of life. Afflictions can be anything but light and momentary. It can be devastating. But when measured against eternity, affliction is it's like a the sting of a routine shot that protects the body from diseases. And like the child who can't understand or comprehend how this pain is going to lead to my good. It's impossible for us to comprehend the eternal blessings and benefits that come to us when we endure trials, trusting in the Lord. But we must trust our Father when he says, You may not see it now, but this is going to lead to your good. And then notice that Paul there contrasts the things that are seen versus the things that are unseen, which the things that are seen are transient, he says. They are passing away. And even before even if you pass away before they do, you will outlast them by billions and billions of years, because the things that are unseen are eternal. This is to say that the things that we see and experience and that we use to to weigh a situation, assessing what's good, what's bad, what's just, what's unjust, what's purposeful, what's purpose purpose less, the things that we use to make those judgments will soon disappear. But what God Sees what he uses to evaluate our circumstances and purposes last forever What does all this mean? It means, beloved, that your suffering is not in vain. Your pain is not meaningless. It is infinitely meaningful. There is nothing that God allows into your life that He does not intend to work for your good. Not only by making him making you more like his son today But what you go through now can change your thinking and your affections and your will, enabling you to say, this is gain. Pain is gain. Cancer is gain. Hardship is gain. Job loss is gain. Mistreatment is gain. Persecution is gain. Abuse is gain, death is gain Beloved, if death is gain, is there anything that isn't gain? If the worst thing that can happen to you can't harm you, what can anything else do to you? When we say that only God can protect you We mean that when God is your portion, when you have God and God has you, nothing can ultimately harm you. Everything is gained because God is always work with you, working for your everlasting good. When the Lord denied Paul's request to remove the thorn in his flesh, Paul declared in Second Corinthians twelve, therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weakness, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities, for when I am weak, then I am strong. When Paul was in prison, his concern was not to get out of prison at all costs. Rather, his concern was to live and to die for Christ. He said in Philippians 1 20, It's my eager expectation and hope that I will not at all be ashamed, but with full courage. Now as always Christ will be honored in my body whether by life or by death. For to me to to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Because Paul understood that knowing Christ was a surpassing value beyond all things. He said in Philippians chapter 3. Indeed, I count all things as loss because of the surpassing words of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. And then at the end of his life, when he knew that his execution was near. He wrote in 2 Timothy 4. 18: The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Paul could look at the day of his execution and say, The Lord won't let anything bad happen to me. Because this will be for my game. Each of these passages from Paul model for us how a believer who knows that God is their portion in their suffering should think. And what we should always know is that we are safe in the arms of God. Now, some of you suffer in immeasurable ways for various reasons. And you would be delighted if Christ took you to be with him so that you wouldn't have to endure another day of pain. Your body is failing, your nervous system is working all too well, and all of your nerves are firing. Let me encourage you and the rest of us to consider the words of a fellow sufferer, Johnny Erickson Tata, who wrote this on the anniversary of her diving accident that left her as a quadruple plegic. Listen to how she frames her suffering in a way that shows that she views God as her only protector. She says, if I were to nail down suffering's main purpose, I'd say it's the textbook that teaches me who I really am because I'm not the paragon of virtue I'd like to think I am. Suffering keeps knocking me off my pedestal of pride. Sometimes when my scoliosis becomes extremely painful, I'll murmur and drop hints to God that He's piling on too much. Later, when the pain dissipates, I'll make excuses. Lord, that's not like me. I'm not like that at all. But it is like me. It's exactly like me. Philippians 2. 14 is for people like me, do everything without grumbling. Everything? The Bible says it's possible even for aging quadriplegics who fight terminal diseases and chronic pain. But less sin means more of Jesus, and Jesus is worth it. Listen to this. The core of God's plan is to rescue me from sin and self. And to keep rescuing me. The Apostle Paul calls it the gospel by which you are being saved if you hold fast the word I preached to you. I am in constant need of saving. My displaced hip and scoliosis are sheepdogs that constantly snap at my heels, driving me down the road to Calvary, where I die to the sins Jesus died for. Sure, I have a long way to go before I am who God destined me to be in glory, but thankfully my paralysis keeps pushing me to strive for the heavenly prize. The process is difficult, she says, but affliction isn't a killjoy. I don't think you could find a happier follower of Jesus than me. The more my paralysis helps me get disentangled from sin, the more my joy bubbles up from within. I can't tell you how many nights I have lain in bed, unable to move, stiff with pain, and have whispered near tears. Oh Jesus, I am so happy, so very happy in you. God shares his joy on his terms only, and those terms call for us to suffer, in some measure, like his son. I'll gladly take it. That's Johnny's way of saying: my flesh and my heart may fail. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. She has come to know that God is her protector. He protects her by allowing pain into her life to rescue her from sin, and she would affirm the truth that not only is she being rescued from her sin for the gain that it produces in her life now, giving her joy in Christ, and the overflow that of of blessings that spill over to thousands upon thousands who are benefited by her testimony, but her growth in godliness is preparing for her an eternal weight of glory, which she will enjoy forever in a perfect body. Beloved, we are good stewards of our bodies and lives when we provide for the protection of our well-being, our safety, and longevity. But let us embrace this truth that the only true protection That we have is God who will never let anything happen to us, that He does not intend for our ultimate good. Everything he allows through those protective layers that we have in our lives that might otherwise be perceived as bad and destructive. Can actually be the source of great strength and growth in knowing, loving, and following Christ now. And forever. So what is your greatest trial today? I would encourage you this afternoon as you sit at home to take these steps. First, Thank God for your trial. Thank God that He is using that hardship to accomplish good in your life. now and for eternity, even if you can't see it yet. Affirm your trust in Him, that He is your rock and He is your portion, no matter what that trial is doing, to cause pain and suffering into your life. So thank God for your trials. Second, use the fruit of the Spirit there in Galatians 5, 22 to 23, and consider what it would look like to respond to your trial. With love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control? What would it look like to respond exhibiting those qualities? And then, third, pray for God's help to live for Christ through the power of the Spirit and exhibit those qualities in your own heart and toward others. And then come back next week as we consider that God is our only hope. And our only joy and our only satisfaction. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these reminders from your word. If we didn't have your word, we would be left Utterly lost and destitute. We would be left looking for protection from the things of this world and realize that There is no protection. We would come to see as Solomon did in Ecclesiastes that Under the sun, apart from God, there is no meaning and purpose. A praise be to you, O God. That you are our portion. You are our protector. You are the one who keeps us in your hand and is always accomplishing your good in us. May we grow in knowing you more. In Christ's name I pray. Amen.