There was a doctor who had to go to two different patients and give them the same news. He entered into the room of the first, and in this room was a young woman who was an unbeliever. with her family by her side and he gave that painful news that there's nothing left to be done The disease would soon take its course, and she would die. The wailing that ensued Could make the sun go dark. He went to the next room, and this room was a believer in her family. And he said that they've run out of options, they there aren't any more treatments. Death would come soon. And as the tears began to flow, he stepped out to give the family their privacy. And he heard an unexpected sound. From that room echoed a an aching but confident Great is thy faithfulness, O God, our Father What would explain the difference in those two different responses? A few weeks ago I quoted from uh an article by Johnny Erickson Tada, and I wonder if anybody was surprised. When she wrote, as you heard me read, I can't tell you how many nights I have lain in bed, unable to move, stiff with pain, and have whispered near tears Oh Jesus, I am so happy, so happy in you She said God shares his joy on his terms only and those who And those terms call for us to suffer in some measure like his son. How can how can somebody so inc incapacitated and racked with pain Be so happy? Well, the answer to those questions are plastered really all over the the pages of scripture, but we'll start by answering those questions in Psalm 73. If you have your Bible, turn there to Psalm 73. Once again, we come to this psalm as really an entrance to the mind of Scripture, and from here we'll dig down into the many shafts that have precious jewels for us to collect. Asaph, as we have mentioned before, was of the priestly tribe of Levi. He was appointed as the chief musician by King David, and he was a prophet. And one of the aspects of his role as a prophet was that he wrote inspired scripture. He wrote Psalm 50 and he wrote Psalm 73 to 83. And as you read those psalms, suffering, both personal suffering and national suffering, were a common or are a common theme in his Psalms. We don't know anything about ASAP in terms of his personal life. We're only told about his role, his position, really often in a list of names. And so we don't know anything about when he suffered or why he suffered. And if you know anything about the rule of King David, to know that there was a chief musician under his uh reign as king, one would wonder how could someone in such a high position suffer in any significant way? We don't we don't know the answer to that. And so I would submit to you that we're left to consider that the suffering that ASAF experienced was in many ways the kind of suffering that you and I experience. Life in a fallen world. Notice what he says in verse 14. He says, For all day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. The word stricken there literally means to touch. It often refers to the physical touch. And yet he seems to refer to that, or he seems to use that term in reference to being touched by trouble. And his experience of being touched by trouble is quite different from what he experienced or rather observed in the lives of the wicked, which he described in verse 5, saying, They are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. He also said there in verse 14 that he is rebuked every morning. Was he living in sin? Somebody needed to come to him and rebuke him for his sin. No. No, he says in verse thirteen that he has kept His heart clean, and he's washed his hands in innocence. So this rebuke is more like a verbal attack against him. He experienced daily persecution as one who sought to live his life As a follower of God. So this was his daily experience as he would tell it to us. He faced some kind of trouble every day, and that included verbal attacks from others. Some of you know how the daily experience of suffering can deeply impact your soul Now I would suggest to you that while his suffering was real and it was difficult and painful, that was not what caused the greatest suffering in his life. That was not his greatest trouble. In fact, if you look back at verse 2, he says, As for me, my feet had almost slipped, or rather, had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped. What was it the the daily trouble? Was it the personal attacks that caused him to almost be swept away? No, ASAP tells us that what caused him to almost slip is what he says in verse 3. For because my feet nearly slipped, because I was envious of the wicked, or rather of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. What Asaph experienced was trouble, but his response to his trouble is what caused significant suffering in his life. His initial response to his personal trouble was to interpret his circumstances without God in the equation and as if this life is all there is. And so his interpretation created or produced envy in his heart. He envied what he perceived to be a trouble-free life. on the part of the wicked. His problem was was not so much what he experienced, his problem is that is what he experienced in contrast to what the wicked experienced, at least for from his perspective. And and so that gave birth to envy, which then led to complaining and bitterness To the point where he said again in verse thirteen, All in vain I have kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. His feet indeed had almost stumbled. He almost walked away from the Lord, not because of what he experienced, but because of how he interpreted his experience and gave into envy. And we know that that was the real problem because the solution to his problem was not the removal of his trouble In fact, as the song takes a turn starting in verse 16, he doesn't tell us that God changed his circumstances. That God finally judged the wicked and that God removed all of the trouble from his life. No, what changed was his perspective. He went from almost walking away from the Lord to standing firm in the Lord by changing his perspective. And that changed perspective, or rather, interpretation of his life didn't come because, again, the Lord explained how his suffering would lead to good in the future, though that would have been a true thing for him to understand. It wasn't because the wicked really aren't as prosperous as he uh thought they were, though that was almost certainly true. It wasn't because somebody had told them, hey, if you just hold out a little bit longer, life is going to get better. Though maybe that would have been true. Who knows? Now his perspective changed when he went into the sanctuary of God and he was given two pieces of information that changed everything for him. The first piece of information that he was given is found there in verse 17. He says, Until I went to the sanctuary of God, then I discerned their end, speaking of the wicked. Their end there refers to the ultimate end of the wicked, not just the end of their life on earth, but their everlasting death. Asaph believed in the resurrection. We see evidence of that in his writing and in this particular psalm. And he was reminded that when the wicked are resurrected in the end, they will not Join with the righteous in glory. He says in verse 27 For behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you. Whatever the wicked enjoy in this life, and for however however long they enjoy it, the day of their destruction will come, and there will be no everlasting glory for them. That's the first piece of information. The second piece of information that changed everything for him is verses 23 and 24. He says, Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You, speaking to the Lord, hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory. So Asaf remembered that God was with him and had never left him. And when his life would be over, whenever that would be, the Lord would receive him into his everlasting presence in glory. And so now, with this new interpretation of life that factored in the ultimate judgment of the wicked and God's presence with him, Asaph's envy melted away, and his heart rejoiced. He said, Whom have I in heaven but you? There is nothing on earth I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart in my portion forever. For behold, you have put those who are far from you will perish, and you put to an end everyone who is unfaithful to you. But for me it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge that I may tell of all your works. Friends, that's just like a broken-hearted family singing, Great is thy faithfulness. Or it's just like Johnny whispering in pain, oh Jesus, I am so happy, so happy in you These are all expressions of joy and happiness in God. Perhaps you've heard that joy and happiness can be distinguished by recognizing that happiness is based on your circumstances, and joy transcends your circumstances. I'm sure I've given that answer, and many of us have as well, or heard it. But it occurred to me this week that that distinction, at least stated that way, teaches a false view of reality. Perhaps a more nuanced way to communicate what I think we mean when we're saying that is to put the distinction this way Temporal happiness is based on a godless view of your circumstances, while lasting joy is based on a God-centered view of your circumstances. Many of you were here three years ago when we studied through Paul's epistle to the Philippians, and I don't expect you to remember, but the definition for joy that we used through that study was that joy is the emotion of delight or strength produced by the Holy Spirit when we look at the circumstances of life through the lens of God's word. That's a mouthful, isn't it? So, in light of our study, let me propose this definition of joy. Joy is the delight or strength that we experience when God is our portion. It's the delight or strength we experience when God is our portion. In this series, we've been meditating on what does it mean that God is our portion? And we've seen that to say that God is our portion is to say that He is everything that we need, and He is All that we need now and forever. And what is it that we need? Well, this may not be an exhaustive list, but we've seen that God provides Our protection. We are kept securely in his hands and nothing can happen to us apart from what he intends for our good. We've also seen that He is our only hope. In Him alone can we confidently place our trust and our expectations and know that because of who He is, He will faithfully fulfill his promises, and he will hold us fast as we anchor our souls to him. And so today we come to the truth that because God is our portion, he is our only joy. When faced with the great variety of trials and challenges and struggles in life, we can be sure that our protection will secure us, our hope will sustain us, and our joy will strengthen us. That's really what ASAF teaches us here And though just with the word hope, the word joy is not found in this song, but I say without fear of contradiction that verses 25 to 28 are an exaltation, a glad proclamation of joy by one who has found all that he needs in God. He's been filled in the midst of his trouble, in the midst of the verbal attacks that come against him. He's been filled with delight and strength because God is with him. Now we can even get more specific in seeing that because in verse 26 he says that familiar truth: that my my flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart. I don't need to prove to you that joy, in some measure, refers to delight. That's how we tend to use the word. We make it more or less a synonym to happiness. But perhaps you haven't thought about joy as strength. And yet strength is one of the essential elements of joy. Again, joy is delight or strength that we experience as we know that God is our portion. And so just to prove that to you, perhaps Perhaps you've heard the phrase, the joy of the Lord is your strength. It's a common phrase that is used and for good reason. But we often forget where that's found in the Bible. It's found in Nehemiah chapter 8, when the people who were in exile in Babylon have returned back to the land, they've rebuilt the temple. And after rebuilding the temple, they gathered all of the people together, and Nehemiah, or rather Ezra the scribe, reads the book of the law, and Ezra and the various scribes not only read the law to the people, that is the the five books of Moses, but they explain it so that the people understand what the Word of God means. And you need to keep in mind that for those people on that day For some of them, probably a small number, this was the first time they'd heard the Word of God in over 70 years. For most of them, they'd never heard the Word of God before. And Nehemiah 8:9 says that as the people heard and understood the word of God, all the people wept. They wept. It's not explicitly stated, but the context would indicate that the reason that they wept is because they finally heard and understood the word of a living God. And in response to their weeping, Nehemiah said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink sweet wine, which is just a way of celebrating. Send portions to anyone who does who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord, and do not be grieved. For the joy of the Lord is your strength. And it says that the people went off, they listened to what he said, and they made great rejoicing, because they understood the words that were declared. So for them the the joy of the Lord strengthen them to move from weeping to celebration Other times, joy in terms of strength does not include any celebration at all. Rather, it's just strength to move forward in faithfulness to the Lord. The prop Prophet Habakkuk served the Lord right before the Assyrians uh uh destroyed the nation of Israel, took them off to Assyria. It was a devastating time for those who were faithful to the Lord, the few that there were, because Israel as a nation had turned away from the Lord, and they were about to receive the just penalty for their idolatry. And Habakkuk in particular struggled with the fact that, as God had revealed it to him, the Assyrians were going to be the tool in the hand of God to bring judgment on Israel. And the Assyrians were of incredibly greater wickedness than the Israelites themselves. And so Habakkuk couldn't understand how God could use such a wicked nation to bring judgment on on them. Shouldn't it be reversed in some way? And so the small book of Habakkuk, just three chapters, recounts his wrestling with the Lord. And it ends the final words of the book. Habakkuk comes to this conclusion. Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit beyond the vines, the produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no food. The flock be cut off from the fold, and there be no heard and the stalled. In other words, if everything is destroyed, he says, yet I will rejoice In Yahweh, I will take joy in the God of my salvation. Yahweh the Lord is my strength. Habakkuk wasn't throwing any parties. No judgment parties took place in Israel. But he was strengthened to walk in obedience to the Lord. Because of what God had revealed to him. Now having said that, I don't want to downplay the possibility that In God's kindness, it is possible, in varying measure, to experience delight even in the midst of incredible suffering and pain. Think of Hebrews 10, verse 34, which says, For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Imagine somebody saying to you, Are you are you sure you want to go visit your fellow church members in prison? Because once the government finds out that you're a believer too, they're going to take all your property away Could you respond like those believers who said, What I have in heaven is far greater and will last far longer. If they want my property, they can have it. They were glad to give up whatever it that is they had for the sake of Christ Or think of Paul when the Lord denies his request to remove the thorn in the flesh, then the Lord said to him, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. And so Paul responds, I will boast all the more gladly in my weakness, so that the power of Christ may rest on me. There can be supernatural delight in one's circumstances because of the strength that God provides And so to say that God is your portion is to say that He is the one who fills you with delight, and He is the one who fills you with strength. However else you want to distinguish happiness and joy, let us say at least that the difference between supernatural or rather superficial happiness and true happiness is not the circumstances, but it is what or who fills you with happiness If you fill a party balloon with hot air, it will rise, but it will quickly fall as that air cools Or you can fill it with helium, and that balloon will stay up as long as the helium stays in the balloon. The only reason helium balloons ever fall is because the helium leaks out through the microscopic Pours in the balloon. In a similar way, superficial happiness dissipates once the reason for that happiness diffuses into normal life Such as being happy in a new home or a new car, which soon becomes normal life, or being happy in a new job. Which soon becomes the explanation for all the stress in your life. Someone can be happy at a party, but as soon as the party's over, happiness is gone. Superficial happiness, not always, but sometimes can result in a crash into sadness because of the chasm between the peak of happiness and the experience of daily life. True happiness, on the other hand, endures through the ebbs and flows of life Because true happiness, let's call it joy, is being filled with God as your portion, who never changes and who constantly, or rather is constantly in present in your life and active in your life. Now perhaps you're sit you're sitting there thinking, I don't know. I don't experience constant happiness in my life. Well the reason that that's true for you and me is because or rather is not because God Himself changes, not because Himself is worthy of producing that happiness or capable of producing that happiness, it is because, listen, it's because the knowledge of God and his presence leaks out of our minds So just as we saw last week, that we need to keep anchoring our souls on the Lord for hope, we need to keep filling our minds with the knowledge of God and His presence to sustain our joy. The Apostle Paul commands in Philippians 3:1, rejoice in the Lord. Again, he says in first chapter 4, verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, rejoice. God is our only joy, He is our true happiness, He is our strength, but we must keep our eyes and our minds fixed on rejoicing in Him. So to help my soul with that, because I need it, and to help your soul with that, because I know you need it too, let's consider three reasons to rejoice in the Lord. Scripture gives us many reasons, and these reasons can really be categorized in three ways. Or under three categories. First, we can rejoice in God's being. Second, we can rejoice in God's works. And third, we can rejoice in God's promises. God's being, God's works, and God's promises. At all times and at any time, we can call any of these reasons to mind and rejoice in the Lord who is our portion. Let's begin by considering rejoicing in God's being. To rejoice in God's being is to rejoice in God's divine essence, which is shared between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. God's divine essence, His being, is the godness of God. It is what makes him God and makes everything else not God. And what makes Yahweh God fundamentally and everything else not God is that he is holy. Psalm 103, or rather 105, verse 3, David sings, glory in his holy name. Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice. The name of God is God Himself, and God is holy. The angels in heaven cry out: Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. To be holy means to be separate, to be distinct. God is unlike us and anything else in all creation. There is no one like our God He is not created. He is not limited by time and space, and he is not subject to the curse of sin. He is above all, and he is greater than all. He is life itself and he does not change. God doesn't measure up to a standard. He is the standard. What he does is good, not because he agrees with goodness, but because he is goodness. Psalm 119 68 says, You are good and do good. God loves the world not because the world is lovable, but because it is God's nature to love. is love. We'll come back to that in a moment. He executes justice not because he must, or else he's going to get disbarred. But because he is justice. Isaiah 30, 18 says, Yahweh is a God of justice. All that is in God, meaning all that is true of God, is God. It's what it makes him God, and nothing else God. Therefore, when we rejoice in God for his love or his justice or his mercy, we are simply praising God for who he is. And because there's a time, there's never a time when he isn't God, we can always rejoice in his being for any and all of his attributes. You and I might delight in a friend's kindness one day and get frustrated at their sin the next day. Not so with God. He is always and at the same time faithful in love, just in forgiveness, patient in anger, kind in mercy, and good and wrath, and on we could go. All of the qualities that we can attribute to God as revealed by him are but different descriptions of his one being. And so he's not praiseworthy one day and lamentable the next day. We can't rejoice in him one day and get frustrated at him the next day. In fact, to be angry at God or to be frustrated at God, if you want to put it that way, is not to despise a part of him, but to be angry at all of him. To cherish the love of God and to be embarrassed by the wrath of God is to create a division that denies the one true and living God Because his wrath is loving, and his love is wrathful. So when Paul says in Philippians 4:4, rejoice in the Lord always We can obey that command not by contriving reasons to rejoice, but by remembering who God is in all of his glory and the splendor of holiness rejoicing in him. Psalm 97, verse 12 proclaims, Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous, and give thanks to his holy name. So we can rejoice in the being of God because He is holy. He is the holy God. More specifically, we can rejoice in Him because of the fact that God is love What does that mean? It is God's nature to give of himself for the good of his people. He is committed to love, not merely because he has decided to love, but because it is his nature. God is love, Scripture says. So everything he does is an expression of love. For that reason, we can always rejoice in his love. Psalm 31, verse 7 says, I will rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love, because you have seen my affliction and have known the distress of my soul. To know that it is God's nature to love is to know that He not only sees and knows your situation, but He is working through it for your good. You cannot be separated from his love. The reason that he doesn't change his mind about you to set his love on you is because he cannot not be himself. He would have to stop being God to stop loving you if you are his child To rejoice, Christian. Nothing you go through escapes God's notice and nothing is outside of his good purposes for you. You can sing the song of Psalm ninety two. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High, to declare your steadfast love in the morning and your faithfulness by night. There we see the psalmist not only praise God and rejoice in the love of God, but also in his faithfulness. When we think of the being of God, he is holy, he is love, but also he is faithful. And God's faithfulness means that He is the standard of what is real and true. When he speaks, you can depend on what he says When he makes a promise, you can be certain he will be faithful to fulfill it. In a day when it is nearly impossible for us to trust anyone about anything because of what technology is capable of, we can rejoice that God is utterly true and dependable in His Word. You don't have to worry that something he says is a distortion. Beloved, there are no deep fakes in the scripture Unlike the confident assertions of men throughout history that have been proven wrong and needed to be altered, you can rejoice that God's word never changes and it is true now and forever. And we can also rejoice, not only because God is holy, love, and faithful, but also because of his power. Psalm 81:1 declares, Sing aloud to God our strength. Shout for joy to the God of Jacob. And strength there refers to God's power exerted toward his people. As long as God grants you life and breath, he will also send his power to sustain you. As he said for Paul is true for us. His strength is made perfect in our weakness. So in your weakest moments, rejoice in the Lord that his strength is sustaining you and will not fail you. You can rejoice that he will uphold you with his righteous right hand We can rejoice in God's holiness, in his love, in his faithfulness, in his power, and indeed in all of his attributes at all times, because they are always on display in the world and in our lives. We need only to look and see, and we will be able to rejoice in the Lord always. Now, if we can rejoice in God's being, we can certainly rejoice in his works, because his works are simply the outworking of his being in the world. Psalm 92, verse 4 says, For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work. At the work of your hands I sing for joy. Psalm 107 says, Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men, and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, and tell of his deeds in songs of joy. Now, what works of God can we rejoice in? All of them. There is nothing God does understood from His perspective that isn't praiseworthy Well let's just name a few. First, you can rejoice that God reigns. Psalm 97. 1 proclaims, The Lord reigns. Let the earth rejoice, the many coastlands be glad. Isn't it a delight to know that the Holy God not only exists, but He reigns and is in sovereign control of all things? You may not like who gets voted into office. You may not like who gets appointed to positions of power, but it doesn't matter because they can't do anything Except for what our God, in his goodness and his love, determines is right for moving forward his wise plan of redemption. Accidents and disasters and tragedies may break our hearts and cause us rightly to mourn. But as mysterious as those events are, nothing happens apart from the will of our Father. So we can rejoice even when our joy is mixed with sorrow because our God reigns. We can rejoice because the Lord reigns, and we can also rejoice over his protection. Psalm 64 is a prayer by David. For protection against his enemies. And with confidence, he says at the end of that song, let the righteous one rejoice in the Lord and take refuge in him. Let all the upright exult in heart. We can rejoice because God will not allow our enemies to bring any harm to us beyond what God intends for our good. Psalm one eighteen, verse six, says, The Lord is on my side, I will not fear. What can man do to me? The assassination of a believer is grievous for all kinds of reasons. But for that believer, all it does is send them into the glorious presence of God. You and I are utterly oblivious to the multitude of ways in which God exercises his protection over our lives and over our health and over our welfare. How many times have you been spared by threats to your life and well-being? You might know a few. You might recall some near-miss accidents, perhaps. But there are infinitely more ways that God, in his perfect knowledge, knows that he has protected you from harm and sustained you. So you can wake up in the morning rejoicing that the Lord has sustained you through the night. You can rejoice when you arrive at your destination because God has protected you on the road. When you get injured, you can rejoice that the Lord protected you from further injury. There is nothing that can happen to you for which you cannot rejoice because it could have been worse. And if you're thinking, well, what if I die? Then as you embrace Christ, you can rejoice that He delivered you from the wrath of God. Now speaking of that, what greater work of God is there to rejoice in than his salvation Psalm 32 is one of the Psalms David wrote after his immoral and murderous sin against the Lord. Psalm 51, which we're more familiar with, is his Psalm of Repentance. Psalm 32 Focuses on the blessings of forgiveness. And he ends that psalm saying, Be glad in the Lord and uh and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy all you upright in heart. Anticipating the day when the Lord would finally defeat death, Isaiah 25, 9 says, It will be said on that day. Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. Well that day came in the person and work of Jesus Christ. And so Paul says in Romans chapter 5 verse 11, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ through whom we have now received reconciliation. Because of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, whereby he took upon himself the wrath of God that you and I deserved. He he paid that penalty. We are forgiven of our sin. We're reconciled to God and we've been granted eternal life. Beloved, there is never a moment, no matter what is going on in your life, that you cannot meditate on the work of God in redeeming your soul from sin and everlasting death, and it will not produce in you delight. And strength to carry you. Because of Jesus, you will never be without God. You will never be without, or you will never be under condemnation. You will never be enslaved to sin again. Because of Jesus, your sins are forgiven, your guilt is taken away, and nothing can separate you from the love of God. So rejoice in your salvation. We can rejoice in the works of God, His reign, His protection, His salvation, and everything else that God does in our lives, in the world, and in creation. Finally, we can rejoice in God's promises. In the face of the difficulties of life, we can be filled with delight and strength. Because of the promises of God. Jesus modeled this for us. Remember the words of Hebrews 12, 1 and 2, where it says Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run the race with endurance that is set before us. He says, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. What was the joy that was set before him? What Strengthen Jesus to endure the unspeakable suffering of the cross and the utter humiliation from the crowds. Well, I don't know of any better way to describe it than what Paul says in Ephesians 5, that Christ loved the church and he gave himself up for her. that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. The joy that filled Jesus' heart was knowing that the promise of God, that it His suffering and death and resurrection would lead to the salvation of sinners who would become his glorious bride. He looked to the future when God's promises would be fulfilled, and he was girded up with strength to endure the cross. In the same way, Peter encourages all believers to rejoice in the middle of suffering. First Peter 1:6, he says, In this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. What are we to rejoice in, Peter? That according to his great mercy He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable. undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation to be revealed at the in the last time. We are to rejoice in the salvation that God is guarding for us in glory. And so rejoicing in God's promises requires in us an active and accurate imagination. Not an imagination where we invent fanciful a fanciful future, but an imagination where we call to mind the glorious descriptions that God Himself has revealed of His dwelling place in heaven, and of the kingdom of God when He reigns on this earth, and ultimately of the new earth and the new Jerusalem. Most of us haven't been in this position, but I imagine w we could guess something of what a teenager might feel were he to stand to uh inherit his grandfather's wealth at the age of twenty one. I imagine he would be constantly thinking about what he'll do What he'll buy, what kind of lifestyle he'll pursue. No doubt he would often be excited, getting lost in his thoughts, imagining all of this wealth coming to him I imagine there would be little concern for the financial troubles of today, maybe even a little frustration, because he knows that these troubles will soon be resolved. That's easy to imagine when the inheritance is just a few short years away. Well, depending on your stage of life For some of us, the receiving of our inheritance is much sooner than it is for others. But no matter how near or far you may perceive that day to be, There's anything we learned this week, again, is that you never know when your last day will be No matter how near or far you perceive your entrance into glory to be, it is something that should occupy our minds. Because it has the natural effect of filling us with joy. Well, let me offer one more passage. Romans chapter five, verses one to five. It says, Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in the glory, or rather, in the hope of the glory of God. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance and endurance produces character, and character produces hope And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. Now, if we just take that text backwards, we can rejoice in our sufferings because God promises that it will produce in us endurance and character and hope. Now when you're in the fire, you don't feel God doing those things, developing those qualities in you, do you? It's usually when the heat dies down that you realize God has developed these things more in me. But when you are in the heat and the pressure, You can be strengthened by the promise that God is working in you even if you can't perceive it But ultimately, he says, we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. That really takes us back to what we just heard from Peter in terms of our future inheritance. But let's Allow that to remind us that the greatest uh aspect of our inheritance is not the glory of heaven with all of its trinkets and beauty and experiences No, the greatest reality of our inheritance is that we get God in all of his glory. We get him, and because we get him, we get all of the glory that flows from him. Beloved, if it feels like we've covered a lot, know that we have not scratched the surface of what we can rejoice in. When you have God as your portion, when you belong to Him and He belongs to you, He is your joy, and in Him we can rejoice. His being and his works and his promises provide endless reasons for us to experience delight and strength in life. There's never a moment of our lives where we will look to our source of joy and find that it's run dry. God is an ocean of joy from which you do not have the capacity to draw down his supply In fact, every time you draw joy from God, it's as if that experience of that joy gets recycled back to the Lord, and you can draw from it again and again and again. When God is your portion, you have an infinite reservoir of joy. So may we say, along with our dear brother Asaph My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Now, next week I'm excited to finish this series by meditating with you on the truth that God is our satisfaction. If you've missed any of the previous messages, I'd urge you to catch up so that with one voice we can glorify God for all that He is to us as our portion. Let's pray. Lord, may these few words Brief reminders. Fill us with joy in you. As we go from here, let these words not be left In the past and ringing around these walls. But let them come with us and fill us with joy in the car and at home and at work and at school. Wherever we find ourselves, may we be reminded by your spirit of all the reasons. that we can rejoice in you. And may the world see our joy and ask. And may we speak with joy and boldness of God who is our portion. For Christ's sake, Amen.