Well, this week there was another shooting at a school, the School Annunciation Catholic School in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Two children lost their lives. 18 others were injured. If you've seen any of the coverage, you've probably seen what is the theme for the school for this particular school year. A future filled with hope. One of the headlines that I came across Have this. Children prayed for a future filled with hope. Then gunfire broke out So much could be said about the tragedy that is unfolding there in Minnesota, and we ought to pray for that community, those families. that Christ would be known among them. The grief of such an event is really unspeakable. It's hard to imagine what parents and families would be going through. But whether it's shootings or knifings or Somebody driving their car into a crowd, or somebody bombing a church or a school somewhere in the world. Our world is filled with violence. And it just won't stop. The reality is it can't be stopped, at least not by us. To whatever degree making and upholding laws can help. The reality is those whose hearts are bent on such evil will find a way to accomplish their destructive ends. And in the same way that the corrupt heart will always find a way around those attempts to restrain it, the natural world also scoffs at human efforts to withstand it. Hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and tsunamis, fires and floods leave a path of destruction behind them. We see that constantly on the news We can take steps to protect ourselves, we can take steps to protect our property, but perpetrators and disasters Just keep coming. Every moment of every day somewhere around the world is facing either violence or disaster. Is the future filled with hope? Well, that's really a question that Asaph asks and answers in Psalm 73. So turn there. in your Bible, if you would. We're taking a short break, as you know, from our verse-by-verse exposition of the Gospel of John to mine out of the scripture what it means that God is our portion. And Psalm 73, if you will, is kind of an entrance into that mind f through which we were going all over uh in the scripture to meditate on this concept. And so let's just begin this morning by reminding ourselves of Psalm 73, verse 26 Psalm 73, verse 26, says, My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. This is the conclusion that this prophet and chief musician of Israel came to when he searched for the answers that perplexed him. And for the sake of time, we're not going to read the whole psalm this morning, but just as a reminder, verses 3 to 14, Asaph recalls his observation of this world. how the wicked seem to be living trouble-free, and the righteous seem to be full of trouble He says in verse 6, therefore pride, speaking of the wicked, pride is their necklace. Violence covers them as a garment. And yet he says in verse 7, their eyes swell out through fatness. Fatness in the Bible is not what we think of it. Fatness in the Bible is a good thing. It means you have enough money to eat enough food to get fat. It's a a message or it's a it's a principle of prosperity. So the wicked, though they are covered in violence, they are prosperous. On the other hand, he says of himself In verse thirteen and fourteen, all in vain I have kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. His suffering called everything that he believed into question, and that proposed an alternative interpretation of life. His suffering made him wonder. God is not who he claims to be. God doesn't do what he said he would do. He he said he would bring judgment on the wicked, and that's not happening. He said he would bless the righteous, and that's not happening. The scales of life are flipped, and Asaph began to question God Until, he says in verse seventeen, until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end. In other words, in going into the sanctuary of God, he heard the word of God, and his perspective expanded from his myopic view to an eternal perspective. And so, with that new eternal perspective, he comes to this conclusion in verse 26: My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Now, last week we considered what it means that God is the strength or the rock of our heart, and we began to look at what does it mean that God is our portion? And we saw that to say that God is our portion means that He is our only protector, our only hope, our only joy. and our only satisfaction. And he and he is those things everlastingly. Now Before we begin to move on in our study to consider that God is our only hope, I want to quickly review and say a few additional things about God being our protector. To say that God is our only, or rather to say that God is our portion is to say that He is our only protector Now, this is not to say that God promises to keep us from pain and suffering. God's purpose is in our lives is not, as some suppose, to uh to to make us healthy and wealthy and prosperous. The Bible is often twisted to teach that God's real intention for us is to be blessed and highly favored. And by that many mean that we are living our best life now. Our relationships are at peace. Our job is a delight. Our income is high, our possessions are abundant, our vacations are enviable, our clothing is impressive. And our health is at its peak. When life is good, God's hand is upon us But when something goes sideways, or when life goes sideways, someone or something has pushed God off to the side. And now it's up to us. To exercise faith, or to speak words of affirmation, to declare the promises of God, to pray against the devil? So, whatever way we must to overcome whatever has removed God's hand of blessing upon us so that God can now come and his favor can return to us. Well, such a view distorts the sovereignty of God, the power of God, the goodness of God, the purposes of God. Perhaps worse than that, it makes him like the pagan gods who whose power is really just concerned with the experience of life in this world. And so just to be direct, the the God of the prosperity gospel is a false God W when we say with Asaph and David and the other authors of Scripture that God is our protector and our refuge, our our fortress, our shield, our deliverer, our stronghold, what we mean is that nothing can penetrate, unravel, or destroy God's good purposes for our suffering. Suffering is part of God's purpose and plan for your life How can it not be? We we live in a world where the curse of sin leaves nothing untouched It infects the natural order of creation. It affects the biological feet functions of our bodies. It reaches into every corner of our hearts. And so to live in this world is to suffer. And that's true for those who believe in God and for those who don't. In fact, Solomon puts it this way in Ecclesiastes chapter 9, it is the same for all, because the same event, and he's really speaking of anything in life, suffering, blessings, good, bad. Death, the same event happens to the righteous and the wicked, to the good and the evil, to the clean and the unclean, to him who sacrifices and to him who does not sacrifice As the good one is, so is the sinner, as he who swears is as he who shuns an oath. This is an evil in all that is done under the under the sun, that the same event happens He's reflecting there, this life under the sun, apart from God perspective, how awful it is that everybody experiences the same things no matter what you do There really is nothing that you or I can do to avoid trials, to avoid suffering, and certainly nothing we can do to avoid death. It happens to everyone. If Jesus, the perfect, sinless Son of God, experienced suffering and death You and I are going to experience the same thing. So when we say that God is our protector, it doesn't mean that He won't allow suffering into our lives. It means. That in his inscrutable wisdom, in his mysterious will, he uses our suffering to accomplish good in us and through us. In that article from Johnny Ericsson Tata that I quoted from last week, she quotes a friend of hers who Said this to her early on in her life. God permits what he hates to accomplish what he loves God permits what he hates to accomplish what he loves. Well the Bible is saturated with truth from Genesis to revelation of a all of the different purposes that God has for suffering. But for the sake of time and and just to touch our toe into the topic and and encourage you to even study further if it would be of help to you, I want to just quickly walk through five purposes of suffering just from the epistle of 1 Peter. One pr purpose from each chapter. We're just going to mention these, I'm going to read the passage and and we'll move on. First of all, God uses suffering to reveal the genuineness of our faith and increase our heavenly reward Chapter 1, verses 6 and 7 says, In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials, so that The tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Second, God uses suffering to extend grace to us and give us the opportunity to imitate our Savior. Chapter 2, verses 20 and 21 says, What credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it you endure? But if when you do good and you suffer and you endure? This is a a gracious thing in the sight of God, and literally that means this is the gift of grace from God to you He says, For to this you have been called, for Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you might follow in his steps. Third, God uses suffering to give us a platform to proclaim Christ. 1 Peter 3:14 and 15 says, But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord is holy, always being prepared to give a defense for to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. And then fourth, God uses suffering to remove sin from us. First Peter four one and two says, Therefore Since Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for for human passions, but for the will of God. And then finally, fifth God uses suffering to give us the opportunity, like Job, to prove to the devil and his angels that God is worthy of worship no matter what happens in our lives. Chapter 5, verses 8 and 8 to 10. Be sober-minded, beloved. Watch. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour Resist him, stand firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of sufferings are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. So five purposes for suffering from 1 Peter. And there are so many other passages we could look at if we were to Focus on that topic. When we view and respond to suffering in light of God's purposes, God's glory shines in us and through us. And that which threatened to harm us is disarmed, as our souls are renewed and God is glorified. As an athlete suffers on her way to victory, and as a soldier suffers on his way to conquest, so we must suffer on the way to glory. This is why Peter and Paul and James say in their own epistles, in this you rejoice, in these truths. Or count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Or we rejoice in our sufferings That's a far cry from the attitude toward suffering held by those who do not have God as their portion and therefore are not protected by Him. meaning that their suffering is not working out together for their good. No, God protects us by ensuring that the pain And the suffering that we experience lead to gain in this life and forever But even though all things do work together for good for those who love God, that doesn't mean we don't ache for the suffering to end. Though God protects us and therefore we can rejoice in our suffering, we're not masochists. We don't relish in suffering Part of God's protection, in fact, is that we have hope that one day suffering will come to an end and we will never suffer again. And so this is the second aspect of having God as our portion, and that is that He is our hope. Beloved, God alone is your hope. ASAP again says in verse 26 My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever Now he doesn't use the word hope there, but but what he says is an expression of hope. And we know that hope is essential to having God as our portion because Jeremiah says in Lamentations 324, the Lord is my portion, therefore I will hope in him By saying, therefore I will hope in him, Jeremiah says, because I have God as my portion, therefore I have hope. If you have God, you have hope. To have the Lord as your portion is to have him as your hope And so here for Asaph, as as he looks into the future, he he's not, his hope is not in the preservation of life. His hope is in having God whether he lives or dies Y you know, you need food and water to survive. Did you know that? One of the most basic facts of life. But did you know that you need hope for your soul to survive the crushing effects of sin? Food and water obviously replenish the body with nutrients that that fuel your cells. Without the necessary nutrients, your cells break down, your body shrivels, and ultimately it it dies. In the very same way, your soul, your heart needs hope. It cannot survive without hope Hope infuses the mind and the affections and the will with life Without hope, the thoughts of the mind grow dark with destructive thinking. Without hope, the desires of the heart dissolve into apathy. Without hope, the will finds no reason to live on. We cannot survive without hope. The Bible describes people without Christ. as those who are having no hope and without God. And so you might think, well, sure seems like I know a lot of people who don't know Christ, and they seem to be doing just fine. The truth is the world is is trying to escape its hopelessness in all kinds of ways. You just think about pornography, drugs, alcohol, gambling. These are all forms of escaping hopelessness. Hopelessness in our society, in our world, has birthed and exponentially grown the therapeutic and the pharmaceutical industry over the last hundred years. And if you ask, well, has that helped? The evidence would say that the proposed remedies coming from that sphere have failed to resolve the problems of the soul. When your neighbors or your classmates or your coworkers get to that point where they They realize they have no ultimate hope. They will do all kinds of destructive things, even to the point of ending their own life. You and I need hope. Everyone needs hope to survive And we need real, lasting hope to thrive. Well, what is hope According to one author, hope, according to the Greek culture, was man's projection of the future. In other words, hope is simply what you expect to happen in the future. In some ways, hope is the opposite of fear. Fear projects bad things happening. Hope projects good things happening in the future. And that's true as far as it goes, but it certainly doesn't go far. Enough. The word translated the words, there's a variety of them, translated hope throughout the Old and New Testaments, show that that the that there are multiple senses in which we can talk about hope and really in which we must talk about hope. And so I want you to consider these three different senses. First of all, there is the object of hope. The object of hope. The object of hope can either be a a person or a circumstance When we think of hope as being a circumstance, quite obviously it's because we're hoping for, we're expecting, an improvement of our current circumstance, or we're hoping that the outcome of some situation uh some series of events will be positive. Our hope is for a better situation or a good outcome. We we we hope to win. We we hope for healing We hope for a a better economy or a safer world. The object of hope is a person or a circumstance. When hope is placed in a person It's often because we believe that that person has the ability to bring about a desired circumstance. Sports fans will put their hope in a star player to win the game. Patients will put their hope in a doctor to cure their disease. Citizens will put their hope in their leader to improve society. In that sense, the true hope is actually the desired circumstance, and the person is simply the means to accomplish that circumstance But sometimes when we place our hope in the person, it's because that person is the center of our desire. When a Woman says of a man, Oh, I I hope to marry him If her true hope was marriage, she could marry just about anybody. No, her true hope is that man And marriage is the means to having that man to herself. When the object of hope is a person in this sense, it's because there's something about that person, regardless of the circumstances, that brings comfort or secures or enriches our souls And so the psalmist says in Psalm 71, verse 5, For you, O Lord, are my hope. My trust, O Yahweh, from my youth. So there's the object of hope. There's also the act. The act of hope is when we intentionally set our mind on that object and place our expectations on it. The the act of hoping is kind of like uh investing in the stock market. You're not just aware that the stock market is there. You actually take your money and put it in there expecting a positive outcome in the future. And so to set your hope on something or someone is in some measure to tie your well-being to that object of hope. If your expectation is fulfilled, everything's great. If your expectations fall short, there is pain. You you hope to get that job that you applied for. Otherwise you might question your life choices. You hope that the treatment works. Otherwise, you might have to face the end of your life. Setting aside the more flippant ways that we often talk about hope, to place your hope on someone or something is in some measure to To say that what you're hoping for is essential to your well-being. It is to put a stake in the ground of that hope and anchor yourself to it and trust that no matter what else happens, You can always look forward to that day when your hope is realized. And so the effect is that To hope is to be willing to face anything today, knowing what's coming later The act of hope can be seen in Psalm 43, verse 5, which says, Why are you downcast, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him. My salvation and my God. So there's the object of hope, there's the act of hope. Third, there's the waiting for your hope The other action that the word hope often refers to is waiting or looking for with eager anticipation. This means to be constantly thinking about, to be looking for, to be living in light of your hope When something really matters to us, we don't just set our hope in that and forget about it. No, we we think about it, we anticipate it. And even if it's something that's so far in the future that we can't just sit and wait for it, it will occupy our minds. It'll be Something that we think about even as we go about our life. When when a military wife puts her hope in the return of her husband from deployment, it may be many months until he's set to come back But she will think about him every single day. In the same way, Micah seven seven says, But as for me, I will look to the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. And the word wait there is the same word that Jeremiah used when he says, Therefore I will hope in him. So this is how we hope. It begins with an object of hope, a person or a circumstance, onto which we place our hope, and then we live in light of our hope. When our hopes fail to come to pass, when our expectations aren't met, and and when our hopes are shattered. The natural sorrow or grief that anyone would experience in an unpleasant situation are exponentially compounded by to the degree by uh by which we anchored our well-being on that hope. Have you ever gone through a trial and other people perceived that you were responding to that trial beyond with grief? and sorrow beyond what is appropriate to that situation. May maybe they said something like, hey, it's okay that you didn't get that job. Don't worry, you'll you'll get an another one. Or or maybe they'll say, hey, it it's okay that that relationship didn't work out. You'll find somebody else Sometimes you want to say, you don't understand. I put all of my hope on that job What hope do I have for getting married now? Hope is what keeps you going, but it can also be what causes immeasurable sorrow. Proverbs 13:12 says, hope deferred makes the heart sick. But a desire fulfilled is a tree of life. The word depression can refer to a variety of uh levels of sadness, but the most extreme experience of depression comes down to one thing. Hopelessness. To be hopeless is to look to the future and see only darkness It is to try to find something, anything in the world that makes life worth living, and to find nothing or less than nothing. There's no life in darkness, and so those who are truly hopeless see the darkness and believe that the only good thing remaining is to end that darkness. As Solomon speaks about life without God in Ecclesiastes six, he compares a stillborn child to a man who lives a long life and yet does not experience anything good in his life. And again, this perspective is setting aside the truths about God. This is life under the sun. This is a humanistic interpretation of life, but he he says of the stillborn child that he has not seen the sun or known anything. Yet it finds rest rather than he Even though he should live a thousand years twice over, yet enjoy no good. In other words, Solomon is saying it's better to live not at all. than to live 2,000 years and not experience anything good in life That's the only possible view of life for those who do not have God as your portion. Hopelessness sooner or later leads to death. A few years ago, I participated in a suicide prevention training and as a biblical counselor I was particularly interested to see how they would address such a challenging uh experience and cir circumstance in somebody's life and the instructor had lost her father to suicide, so she was particularly passionate to help other people prevent that intense grief. And at one point in the training on a slide of practical tips, she had a bullet point that said, make sure that you give hope to the person who is experiencing suicidal thoughts. And I looked forward to what she would say because the reality is somebody who's struggling with suicidal ideation or suicidal thinking, what they need more than anything is hope. Well she got to that point and to my shock she just read that bullet point and moved on. And right before I spoke up to ask her to go back and Say more about that. She herself went back and she said, you know, I always like to ask people if they have a favorite thing they like to say to somebody to give them hope. And so I waited to see what everybody else would say about nine of us. Silence Not even the instructor herself had anything to contribute. So I finally spoke up and explained the hope of the gospel. But the truth is, those who do not have God and therefore their hope must be in this life, it doesn't take long before you realize I got nothing for ya. There is no hope. Sure, there's all kinds of wishful thinking, but there's no hope. And so Paul was right to refer to unbelievers in Ephesians 2. 12 as those having no hope and without God in this world. But if you believe in Jesus Christ, that is not you. We are not without hope precisely because we have God. God is our portion, therefore we have hope. We can endure trials and suffering on the one hand. Because we know that God protects us and that He uses our suffering for good. But on the other hand, we can endure trials and suffering because we have hope Our hope is in God and in his promises that one day the curse of sin will be done away with and we will live forever in perfected bodies with perfected people in a perfect world with our glorious God. And more than giving us endurance in this life, this hope determines how we live today. Now, with that in our minds, I want to dig deeper into those three aspects of hope. In some ways, everything I've said is just introduction. Because if we're honest, there is a constant battle where false hopes are clawing and scratching for prominence in our heart And if we're really honest, we'll admit that we tie our well-being to people and circumstances all the time. And much of our suffering comes from unmet expectations. So for the rest of our time today, we'll consider the object of hope. And we'll see if we get further than that. Yeah. So we begin with the object of hope, which is God. God is our only hope. Now, obviously it's true, as we'll see, that there are many things that we hope for for the future, but all circumstantial hopes that we have and that God encourages us to have are all tied to, rooted in, God Himself. If you're there in Psalm 73, turn back just a few pages to Psalm 62. In Psalm sixty-two, David declares God as his only source of hope Look at verses 1 and 2 of Psalm 62. In this passage, he doesn't use the word hope, but we know what he's talking about here. He says, For God alone my soul waits in silence From him comes my salvation. He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken And then in verse 5, he says, For God alone my soul waits in silence, for my hope is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation. My fortress I shall not be shaken. On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock, my refuge is God. Notice there that his hope is not in salvation per se, his hope is in God who brings salvation. Flip back further to Psalm 42, familiar passage to many of us. In Psalm 42, David is crying out in distress and despair. And he asks himself in Psalm 42, verse 5, Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation. Verse eleven. Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him. my salvation and my God. He says the same thing in Psalm 43, verse 5, which I read earlier, but it's the same as what he said in Psalm 42. In Psalm 146, verse 5, David says, Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God. Isaiah says, I will wait for the Lord and I will hope in him. Jeremiah calls the Lord the hope of Israel So God is the object of our hope, not the circumstances, God Now the New Testament affirms this and goes even further to center our hope on Jesus Christ. Paul writes to the Thessalonians, we give thanks to God always For all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before God the Father your work of faith and labor of hope. And here it is, your steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. He writes to Timothy in chapter one, verse one of his first letter, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the command of God and of Christ Jesus, our hope. True hope must be in a person, because only a person can affect and bring about circumstances. And the kind of person that is worthy of our hope is the person who has the power to produce desirable circumstances. But it's not just a powerful person in whom we should hope. It is a person whose character ensures that they will exercise their power for good It is vain to put your hope in someone who has no power. And yet we do it all the time. Psalm 146, 3 and 4 says, Put not your trust in princes in the Son of Man in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth. On that very day his plans perish. Putting your hope in a mere mortal is foolish because people have the tendency to die And when they die, either they haven't accomplished what they intended, or if they did accomplish, it often dies with them. It's also vain to put your hope in a power in a person who has power and influence, but whose character and will Cannot ensure that your hope will be accomplished. People may have great power and influence, but they can be fickle. Solomon was the wisest, most influential man, really the most wealthy man in the known world How hopeful the people must have been that Israel would be prosperous and dominant for generations and generations. And yet Solomon did not stay faithful to the Lord, and his own sons lost the wealth and destroyed the peace. And so our hope should only be placed in God, who, in his perfect being, has all power And in his perfect nature, he is always exercising his power for his glory, which is our good. We can hope in the Lord because the Psalm 115, verse 3 says, Our God is in the heavens and he does all that he pleases. God cannot make promises beyond his ability to fulfill. So when he promises, I will never leave you or forsake you. You can be certain that no matter the depths of hell of life that you're in, you're not alone. God is with you. Not only does he have all power, but he has the character to fulfill his promises He is faithful and he will do what he promised. Numbers 23, verse 919 says, God is not a man that he should lie, or a son of man that he should change his mind. Has he said and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will he not fulfill it? Not only is God faithful, but he is also full of steadfast love. The reason we can trust God to fulfill his promises, to work all things together for good, is because It is his nature to seek the good of his people. Lamentations 3, 31-33 says, the Lord will not cast off forever. But though he cause grief, he will have compassion, according to the abundance of his steadfast love, for he does not afflict from his heart or grieve the children of men When God causes grief, it is a means to accomplish His goodness. Even according to the Lord Himself, in Exodus 34, 6 and 7, He is a God of He is a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding, in steadfast love and faithfulness. keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty We can hope in God because He has the power to do all that He desires, and what He desires is determined by His unchangeable nature of grace and mercy and love and faithfulness and forgiveness. And so it is out of his perfect nature that he has made promises that we can hope in through him. If your hope is in God, you have a hope laid up for you in heaven, as Paul put it in Colossians one. This is to say that because we hope in God, we have an incomprehensible benefit that we're looking forward to in the age to come. We will have glorified bodies fit for everlasting life. We will receive an inheritance that is imperishable. Undefiled and unfading. We will live in a world where where the curse of sin will be no more. The world will have no fear or danger or death. It will be a world that knows no night And no shadow, because God's glory will illuminate everything. We will work and worship and serve our God without any hindrance or conflict or trouble. We will no longer struggle with pride or fear of man or self-doubt. In this life, the world, the flesh, and the devil are constantly lying to us, luring us into sin. But in glory, the world around us will know only righteousness, and we will desire only righteousness, and the devil will be in the lake of fire, so he won't be able to reach us. As we endure life in in sinkers bodies, in a sinker's world We do put our hope in the glory that is to be revealed to us, but our hope for that future is not centered on a sin-free life It is centered in knowing and having God. In Revelation 21, 3, the Apostle John hears a voice, a voice that you and I will hear also on the day Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. Heaven without God is hell. Because if you remove God, you take the light out, and hell is the place of darkness If you remove God, you are removing the God of peace, at whose right hand are pleasures forevermore. And hell is the place of weeping and gnashing of teeth. All that is good in heaven is bound up in the being and nature of God The glories of heaven can't be separated from God as if the two are independent realities that somebody decided, hey, let's package these together. That'll be great. No, the glories of heaven are glories because God is glorious and all that he does is glorious. And therefore, our hope is in God. So when we say that God is our portion, we mean that He is the only hope we have. God is the object of our hope. Consider then the act. Let's let's see if we can get this far. Consider the act of placop in God. God exists, whether we hope in him or not. Heaven and earth, the the new heavens and the new earth are realities, everlasting life, all of that will will take place whether we hope in them or not. For you to have your hope, or rather for you to have God as your portion, you must place your hope in God. For you to experience the glories of heaven, you must hope in Him who will bring those promises to pass. Hoping in God does not come naturally. It certainly doesn't come naturally to those who don't believe in God, but it doesn't even come naturally to those of us who do. What does come naturally is to put our hope in anything and anyone other than God Therefore, putting your hope in God is part of our growth and sanctification where we increasingly become more like Jesus Christ. In order for us to put our hope in God, we have to purposefully set aside false hopes We need to renew our minds and we need to actively put our hope in God. This is why Peter writes in 1 Peter 1:13 Therefore, preparing your minds for action, be sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. We have to set our hope in God and his promises. And this is not something that we can do in our own flesh. God has to do this work in us, which is why Paul writes in Romans 15, 13, may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you might have hope. Or rather you might you might abound in hope So there is a spirit-empowered intentionality required for us to hope in God You must hope in God, and you can only hope in God as the Spirit enables you. Put another way, you you grow in putting your hope in God. As you cooperate with the Spirit's work in your life to wean you off false hopes and replace them with true hope in God. To hope in God, you must see the vanity of putting hope in lesser things. If you're looking to men, or to women, or to career, or to possessions, or to your health, to make you're putting your hope in those things to to make you happy, to fulfill your desires, sustain your will to live, you will be disappointed. If you're in a trial right now and you're just holding on, waiting for things to get better, for those broken relationships to be restored, or for justice to be accomplished, you might be put to shame. The Apostle Paul goes so far as to say in 1 Corinthians 15: If in Christ we have hope for this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied. In other words, if our hope is in Christ, but there's no future resurrection, and therefore our hope is for this life, even that is vanity And so we will put our hope in God when we recognize that this world is passing away, sin corrupts everything and everyone. And even the most loving spouse or the most encouraging friend or the perfect job or the ideal home or the nicest car or the most faithful church will be certain to disappoint When we are set free from the impossible expectations that we put on people and circumstances in this life We're not left to expect the worst. We're not left hopeless. No, we are freed from false hopes. And false expectations, and free to put our hope in God, in his perfect being, in his perfect character, and in his faithful promises. When we look at life with an eternal perspective, we realize that whether or not God grants us our temporal desires His infinite goodness will never depart from us. Whatever sorrows we endure in this life We can endure them for the sake of Christ because this life is short and eternity is forever. Whatever disappointments we suffer, whatever experiences we never have, whatever failures we face Whatever joys we miss out on, all of it will be washed away in the blink of an eye when we see him face to face. Revelation 21 4 tells us he will wipe away every tear from our eyes. And death shall be no more, neither shall be there be mourning or crying nor pain anymore. For the former things have passed away. When you and I enter the presence of Christ, not a single one of us will look back on this life with longing. wishing that we could have had the desires of our heart, disappointed that we didn't experience one thing or another. All of our sinful desires will be washed away, and all of our good desires will find their greatest fulfillment in our relationship with Christ forever. So beloved, let us join the people of God who rehearsed as they made their way up to the temple the words of Psalm 130, verse 7. O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. Or Psalm 131, verse 3, O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. We've looked at the object of our hope, which is God. We've considered what it means to place our hope in Him, to to stop hoping in the things of this life, and to anchor ourselves to Him and His promises. Next week we'll come back, Lord willing, to consider what it means to live in light of the hope that we have. And hopefully we'll dig into what it means to have God as our joy. Now as you think through application, I w I would encourage you this afternoon or this week to think through your life today. What's going on in your life? What are the hopes in your life? What are the things that you are looking to, expecting to happen? Which you are placing your well-being in the hands of that person or that circumstance Then remind yourself that as good as that desire may be, God must be your only hope And reflect on the comparison between your hope for this life and God's promises for eternity. And then lastly, if you're a woman, consider signing up for the Tuesday night Bible study. going over the using uh the book Unmet Expectations. And also put on your calendar the third Saturday of each month for the women's breakfast, where we will continue to study who our God is. And if you're a man, put on your calendar the second Saturday of every month, where we will do the same in conjunction. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this truth that you are our hope. We confess how easy it is for us to place our hope in things that don't deserve it. May you do this work in us to see you for who you really are, to know you in all of your glory. And to put our hope in you alone. For Christ's sake we pray, amen