Let's go ahead and begin with the word of prayer, and then we'll jump into our subject for today. Father, we thank you so much for this time together. We thank you for the opportunity to study your word. We thank you for the insights that you give us in the scriptures regarding what it means to be a man and a woman. And we thank you for the privilege of being able to represent you in the world. We thank you for the salvation that we have in Christ, the redemption that draws us and pulls us back into a a full recognition of what it means to be a biblical man and a biblical woman. And I pray for our time today as we once again talk about the implications of it and uh try to learn and grow in our understanding so that we can represent you in the fullness of Jesus Christ to the world. We thank you once again for this time and ask your blessing on the conversation. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Um we are looking at um some difficult passages and I want to kind of bring to a conclusion a verse that a couple verses that we started to look at last week uh but didn't get time to talk about them. And so what I want to do is I want to conclude with lesson seven and we're on page 37 of your notes if you've got them with you If you don't, I've got some slides here, but um I'm going to go ahead and uh rip a couple of verses out of context and read them to you and then uh see if it's clear to you once again. First Corinthians chapter fourteen, verses thirty four and thirty five. The woman The women are to keep silent in the churches, they are not permitted to speak, but are to subject themselves, just as the law also says. But if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church This is kind of a bummer for single women because you don't have anybody to go to to be able to talk and and understand the scriptures. But this is clear as mud, isn't it? Um it's amazing when you take a verse uh and look at it just the these set of verses outside of its context um you don't have a good understanding of what Paul is saying here So, if you've got your Bibles, turn to 1 Corinthians 14. We're going to widen the context a little bit so that we can see where these verses fit in Paul's argument. Now 1 Corinthians, uh Paul is actually uh confronting and correcting a lot of misunderstanding that was taking place. in the church church at Corinth, and he goes through a series of corrections in First Corinthians particularly Chapters 12, 13, and 14 deal with the body of Christ and how the assembled church comes together, serves one another. but also needs to understand its proper understanding of the spiritual gifts. And if you remember First Corinthians twelve, the bulk of that uh chapter has to do with understanding that as we are um spirit baptized into Christ, into the body of Christ, we are all members one to another. Uh chapter thirteen is the famous chapter on what? On love. And then chapter fourteen gets into some of the spiritual gifts and discusses very specifically some of the miraculous gifts that were present in the church at that time. So if you look at 1 Corinthians 14, beginning in verse 26 to verse 40 Let me read that for you. I'll be reading from the Legacy Standard Version. But you if you have a Bible, I mean you should be able to follow along closely. But Here's what Paul writes. What is the outcome then, brothers, when you assemble? Each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has a translation. Let all things be done for edification. If anyone speaks in a tongue, I'm going to replace that word tongue with language. because I think oftentimes people misunderstand what speaking in tongues was. It was a known language, but the person who speaks it hadn't previously learned it or known it. It was God gave it by way of a miraculous gift uh in the church. And there was a context for that, especially looking at First Corinthians where you're dealing with a seaport where people from all over the Roman world would come and do trade and then again you'd have all different types of languages being taught uh spoken and people interacting together. So I'm going to replace that word tongue with language, which would be a more accurate understanding or a more precise, I should say, understanding. So if anyone speaks in a language, it should be done, or should be by two, or at most the most three, and each in turn, and one must translate But if there is no translator, he must keep silent in the church and let him speak to himself and to God. If you notice that word keep silent That's critical because it has application to what Paul is saying about women here as well. And let two or three prophets speak, and let the others pass judgment. But if a revelation is made to another who is seated, the first one must keep silent. For you can all For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be exhorted. And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints. The women are to keep silent in the churches, for they are not allowed they are not allowed or permitted to speak. but are to subject themselves just as the law says. But if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church Was it from you that the Word of God first went forth? Or has it arrived to you only? If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment. But if anyone remains ignorant about this, he is ignored by God. Therefore, my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in tongues or languages, but all things must be done properly and in an orderly manner. Um obviously in the church at Corinth there was disorder happening. There was um not a proper functioning of the church to exercise these miraculous gifts so that the whole of the body of Christ would be benefited. Um now in the context of this these verses again we're talking about a situation where ultimately there needed to be order brought to the church. A functioning order so that it once again the whole church could benefit from it. And what Paul does is like he always does is he goes back to the creation order to help us to understand how to function in an orderly manner in the context of the church. So with regards to tongues, there was a rule for people speaking in another language. There needed to be translators. There needed to be interpreters Because what benefit it would it be if somebody coming in from a foreign country came into the seaport, entered into the church, spoke their language, and nobody was there to be able to translate Well again, what if somebody came in and God gave a miraculous revelation to them and they then spoke that in their native language but nobody else could translate What benefit would that be to the church? Now again, this is where the contrast between tongue speaking or language speaking and prophecy was so important. because tongues or languages were meant to communicate a warning to people that the gospel is now coming to the Gentiles But Israel has been rejected. And so if a Jew was in the church at that particular time, they would understand or be taught That this language that was being given, or this word from the Lord that was being given, was given not through the nation of Israel to the to the other nations, the Gentile nations, as it was commanded in the Old Testament, but we're now in a new administration, a new dispensation, where now God is giving direct revelation to Gentiles in order to proclaim the gospel to all the world. And so tongues were very specific in terms of how they were used in the early church. And again, looking back, well, comparing it to the issue of prophecy Prophecy would have been given in a language that everybody would have understood. Now again, what would be the common language that would have been spoken all over the Roman world? It would have been Koine Greek That would have been the the language of commerce, um, the just the day-to-day language of interacting with people all over the Roman world. And so the issue for Paul here was there were people coming into the church speaking in a foreign language, but nobody was translating. Or Many were speaking in a language, and there was not enough people there to be able to translate, but also give a judgment concerning that particular revelation. So Paul is saying here in 1 Corinthians 14, even though this is happening, it needs to happen in an orderly way. But of all the gifts that you should be praying for, it would be prophecy. It would be the gift of being able to communicate to everybody a word from the Lord that would be beneficial to the entire church and not to a particular person who spoke a foreign language. So once again, the numbers who uh who spoke in tongues in any given time of worship was to be restricted, Paul says, to two or possibly three. Someone else must provide the interpretation of what is said. This was another spiritual gift. that was given to the church. And those who speak in a language must be self-controlled, agreeing to limit the number who speak, agreeing to speak at one time. and most importantly, agreeing not to speak in a language if no one with the gift of it of interpretation was present. Again, this does not mean that they should be completely silent in the assembly for all believers in the church are to participate in the worship of the body. It's just that everything needed to be done in an orderly way. Um if you go back um and look at Ephesians chapter five verses eighteen through twenty-one. We know that men and women participated in the church because Ever every man or woman who came to faith in Christ was filled with the Spirit, and therefore they were commanded uh to speak to one another. And I love how Paul lists it here in Ephesians. He says, speak to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks for all things in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, even to the Father, and be subject to one another in the fear of Christ There was an orderliness to the church. There was a purpose, an intention of being able to benefit the church and to bless the church And so Paul is saying it's not that everyone was to keep silent in the sense that you cannot speak in the church. It's just that when you do speak, speak in an orderly way. Speak so as to benefit the people that are there. Now prophesying, um, which was relevant to the early church Uh Paul said, let two or three prophets and let the others or let two or three prophets speak, let the others then pass judgment on that word. But if revelation is made to one another who is who is seated, uh the first must keep silent Um for you are all called for you are you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be exhorted, and the spirits of the prophets then are subject to prophets. For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. Once again, if a whole bunch of prophets were speaking at the same time, there would be this confusion, there would be this disorder, and then the people who needed to pass judgment on those prophecies wouldn't be able to um sort out the confusion in the church. And so there needed to be this uh order given to the church Now prophecy was important for the early church because the New Testament scriptures were not completed and they were not widely available And those with the gift of prophecy, both men and women, would then be given a message from God, and that message was given in a way That what the the word that God gave to the church ultimately would instruct, it would incur it would exhort and it would encourage But again, the gifted, qualified pastor, elder, teachers of the church, they would be the ones to then pass judgment over that um prophecy, and they would do that by giving specific application to the church. And so they would, in a sense, try to order the church and it would uh impact the way people spoke and how they communicated those messages. Now Paul instructs the church not only to be orderly, and it and we know that because he says uh prophets are to prophesy one by one, not all at the same time, but also to have others pass judgment on each prophecy in return. This ensures that each prophecy is truly from God, being consistent with all other known revelation. That being the Old Testament, the teachings of Christ, and also what the apostles taught as was passed down to them by Christ. Those who judge a prophecy as to its doctrinal validity guarded then the church against false teachers. And that was very important in the early church because when you've got people coming in from all over the place um and especially speaking a foreign language, anything could be introduced to the church. In fact, a person can come in saying that they are a prophet and they could give a word And everybody would think, okay, God gave that. How do we discern against it? And so what it would happen is people would step in and they would say, yes, this is a word from the Lord especially if you have the gift of interpretation. Um but also um the pro the pastor, elders, overseers of the church, they would then step in and be able to evaluate it according to the teachings that was given to given to them. So again, it's it's not that people were being discouraged to speak at all. It's that they were to speak in an orderly way Um now as with those who speak in a language, those with a prophecy must be self-controlled, limiting those to speak who speak to two or three, and agreeing to speak one at a time. When a prophecy was given to a to one person the others should keep silent while the other one is speaking. This does not mean that they were that they should never speak at all in the assembly only that they should do so when it is appropriate and in an appropriate way. Now the phrase that Paul gives in verse 33 Just prior to this verse, he says, the f as in all the churches of the saints, this appears to be the beginning of this sentence. here or this this passage that we're looking at. Grammatically the Greek sentence here would be divided um one or two different ways, but most scholars believe that verse thirty-three, when Paul says, as in all the churches of the saints, should go with this section, because Paul is giving an instruction that does just It doesn't just apply to the church in Corinth, it applies to every church. Every New Testament church should have an order about it. And again, how men and women were to prophesy, how men and women were to speak in a known language, or an unknown language to them, but a known language, again, it would be done in an orderly way. And so here the meaning of that has implication for what is taking place in the church there in Corinth. Now the rule for women here is that in all the churches of the saints, Paul says, the women are to keep silent in the churches. They are not permitted to speak, but are to subject themselves to just as the law also says. But if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the church. How do we understand that? Number one, this is a continuation of the previous verses on the proper way to conduct prophecy in the local church. The speaking in question here has to do with judging. a prophecy that has been given to the church. And that's critical. That's very important. Women were not allowed to participate in the judging of the prophecies that they were given. But that amounted because that amounted to teaching and to having authority over the man Now are you beginning to understand why it was that a woman was to keep silent? Because again, this gift of judging, of teaching, of instruction was given to qualified men who led the church. And so when a prophecy was given, it was as if Paul was saying, Women, please don't jump out there and start judging the validity of this prophecy that you gave. Don't jump out there and start saying this is the way that it is. Because there's a proper order in the church. You can speak, you can give a word of prophecy. You can again exercise that gift. But once you do, keep silent. Let the qualified person in the church, the pastor, elder, overseers, and again it was a plurality of elders that would step in and judge that prophecy. And it was as though in the Corinthian church women were just, again, taking the lead, and they were doing what was improper in terms of, again, going back to the created order. So once again, it's not a it's not an issue regarding inferiority or superiority or who's better or who's uh who's not. That's not the issue. In fact, it's not even really an issue about Um about I want to be careful in how I say this. It's really not an issue about who you are in Christ as a male or female. This is about how to respond to the revelation God has given to the church and how to keep it in an orderly way so that it can not only reflect what has already been taught in the Scriptures, that it would be consistent with the Scriptures and with the Apostolic teaching. But that it would most importantly benefit us as new believers. So, Julie, did you want to Uh I'm just amazed. We we look at a word speak and we think it means talk. And so we can just totally misinterpret that passage and I think that's a lot what a lot of people have taken that. Myself included, like I Can't ask a question and c I can't speak. But in context and and the perspective you just gave, that now makes a lot of sense to me, seriously. Yeah It's important. And again, you know, when a woman were to speak a prophecy there at the church at Corinth, she would keep silent, again, out of Obedience to God's order in the church. And then what she would do is if she had a question at home, she'd ask her husband And her husband, if he didn't have the answer, he'd go to the leaders of the church. And again, be able to discern what that prophecy meant or what implication or application it had to the rest of the church It's very important to understand this because, again, so many people rip this out of its context and they immediately then formulate these rules for the church, which are unbiblical. Again, Paul is not telling women to be silent in the sense of not being able to speak at all. That would go against what he has told women to do earlier or in other passages of Scripture. The point is that when it came to the judgment, when it came to speaking authoritatively about the prophecy that was given, that was to be, again, delegated or um given over to the leaders of the church. Yes, Rex. I like the put the word women are not to be interpreters in this. Yeah. That's what explains this entire context. So if someone says it says you can't speak, it's talking about it you can't interpret what it's doing. Well I would take it a little bit men and women Would have the gift of tongues. Right, but women cannot be the interpreters of of the nasty sex coming. Interpreting it to the point of judging of judging the validity of that even explaining it. That's why I said use that word in there Yeah. It helps to bring clarification. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. And again, women were not allowed to participate in the judging of prophecies because that amounted to teaching and having authority over the man. And to guarding against false teaching, which was a real a role restricted to men. We see that in Titus as the qualifications for a pastor, elder, overseer in the church. Now, as with speaking in tongues and with giving prophecies, the keeping silent here does not mean that women are not permitted to speak at all in the church. Rather, they were to keep silent when it came again to judging the prophecy. If they had questions or concerns about the prophecy or the judgment of the prophecy, they were to raise them with their husbands at home. in private. Now note that it may have been possible for in some cases that the discussion at home would have resulted in the husband agreeing that the judgment or the prophecy needed to be improved somewhat And in which case, he would then raise that matter with the elders and overseers of the church. However, it would be improper for a woman to raise such questions in the public assembly of the church. Because once again it would come across as very disorderly. And that's what Paul was trying to keep the church or prevent the church from doing. being disorderly. Indeed, this limitation did not prevent women from giving prophecies. And we see that because if we go back to 1 Corinthians 11, 4, they did prophesy in the church. Um we saw that last week when we were talking about the issue of head coverings. But since those prophecies would be then judged by male leadership in the church Again, they would keep silent to defer that to those qualified men to give the interpretation and be able to explain the meaning of that text. Now, I hope that brings a little bit more clarification to this passage because once again it you just don't want to rip these verses out of their context and make them say something that Paul didn't intend to say. But the issue here again goes back to how is the church to function? And again, like orderliness the the creation order in the family, the church needs to operate under the same principle. And again, it goes back to the creation order, not to culture. Culture does not dictate this. That's why again when egalitarians would come to this passage they would s they would interpret this as, oh, this is a cultural thing that happened, but today we're much more liberated and women can speak much more um freely and in fact they can be the ones to judge and to teach and to have authority over men. Is that what Paul is saying here? Absolutely not. He's not saying that. There's a complementary role between men and women in the church, and as they function together, being given these wonderful, miraculous gifts They were given this so that the church could grow, the church could understand what God's will and purpose is for New Testament believers. And again, as the revelations were given, as the teaching was given, it again brought clarity to the apostolic word. It gave clarity to the teachings of Christ. Again, it gave understanding and application to Old Testament principles and prophecies and promises that were given. And so by the time we're at the stage here in Corinth, Paul is saying, God is speaking through Gentiles Again, a revelation of newness in Christ. How are we to understand that in light of the Old Testament? And that's essentially what the whole New Testament is. It's an understanding, an explanation, a teaching of God's plan and purposes to bring the gospel to all nations tongues and tribes of the world, and to do it in such a way as to bring orderliness to the Christian life and the Christian church. Because this is primarily where the gospel would be proclaimed. People would not only come to the church again for hearing the gospel. And Paul makes it very clear that if orderliness is done in the church, people will come in and they will marvel at what God is doing. But it was also a place to equip believers so that they understood and could apply God's word and therefore go out and proclaim it to others. But this is the way God reached the world for Christ in the first century. It was through these churches that again God was spreading the gospel throughout the known Roman world And it's fascinating that by the time you get to the book of Acts, and especially at the end of Acts, by that point the gospel pretty much has saturated all of the Roman world. It's now going out to the uttermost ends of the world by the end of the book of Acts. But you see the gospel spreading through people again coming together in these churches and proclaiming the gospel of Christ. And it would be terrible if somebody came in to a church where just chaos was going on because then it's like, what's going what's happening here? We would look like fools Paul says, if it was done in a disorderly way. So once again, but it goes back to the creation order to help us to understand how we are to function as men and women in the church. Now, Alan gives some application here for today. Although there is no need to judge prophecies in the church today, since that gift of prophecy had ceased at the close of the New Testament canon. The same principle though applies today whenever doctrinal matters are discussed For example, when a man is teaching the assembled church a particular Bible truth, as in on a Sunday morning class. Women should uh not openly undermine the teaching of asking judgmental questions about it. They should instead ask their husbands, or perhaps More importantly, come to their teacher and speak that, ask that question. And then again, with a submissive and teachable heart, receive that instruction And that I say would apply not just to women, but also to men as well. Yeah. What if the women's concerns are dismissed even if they perceive things that others may may not notice? You'll have to explain that a little bit further. So um what if say they may the women may see something that if they bring it to their husbands or to the elders of the church, but they be like, oh, we're dismissive of that issue that they bring up. And then, in other words, if they see something that the somebody else like their husbands or elders may not see, then what's gonna happen? In the context of First Corinthians, the logical progression would be for a a woman who is married to go to her husband. And if it was dismissed then the woman would go to the elders of the church. But at that point where the judging and the teaching and the instruction that is given, it could be to clarify that this issue that the woman brought Maybe perhaps she's seeing it not properly or she's not seeing it in the right way. So it's really a I would say an answer to that question would be a conversation that needed to be had And again, if a woman sees something or perceives something that is important, she should go and ask, definitely. But now that's different than prophesying and um speaking in a known language. Um this is an issue has that has to do with her understanding so she would she would want to go and try to get clarity to her to her question or her perception. But when it's When it is a prophecy that was given, basically she would speak it because it would be a miraculous gift that were given to her, a word of a word of prophecy She would give it and she may not even understand all the implications of it. So that being the case, she should not be the judge of her own prophecy. She should just turn that over to the elder pastor overseers of the church and let them instruct her in that. Here's what it means that you said. Here's the implication of what it means that you said And hopefully it would bring clarity to her where she would again see that yes indeed that was a word from the Lord. And it wasn't just my intuition or my um my own thinking that was given. Does that help Um I I'm hoping I'm hitting the question here, but yeah, it was a good question. Uh today again we are in a church context where men and women should be free to go and ask questions You don't just have to ask your husband. However, again, the proper way, showing respect, showing submission, showing love and support and encouragement Women who are married should go to their husbands and engage in that kind of conversation together. But again, if a m if a believing woman was married to an unbelieving husband She should feel free to go to the elders of the church and be able to get those answers to her questions. Yeah. Uh actually it was. Yeah. Because the canon wasn't closed. So in this situation we're talking about giving a word directly from the Lord Now, how God gave that word to people, um, we don't have a lot of clarity on it We can go back and kind of try trace how prophets receive their revelation by either audible voice or by a vision or something. Something like that was happening in the first century church. And so again, a person would be given a w a word from the Lord. And it would be something that would come into their brain that they would then speak to the church, doing it in an orderly way. But communicating that um here is what I believe the Lord has given me to say. And she would speak that. And so then that prophecy, once it was spoken would then be then judged and interpreted by the pastor, elder, overseers of the church. And again, i God is a God of we're going to read this a little bit later, but God is a God not of confusion but of order. We can guarantee by that statement alone that whatever word that God gave to a person in the church was done so in a proper and orderly way that benefited that particular church at that particular time So it could have been that there was some teaching going on and somebody in the church received a word from the Lord and they gave that at the time that the teaching was given And by receiving that, the church could say, oh, what you what what the pastor, elder, overseer just taught, this complements it. It helps to us to understand it better. It helps us to see the application of it. God wouldn't give a word of prophecy to a person in the church that would counter what the pastor, elder, overseer is teaching, nor would he give something that would bring disorder to the church. So again, it's that everything was happening in an orderly way, but it was speaking forth a word that God gave directly to the person to the church. Now there's two ways of translating and understanding prophecy in the in the New Testament because there's one where it's um foretelling, like again, foretelling what would happen in the future or what would happen uh in the context of some other situation, but then there's also fourth telling of the church in the church, and that was again the preacher-teacher who would preach and teach in the church he would have the gift of prophecy in the sense of speaking forth God's revelation uh to the church and being able to do it in a way that they were teaching, translating, interpreting, etc. so that people understood it. So so again, the gift of prophecy primarily during this first century um era uh had had to do with God giving direct revelation to people because again the canon wasn't closed Um the Bible wasn't closed. So just to be clear, is that still confused. So just to clarify this, prophecy now in the church is No, yes. No. The giving of new revelation to the church has ceased. Okay. And it ceased with the close of the canon. But of the of scripture. But pr um but foretelling the future. That ha that's the gift of prophecy that has ceased. Okay. Yeah. Everything related to the Christian life, um to God's will for us as his people, to his plans for the future. Everything has been given to been given to us in the Word of God. We don't seek any other revelation outside of the Word of God. We can talk more. He has the gift of prophecy because he can talk about the word of God to people. Hm. Is that a correct application of that word? If you were If you were interpreting it as forth telling That's what I mean, because he feels he can communicate Scripture is 50% of the same thing. And more than likely, he's doing that because he's trying to use biblical terminology to kind of define what he's doing. I I wish there was a better way of saying it because it's confusing when prophecy could be translated one of two ways. Um So they're probably I would encourage him to use a better word to be more specific about what he's doing because any one of us learning the scriptures can go out and talk to others about the scriptures and again we can give an understanding of it, explain it. to people. Um is that prophecy? Um well, depending on how you interpret that. And because we live in such a dynamic culture where people from all spectrums of the Christian church and those outside of the Christian church but call themselves Christians, we have such a confused perspective over what that means. to have the gift of prophecy. Um yeah, I I would just be careful about using that terminology. Um Yeah, I I would much rather use the word proclaim, preach, teach, um, you know, gift of teaching, gift of instruction. Yeah. God has gifted uh again there's the miraculous gifts and there's the ministering gifts. The miraculous gifts are the gifts that have ceased at the close of the canon, at the close of the first century. Um church, um but the ministering gifts they continue and they include preaching, teaching, um, again, uh Oh, we need to have a class on the spiritual gifts so that you guys understand that. Um But yeah, it it's uh I probably would say to use a better term. Yeah. All right. Um Alan goes on to say and I really appreciate this. He says, however, um well he talks about um being silent, asking your husbands, um doing it with a submissive and teachable spirit And then he says, however, this does not restrict women from asking other questions or types of questions in public, answering questions asked by the teacher, participating in a discussion, speaking in the many other acceptable ways. in the assembly. Again, this is this is try to understand this from the perspective of this is this has to do with the issue of judging. This has to do with the issue of orderliness in the church. This has nothing to do with the fact that you're a woman that you cannot speak at all. Has nothing to do with that. And that's the clarity that needs to be brought to these pa these scriptures because apparently in the early church, in the Corinthian church particularly, people were conducting this their gifts in such a disorderly way that it was really bringing shame to the um to the to the Christian church rather than being uh um bringing honor to Christ for what he is doing in the church. So very, very important. Alright. I'm gonna leave it at that and then uh I want to kind of summarize what we've gone through from 1 Timothy all the way to 1 Corinthians, but and particularly 1 Corinthians chapters eleven through 14. But any questions related to this or comments? Women, this is your time. Just kidding. So I guess the the little confusion part is when you talk about the canon wasn't closed. Yes. I mean they're not adding to the written scripture, but they're just maybe what hasn't been written they were in line with what would be written would be given that or what had been written they would be explaining. Yeah. Ultimately what was inspired of God found its way into the pages of Scripture. But at the time there was once again the movement of the Spirit to give instruction to the church I kind of like it this way, that everything that was being done by way of the miraculous gifts in the first century church, we now have in the Bible And so what was taught, what was instructed, what was consistent with the Bible that was given by way of speaking, prophesying, preaching, teaching, that was a new revelation being given to the church, it is now in the Bible for us. And so we have everything that God inspired and wanted to give us as His revelation to us in the pages of Scripture. Because the pages of Scripture hadn't been the New Testament hadn't been complete. Um and especially during the time of First Corinthians, that was early on. Um again, God was speaking miraculously through people uh giving a prophetic word that would instruct them how to live their Christian life, how to understand the purposes of God. Um we know for a fact that Paul gave instruction to the church at First Thessalonians regarding what would happen in the future. It's just that it wasn't until the time of John on the island of Patmos, when he was given the revelation that was given to him by Christ, that we have laid out for us all that God wanted us to know about what was going to happen in the future. Um it's just that back then, again, it was given through these prophetic revelations that were that were consistent with Old Testament scripture. But great yeah, that's a great point The it's it's amazing. Um it is one of the reasons why we must be so committed to the scriptures. Because once again, God is not giving new revelation to us today. He's not. He has given us everything that we need to know about God, His work, His will, His ways, His purposes, His promises, and His prophecies. I could go on, but but that's all that's in the scripture. Yeah. Is there a particular passage or passages that people point to to say this is why we say prophecy and tongues of cease? Yeah, I could go into a long explanation in First Corinthians thirteen, but I'm not going to do that. Um but 1 Corinthians 13 is one passage where there is there is indication from Paul that these miraculous gifts have ceased. Um they will or they will come to sus secession um at a particular time. So there and there's other arguments as well, but it's a great question. Um I appreciate your asking that because I think some people don't read the Bible and study the Bible with its context in mind. For example, a lot of people read the book of Acts and they think that it's a prescription for how we are to do church. It's not. It's a description of how the church functioned in the first century, and there are principles that can be drawn out from that description of the church in the book of Acts. But Acts is not a prescription of how we are to function as a church because there were dynamics that were going on in the first century. Like Early on the church met in Jerusalem in Solomon's Portico. That was the church meeting there. So are we then prescribed to go to Jerusalem and to meet in the Portico of Solomon to meet as a church? No, we're not. Um house churches were consistent all throughout the book of Acts. When a person when a church formed, it formed in the context of somebody's house. We don't do house churches today because we can Purchase a building and we can meet together here. That doesn't mean that we can't have church. And again, let me back up. Church is the body of Christ, it's not the place This is just a sheep shed. This is just a place where the sheep meet. And so again, the house could be a sheep shed as well. But that's what That's what we need to understand when we read the Bible, because too many people look at these passages and say, well, hey, Paul, he's talking about the gift of prophecy. That must be going on today No, not if you understand the progress of revelation and the significance of the canon of Scripture. And again, if you understand what God's purpose was uh what God's purpose was for what he did in the first century, you then begin to understand how these books really need to be properly interpreted. But again, there's there's specific arguments to help people to understand those principles so that they can better understand the scriptures. And that's what we need to do as a church is we need to teach you guys that. So and uh but it's a great question. Yeah. So I just want to make a comment. I think uh 1 Corinthians 13, 34, 35 I like the twofold wisdom that's there because what's happening is that the wife has to remain silent and seems to help I think the beauty of that is the fact that it's going to spurn on more conversation about what the Word of God says, what the prophecy what the prop prophetic word is And trying to help them to both sit and analyze what's happening. So I think it has a refining effect on the backside of that wisdom. Yeah. The wife is like, let me talk to my husband. But then what happens if the husband wasn't necessarily paying attention to all of you? Then it like reminds him and say, Oh wow, yeah, that is a good point. And so then it gives him the opportunity to either talk through or to seek the elders for further understanding, therefore increasing their family that understanding and wisdom. It's like God refining in of this is my word, we can operate this way Everyone's sort of blessed and it has a hook effect. It strengthens your narrative and it strengthens um your understanding of what's happening Yeah, and it really gives honor to God for the order in which he put together creation and then how he brought the church together I I can only imagine what it must have been like during the first century for a husband and wife to go to church and all of a sudden hear these wonderful, glorious truths about what it means to be in Christ and what the gospel is And then to go home and dialogue about it. And then with the children present. Wow. What a glorious testimony of God's design for the family. or God's design for for the church. Because again, single men and women could come together and they could dialogue over these things. They could go to the elders of the church and sit under their teaching and hear. How are we to understand this? How are we to how are we to really apply this new truth that's being given. It just again it strengthens the testimony of Christ rather than calls us out for being fools uh because in chaos uh because people think that we're just you know out of our minds. So yeah. Brian You know, just a thought that um Isaac triggered. Um before Eric and I got married, we've been married for 28 years. And um I I think about to this day that I benefited from her father going into seminary. And when he went into seminary, he took he actually took seven kids into seminary. Well came out that thing. Um so so anyway, we got married and I found out that Her father would come home and he'd be discussing God's word with my future wife. So, in a sense, Erica Went to seminary because everything that her father was talking about, they were discussing it. And I heard her talking about the one, two o'clock in the morning. So God used all that For me, for my benefit. So um so when we're in church before we got married, I noticed that Erica was quiet. We got married, she was quiet in church, but take one thing. We got home. We got home. There was a lot of talking. A lot of talking. So I got the benefit. from all that wisdom that her father learned in seminary and relay to my wife, you know, which in turn came to me. Way to go, Erica. I'm still benefiting from it to this day. And another quick note, I thought I spoke to her father, so am I ever going to pass up Erica and she'll be learning from me. I'm still uh basically I'm still waiting until that day. We're we're both growing together. Yeah. I'm still having to Yeah when I graduated from Bible College. It was really nice. Sharon got the certificate, her PhD, putting hubby through. And I thought, you know, she probably knows more than I do. So uh yeah. It's great. It's great. Alright, any other comments? Alright, let's go to a summary. This is not in your notes. I was tempted to kind of make a joke to say this was a word from the Lord, but it's not. But I want to summarize um what we've talked about so far. So when we look at this these issues, like what principles of application can we learn from 1 Timothy 2, 11 through 15, 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 13? 1 Corinthians 11, 2 through 16, 1 Corinthians 14, 34, and 35. What principles of application can we draw out from this? Number one, as in marriage, men and women have different roles in the church. Though men and women have an equal standing before God in Christ, and neither one is superior or inferior to the other, nevertheless God has established different roles for men and women in the church just as he has done in the in the marriage. I kind of did a little circular reasoning here thing, but um Ultimately, what I'm saying here is the summary is that really the church should be a picture in a sense of what marriage was designed to be. And again, marriage is really the picture, the reflection ultimately of Christ's relationship with the church. And so there's there needs to be this order The different roles do not again speak of any type of inferiority or superiority. The issue is that everything needs to be done in its proper order. And so that's what we can learn from these instructions that Paul has given to the church. I'm going to clean this one up and I'm going to provide these slides in the files so that you can grab them if you want. Number two, as in marriage, the creation order, man created first, then woman from man, determines what role and function men and women have in the church That is, there are certain limitations, boundaries given to women in the church because of the principles of headship and leadership established by God. Again, just as in marriage. Number three three, context determines the meaning of these passages. I should have bolded that. That's huge. Context determines the meaning of all the passages in Scripture, but it's so important to understand the context. In other words, culture does not determine the meaning, nor do local customs or cultural traditions, symbols and customs must be interpreted in light of the greater biblical principles of le of headship and leadership or headship and helpership, leadership and submission. So once again it's Try not to get so fixed on you know a symbol that's being given, but look past it to the greater more clear biblical principle that God has given. That's why head coverings is really not the issue in 1 Corinthians 11, 2 through 16. The greater principle is one of headship and helpership. That's what you need to look look toward. And how Paul is understanding that in the context or explaining that in the context of the church. Number four, role differences for men and women in the church provide safety rails so that we do not operate outside of God's determined order for the church. Therefore, any limitations or prohibitions in the church are determined by creation order and not on the basis of skill, ability, and spiritual gifting. I think that's very important because sometimes When somebody sees a limitation or a boundary in Scripture, they think, I'm I'm not good enough, or I don't have the skills necessary. No, you probably do. But where should you exercise that gifting in the context of the church that gives God the greatest honor? And that's what you need to seek So, therefore, Paul has made it clear, God has made it clear, that pastor, elders, overseers must be men, cannot be women Does that mean a woman can't teach? A woman can't exercise some authority? Does that mean that she is completely out of the range of doing anything like that in the church? Absolutely not. There are roles for women to exercise authority and their gift of teaching and their ability of being able to organize or administrate in the church. Those are beautiful gifts, and they should The fact that they are limited in the sense of they can't be exercised over total leadership of the church, don't let that stop you from exercising your gift. Just find the place with the help of the pastor, elders, overseers, find your place, your niche, where you can exercise and and again practice that gifting in the church. Does that make sense? Okay. So once again, it doesn't say anything about who you are as a person. It's just again, these are boundaries that we have in the church that are meant to give honor and glory to Christ and order to the church. Both men and women are encouraged and even commanded to serve the body of Christ. How we do this is expressed by our role differences. Now let me emphasize the first part of this. Both men and women are encouraged. They're even commanded again to serve the body of Christ. So, if you are not serving the body of Christ, I'll let you draw the implication of that. I know for me, and I'll speak to me speak for me personally. When I when clarity was brought to my spiritual gifting, I immediately thought, wow, this is a wonderful gift. When I stopped exercising those those gifts, clearly I knew I was in disobedience to God. And so I went to the pastor, elder, overseers of the church and said, Help me to find my niche Help me to practice these gifts. First of all, in discovering them, I would do some of these things that I thought I had a gift for, and there were certain things that godly gracious men came back to me and said, Mike No no no no no. You are not gifted in this. So do not do this. But these other areas where I did it And they said, Mike, you're gifted in this. We can clearly see that God has enabled you and He has really molded you and shaped you to do these certain things. This is what you need to do. And then my question was, where and how do I do this? And they led me to places where I could then uh go ahead and practice my spiritual gifting in the church. But once again, I knew that if I If I stepped away from that, if I refused to do what God has gifted me to do in serving the body of Christ, I was in disobedience to God. And I just want to encourage you this morning that if you need to identify your spiritual gifting, we want to help you to do that. But most importantly, we want you to get in there and serve the body of Christ. Serve the church. Don't be a spectator. Be a participant in the body of Christ because God has uniquely Gifted you to do exactly what you need to do for the church that nobody in the uh else in the church can do And without your gifting, it feels like we're missing a hand. It feels like we're missing a foot. We're missing an eye. We need you to get in there and serve the body of Christ. And let me tell you, in my experience, the um The ownership is probably more on you than the elders to ignite that. In other words, if you want to serve the body of Christ and know that you have certain gifting Go to the leaders of the church and say, I want to serve. Here's where I think that my gifting is. Can you help me in this process? Otherwise the pastor, elders, overseers of the church might not know that about you. So again, the ownership is on you to just again be aggressive in finding out where you can serve in the church. And again, there's just so many different ways of serving. I'm going to talk about this in a minute, but it is interesting, but in 1 Peter, there's two broad categories of serving. There's the speaking. gifts and there's the serving gifts. And if you understand your place in those two broad categories, it will really help you to find your niche. So if you're a speaker Let us help you find a place where you can speak. If there is a place where you want to serve, let us help you find a place where you can serve. And again The ownership is on us to go and do that, to seek out the elders, to seek out the ministry leaders and say, can we can I start practicing my spiritual gifting, which I believe I think I have. But then also be open to the fact that these leaders may come back to you and say, this is not your gifting. So just do it by humble service. But again, encouraged and commanded. So don't minimize that. Number six, whether your spiritual gifting falls into the category of speaking or serving As Peter tells us, here is what he says. You should employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Whoever speaks as one speaking the oracles of God, who serves, as one serving by the strength which God supplies And here's why. So that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belongs the glory, the might, forever and ever. Amen. Why do we speak in the church? Why do we serve in the church? To glorify God. We want Him to be glorified ultimately. And so any service, any speaking that we do in the church should be done with the idea and the motivation to glorify God, not myself Does that make sense? So, once again, this is the this is why it is so important for us to be encouraged and even obey the commands to to serve the body of Christ. Number seven, how we express our God-given roles and differences in the church manifests our submission to Christ as the head of the church and our obedience to His will for our life. manifesting an attitude or behavior of dissatisfaction, obstinence, rebelliousness contentiousness, disobedience, or unfulfilled satisfaction with the roles that God has established for men and women does nothing to edify or strengthen the church. Please let that sink in. Because once again, if we're doing this for selfish reasons, we're not glorifying God. We're just, again, benefiting ourselves. It shifts the focus from service to self and ultimately it displeases the Lord. I tell you, I want to serve with every every fiber of my being. But if I do it for self, man That is just horrible. That is that's not the motivation that I want to have. In fact, if it's for self, ultimately you'll give up because you won't be satisfied So once again, check your attitude and just again remind yourself of the importance of serving and again giving glory to God. Eight, let's remember the practice God has laid down for us in the church. And here's here is the summary of it all. And this is just out of, I think, First Corinthians fourteen. Why do we do what we do as men and women in the church? First Corinthians fourteen one, because we want to pursue love. We want to earnestly desire spiritual gifts. But we do it for the sake of love. And if you want to know the definition of love, back up a chapter. Oftentimes, you know, 1 Corinthians 13 is pulled out of its context to just apply to marriage. Guess what? It's in the context of the church. That's how we're to love. It can be applied to marriage, and I love the fact that it's given at marriage, because marriage is a reflection of Christ and his and his love for the church But the issue is how are we to love one another in the church? Just read. Again, 1 Corinthians 13, I think it's 4 through 8. But just read those wonderful definitions. Or descriptions. First Corinthians 14, 12. So also you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, seek to abound for the edification of the church. Do you want to edify the church? Do you know what the word edify means? What does it mean? Lift up. Build up. What else? Did Erica tell you that? Yeah. I just said lift up and in my left ear after Yeah, it it really is building up. and lifting up and really supporting and undergirding someone. And that's ultimately what we want to do. Edify the church. First Corinthians 14, 26, let all things be done for edification. Everything, even changing diapers. Let it be done for edification in the church. No, but again, helping somebody, teaching somebody, leading somebody, welcoming visitors into the church, all of that should be done for edification First Corinthians fourteen thirty-three. For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace. That is so, so important. So I don't think I have another one. Oh, I do. First Corinthians 14, 40. But all things must be done properly and in an orderly manner. I tell you, if if you just take these applications to spiritual gifts and the function of the church you will go far in really honoring the Lord in his church. And this is ultimately what we want to do. We want to see people come to faith in Christ. We want to see people built up in the body of Christ. We want to pe see people encouraged and exhorted to serve the body of Christ. We want people to understand God's truth. We want them to apply God's truth. We want people to be, again, spurred on to love and good deeds. the writer of Hebrews tells us. Why? Because the day of Christ's coming is approaching quickly. We want to be prepared for heaven when He comes to get us. And again, we want to be so built up in our faith that we are unmoved when the world tries to come against the church. We want a strong foundation, not a shaky one. This is what we must do. And this is how we build up the body of Christ. So I'm going to stop here and ask any comments, but I just want to encourage you. Please take this as a very strong exhortation for how you practice your gender in the church. Be a biblical man in the church. Be a biblical woman in the church. And do it in the strength that God supplies. And you will be blessed beyond measure. Amen? Alright, any comments? Because we do have a few minutes, but any comments? Thank you guys so much, and I do really appreciate the comments and And I love the fact that you guys are interacting over this material and um and really taking it to heart. Let's close in prayer. Prayer. Father, we are so blessed. We are so joyful over just the order that you give. Not just the creation order of how we are to function as men and women, not only as we see our marriages Be brought to the glory of God in submission to your will, but also the body of Christ. And I want to thank you Father, for each person that is in this room, that we all, if we are naming the name of Christ, if we have saving faith in you, we have a purpose and a plan for the church And Lord, we are able to function in a way that truly brings you glory. Whether or not we're married, it it doesn't matter. As men and women, we come together to shine the light on your created image in the world. And Lord, again, we want to love you with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And so help us to be focused on what areas of ministry we need to give ourselves to. Where we need to submit, but where we need to function in the church. And I pray, Lord, that as we seek out our own spiritual gifting, As we identify how it is that we can contribute to the body of Christ in a way that is unique, that we would do so for the edification of others and ultimately for your glory. I am so grateful for the church here at Hope Bible Church. I'm so thankful for those who are actively involved in ministry. And I thank you that the moment we walk in here, people are actively serving one another, speaking to one another And once again giving you glory for it all. So Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for this class. And again, as we continue to progress, looking at the various issues related to being men, biblical men and biblical women. Women, Father, that you would once again impress upon our hearts the joy of serving you. We thank you for all of this in Christ's name. Amen.