Alright, so we are on lesson two on page 11. I think it's page 11 of the notes. I have an older version of this. Um last week we began looking at um God's design for male and female, that on the one hand there's complete equality, and on the other hand there are differences. Differences in roles, particularly. And We looked a bit about what Genesis 1 and 2 particularly say about those two points. And Uh today we're actually following up on that. We went through the n first nine of ten things we see in Scripture about God's design for uh the headship of a husband in a family patterned after Even God's own essence, the nature of the Godhead. And we're going to focus on that particular point. in more detail today. God's design for marriage parallels the Trinity. So um The equality that men and women have in marriage is really rooted in the equality that exists in the Godhead. I think I mentioned last week, I'm kind of glad that God designed marriage to be not three in one, but two or one, right? Um but in the Trinity you've got three persons of the Trinity, God the Father, Son, the Holy Spirit, who um Are absolutely equal, all God, one God, three persons, and yet there are differences, distinctions, different roles, and and so on. So there's a survey here of a few passages on page eleven about the equality within the Trinity. Jesus, of course, said, I and the Father are one. There's not just we're on the same page, but we're really of one essence, is what he meant. And so, in fact, a little later, Jesus said, Have I been so long with you, yet you do not know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. Right? So Jesus is is just the complete representation of God the Father. Philippians 2. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. But emptied himself, taking on the form of a birth a bondservant and being made in the likeness of men And so Colossians 115 says Jesus is the image of the invisible God. And here it's it's very much um Like when when we saw last week God created man in his image, it doesn't mean that um God the Father has a physical appearance like Jesus who took on flesh had. That means everything that's true of the Father is true of Jesus. It's that mirror image kind of concept there. Um it's certainly related. We have personhood because God has personhood. Three persons, in fact. So it's very much related, but what scripture actually says is image. But we need to make sure that we're not thinking physical image. Obviously we all look different too, right? Um it's not about uh physical appearance when we think of image. Like like uh a photo is an image, right? That's not what the word image means. It's more the um the the Well, it's it's specifically he created us with intellect, emotion, and will, patterned after his own being. Right. And also a spiritual capacity to have relationship with him. And so those things are not true of even the animals. You know, they don't have a spiritual dimension, a soul that that lives forever, like human beings. Um and they may have a measure of intellect maybe even emotion and will, but it's not it's not really patterned after God ultimately. It's not his image there. Um because they're more driven by instinct and the way God just programmed them to God created us as moral beings, as He is a moral being. Animals are not moral beings. They don't do right and wrong in a moral sense Um when you try to train them then you think they're doing right or wrong. But uh it's not a moral thing, right? Good and evil. Colossians continues, really, in chapter 2. For in Christ all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. That kind of sums it up. All the fullness of deity dwells in Christ. Uh so there's complete um complete identity there, complete um um Unity and equality within the Godhead. No distinction whatsoever between God the Father and God the Son Or by the Holy Spirit. And so, for example, in Acts five, in that episode where Ananias and Sapphira were held accountable Peter says on the one hand, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? And then later he says, you have not lied to men, but to God. So there's just no distinction. The Holy Spirit is God. Absolutely the same. And you see that even in the Old Testament where it says, The Spirit of the Lord spoke by me And his word was on my tongue, and then the God of Israel said, So the Spirit of God, God Himself, is just no distinction. And then it's interesting in Matthew twenty-eight in the Great Commission passage where Jesus said, Go therefore make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name singular. Name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Not names. But baptizing them in the name of the Holy Spirit, or of the Father, Son, Holy Spirit. So there's three persons in the Godhead, absolute equality. And yet there are distinctions, distinctions primarily enroll within even the Godhead. And so, first of all, the Son submits to the Father. For example, in John 4. 34, Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Who was it who sent Jesus? His Father. Father God. And John 6. 38, for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. You see that submission there. They're completely equal. One is no less or more God than the other, but there's submission, there's hierarchy there. And if you flip over the page, I think, in the to Luke 22, 42 Where Jesus prayed, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me in Gethsemane. But he said, Yet not my will, but yours be done. So He was submitted to the will of the Father, even to the point of death, and carrying through with that eternal plan. In his humanity, of course, he would have loved to find an alternative But in his deity, he was submitted to the will of the Father. And Interesting also looking forward, 1 Corinthians 15, 28. When all things are subjected to him that is to Christ. Then the Son Himself will also be subjected to the one who subjects all things to him, so that God may be all in all. So Yeah everything is is moving toward everything being subject in reality to Christ And then the Son himself also will be subjected to the Father. There is there's uh absolute um equality and unity, but there's also within that um um roles, distinctions of roles, and even hierarchy. Another aspect of that is That the Father sent the Son. We touched on that a little bit. But in Galatians 4:4, for example, it says, But when the fullness of time came, God, that is the Father, sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law. So what is it about sending that suggests something about distinctions? The one who does the sending is the one giving the orders, right? Essentially. Is the one in authority, ultimate authority. And so the one who is being sent is being sent on behalf of the one who has who he's submitted to. Right. And um Exactly. Exactly. Even though they're absolutely equal in their deity and all their attributes, but they have different roles, even within the Godhead. Of course, we see that in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world through him might be saved. So uh again, God the Father sent Jesus on this mission Take on human flesh to be the ultimate substitute sacrifice for sin and the son of Abe And then also 1 John 4, 4. We have seen and testified that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. And so our third illustration here is that the Son sits at the right hand of the Father in heaven. And um Hebrews one for example, referring to Jesus, he is the radiance of The Father's glory and the exact representation of his nature and upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. And Mark sixteen, nineteen. So then when the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was received up from from them into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. That's the ascension into heaven. And then of course in Acts 2 Peter makes reference to that, having, therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit. He has poured forth this which you both see and hear. So he's referring to Christ, who ten days earlier was ascended into heaven. Exalted at the right hand of God the Father. But that heard it in opinion on it. Yeah, yeah, I think the the the main significance of it is the place of uh special exaltation next to the throne. So he's not the one sitting on the main throne. That's the father. But it's the place of Um that's exalted. He he whoever sits at the right hand is the one who's the right hand man. Accepted, exalted. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Okay. But in our context, that's true, but also distinct. Right? He's at the right hand of the Father. He's not in the place of the father, that there's still relationship there, there's there's distinction of roles and and so on But not only did the Father send the Holy send Jesus, the Son, but the Father and the Son sent the Holy Spirit. We probably don't focus on this quite so much, but look at John 14, 16-17. I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever, that is the Spirit of Truth. And so there, Jesus is asking the Father, and the Father will send the helper. But look what it continues to say. John 14, 26. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name. He will teach you all things and bring your remembrance and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. Then a little later, John 15, 26, when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, Jesus said. That is the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father. He will testify about me. You see how that relationship is is fair. There's a distinction of roles even within their complete equality. Now there's no distinction in the deity of Christ, the deity of the Holy Spirit, the deity of God the Father, of course, but there's a distinction of roles. And then John 16, 7, as he continues in that upper room discourse, but I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, but if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. So did God the Father send the Holy Spirit? You bet. Did Jesus send the Holy Spirit? Yes. in some ways that we can't completely understand both the Father and the Son sent the Holy Spirit. And again, it's all about roles here. But um there there's this hierarchy even within the Godhead, where God the Son submits to God the Father, God the Holy Spirit submits to both the Father and the Son by being sent out by them. And yet there's complete cooperation, complete unity, complete equality, but distinctions and roles. And then we see in John 16, I'm on top of page 13 now, that the Holy Spirit submits to the Father and the Son. So if we continue in John 16, It says, but when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak. And he will disclose to you what is to come. He will glorify me, for he will take of mine and disclose it to you. So just like God the Son submits to God the Father, God the Holy Spirit submits to God the Son and God the Father. Not that we can completely understand that. I mean how do how do you wrap your head around the idea of Trinity anyway, right? Um but It's clear from Scripture that God existing in a Trinity does not mean that God has existed in three different modes. Throughout time. That's not true. It's clear that God has always, from eternity past, existed in three persons: Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And they have Different roles. And we see examples in Scripture of what some of those roles are. In some cases, the activity of God Like creation, for example, like even the baptism of Christ, we see the involvement of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit. um working together in in that particular activity. Other times it's just God the Father, perhaps, other times it's just uh God's Spirit, although being sent by the Father and Son. So Yeah, I don't expect we're going to completely get our minds around how that actually works. Fortunately, we see in Scripture enough of the truth there that we can separate truth from error That doesn't mean it's intuitive to us. But that shouldn't surprise us. Why should it be that We would completely understand our Creator. I mean he's God. Right? Um that's not a cop out, but it it's it it ought not to surprise us that we can't comprehend the very nature completely understand because it's outside of our experience, outside of our beings, there is no analogy, but we have as much as he's revealed to us in Scripture as we need. And um we don't have to go too far. Just look at space. I get m like mind boggled when I hear talks about space, but it's endless when they get real technical. Yeah. It's hard to w wrap our finite minds around those sort of infinite sort of concepts. Um in a way in order to to understand that expression of their communion, they would have Otherwise there would be no distinction whatsoever. Yeah. But there clearly in scripture there is a distinction. Yeah. And we see evidence of the difference in roles. Now we probably don't understand the full the full scope of those roles either. We understand only what's revealed to us in scripture. But but that word relationship is is a key word here, right? There's relationship even within the Godhead. And um it's it's Built on equality, built on differences And um the activity of God kind of flows out from that equality in those in those distinctions. Okay, so uh point C here is that this this Coexistence, if you will, of equality and differences within the Godhead have existed forever. It's not something that's been evolving. God is unchanging, right? And so we read, for example, in Deuteronomy 6, 4, Hero Israel, the Lord our God is Uh one. The Lord is our God, the Lord is one. One God. Um Jews, of course, built on verses like that, are very, very monotheistic, right? Uh quite in contrast with All the false religions around them as God revealed themselves to them. Uh very staunchly monotheistic Um and that's good, because God is one God. Then Isaiah 42, I am the Lord, that is my name, I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. Um there's no distinction. You know, the the the Father uh is is not God to the exclusion of God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. They're all one. And uh God the Father has not given glory to God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. They've always had that glory from eternity past. And Jesus in his prayer to the Father in John 17 said, Now Father, glorify me together with yourself, the glory with which I had with you before the world was. So uh Jesus of course took on human flesh, but before that he was eternally uh Um always the second person of the Trinity, always completely God, always sharing in that glory. um with the father. And um so it's always been. So this little diagram here in the middle of page thirteen is supposed to this is not mine. I I borrowed this from that book on from Gruden that I mentioned last week, which I would highly recommend if you want to delve into some of these things typically. I have the notes on the top of page six. Biblical Foundations for Manhood and Womanhood by Wayne Grutham. So I borrowed his illustration here. So the idea here is that within the Godhead you've got Father, Son, Holy Spirit, but those arrows are indicating uh differences of authority, differences of of role. And so the father um uh has authority, ha uh sends and and uh is um The Son and the Holy Spirit submit to the Father, and so the Father is, those arrows are indicating that. And yet the Holy Spirit also submits to the Son. And yet within that circle, within the Godhead, completely equal. Equally God, equal all of the The uh attributes of God shared equally, and that's who God is Now I suppose God could have created marriage as a a a threesome, and maybe the parallel would be more obvious, but fortunately, I think fortunately, he created marriage to be a twosome. But with some of the same um characteristics that there's complete equality, a hundred percent unity, and yet distinction of roles. And God designed marriage to be patterned really after his own being, his own So let's take a look at that. Equality and differences within marriage are patterned after the Trinity. The first point is that male headship in marriage is patterned after the headship of God the Father over God the Son. And a wife's submission to her husband's loving rule is patterned after the submission of Christ to the Father. And so Genesis 1:26-27, for example, God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea over the birds of the sky, and over the cattle, and over the earth, over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him, male and female, he created them And so uh as we saw last week, there's complete equality In terms of reflecting the image of God, being created by God in his image. And um And yet, 1 Corinthians 11, 3 says, But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man. The man is the head of the woman, that is his wife. And God the Father is the head of Christ. There's hierarchy both within the Godhead and within the marriage. So a lot of um even evangelical women, but certainly women um unbelievers who um hear of this this teaching of wives being submitted to their husbands draw the conclusion That that's presuming that the wife is inferior to her husband But if that were true, it would also then need to be true that God the Son is inferior to God the Father, and that's heresy. Right? It has nothing to do with inferiority. It has to do with roles by God's design. Did Christ ever complain about being inferior to the Father? No. Because he wasn't inferior to the Father. Submitted to him, yes. But not inferior. Equally sharing in in all of the attributes of God. And everything about the the essence of God, but uh a different role within the Godhead. And um the same is true in the way God designed marriage. Now I think it's interesting here And we'll see it. Um let's we don't have it here, but let's turn to Ephesians five. Let's go ahead and start at 22. Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also wives ought to be subject to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the Church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing. but that she would be holy and blameless. So, husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church. Because we are members of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his and here he's quoting from Genesis 2. For this reason a man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh This mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the Church. Nevertheless, each individual among you is also to love his own wife, even as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband So in both of those roles, both the role of the husband and the wife, the pattern, the example, is Christ. Right, just the way the same way that Christ um loved his bride and gave himself up for her and and um Is her head. He's the head of the church. In the same way it says, husbands are to love their wives sacrificially. And uh the pattern there is Christ. But then it also says that wives are to submit to their husbands just as The church submits to Christ, and as we see we've seen elsewhere here, just as Jesus submitted to the Father. So for both the husband and the wife, the pattern, the example, is Christ. Is either one of those roles easy? No. Particularly given our propensity to sin, right It'd be a whole lot easier like it is in the Godhead where there's no sins. But nonetheless, even with sin, we are to follow that pattern. Uh even if we don't completely understand it, why did God design it that way? Well, we only have a glimpse, a little bit, it's from his own essence and nature, but um uh he's also a god of order and so it's not surprising that there would be roles defined I I think probably most um if not all people just generally out there in the world think of marriage, for example, as being a human made, human designed social construct. And something that's not necessary. Something that's not necessary, it's negotiable. Um and as soon as you start going down that path, you see where it leads. Right? Um you you think that that leads to freedom and and um Greatest fulfillment. But it's just the exact opposite that that leads to, right? Um that marriage as anything goes will be Yeah. So it's if if it's it's whatever, but in reality God designed it. God designed it. God performed the first marriage ceremony. We looked at that last week in Genesis 2. And we see Well, part of the mystery of that was it wasn't really clear until the time of Christ, when the sacrifice of Christ, that that was also a picture of the relationship of the church to her head, the Lord Jesus. Um it's all according to God's design. And we depart from that design to our detriment. Big time. I think the law has a problem with the Oh for sure. In any context. In any context. Um, you know, I've Um well for the sake of recording, um Richard's point was the world just has a hang up about submissions. Um I've often mused a little bit here that um you know if if I were driving down ninety-five or Route 32 going a little faster than I should and an officer pulls me over and here's a guy I assume it's a guy let's say who's probably younger than my sons and uh and yet I referred to him yes sir. Why do I do that? Respect his authority. It's not because of him as a human being inherently, but he's in a he's been given authority over me and what he's doing is right. Right? Now, if that same officer were to come here to church, he would probably refer to me as sir. Not because I'm inherently any better, but but I have a role. Right? And so there's submission to authorized roles, that's a good thing. Right? Um Well the irony is I mean nobody likes the word submission, but we submit all the time. When we get in our cars, we submit to the rules of the road, when we're in our job hopefully we can get to the school of our employer. That's right. So yeah, we don't we don't like it, but we do it all the time whether we realize it or not. But that mindset is I'm tired of submission. I want to be free. Right. Thinking that that freedom is going to be um a better roses. And we're forgetting there are a lot of thorns in a bed of roses. Um yeah. uh so so often people get the expression of uh uh of uh marriage where uh a wife is uh being submissive to her husband as uh uh as uh a thing where he ruled over her. But actually when the wife marries a man, when a woman marries a man is is giving Yeah. And also she Sh couldn't we say that the submission is the wife's responsibility, meaning it's something that she willfully and lovingly gives as opposed to the husband demanding Yes. And um we're gonna be going there eventually. I forget right now. It may be next week to some extent, and then the next several weeks. So um You see God's design, that there would be complete equality and harmony, unity, and yet distinction of roles. There's hierarchy within the marriage. But we do have to deal with this problem of sin. And what happens often with sin is that those roles get um Uh yeah, perverted as is a is is a you know so what is the what would be the unfortunate um um Extreme of a man who has a husband who has lassed onto this role that he has authority over his wife. Well the extreme, the sinful extreme there would be authoritarian, right? Even even abuse. Trying to whip her into shape and according to his weird thinking. And that's not following the example we're given in Ephesians 5. that he would love her as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, right? So it's God's design is that it would be uh carried out in love So that there would be uh great joy in submitting to that. distinct like you said and we see that by the Godhead. And these roles are made to complement. Yes. That's the word that keeps coming up in my head Yes, I'm glad you used that word because that's um and we'll probably get back to that word Repeatedly here. This position that we're we're explaining here, that God's design, is what people call complementarian. The the two are complementary in in in many ways and as we're going to see I think next week. Um that men I don't know if you've noticed this, but men and women are not interchangeable. And I'm not talking just about physically. They are just wired differently by God's design. hundred percent. Right? Yes. And now there's there's a range of expression of that, you know, from person to person. You can make some generalizations and we'll talk about that next week. But um The world is thinking progressively towards the idea that they're interchangeable. Or um Um the same. The same even. And That's that's just a lie. And you can see it in uh in so many things, and we're gonna talk more about that next week. Somebody wrote a book a while ago that was called uh Menowal Men compart men alive things and women are more fluent. You know, and that and that women can do a Somebody else wrote something about Miner uh Mars and Venus. Yeah, I'm They're just different. And that's a good thing. It just shows the creativity of God. Well, I think I think what's underlying it is this whole thing about Submission and authority. And our sin nature kind of rejects that. And if we don't have the right definition, the right understanding of the word, then yeah, you're gonna get all of this push Right. Oh yeah. Yeah, I I think you know uh it's it's the it's everybody's understanding of what marriage is Right? Because I mean I remember even for before we went through a marriage premarital class and um Um but even even though we went through that, I think in my mind I had the worldly view of what marriage is, right? Which to display our love for each other, right? And not uh e Christ and the church, not having that full understanding And so, you know, and and the wor and we're Christian, but with the world, you know, if you don't know Christ and you have this pervertive view of what love is and how it's supposed to fulfill you and then you go off into, you know, all sorts of other ways that it points back to your own nature, right? Wanting to be fulfilled, wanting to be satisfied, wanting to be lifted up, you know, and so whereas in God's design and using the church um you know Christ in the church as an example, I mean, it's all about how can we serve one another. Right? Yeah. So um Bingo, yes. Um from uh um an unbelievers perspective It's not just marriage, but pretty much any relationships are all about me. Right? What am I gonna get out of it? And the whole idea of a selfless relationship where it's all about How can I bless the other person? How can I serve the other person? Is the last thing on most people's minds. And yet that's how God's designed, not just in marriage, but really any relationships. Um how can we serve other people? Um you know th the second commandment. Love others as you love yourself. Mm-hmm. And In some ways it's it's easy to love God with all our heart, soul, and mind and strength, but putting others before ourselves that's hard. Um and it just doesn't think it doesn't come naturally. It's not surprising it wouldn't it w it it wouldn't even be on the radar to the non-Christian mind. Um and so as two people come into marriage thinking, what's in it for me, what's in it for you is going to be conflict. Right? Because you're you're competing for that those expectations of what's what's in it for me and they're not gonna come to fruition because you've got the wrong perspective. But if Both of them are saying, what's in it for my spouse? But even more importantly, what's in it for God, then They're the they're on the same path. They're working toward the same goal. There is fulfillment in that, not unless our sin gets in the way and and there is conflict because of that. But if if we are truly are uh seeking to please God, not just in marriage, but in all of our relationships Um then we'll well like Philippians two have this attitude Among yourselves, which was like what was in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, right And the whole point of that is is to have that mindset in ourselves to be others oriented, just like Jesus. And it's not just marriage, but it's crucial in marriage. Right? Um another thing that a friend of mine recently uh um you know, shared with me was I mean it helps when I'm trying you know, when we're talking to our children about just loving our neighbors as ourselves and and so, you know, just visually who are our most immediate neighbors You know, it's our family. And so even in the family, you know, the husband and wife, I mean before the children, right? We're we're the primary neighbors, right? Our society has that all messed up. I mean the number of people who are idolizing their children and putting them before that primary relationship in unbelievable. Well that's mostly what I wanted to cover today. It might be helpful to look back at The um lessons that are coming up, if you maybe look at the table of contents. Um Next week we're going to look at God's design for masculinity and femininity. Boy, is that getting messed up today? Right. And then roles in marriage, we we've introduced that, but we're going to get more more specific from scripture. And then we're going to look at some common answers to common egalitarian objections to male headship in marriage. Egalitarian. That is someone who's taking the position that husband and wife are equal, they're equal in authority, equal in everything, no distinctions. And People who take that view have even used scripture to try to make their point. And so we're going to answer some of those objections. And then that's wrapping up our section on equality and differences in marriage, but that carries over into equality and differences in the church because God designed that too. Right? So we'll look at male and female roles in the church, and then again, answers the common egalitarian objections to male headship in the church. And then we'll cover a number of general issues, including just general objections to male headship. And Then contrasting the complementarian view, which we see in Scripture, with views that distort either equality or differences. When you depart from the complementarian perspective, you emphasize either equality or the differences. And both can lead you down the wrong path very quickly. Um We've got a a section here on single manhood and womanhood. A lot of our discussion here is is the relationship in marriage, but I think it would be helpful to have info here about single manhood and womanhood And then some practical things about modesty in uh clothing and behavior and so on. And then a a biblical look at some perversions of biblical manhood and womanhood, which um You don't have to look very far to see, but it's helpful to see from Scripture that they are in fact perversions of God's design. Yes. I'm thinking about um some of the marriages within my family. And I feel like the roles sometimes People feel like their role should be uh should have more of a authoritative role. If they make more money. Mm-hmm. Than their spouse. Yeah. So maybe just all the time like, you know, the woman makes more money. Sometimes you know the man may make um uh more money. So But that's the reason for his authority. And sometimes there are cases where the woman um you know makes more Mm-hmm. And you know, she feels like she should have more of a say and you know, some of the responsibilities that um the fathers would normally have, especially when it comes to disciplining the kids. Um What you're s what you're indicating here is is a a good observation that it's not just a knee-jerk reaction to the concept of uh submission versus authority as uh something that's repulsive. It could also be a misunderstanding of the source of authority. The source of authority isn't our um our ability to earn money or our our current income or whatever. The source of all authority is God. Right. Whether it's in the home, whether it's in the church, whether it's in the in the civil um sphere. Um all authority comes from God. All authority is delegated by God. That means everybody who exercises authority is what? Accountable to God for their exercise of that authority. And it has nothing to do with their inherent value over other people. It has everything to do with God's delegation of authority and their ultimate accountability to him as to how they exercise that authority. So yeah, we uh uh people are probably messed up on that for a lot of different reasons So it's all the more important for us to be well grounded in what Scripture teaches. There's some appendices there that we're not going to cover. They might be helpful to you at some point. Any other questions? Yeah, right. Absolutely. Um so Ephesians five talks about husband both the wives. Christ loved the church, give himself for her. Um and he says that he might sanctify him So I run into two issues regarding these tasks So I was talking with one young lady and she was mentioning to me how she feels like what she has been in previous relationships, guys have tried to lead her, um, try to like read the Bible with her, pray with her, things of that nature. She says that the Bible doesn't say husbands lead your wives. It says how husbands love your wives. So he's not she would reject the idea of them trying to have family devotions, for example. Um me coming from fundamentalism, that's something they hark on every day, you know. Um and you know have your family devotions, teach your lives She would be not opposed to following Deuteronomy where the father would teach his sons, you know, when he rise up, he goes to sleep, all this stuff. But as far as teaching her, that would be Because she doesn't see that there. That's question one. And then question two was her other um point about um the husband giving himself orders. Like Diana says, submission should be voluntary. So if she chooses not to volunteer, if she chooses not to And as he keeps serving her and she doesn't submit, now he has put himself in these submissions because he is dying to himself trying to again give himself over to serving her. Now he is is effectively abstain or reject his own leadership and put himself in that subservient. What would you say to those things? Yeah. Well let's take the first one, which was um Uh that's the problem with having two. I gotta keep them straight. Husbands uh love your wife, not teach your wives. Yes. So um lead your wives. It very clearly says in Ephesians five for husbands to love their wives as Christ loved the church. It also says that the husband is the head of the wife, that is the one in authority. Over the wife. And it's patterned after the authority of Christ over the church. So it's not just a matter of loving. The command isn't so much to love as it is to exercise that authority in love. But just like Christ has authority over the church, and the church submits to Christ because of that The husband has authority over, he's the head of the wife, the head of the family, and she is commanded to submit to him. Now he is commanded to exercise that authority over her in a particular way, in the same way that Christ loved the church and gave him up gave himself up sacrificially for her. Now, so the first part of it is you gotta look at all scripture, not just one little verse, right? And And that that love is in the context of his authority. He's supposed to exercise his authority in love, just like Christ. Um but in the second scenario where he's trying to do that and she's not submitting Again, he's supposed to do that in the way that Christ loved the church. So it is a very practical problem if the husband equates um um loving his wife with giving her whatever she wants. Because that's not what Christ did. Christ didn't give the church whatever the church wanted. He gave the church what the church needed, which is payment for sin. And an example and uh headship. So um husbands Ought not to confuse giving their wives everything they want as I'm loving my wife. To love your wife is to give them what they need, even if it's sacrificial on your part. And what they need is to understand their role. And to be led into, well, as Ephesians five says, the washing and and purifying that the word brings. So um Well I was I was also just gonna add, you know, and Titus it talks about, you know, elders, right appointing elders who love um what is good. And you know clearly scripture talks about who an elder can be Right? And so an elder is the one that can teach, right? Like in the perspective of the of the church. And so in the same way, in the family, if we're looking at you know Yeah, marriage and you know, um marriage and the place of the church. I mean if we look at the church then we should be following kind of the same model, right, with with um the husband leading um even in terms of learning and and pointing Yeah, and and Ephesians five says explicitly, husbands love your wives just as Christ also loved the church. And so what did that look like? Well he gave himself up for her so that he might sanctify her. What's that mean? Make her holy. Having cleansed her by the washing of the water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle, but that she would be holy and blameless. So that loving her is giving her what she needs, which is holiness, not just caving into her every whim. That's not how Christ loved the church. Um and that's sacrificial, but it's it's in the context of that leadership role that God's put him in. So I hope hope that helps Well let's um let's go ahead and close in prayer