Great to have you all. Let's begin with a word of prayer and then we will jump into where we left off last week. So let's go ahead and pray Father, thank you so much for this time together this morning. We thank you for the opportunity to be here, to learn, to fellowship together. to enjoy the teaching of your word, to really apply it to our lives and to understand your plan, your purpose for biblical manhood and womanhood. And I pray that as we engage in the topic today of uh masculinity and femininity, that Lord, you would just impress upon our hearts what a joy it is to again display your image and likeness in the world in such a way as to bring people to saving faith in Christ. I pray that Lord what we discussed here this morning would again be a strength and encouragement to us, especially living in a world that is so confused and and outright rebellious toward you We just thank you for this and we pray your blessing on our time. Pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. masculinity and with talking about it in terms of God's design for man and woman. And Last week I brought up this uh general statement that I just want to repeat uh because when you start getting into defining what masculinity is and what femininity is, we have a tendency to kind of go to the extremes and there's confusion or there's a little bit of distortion in how we understand these. So Again, we want to try to have a biblical understanding of how God has made us and how we can put that on display, but do it in a way that honors Christ rather than accentuates self. Let me begin by reading this general statement again that God has designed men and boys to have different characteristics from women and girls Although some differences vary across cultures, many traits are consistent across cultures and across time because they are God ordained. And then this bolded portion here. The traits listed below do not necessarily describe all men and all women, but they are valid generalizations. These tendencies do not in and of themselves make anyone superior or inferior to another, for each trait can be expressed in positive and negative ways. And we're going to talk a little bit about that today because again, uh you're trying to walk a line that is reflective of what the biblical text tell tells us, but also how we're made in the image of God. And yet, because of the curse of sin, because of the fall, we have a tendency to distort that. And that can happen because of the fact that we live in a fallen world And so we just want to realize that it's really important for us as believers in Christ to know what it means to be a man, to be a woman. and yet to do it in such a way as to complement one another rather than be at odds with each other. So we'll talk a little bit more about that today. As we looked at last week, we looked at some general masculine traits that are exemplary in the Bible. And Several of them for the masculine traits would include stronger physically. Uh fathers are commanded to exhort and discipline their children. It's not that wives or mothers shouldn't. It's just that the accountability portion seems to be on the man and it's a leadership trait uh that again distinguishes a man from a woman. Uh but again compli complementing the two uh there can be great exhortation and discipline in the home. Men are accountable to provide for their families. We see that over and over and over in the scriptures. And men are accountable to protect their family. Once again, it it just seems like a natural trait that a man step forward and be the protector. And so we see that as kind of a consistent trait of masculinity in the Bible. Now we looked at last week the feminine traits that weaker physically. Now again, we're saying stronger for men, weaker for women, only because that seems to be a general characteristic or trait that we see uh as a difference between men and women, but it doesn't mean that women are inferior or that men are superior. It just means that this seems to be the pattern. This seems to be the the trait of what masculinity and and femininity are. And so again, I know a lot of women who are much stronger than me and uh can can really beat me up if if they but the issue is is that this just seems to be a characteristic of women um being weaker physically. Um women are more timid against uh adversaries and we saw that in the text where men are again presented almost in a warrior type uh capacity and they want to step forward and deal with these kinds of uh difficulties but women are more timid. Uh women are more compassionate and affectionate to their children. Not that men aren't, but it's just again, this is a a generalized trait that we just seem to we seem to see very evident in uh creation, especially with men and women. And then lastly, uh women are fond of adorning themselves. And this is the positive thing. Again, there's negative in the sense of uh going too far with it, but the issue is is that um I don't know, women seem to be much more conscientious about their their outward physical appearance than men do and that probably is to the shame of men. Um we need to do a much better job at that. I know, exactly. Yeah. Exactly. Um so those are just some general feminine and masculine traits that we see in the scriptures. There's many others. In fact we're going to talk about some more about others, especially in the area of going too far with them. But again, these are just general traits that we see that distinguish men from women. Now uh last week I mentioned the assignment at the end of this particular chapter. Um dealing with a article that John Piper wrote in Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. I don't know, have you guys had a chance to read that? Maybe raise your hand if you've read it. Okay, just a few of you. I'd like to strongly again recommend that you take the time to read it. I'm going to go over some of the principles that John Piper has drawn out regarding this issue today, but just as a reminder that there is so much that the Bible says about masculinity and femininity. And it's truly a remarkable topic if you take the time and delve into it very specifically. And I like the way that Piper addresses it because what he does is he takes this these definitions and he literally tears them apart and takes them phrase by phrase, word by word, and explains why these are true. So to begin with, a biblical description of masculinity and femininity begins with at the heart of masculine or mature m masculinity is a sense of benevolent responsibility to lead, provide for, and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships. And I want to emphasize, I'm not going to talk take too much time on this today, but I want to emphasize that This last phrase in ways appropriate to man's differing relationships is critical because once again w as men being men and exercising mature masculinity, there's a context for which those traits will come out differently in a marriage relationship than they will in a social or working relationship. with someone of the opposite sex. And so the issue here is that we want to be able to exercise mature masculinity men in a way that is appropriate, not inappropriate For example, when we talk about our responsibility to our wives, that doesn't mean we have the same responsibility to every woman out there. There's a differing relationship that's there. And that complementary role that we play together really shows itself in the type of the way masculinity comes out. And likewise, um, at the heart of mature femininity is a freeing disposition to affirm and receive and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men Again, in ways appropriate to a woman's differing relationship. When the Bible says to a woman, Submit to your husband, it doesn't mean that you submit to every other person's husband or every other man, there's a context for that. And that context really provides for an accentuation of what the type of femininity, mature femininity and mature masculinity are able to express themselves. And so again, like we said in the very beginning, the fact that God created man and woman in his likeness, in his image Immediately when Adam and Eve come together in the bonds of marriage, we see how that accentuates the glory of God and reflects accurately what that image and likeness ought to be. And it's really a testimony to the world, as we've discussed. It's a presentation of the gospel, really, to the world. And so, again, when we look at these issues of mature masculinity, mature femininity, and how we express that, we are being a testimony, a witness to God in the world. And so we want to look at it from the appropriate relationships that we have. And that's where complementarianism really shines. And that's why we affirm complementarianism over egalitarianism because egalitarianism doesn't see a difference in roles. relationships. So again, as we talk about this, this article that John Piper wrote, he takes all of this apart and really explains all of the details of these these definitions, these descriptions. And so I want to I want to focus on that this morning with you. So let's start off first of all with the meaning of mature masculinity. This is a a hot topic. It has a tendency to be uh grossly exaggerated, especially in sports and in sometimes the way that men are presented. as opposed to women and it has I think done more to uh really distort God's definition than than what we really ought to know m mature masculinity ought to be. So let's look at some of the principles. And again, I'm going to be referring here to uh Piper's article back in Appendix B. But when we look at mature masculinity, there are some principles, some really defining descriptions that help us understand this. And so number one, mature masculinity expresses itself not in the demand to be served, but in the strength to serve and to sacrifice for the good of women. I love how he outlines that because again, oftentimes when we look at masculinity or we talk about it We talk about it from the perspective of the m of the macho man, the the guy who is the um I don't know, the muscular um guy who's out there ready to fight everybody and to do everything and not let a woman do anything. Um So the issue here is that it's it's not an issue about demanding to be served, that I'm the king of the mountain, the head Head honcho, the big cheese here. It's the issue is is that um I'm understanding my masculinity in such a way as to be a strength to serve and to sacrifice for the good of women, not to press upon them to serve me. Does that make sense So again, there's an issue here with mature masculinity as really an expression of ultimate service. It's an expression of strength. and dignity in a way that helps to lift others up. It's others oriented, not self oriented. So again, a very important statement that's made regarding mature masculinity. Second, mature masculinity does not assume the authority of Christ over women. but advocates it. Once again, there is a there is an authority uh that's given to the man but In the context of relationships and how we function and how we display that masculinity, it is not to lord over. It's not to again um give some sort of an impression that there is this superiority in who I am as a man No, in fact it's quite the opposite. It's really lifting others up once again and advocating for Christ's authority. Once again, we are, especially in a marriage relationship, we are to love our wives as Christ loved the church. Now again, that's the authority. We are submissive to the authority of Christ in how we then display our masculinity in the relationships that we have specifically in the home. And so again, mature masculinity uh really accentuates this idea of advocating for the authority of Christ, not self-authority. Does that make sense So once again this is uh an issue that I think the world has just distorted and perverted in such a gross way that when people look at masculine men, they really have a distorted look uh at men, not a biblical look at men. So we just need to Be aware of that and again embrace that as men in such a way as to display Christ and we are putting him on display, not ourself. Number three, mature masculinity does not presume superiority, but mobilizes the strength of others. Now again, there's an authority that a man has, and we've seen this already in the fact that he's the one that's accountable, he's the one that's supposed to take the lead Um there's an issue of leadership protection that really is inherent in masculinity, but again, it's not to presume superiority over anyone. Instead, it's to mobilize the strength of others. It it's wonderful. I I love the fact that when a decision needs to be made in our home and I make it and I'm unsure whether or not it's the best decision when my wife comes along and says, no, that was a great decision for our family and what a wonderful thing. And I want to follow you Um, that really helps me to understand that I'm functioning in the mature masculinity that God has designed me to be. So it's a wonderful trait, but again, I don't want to presume and neither should any man presume superiority just because they're a man The issue is that we want to be able to lead and mobilize others. What a strength it is for a man to defer, to delegate. to again mobilize in such a way as to empower others to serve and not be served This is a a wonderful trait of a man. And I tell you, women, if you're single here, look for a godly man who will lead, but lead as a servant. That is a treasured thing to find in a man. And what a great thing it is for us as men to again put on display Christ and really live the Christian life the way God has designed it to be. So that idea of mobilizing the strength of others is important. Number four, mature masculinity does not have or does not have to initiate every action, but feels the responsibility to provide a general pattern of initiative. I don't have to be the one every time getting in the car and saying, where do we go to eat? You know, I don't have to make that decision, thankfully. But again, this idea of leading is important. That was a really poor example of this, but it just quickly comes to mind because it happens often. But again, we don't have to initiate every action But we do feel the responsibility to provide the general pattern for initiative. And let me add here too that that feeling of responsibility not to just provide a general pattern of initiative. Really that when others make the decision, when my wife makes the decision, ultimately I want to bear the responsibility for that as well. Um and I've seen this We we've seen this at work in the way that we discipline our children. And in fact I've had to remind our girls you can't you will not divide us. from each other. Um you won't play one against the other. We're a team as we discipline. But also um Again when I remember early on and forgive me for saying this in a way I don't want this to be negative but toward our children but I remember early on there was a situation that happened and I had to confront our girls and say Um, you know, when you respond to your mother this way, uh just keep in mind, that's my wife, and you will not respond to her in that way. That that was an expression of leading, taking responsibility. And again, it was the masculine um trait where I wanted to stand in front of my wife and say even though she may have been the one to exercise the discipline and to give you the instructions, ultimately I'm the one bearing the the responsibility for leadership in that. So if you've got a problem with it, come to me. Don't go to her. Um so Again, this is a very important thing. Men you do not have to initiate every action, every decision, but you do need to take the lead. You do need to bear the responsibility and accountability and again be the man in the relationship. So that's number four Number five, mature masculinity accepts the burden of the final say in disagreements between husband and wife, but does not presume to use it in every instant. Um, this is a really important one because again, uh this has its way of saying that even in the disagreement between husband and wife the man ought to be the one to ultimately take the responsibility for any disagreement or any um issue there. And that could be in the way of saying I'm the one that perhaps caused this argument. I am the one who maybe caused this disagreement and division, and I take responsibility for it. So again, this is a a very important trait in the sense of a man taking accountability, taking responsibility, taking the lead, and again leading by example in the relationship. And again, what a joy it is. to be able to take that lead and then be able to see the restoration and reconciliation take place in such a way as to say, even though we may have misunderstood each other or maybe we were just cat and you know, uh in a cat fight against each other, um ultimately I need to bring a settlement to that disagreement and that issue And uh hopefully it's such in such a way as to strengthen the relationship and not cause more division. So again, very, very important. Number six, mature masculinity expresses its leadership in romantic sexual relations by communicating an aura of strong and tender pursuit. What a joy it is in a marriage relationship for a man to be strong and tender at the same time. Um this is really something that again speaks to the mature masculinity of leading and being accountable and again being responsible for really the care, the tone, the tender and the affection that takes place in it. And it brings I think uh an added benefit to strongly helping the wife feel like, wow, this is a relationship and it's not one-sided. And uh this is very, very important. I'll let you read everything else that John Piper wrote about this, um, but it's a great section in the in his definition and description of mature masculinity. Number seven, mature masculinity expresses itself in a family by taking the initiative in disciplining the children when both parents are present and a family standard has been broken. I already spoke on this in the sense of my own example that ultimately I'm the one to bear the responsibility. But it's not that I have to be the one disciplining all the time In fact, when I'm not home and Sharon is at home, she's the one responsible for disciplining. But when Dad gets home, he takes responsibility. And I remember this from my own dad. In fact I remember one time, I'm gonna be a little transparent here, but my brother and I made my mom very upset one time. And that was a no-no uh for us. And uh dad came home, found my mom crying And he appropriately disciplined us. And uh and I say appropriately because it's something I will never forget. Um from that moment on I knew we do not make mom upset because dad will intervene. Dad will step in. And uh I saw his masculinity put on full display that day when he disciplined us. And it was good. It was hard. But it was good And uh again, I'll never forget it. So, men, if you're in a marriage relationship and you have a family and you're raising kids Just remember, this is a mature masculine trait to take responsibility and and be accountable ultimately for the discipline of your children. But let me encourage you, do it as a team with your wife. uh don't be at odds with each other when you do it. So but very important uh expression of mature masculinity Number eight, mature masculinity is sensitive to cultural expressions of masculinity and adapts to them where no sin is involved. in order to communicate to a woman that a man would like to relate not in any aggressive or perverted way, but with maturity and dignity as a man. Um we live in a culture today where there is becoming more and more the professional woman who is going to be working outside the home and has to engage and interact with men and men you have to inter interact with women. There are appropriate boundaries, but there are appropriate relations that can really accentuate this idea of masculinity, mature masculinity, and mature femininity. The issue is that we want to be able to have that kind of working or social relationship. that really accentuates this difference between us, but in a way that glorifies God. We do not want to cross any boundaries We don't want we don't want there to be any inappropriateness to the relationship, especially if you are married and you can be communicating something in an inappropriate way Um, you just don't want to go there. I remember there was an article that uh Randy Alcorn read or wrote on the issue of winning the battle of sexual purity And in it he gave an example where he as a pastor was counseling a woman and he didn't realize but in the actions and the um Just the actions of how he was conducting himself, he was communicating something to this gal that was not appropriate, and she was taking it as flirtatious And when he realized it, which was pretty early on, he immediately put a stop to it and got a woman involved to counsel her rather than himself. Because he realized at that particular time he himself wasn't thinking that this was fertile or that this was out of bounds, but he just realized in the way that she was responding to him that he needed to put a stop to it And I really appreciated that example because that's something that you have to be aware of. You have to be proactive about. You can't be reactive about it Uh you can't wait for the trouble to come. You need to anticipate that there's going to be this confusion in our culture. And so how can I be thoughtful and uh again responsible in how I express my mature masculinity in such a way as to communicate accurately without sin um what it means to be a man, but again, uh do it in an appropriate relationship. So this is really, really important. And just to stop here for a moment, any comments or any thoughts on this? Because I know that this is an issue that every man in the working world is going to experience and deal with. I had a job at a hospital uh working in the laboratory there and my two supervisors over me were women. Thankfully they were very good leaders. Um but again one of them I would say was just a little bit older than me, and yet she was my supervisor. And I really had to to look at this in terms of a new way of looking at it because I had always had a man as a supervisor or a boss over me and for the first time I had two women and it was challenging for me um but at the same time it was wonderful to see these ladies um exercise good leadership in the department and I really appreciated it. But again, I had to ask myself, okay, what's appropriate for me as a man And uh how can I submit as a as an underworker, um, an employee, but at the same time take the lead on if there was an issue that came and mass my masculine trait needed to stand out. So but very, very important. So any comments? Boy, you guys are easy. All right. Um I think that was the last one of the mature masculinity. There's a nine and one. Is there? Oh, there's the nine one, thank you. Um mature masculinity recognizes that the call to leadership is a call to repentance and humility and risk taking. Um I think too often men are hesitant To say they're wrong. They're hesitant to quickly repent, hesitant to be humble, and sometimes hesitant to be risk takers. We need to Turn the tide on that men. We need to again see mature masculinity as a call to leadership, that it's a call to repentance, humility, risk taking. It's really a call to lead by service and example, rather than, again, I'm right, they're wrong. So very, very important to look at. So these are some of the ways in which mature masculinity can express itself. These are ways that again help to bring strength to us as men and the expression of again as male being created in the image and likeness of God. And so these are things that we need to take to heart. And I would encourage you to read the article again because he goes into detail on each one of these. So but very, very important Let's talk now about mature femininity. Boy, that is a hard word for me. I don't think it's because I'm a man. I just think I'm tripping over the words. But Again. Alright, um mature femininity. Um I'm gonna lead read through these and I know that I'm going to stumble over this word femininity, so just uh give me some grace. Uh forgive me if I do that. But mature femininity refers not to what sin has made of womanhood or what particular opinion makes of it, but what God willed for it to be at its best. Once again, the culture today is is really turning around but a turning turning around in a I think uh not a positive way but it used to be that we're women were really looked down upon They were it's sin had somehow in the culture infused this idea that women are inferior. And the reason why I say that is because if you go into the history of the first century, when the gospel was starting to spread, you see very dramatically how women were treated in the first century. They were no better than the animals that were out there. And they were really looked down upon. They were made to be inferior in class and in actions and relationships and it really was a detriment um and a a perversion of God's create created order but also um the way women were created in the image of God. And so when here Christ comes along and preaches the gospel, and Paul begins to say that in Christ there is neither male nor female. That was a shocking statement in the first century That was something that really turned the world upside down. Women began to be seen as co-heirs with men in the gospel. They were treated with dignity. And that was at the uh that was at odds with again the culture at the time. And that culture continued for A thousand years, fifteen hundred years. And then again not coming into not before coming into uh really our era did we really see that being switched around. And now, you know, with the women's liberation movement in the sixties, um there was a radical uh response to this issue and it was just a distorted response. It was a perversion in the opposite direction. And so even today, especially with um you know, a c the economy with uh pay, with all of the different ways in which uh women have been suppressed or again made to seem inferior, there just seems to be this radical change in the culture that I believe is not biblical. And so here again what sin has made of womanhood and what popular opinions have made, God willed for it to be at its best. And I like the way that Piper says this because God's will was to see true femininity, true mature femininity be something of a complement. not at odds with masculinity. And so this is where we need to see mature femininity expressed that it's a complement, not an opposition. Does that make sense? So once again, this is this is an issue where uh for so long um There's been a distortion between the understandings of what true masculinity and true femininity are. And we need to look at what the Bible says about true femininity. And again, support that, encourage that, and understand that God wants the best for that. So number two, mature femininity is a disposition rather than a set of behaviors or roles because it will express itself in so many different ways depending on the situation. Um just a comment on the notes. Piper didn't lay them out this way with one, two, three, four all the way on. These are things that I just saw in the way that he was describing uh biblical femininity, mature femininity, and I pulled these principles out. So there won't be a list of these like this in the notes. You're just going to see them all throughout it. But again, it's a disposition rather than a set of behaviors or roles because it will express itself in so many different ways depending on the situation. Once again, women, you um can express a distinct mature femininity in a husband and wife relationship very different than a working relationship with a man. And so depending on the different situations there will be different behaviors and different roles. And again w seeing this disposition come out in these various roles and behaviors is tremendous. I love it. I love seeing a woman who again is confident of her femininity and is able to express it in such a way that she can lead but also submit at the same time. And it is great to be able to see that So just consider again it's more of a disposition than a behavior or role that you play Number three, mature femininity is rooted in a commitment to Christ as Lord and is discerning in what it approves. Um this is very important. I I can't remember if Piper draws this out, but this is very important because in a husband and wife wife relationship There is an issue of the woman again submitting to her husband, but where sin is involved, there's clearly a distinction of being able to say, I won't submit. I can't submit And the reason is it's because Christ is Lord. In a situation where a man is asking a woman to do something that is unbiblical or um or perhaps sinful, then a woman has every right. The wife has every right to say, I will not submit. And this was really interesting. It was made clear to us early on where we had um counseled and again had uh uh a counseling type relationship with some wives who are believers and the husbands weren't And some of the husbands were saying, we don't want our wives our wife to go to the ch go to church. We don't want them to go in fellowship with other believers. And we had to tell the wife that is unbiblical. Your submission is to the Lord, to Christ before your husband. Now again, where you can live with your husband in such a way as to be an example of Christ to him, do that But where he is asking you to do something that is unbiblical, you have every right to say, I can't do that. Do it in a respectful, loving, gracious way, but firm. I can't do that I I must honor the Lord. And ultimately that's what's at play here. And we see this very clearly in Ephesians 5, because again, the wife is to submit to her husband as again the church submits to Christ. So the issue is that your submission to your husband is a display of really what the church ought to do in general. um that Christ is Lord. He's the He's the Lord of the church. Um but again where there's sin that could possibly compromise that, women, you have every right to be discerning in those situations and to say no. But again, not disrespectfully, not not blatantly rebelliously, but affirm I love you too much not to do this. I must do this. And I and I I really am convinced that if a woman can be a godly example to her husband There's an accommodation that will be made. Um, and hopefully, Lord willing, it would win the husband to Christ. Um and again, this is where mature femininity is able to distinguish and discern that. So it's rooted in a commitment to Christ as Lord. And I love that because ultimately that's As Sharon and I talk about these kinds of issues, I try to encourage you. Your total and number one submission is to the Lord, not to me. But I want to do everything I can as your husband to encourage you to be submitted to the Lord. And likewise she encourages the same for me. But this is very important because there's going to come times where you're going to wonder, what do I do in this situation where I'm at odds. Be discerning. Seek counsel. And ask godly men and women to help you to distinguish what is the right choice to be made. But ultimately keep in your mind that your commitment is to Christ as Lord. Mature femininity feels natural and glad to accept the strength and the leadership of worthy men I think there's something really important about that word worthy in here. Once again, as men lead in strength and dignity and leadership and and really display Christ uh in the relationship there is this natural and glad acceptance of this from a mature feminine woman. Um so again this is This is where there should be this natural, oh, I know exactly how I need to respond in this. I know exactly what kind of trait I need or or disposition I need to have in this relationship because again I'm seeing the complementary role that we're expressing together So again, mature femininity feels this natural and gladness to accept the strength and leadership of worthy men. Again, there there's in the relationship, especially husband and wife, there can be these tendencies to for the women to think, I know better than my husband. or I can make a better decision here. But when you're seeing a man express his mature masculinity in strength and leadership and dignity in the relationship, there is a sense of calmness, of security. of assurance that I can be the woman that God has made me to be without without being tempted to lord it over my husband. And that's ultimately where the wife ought to be And likewise in working or social relationship there can be these expressions as well. So again discernment is needed, but also looking for what is truly a masculine man or a feminine woman. Number five, um mature femininity senses a responsibility not merely to receive but to nurture and to strengthen the resources of masculinity. This again really speaks to the issue of the complementary role between men and women. Again, if you if we understand that mature masculinity and femininity is a disposition, then given the relationships, the roles that we engage in, we will know how best to respond in there and for the woman not merely to receive, but to nurture and strengthen the resources of the masculine man I love it when Sharon comes to me and says, um, thank you for your leadership. Thank you for making the decision in this in this situation. Thank you for for risk taking, going out and doing this and bearing the responsibility of this as my as your as her husband, but also father and a man in this situation and and she comes along and is able to nurture that. I feel much more confident in my risk taking and my strength and leadership when she does that Um but again it's it's wonderful that in that encouragement, in that exhortation, or again that complementary role that she plays, I really begin to see what it means to be a masculine man. And I also see very distinctly her being a mature feminine woman. And I'm so thankful for it. Remember, the the curse of sin and the fall has really distorted all of this and it can cause us to react in a very negative, distorted way unless we are keeping in mind uh what God has designed us to be and uh ultimately made us to be So once again this this issue number five really speaks of the complementary um role that we play together Number six, mature femininity does not express itself in the same way toward every man. We've talked about this, but rather mature femininity will seek to express itself in appropriate ways. That is, there is a difference in the expression mature femininity between a husband and wife and a workplace association. We talked about this already, but again Mature femininity does not express itself in the same way in every relationship with every man. And a mature woman will know that. She'll know the boundaries and will act on them appropriately. And you know when we use the word mature and mature femininity and mature masculinity, at the heart of it it's biblical um masculinity, it's biblical femininity. So it's the issue of being discerning again Being who you are, comfortable in your own flesh, understanding that God has designed you to be the person that you are made to be and appropriately responding to relationships in that mature biblical position So once again, it's really important for us individually to grasp, to understand, to be again So glad that God has made me to be the person that He's made me to be, and this is my God ordained disposition to somebody who is of the opposite sex. And this is how I need to respond. If you can have that clarity, boy I tell you, it will help you tremendously when trouble comes along. When there's an inappropriateness that starts to happen, you will know when to say no. You will know when to flee. Um Any kind of immorality. But again, the issue here is that there's this this recognition and understanding of this difference So, mature femininity does not express itself in the same way toward every man. Number well, the bottom line. So the bottom line is, and I'm going to go back to again Piper's description here, but the bottom line is really this At the heart of mature biblical masculinity is a sense of benevolent responsibility to lead provide for and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships. At the heart of mature biblical femininity is a freeing disposition to affirm, receive, and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men in ways appropriate to a woman's differing relationship. Again, I really appreciate the way that Piper has laid this out because once again these are appropriate words These are thoughtful words. These are words that we really should meditate on, that we should take to heart. And again, understand that as God has designed us to reflect His image and His likeness in the world, this is how we need to appropriately, again, live this out. Be descriptive of what true masculinity and true biblical femininity is. And once again, if you see these in a person Um it really is an encouragement. You want to follow these kind of people, do you not? Uh this is the kind of uh disposition, this is the kind of action. Um that in express is expressed in different roles where you see that that person is confident about themselves and they know They know who leads them, they know who they are to submit to, they know how to appropriately follow the Lord and live and be an example of true godliness. And this is where, again, if we can take these to heart, this is the kind of person that God has made us to be uh men and women. And what's again wonderful is if you take these two together and you see whether it be a a husband and wife relationship or maybe just a workplace social relationship. When you see these two things work together, you begin to see The gospel being proclaimed in an accurate way. You begin to see how Christ is being honored. God is being glorified in these relationships. Um it's there's there's nothing inappropriate about the relationships. There's something completely appropriate about it. So this is huge. And I think this is at the heart really of what true biblical manhood and womanhood is. Because this goes down to your core. This goes down to who you are as a person who is the image bearer of the one that created you. And so once again, if you're a man, you're a man. If you're a woman, you're a woman. And together you're a testimony to the glory of God in the world And what a testimony it is to an unbelieving world. They're going to look at you so strangely. Why aren't you fighting for your rights? Why aren't you again deferring more? They're going to look at you and start to badmouth you. They're going to start to look at you and say, you're hindering our progress and the cultural change that we're trying to make. No, I'm trying to present the gospel. This is about changing people. It's not about changing the culture. Again, this is about us reflecting the glory of God in such a way that Christ is honored and seen in such a very vivid way in our relationships. And again, if you are married and you have children, what a testimony this is to your children. They are going to grow up and to know with confidence what a man is and what a woman is And to see that growth take place in their life, wow, that's going to be a tremendous testimony. So once again Very, very important. So before we get into the distortions of this or you know the balancing act, um any comments on these? So I like the bottom line, the fact that if you look at both quotes here, you see um certain words stand out to me that marry these these two together um a benevolence on the man's part and a nurture on the woman's part. But it leaves a question and that says that a worthy man, who is worthy Someone who's benevolent, someone who's looking to provide, to protect, and to lead in that regard. So that way she kind of yields to him and she affirms his masculinity. It's like a complete picture. It is And and like where you're going now, I know you're talking about the bad parts of it, but it's like this is the actual complete picture. And I think a lot of times, um, marriages that are healthy They're patterning their self activists, not even having this full context because it's kind of natural they move into you as they as they grow in Christ. It's like I want to be benevolent, I want to protect, I want to provide The wife comes and says, I want to be nurturing. I want to, you know, respect, honor my husband, and kind of work along with the kids in the program that we've decided to work together with. So I think this particular thing, I'm glad you quoted it quite a few times in here, because it kind of sticks with you, but that's a couple of main words to stand out. Benevolence And what man is worthy to in nurture. Yeah. Sure. I love the fact I could just use the word yield. driving, you know, lesson. What are the things we feel in a driving situation and one of the daughters answered is to give the right of way And I love that. So if we as women are yielding to the men, can we lead and provide and protect? We can. But we're yielding that right of way to the men because God's designed them to do it so well Yeah. And so I love that you use that word because it is it is a yielding for the good of both. Yeah. And because of God's design. Uh we had a friend, this is many, many years ago, um, I met with him and he was looking at the possibility of getting married. And I remember when I met with him, we were in some sort of coffee shop and he pulled out this paper and it had like I want to say twenty-five to thirty issues or things that he was looking for in a wife. Oh man, it was bad. It was really bad. It was so much external um behavioral type things and I looked at him and I said, uh you're not gonna find that woman. Um Is he married now? He is. He is. And uh To my understanding he's in a very happy relationship. And I think he's actually serving the Lord as a missionary. Um But we had a very heart to heart talk and I had to have him tear up the list. Um but I wish at the time I would have had this. Look at this mature femininity and that's the kind of wife you want to look for. Likewise, counseling an unmarried woman, look for this in a man. And if you can see this, this is the kind of man you want to marry. Um but this is just a very simple description, but comprehensive in the sense of really filling in all the gaps of of what a person ought to be. You're not you're not targeting specific behavioral behavior issues or or external looks. You're much more focused on the person as a whole And this is such a wonderful thing. So I want to encourage those of you men who are married here today, um, be this kind of man to your wife in the most godly Christ honoring way that you possibly can. And women, if you're married, be this to your man. And Again, this kind of balance, this this complementary enroll that you have together will be such a godly example to your children and also to the people that are around you. But if you're not married Keep this in mind as you again look for a spouse. But even if you don't look for a spouse Focus on the the description that is clear for you. Be this um to to Christ's honor. Because this again is where you're going to shine forth the gospel in its strongest way. People will look at you and they'll see that you are different. And you can give honor to Christ. Point to Christ. I'm this way because of Christ. Um, again, just take this to heart All right, let's jump into uh going back to your notes. Um I think this is on page um Page uh eighteen. But here are some general observations about the complementarian nature of masculinity and femininity. I'm just going to go through this pretty quickly because you got it there in your notes. But again, if you go down the center, the context, communication, sense of worth, work, initiative, solving problems, social interactions There is a balance that needs to take place that is real complementary between um feminine and masculine tendencies. So if you look just to the right and just to the left This is how they we can complement each other. So if you look at the positive feminine tendencies under the issue of communication, there's a real personal nature that goes on between a between a husband and wife or even in the social context. where a woman shares personally. Now again, the positive masculine tendency is to say it's substantive is not to say that a woman isn't substantive either, but it's just the focus of a communication seems to be on uh for a man facts. For a woman it's more relationship. And so when this is complemented together, there can be some really good conversation that takes place in communication. Likewise, well The opposite extremes are a man can be rash and this is my way, so you know, this is how it needs to happen, and this is the way it is. Um whereas a woman can say, I'm not gonna have that, I'm just gonna go talk to my group of women and be more chatty and gossipy. And what ends up happening, uh the not all the time, this is just a general observation, but uh because of the personal nature of communication, if a woman is is is not self-disciplined, there can be this um allowing for the tongue to get out of control and to maybe say something that you would regret about your husband or regret about your family or etc And so we just need to be careful that in the area of communication we can be in a sinful way go to extremes that would again put us at odds and far from the person that we're really wanting to have a good, meaningful communication with. So I love the fact that again, men have a tendency to to state facts um to be much more um again the word substantive here that let's just get down to w exactly what the issue is um and talk about it where a woman wants to be much more relational. And I tell you in our relationship uh with Sharon and I This uh oftentimes will come out, but it's a reminder to me that as her husband I need to recognize and give her the freedom to be able to be much more personal, to talk more from the issue of a personal perspective rather than more of a facts or um issue perspective. And likewise she's trying to understand me. I can be pretty uh misunderstood um only because of myself. Um but the issue is is that when we see this happen between us, it's such a compliment. Um sense of worth Um, guys find their sense of worth in doing. We want to be doing stuff. We want to get out there and give me a job, give me a purpose, give me a Give me a goal. Um let me uh I it's funny. I'll go to the store and I'll use hunting terms uh for sharing. I need to just go in, I need to just kill it, bag it. Uh get it home and eat it. And that's sometimes even clothes shopping. Um so it's just funny. Um I just I gotta give me a goal and let me get in there, get it done and get home. uh whereas sharing it's being. We want to be there. We want to we want to just enjoy the experience. And uh I love that at times. Um but I've got to be more careful more um comfortable with it Um, but it is wonderful. It's wonderful to see they're they're taking time to look at things. The other day Uh I haven't talked to Sharon about this one, but we went uh grocery shopping and or we were gonna go grocery shopping and I asked her, I said, Do you want me to come with you? No, I don't because I wanna take my time and I wanna you know, I just wanna look and I thought, yep, she does. Um so it's probably good that I don't go because I don't want to be a problem to her. Um But again, this can have its opposite extremes as well. A woman can, in a negative way, can become self-conscious about her wanting to just be in the moment and um and start to wonder. You know, everything from the external to the internal. Be self conscious about that. Um guys, we can be too impersonal. And this is this is huge for guys. Um we're right now talking and trying to understand how we can cultivate an a an atmosphere and an environment here at uh Hope Bible Church where guys can be much more personal, where they can start to interact in a personal way, a being way. Um Be comfortable with being transparent and vulnerable. Um don't be so impersonal. How's the weather? You know, what did you what did you do this last week? I just want to hear the facts. Don't give me all the all the details. We need to be much more vulnerable with each other And uh so we're trying to look at ways that we can create a sense of atmosphere here at Hope Bible Church where we can truly get into each each other's lives and encourage each other. But the sense of worth is huge because again, um guys it's great that we have a sense of doing and and wanting to get things done but We want to just be careful to let that go too far to the impersonal. And women, we want you to be comfortable with who you are and being in the moment, sharing personally but not getting so far out that you become self conscious about questioning maybe what you're doing and how you're doing it. Um so This is really important to kind of stay within the boundaries here. Work. Guys want to create, they want to conquer. Ladies generally maintain, persevere. So get too far out, guys. We get so uncomfortable with not finishing we we want to do stuff that we don't finish the task that we need to do. That's why the honeydew list gets longer and longer. Um that's Something we need to be mindful of. And uh and women worrying, anxious thoughts. Um we don't want to go too far with these things. Don't want to get out of balance. If a guy is not finishing tasks or he's not doing what God has designed him to be and having that compulsion to want to to want to be a provider Um, that can breed a real sense of insecurity in the woman, in the wife. And uh we just need to be mindful of that Initiative. Guys are leaders, women are helpers. Helper taken too far can be a nager because the guy is not leading. And then the too far for the guy is an aggressor. being too much of, you know, again, um demanding rashness, etcetera. So we don't want to initiate aggression in in the relationship. Um or in our disposition, but we want to be more of a gentle, tender, again, strong leader. Uh likewise helper doesn't mean that a woman is inferior, it just means she needs to she needs to see how she can be receptive of a man's leadership while at the same time supporting and encouraging that um and not become the nager. Solving problems. Guys like to be logical in solving problems, especially if you're an engineer. Women are more intuitive. There's this sense of, you know, I'm comfortable with us kind of working through this and and and feeling it through. I'm using a lot of personal examples here, but there was one day when I came home and Sharon had a sledgehammer in her hand And I said, Well what are you doing with that? She goes, You know, I d I just really think if we take out this wall it'll it'll be good. And I had to say, Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. Um that's uh that could be a load bearing wall So we need to be careful about that. Um but no, it was it was one of those things. I'm exaggerating. I'm being a little bit hyperbolic here, but um but no, it was one of those things where she was looking at wanting to improve a room and I was putting it I was um deferring and uh procrastinating is the much better word. And Sharon said, No, this is time this This needs to happen. And uh it w it needed to happen. So but guys, in our logicalness, we can be overly dogmatic about certain things and then be totally wrong in it And so we need to be very careful about solving problems. Communication is good in solving problems. Social interactions. Guys are competitive, are we not? Um even when we don't think we're being competitive, we're being competitive. Um women are much more cooperative Sometimes guys need to be much more cooperative and sometimes ladies need to exercise a little competitiveness here. Um but these are good things. I I'm I'm characterizing them in a positive way because if you take it to its extreme in social interactions guys are like winning at all costs. And I tell you, it's it's not a fun thing to get together with a bunch of guys watching a football uh match and seeing guys who are like devoted loyal fans start to really get upset at the other guys in the room because, you know, um their team's losing. So we need to be very careful of how we express our competitiveness. It's a positive trait for guys, but it can be a really negative one Likewise women, cooperative, you can be a people pleaser. And you could end up going too far and uh demonstrating people pleasing in a negative way. So Again, this is something that we just need to be mindful of. There's a balance. So going back to the initiative, I think one of the negative aspects that probably could have been added to that Um aggressive is passive. And then Yeah. In this day and age you find a guy who's passionate who just does nothing. Yeah. And so he's not it's gonna create more nagging, right? Definitely help him because He's not doing anything. Definitely. Yeah. And you're looking at it's like hmm and on the opposite of initiative you can have a a woman be like a floor mat. You know? Yeah um just totally disengaged and more of just receiving the negative example of the husband. So yeah. Definitely. Thank you. Alright. Um sense of beauty. Guys are more functional. We want to get the working boots on. coveralls, the um Carhartt shirts. I was in a trend of buying those just because they were comfortable. But boy I tell you it communicated the wrong message to certain people. But guys are functional. Um sense of beauty, women have a tendency to camp on form and I I don't want to say that in a negative way. That That is wonderful. Um th that's a positive thing. But taking too far, again for women it can become superficial. That it is all the external. And that's not that's not right Um but for guys, we can be blind to it. And there's some guys that need to take a shower. There's some guys that need to put on really nice clothes. They need to learn to dress a little bit better. Um This is just one of those things where we just need to understand our complementary roles together and I tell you seeing uh a guy who takes the lead and and really is a a functional guy in the sense of wanting to get things done and you know, dressing in such a way that accentuates masculinity, uh, women are attracted to that. Likewise men are attracted to women who uh focus on the right ways of um stating their outward appearance. So but we just need to be very, very careful. Emotions. Positive for men, controlled. Oftentimes we are the calm in the midst of the storm, which is good for a woman. Women are transparent. Um and that's such a beautiful thing. I love that. Um but taken to the its extreme, guys can be hardened and completely non emotional and there's there's a an issue there that might come up later. Um you know that um socially might socially, emotionally, psychologically can be a can be a detriment. And uh likewise for women uh in emotions w they can be much more reactive um rather than transparent. Duty, um guys want to provide, protect. That's a distinctly masculine trait. Women, nurture. It's a distinctly natural and um important trait, feminine trait. Taken too far, women can be protective and controlling um and women are men can be workaholics. Um again, you see the distinction here, but taking to the extreme, again you start to see how the complementary nature starts to divide and it becomes much more combative than really uh positive. In terms of vision, um guys look like oftentimes like to see the big picture Um women take a focus on the details. That's a good thing. Uh but taken to its extreme, guys can become dreamers. Um I want that boat, I want that new house, I want that, etc. And uh It's out of their reach. It shouldn't be something that you're striving for. Um be careful with the toys that we have, men, because uh again that can really speak to the disengagement with your wife and your children, your family. Women uh vision their details, but they can become nitpicky, almost to the point of being indecisive. and when decisions need to be made. Um physique. Um guys oftentimes show their strength by what they look like on the outside, their physique. Um taken to it ex its extreme, especially if you work out, you can become prideful about your body. Prideful about your physique. And uh likewise women. They the positive is beauty. Um they want to s they want to be a beautiful person. Um but taken to its extreme, it can become vain. It can become too external And again, that's not the kind of example or um trait that you want to demonstrate before each other. And then love Love. Guys is sacrificial. Women tenderness. Wow, that is such a wonderful compliment between men and women. But taken too far, women can become seductive and men can lust. And again, we w don't want love to be distorted, especially godly love. Um the kind of love that God loved us is the kind of love that we want to have for one another. Um husbands, love your wives like Christ loved the church. How was that? He gave his life up for the w for his bride. Likewise, women, when you love and you you express that tenderness to your husbands, um, that's something that can really draw the husband in. And really um express and become an attractive feature in a relationship, especially as you move on in years, as you grow and you change and your physique changes. Um this kind of love is much more comprehensive rather than external. So Alright, those are the extremes, but again, the issue here is that these are general observations about the complementarian nature of masculinity and femininity. The next section that we're going to get into it has to deal with the roles in marriage. And so we'll talk about that next week. But Any comments before we leave? All right. Let me go ahead and close in prayer then. Father, thank you so much for this time today and we thank you for the opportunity to discuss these issues. We just pray that Lord, you would help us to take them to heart, to understand them biblically, and to really use them as an opportunity to point people to Christ. I thank you for the way that you've made us. I thank you for how you have designed us to be. I thank you for the traits, the characteristics, the internal and external um dispositions that you have given to us and Lord we want to be a light to the world so help us to be the best man, best woman that we can be. Beginning especially for those who are married in their relationships at home May you strengthen their relationship together as husband and wife, and may it be a testimony to all of us. And Lord, likewise, for those who are unmarried, I pray that we would be uh again looking at these traits as ways of demonstrating true Christ likeness uh to the world. And thank you for once again creating us male and female, man and woman, so that socially we can interact together, be an encouragement to one another, to complement each other. and ultimately to once again enjoy the fellowship that we have as believers in Christ Jesus. I thank you for this and help us again to be able to talk to family, friends, neighbors, co-workers about these kinds of issues so that we can point people to Christ. We thank you again for this and we pray in Christ's name. Amen.