And then we'll jump into it. Heavenly Father, we do not take for granted uh that we are here this morning. By your design, by your sovereignty, we rejoice in the assembly of your church, uh especially your local church here at uh Hope Bible Church. And we're just grateful that we get to spend time together fellowshipping and worshiping you this morning. May you Receive all the glory, do your name. We pray for wisdom and discernment about this very important topic of reconciliation You made us as relational people, and especially within the church, we want to work to demonstrate Christ in our lives and in the church. And so have give us minds that are open, hearing, and let us be doers of the word. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we are on uh page sixty-five on the topic of confrontation. What did you talk about? So two weeks ago we talked about forgiveness. Do you remember the the two types of forgiveness we talked about? What's that vertical one called? We're failing as teachers and instructors. Oh blame it on the blame it on absencee. Wait, last week was bitterness. Right, so two weeks ago, sorry, two weeks ago we talked about forgiveness. What were the the two kind of directions, if you will? Vertical and horizontal, that's all you gotta remember, but uh vertical is that what, that relationship with God, and the a lot of people call it attitudinal So you are you are saying in my heart, right, your attitude is I'm going to give this over to God. That's irrespective of what's happening with the other person. That is a critical first step. Right? Is to give that over to God. And then you start working on the transaction over that horizontal forgiveness. And there's a lot of complexities to that But one of the the dangers we talked about of not doing that first step, that vertical step, is what? What you studied last week. Bitterness. Bitterness. It so quickly seeps in, doesn't it? Right? And so just I I want to read um the beginning of last week's um lesson because I think it's important. One of the most common attendant sins in conflict is bitterness. If anger is a flash of the pan, strong but temporary, bitterness is the simmering pot. It's always there, it can boil over any time. Bitterness is what we feel when someone sins against us Whether that sin is real or imagined. In other words, bitterness is what we feel when we think someone is getting in the way of my happiness. Right? It comes back to us in our selfish heart. That's why I keep harping on it. It's all this this biblical reconciliation is all about the heart, our heart attitude, and how we respond. Bitterness is a root which, if not dealt with biblically, will grow fruit And then you talked about several types of fruit impatience, irritability, explosive anger, malice, disrespect, jealousy, depression, rebellion, suspicion, assuming the worst about others. Have any of you been there? Right? Often. Often. And that's what we have to battle. That's why that first step of attitudal forgiveness is so important. And then you talk about six principles to kill the root of bitterness. Meditate on the enormity of God's love displayed in the cross. And that's why I often um in these equipping classes start with our objective is to create a really high view of God, right? Really understand the totality of his attributes, who he is, and what he has done for us. So meditating on the enormity of God's love. Meditate on your desperate need for God's forgiveness, right? Meditate on the ultimate need for God's mercy. Meditate on God's role and yours. Meditate on the dual nature of the offender's sin. Their sin is more against God than it is against you. And then meditate on your own fallibility. Who's the focus in a lot of these meditations? God for sure, but yourself. Right? Yourself and your heart attitude and your relationship with God. So that's where it all starts guys. And you're gonna see today, even in this idea of confrontation, that again, it is a lot of preparatory work in yourself before you start the actual confrontation. Alright, so that's what I want you to take away with today. And you'll see a little bit of preview of what we're doing here. And really the way I want you to think about this And it's there's a great chart in this pamphlet if you haven't grabbed this yet. And you can't see it, but there's a nice, I'll call it a meter in the middle Right? And think of that as the spectrum of conflict. And it can range from hey, I'm going to overlook that offense We're going to talk about that. That's actually the default response. But there are times when you know kidding need to rebuke. We're going to see that we're instructed to do that. How do you know which one to do? Right? That's what we're going to talk a little bit about today, the discernment of when do you overlook and when do you reprove, when do you rebuke. All right, so we'll cover these topics today So it's basically going to walk through eight questions that are going to give us some wisdom, discernment, kind of a framework. It's not meant to be a checklist per se. but a framework that you can go through when when that time comes when no kidding um a confrontation needs to happen. So it starts with the very first question, is rebuking even an option for a gracious, loving follower of Jesus. Yes. Um yeah, I got also where did you get that act from? I want to know if I can where Amy go I don't know if she has any uh extra. Oh this pamphlet? Yeah. Yeah. Do you know where our counseling rooms are? Up front by the admin office. I'll show you afterwards. I just want to take a picture of it. You can. No, I'm talking about that. Oh, gotcha. Tell you what, I'll just hand it to you But I'll meet a vacuator. It's only to take about two seconds. Alright, so eight quite so the qu first question is hey, we're loving people. Can we even do rebuke confrontation Absolutely. Right, um I love the passage we've covered this before and it's in your notes here. Luke seventeen three. Be on your guard If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. So we talked about this verse before about yes, you are to forgive. But Jesus starts with, if your brother sins, rebuke him. So absolutely that is part of the equation at being a Christian and being a part of a universal church and then a local church. I wanted to read the opening of uh the resource that we have here. There but there is one ministry word that few people warm up to. We don't enjoy doing it and we don't enjoy receiving it. It's Rebuke. Stop and think about the last time, if ever someone asked you to lunch to rebuke you. It's hard. It is very hard. Contrast our aversion to rebuke with the way God's Word commends us it Jesus equates it with love. Those whom I love I rebuke in discipline. See that in Revelations. Our Lord expresses true love for his people through caring confrontation. So it is absolutely demonstrated by Jesus Christ when he was here on this earth, and it is something we are commanded to do. We'll cover a couple of these passages here. Because sin distorts, deceives, and destroys, the most gracious, loving thing we can do is follow Jesus and helping people see where they are at odds with God and others. And we're going to talk a bit more about kind of the motivation, if you will, for rebuke. We know that Jesus rebuked obviously the religious leaders, the disciples, and believers in several passages there, if you want to go back and look at those, as well as the demons. However, we are admonished, we are commanded to admonish, reprove, and rebuke others out of love for Christ. That's our motivation. The purity of the church, right? Defending the faith, defending the church And love for the sinner. So it goes back to what? The heart attitude. I'll cover just some of the highlights here. Second Timothy, all scriptures inspired by God and profitable teaching for what? For reproof, for correction. for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. You see again the motivation there. So the man of God, the people of God, may be adequate, equipped to do the will of God. Again, 2 Timothy 4. Preach the word, be ready in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction. So you see some of the methodology there. It's always of grace And with love. We're going to see that in a minute. Yeah, let let's skip. I just read Luke 17, but let's skip to 2 Timothy 5. Do not receive an accusation against an elder except on the basis of two or three witnesses. Those who continue in sin, who's the those? 2 Timothy 5, 19 through 20. Do not receive an accusation against the elder except on the basis of two or three witnesses. Those who continue in sin Who's for those? Elders. Right? This is for elders and pastors as well. Church leadership are also to be held accountable. Now there's a way to do it, right? To be careful, do it with two or three witnesses. But even in this case, it's more of an open rebuke so that all will see, right, and and have the fear of the Lord. So pretty serious stuff. And then in Titus I, one of themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans will all are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. This testimony is true. For this reason, reprove them severely, so that they may be sound in the faith. So let me ask you, um, who is the author of Timothy and Titus? Paul, of course. Um Second Timothy, when was that written? In in Paul's kind of uh chronological order, if you will It was the last letter. And he if you remember, he was in prison. There was actually two times he was in prison. The first one was more of like a house arrest. We had a lot more freedom. That's when First Timothy was written, and Titus And then 2 Timothy was written in the second time when he was in prison, and this was like a a dungeon cave. And when you get put in there, you know that's the end. That's it. So that was his last letter. And here's what he's writing about, right? I think that's telling. He's so concerned about encouraging Timothy and Titus. They must take the baton and carry on. build the churches, establish churches, establish leadership, but also here's some very practical um instruction for them and for us on how we are to treat each other within the body of Christ. Alright? And part of that is to rebuke. Alright, any questions on that? Yes. What if we would To rebuke, to reprove, um to Identify that someone has sinned against God's instructions, God's word. And so you are lovingly coming. Great question. You are lovingly coming to them in the framework of the Bible to confront that person. And we're going to talk a little bit about why. Why would you do that? Okay? Great question. Thank you. All right. Question number two. We covered this. All right, question number two. What are the wrong ways to handle the overlook abuses? rebuke dilemma. And again, this is where we need a lot of wisdom, if you're on that spectrum, to know when to overlook and when to rebuke. God calls us to overlook or minimize someone's offense. Overlooking, of course, does not mean denial. To overlook means recognizing that a sin has been committed but choosing to forgive that sin attitudinally and to absorb the consequences. Do you understand some of the nuances there? So attitudinally forgiveness is what? Vertical or horizontal? Vertical. You are deciding first and foremost before the Lord, I'm going to forgive this person. I'm going to overlook the offense. I'm not denying that sin was there, but I'm going to choose to absorb the consequences of that sin. I'm going to overlook it. This becomes huge in a relationship, especially a marriage relationship Right? How many of the things that are happening are just so trite and so little? Right? The first response should be to overlook. But it's a big decision, you know, how long do you overlook? How long? When do you start to rebuke So here's uh a bit of a framework. And you guys keep me honest on the charts, but it's it's all in your book there. So a couple um ways we do this the wrong way We wrongfully overlook sin when we want to avoid conflict more than we want to look out for the other person's interests. That is, we desire our comfort over their holiness. And in as we go through this process, if you have any examples, again without names, I would love to hear it. It would be helpful to the class to show some of this demonstration But boy, isn't that so often the motivation. It is easier to overlook than I'm not gonna start an argument. It's just gonna turn into an argument. Right? It's not worth it. I want peace. I I don't have the time. I'm tired. So what do we do? We selfishly overlook it because we want our own comfort more than helping out that person. We wrongfully overlook sin when we want others to like us, and thus we don't want to get others upset. That is, we have a fear of man. more than a fear of God. Huge motivation here, right? We want people to like us. We just naturally do. And so we fear man versus fear God. Again, it goes back to heart our heart attitude and our motivation. We wrongfully overlook sin when we don't cover it, but instead let it fester in our hearts and it produces bitterness. So that came from the book. Confront so here's your choices confront the sin or cover it in grace. Do not cook it, right? Do not let it simmer What does that create? Bitterness, right? That's the root of it. You don't the you have one of two options, right? Either overlook it And cover it with grace or confront it. But if you let it simmer, you're going to sin. You're going to harbor bitterness and the consequences of that in your heart. We wrongfully choose to rebuke when we care more about our hurt than we care about their offense against God. So again, back to the heart attitude. We wrongfully choose to rebuke when we can't control our emotions or our words Now some of that, there is wisdom in that, right? To wait for the right time to confront. If you're angry and you're heated, that's not the right time to have a confrontation. We wrongfully choose to rebuke when we haven't considered our own contribution to the conflict, or we've made assumptions about them based on our limited perception Again, it's so easy to respond quickly in what did we learn a couple chapters ago? Matthew 7, right Suspect yourself first when there's a confrontation. Suspect yourself. What did I do to contribute to this? Examine the log in your own eye before you look at the speck or help the speck in your brother's eye Probably way behind here, but Yeah, like I just oh I just read that. We wrongfully confront when we attack the person, not the problem. We assume their motives, use words like always and never, and demean their character If you forgive your spouse for something, um, I don't know, something trivial. They leave the toilet seat up, I don't know. Right, something trivial. And that becomes uh part of an issue and that spouse repents, you know, knows it's important to you, asks for forgiveness, and starts to to put the toilet seat down. It's really good about it Month later you walk in, the toilet seat's back up. Right? The old pattern is happening again. You know, it's easy to get in that confrontation or hear those words. You always leave the toilet seat up You never fill in the blank. Those are dangerous words. And what does that mean about your own heart attitude? Did you really forgive them? What does the Lord say? How many times should we forgive somebody? Seventy times seven and devil. Now the the condition there is if they truly come to you and have repented and are asking for forgiveness, you are to forgive them. And what are the promises of forgiveness? Do you remember the four promises? Let me grab my sheet again. You're not going to dwell on it, right? You're not going to bring this incident up again. So when you say you always or you never, what are you doing? You're bringing it back up again. You're saying it's right there in the data bank and I'm ready to use it. You're not going to talk to others about the incident And you're not going to allow the incident to stand between us or hinder us. So those are the four promises that we need to be coming back to. But those are very dangerous words in a confrontation, always and never And it says more about your heart than it does that person, right? And what you're doing with their sin. It doesn't mean that there might not be issues with trust. But you're not bringing it back up, right? You have forgiven that person for that incident. And you need to treat this as a new sin. Every time it comes up, treat it as a new sin. Hard to do. And impossible without the power of the Holy Spirit. But that's the power of the gospel, right? We go back to how many times have we sinned against the Lord and we repeat the same sin. What if he carried that discussion to us? Hey Christopher, I forgave you last week, but do you remember when you write that would be crushing. Absolutely crushing. All right, any comments on that? I think we'll talk about that in a little bit, but where you see a repeated pattern that may need to be addressed. Not in an accusatory way, but I've seen this repeated is there may be a deeper heart issue that we need to understand here. Right? Claudius, did you have a question or comment? Yeah, I do. Um I wonder like what will happen if we Yeah, we're going to talk about that. So hold that question, we'll come back to that. Okay? Good question. Alright, uh question number three. How should we discern when rebuke is needed? In the book it talks about the a rule a good rule of thumb, the default is to overlook it. Let that be your first response. I had a counseling supervisor frame it for me this way and I thought it was pretty good. If the the sin um is destructive either to that person or your family or the church and you see a pattern of it that's probably a good indication that it needs to be addressed. If it happened one time, maybe, maybe not, right? But if it's truly being destructive to that person's walk, to your relationship, and you see a repeated pattern, it probably needs to be addressed. Colatians 6. 1, brethren, even if anyone is caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourself that you too will not be tempted. Again it goes back to a heart attitude. All right, so um when should you rebuke? Like we said, when the person is trapped in a sin or a pattern of sin or is in danger of it, right? So that's what I kind of talked about this destructive pattern. So that's one instance when you would want to instill rebuke. When the person may welcome such rebuke, So if that person has humility and and what a blessing that is, right, those who want to hear that feedback, those who want to excel still more. those who want help being held accountable. Um, that's great, right? We couldn't ask for a better scenario. That's not often the case But it does show uh an incredible amount of humility on the part of that person, to be encouraged by that. And encourage that person Say I'm so grateful that you have a humble heart that you're willing to faithfully hear this admonishment from me and I love you and just want to see you continue to grow. Right, also when the offense is especially serious, as indicated by the list of sins in Scripture. Um sin is sin Right? Uh all sin is equal in the sense that um we are uh guilty of sin in our sinful nature, in our initial state. Right? Just one little iota of a sin is sin And means we we can't be accepted into heaven. Why? Because God is holy, holy, holy. That's just his character. But the Bible certainly lists sins that that just seem extremely grievous Right, and you see that in some of these passages. I'll read the uh the Romans 1, the last one there in this section. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper, being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, they are gossips Slanders, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents without understanding, untrustworthy Unloving, unmerciful. You think, yeah, murder, of course. Somebody murdered someone. That's a grievous sin. What did Jesus say about murder? You hate someone, right? Claudius, good. Right? If you even hate somebody, that's a form of murder. So This list covers a lot of our heart attitudes. So so far we've been talking about this idea of forgiveness and in really in the context of the church. What about a non-believer? You know, this list of grievous sins we just talked about. And let me throw it out there. Let's talk about adultery. Let's talk about homosexuality. What about a non-believer? Do we have an obligation to rebuke? So that's where I wanted to go with that. And I heard the gospel message. I heard you start to frame that. That discussion turns evangelistic, right? Yes, you have the the godly principles that you can share with them. That's your opening. Hey this You know, you having this adulterous relationship, let me walk you through some of the consequences that that are going here's who you're going to affect by doing that But then you can turn that into an evangelistic, a gospel message. That's where you have to take it with unbelievers. Right? It is, Amy, like you're saying, slightly different. You know, um I see this often in counseling where day one, session one, is to understand their heart condition. And if you can ascertain that they are not a believer, but they're willing to still receive counseling You continue the counseling, but it becomes a very evangelistic session. Um I had one where I think I shared the gospel more in two uh three a month than I had in five years Right, but this person was willing to keep coming, and so every session somehow I got in the gospel message, and yet we still applied the principles to things that were happening in him in his life. So do you see the the distinction there? Now, if they come in and they say and you can ascertain they are truly a believer, then guess what? I get to use the full force of the Bible To help solve this problem. And you know what I mean by that. We do that in grace and love, but I can now appeal to them, and sometimes sternly, if you are a believer, this is what God's instructions said. And it's for your good, it's to protect you. Question, comment. So continuing on question three, probably way behind here. When your relationship is severely strained, undermined, or broken. Uh Matthew five, therefore if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has some things against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. Who has the sin here in this scenario? And there remember that your brother has something against you. Right? You're the one that has the issue. And it's saying stop what you're doing and go and have that discussion. Right, have that reconciliation. The relationship is strained. When the person is hurting himself and undermining his Christian witness and ministry usefulness First Timothy five. Do not receive an accusation. Oh, we read that one, right? About the uh the elders. Um important position, of course, and and you can imagine if you have um someone in that type of leadership position who you know, uh worst case committing adultery, right? What does that do to the church? Right? So destructive to the church. And so that has to be confronted. It has to be. Because you are hurting the church. In our church history class, we talk about apologetics and polemicists, right? Those who are defending the faith against those often within the church. And it's so important to do that, to be rebuked, because it damages the church. We see Jesus do that to the religious leaders. They were supposed to be the leaders that were guiding the people and he needed to rebuke them severely. So I added to this one when the person is hurting himself or hurting others. I think it was this class that I talked about uh the gossip pitcher. You remember so this is Norman Rockwell. We love Norman Rockwell And here you appear, you have this lady who is starting to whisper something. And you see this chain of events, right? She tells her, she tells her And it just goes down through this very comical, love to see the expression on the different faces. You get this guy, and then this guy, I love the expression on his face. He's just cracking up whatever he heard. And I'm assuming this is the husband now confronting the wife. That's how I like to think of it. Right? So it shows the trail that comes all the way Back to her and I love the expression on the face. Who me? But gossip so damaging. So so damaging. So if you see that, especially in the church, it needs to be addressed. Um also when the reputation of God, Christ, or his church, or when the health and unity of the church is threatened, injured, or disrupted. And we talked a little bit about that. Ah can you um recall any stories in the Bible where lack of reproof had severe consequences? Yeah. Alright, to give me that overview real quick. Okay, it would be with Absalom. You see, he should have been or Admin, he should have been rebuking his kids and Admin turned out to be This spoiled brat that was to go but you're you're talking extreme situations of adulterant so on. And then even became a rapist because his heart one of his his own half sister and David we can even see from the scriptures what is not reproving his kids absolutely turned out to be a brat. Well And he turned that these kids who were not reproved, they were not at all doing rebuke, just did whatever they saw in their own eyes as good and took it without any care for other people. And his father, especially David It even showcases he should have been more not condemning at all, but rebuking and reproving his kids so that they would not do such evil things. Right, right. So Adam and Absalom, just the fruit that they produced, did evil whatever they wanted to do, but they did it because again they didn't see any consequences. Right. When they did evil, they were never given consequences. So they became monsters. Yep, that's absolutely right. So great overview. So Absalom wants to take over now the throne and just severe consequences for David not addressing that sin in his own family. So an admonishment to us as parents, the importance of how we raise our children and rebuking our children when needed in this method. Right? Same method can be used. Another so that was in 2 Samuel. Any other example, uh very similar son's father, Claudius? I know it's not a story, but it's like in Proverbs. I think it's like um whoever like does not whoever spares the rough for the shop. Yeah, good. A great one. Uh Eli has Yeah, so that's what I was thinking. Eli was who? Priest. High priest. Right? Lots of responsibility, very visible. His sons were monsters as well. Right? Um and huge consequences for his family. His sons died. He was dethroned, if you will, lots of severe consequences for not rebuking. So we have some very good examples in the Old Testament where that did not go well in the consequences of not rebuking. Right, danger again, danger to the church. And again, we go back to this framework. I'll reiterate when to overlook, when to rebuke. Is it disrupt uh destructive? Right, that's kind of the caliber that you're looking at. And that could have lots of a spectrum of severity, right? But when you see that destructive behavior towards that person, towards the church, towards the relationship, we see that in the two examples we just gave from the Old Testament, right? and repeated behavior. It wasn't a one-time instance. It was uh I'm sure repeated behavior. So good. Alright. So if if you get to that point where you're like, yep, I I need to go through that step of rebuking What do we do? What's the first thing you should do? And it's not written here. Pray. Pray. Don't ever underestimate the power of prayer. Right? How should I prepare to rebuke someone? I wrote in there, pray, pray, pray, pray. And then it starts with, um, we've covered this before in Matthew 7, have I thoroughly examined myself and confessed my sins to God and others, seeking their forgiveness. So who's the focus on when you start this process? It's on yourself. Remember, suspect yourself in this process What have I done, Lord? And go before the Lord, right? Broken before the Lord. Show me, Lord. So I love Matthew 7, but I love Psalm 139 as well. The end of Psalm 139 is: search me, O God. Show me any grievous way in me. And it's in the context, if you read all of 139, it is in the context of being protected by God, being hemmed in. Right? It's a believer, and yet we are to examine ourselves. So we start with examination. Am I forgiving the other person attitudinally? Right again, that very first step. And that can happen early in the process. Lord, I give this over to you. I'm not going to carry embitterment and anger I'm going to give this to you. May you have to do that several times in the process? Yes, yes, and that's okay. But it starts with that relationship with God first. Do I clearly understand that my goal is to reconcile the relationship, not to defeat an enemy? It is always wise to put some time separation between the incident and the confrontation. And I can tell you from experience where I've failed this miserably is email. Right? It is so quick to to have something happen and what do you do? Boom. And then there's severe consequences. I have scars all over my body from from learning the hard way, right, instead of taking the time And again, what's the you know it's the heart attitude. What's the motivation here? Um Gabe and I have been hitting this from day one. What is the ultimate purpose of biblical reconciliation? To glorify God. To glorify God To really work on our heart. That's why the prayer is so important. Lord, give me the humility, the desire to see this relationship reconciled. to see someone repent of their sin and come back to you and restore this relationship. So it's really working on your heart attitude. Am I convinced that this is the most loving action I can take? What does that require, that decision? Again, it kind of gets back to the overlook or do I rebuke? What do you need? You need discernment. You need wisdom. You find that in the word. Right? You find that through praying. You find that through experience sometimes. Am I cultivating and expressing the attributes of a peacemaker? And am I willing to consider the next biblical steps that God might require if necessary? So Claudius, this gets back to I think your question. Did you ask if they're not willing to talk Yeah, yeah. Um I had it later, but what if the person does not want to meet? If you say, you know, you've done these steps and you're like Hey so-and-so, can we get together for lunch? You know, back to have you ever been invited to lunch because someone's going to rebuke you? Right, that's a tough one. Um but what if you put out that invite and the person doesn't respond? What do you do? Pray? Pray. Absolutely. Pray. Go back to the Lord. Humbly submit yourself to the Lord. And persevere. Keep trying. Keep trying Now you might get to a point, depending on the severity of what's happening, and if it involves others or the church, that you might now have to escalate, I'll call it. And and grab two or three witnesses. What is that process that we're starting to talk about? Matthew 18, church discipline. What is the goal, the purpose of church discipline? Is it to get rid of the bad guys? It's not. It's always to reconcile that relationship. First and foremost before God, but then with individuals. But there may be times when we have to take it to that step. And everyone who is a member made a declaration that you would commit to the church membership process. What is step one? Randall. Go to the person. Go to the person. It's everything we're talking about right here. That might be the hardest step. It's you taking the initiative to go talk to that person, to confront to rebuke and why don't we do it? All the reasons we talked about up front. We fear man. It's uncomfortable. We want peace. We don't want conflict And some of us have a predisposition to just run away from conflict, and you always have. And and this is going to be harder for you, but you need to do it, and you can do it through the threatening. the strength of the Holy Spirit. Some of us might have a predisposition that we don't care, man. We'll go in guns ablazing. That's not right either, right? And that needs to be tempered I won't tell you some of the things I'm seeing in the classroom right now. Um excuse me. I can relate, trust me. Yes, but I got a spicy question. Spicy, is it related to what we're talking about? Okay. Well gene the public can rebuke someone. Because that's what happened in it went from relations of people Go back to Matthew 18. In what part of the process do we have a public proclamation of rebuke? Anyway. Right. So what we do at Whole Bible Church, and I think a lot of churches do it, is you confront personally and always privately, right? The intent is to do it graciously with love If that doesn't work, you bring two or three witnesses with you, and it's to help with accountability. Then what we do often is people will bring it to the elders. And the elders, I can tell you, will spend a lot of time on this issue. There may be counseling involved, there may be letters written. By the time you hear it from the pulpit Months, if not years, have gone by trying to work through this situation. Nobody wants to go to that public proclamation, but if it's needed, it's needed. So just know there's a very lengthy process, but it all starts with step number one, right? And that's on all of us to carry out that process. And it's hard. I won't bring up specific cases, but we we've had some specific cases recently, so you can kind of relate back to, okay, what was said there. And there are some cases where we're very careful not to add a lot of detail, right? We're still trying to protect that person, but hey That we need to bring this to your attention, but we're not at that step yet. We see that they are trying to repent of this sin, so we want you to be praying for them, right? Encouraging them But it may get to a point where we're just not seeing the change that is required. Again, that might be months of of observation and behind the scenes there's some intense counseling going on Right, lots of opportunities to really see a change. But at some point, again, to protect the church, y you make that proclamation to someone said it, treat them like the Gentiles, and yet the purpose is still the same. Biblical reconciliation Right? It's it's to put enough pressure on them to hopefully draw them back to Christ. Yes. There there is much that gets settled um behind the scenes Guadalupe to your point. And I think I just be encouraged that when you do hear an announcement, know that there is a trail of lots of effort uh that went into that before it actually got to that point And yet we we also want to be careful that it doesn't linger too long, right? That's not good either. So you can be praying for us as elders to know um to have that uh discernment and wisdom on and the timing if you will. So Candace, let's pull that thread a little bit because I I think what you are highlighting is for those who um uh are married, for those who have children or have been or you're all came from families of course Yes, we talk about the our Christian family, if you will, but boy, it gets real in the home. And everything we're talking about is day-to-day Right? And it's so easy to get in this trap of becoming comfortable and responding harshly or negatively or quickly. And so we're going to talk through some of these steps to prepare. But I'll tell you up front, it takes time. It takes time to prepare adequately to do this the right way. And having the self-control especially in a marriage type relationship is key. That's what we need to be praying for. And again, we're we're after these big destructive pattern type of behaviors Um hopefully there's a lot of overlooking that's happening in a marriage relationship, right? But when it gets to this point where you have to have this conversation, we need to prepare adequately. I want to make sure I'm at the right place in the charts here. Yeah, it's in your notes here. But this is a really good section of how you would prepare for that discussion, even in the context of the home, most importantly in the context of the home Carefully think through what you are going to say and how. And I'm curious if anyone, as we go through some of these steps, if anyone wants to share any example, consider writing it out verbatim or at least developing bullet points. That allows you to really think clearly about the situation and how you're going to what you're going to say. Because you know in the heat of the moment, right, it's really hard to think clearly. Especially that's why it's advisable not to respond right away. You need time to pray about it, you need time to think about it. But it's okay to kind of jot down some of those bullets. Don't wait until the moment to say whatever comes to mind. That never works out well, right? Especially in the heat of battle. As you prepare your thoughts, take note to avoid accusations of their character or motives. Focus on what you can see and allow the spirit to convict them of what you can't see This is really important to I'll call it focus on the behavior, what you can observe. You know, when you said this, this is how it made me feel. This is how I perceived what you were saying Was that your intent? You know, have that discussion versus assuming their motivation. Go back to what you can observe, the facts. The behavior, what was said, what you did, the expression. And again, don't assume you understand what motivation it is behind you. Again, pray that the Lord will help your heart be right and pray for the person that the Lord would be preparing them. And then they have here, I don't know where I'm at on the charts here. Get help, right? Ask a close friend, a family member, a church member, someone that you're really close with. Are you seeing this the right way? Right? Get help from them to make sure you are assessing it and to assess yourself, right? Have you fully examined yourself All right, and then here's where we talk about the steps you would take. Once you've gone through that preparation, what steps do I now take to actually confront that person? Contact the person privately to express your desire to talk with him or her privately and face to face, either at a time uh mutually convenient convenient or sometime later. Even that can be difficult. Right? When you know you're setting up a meeting because you want to have a confrontation. That's not like, hey, let's get together for coffee. It's you're somber. It's like, hey, you know, can we find some time to talk? And you might even prep that. Because they might be like, well, what do you want to talk about? How are you going to answer that? Be prepared for that. And you can be honest. Say I just um something happened between us and I I don't feel like I feel like there's distance between us. And I would really like to just you know talk about the situation. You can be honest with them Okay, but think about how you're going to frame that. I talked about this example. Do not confront via texting. That's probably the worst. Email is a close second because what happens in a text specifically but in an email? What's not there? Tone, body language, lots of expression, um attitude. You know you make a lot of assumptions when you read an email about what the other person is thinking or doing. And then what happens? You respond in a A little bit of digger here or there, right? And what do they do? They dig with an axe and then you come back with a cannon and then you know it just it it evolves. It's terrible. So you really want to avoid that if you possibly can. If you can't meet face to face, then the phone or even a Zoom, right? I like Zoom so that you can see the facial expression Again, in person is the most helpful. And what does that mean for us? That's an investment, isn't it? You gotta take time out of your schedule. You gotta make it work though. You've got to be mindful Be mindful of the environment. Don't confront serious sins in the foyer after church. Right? In a public setting, because what is our goal? Our goal is reconciliation but to do that with grace and love. What is the first part of Matthew eighteen? Right to confront that person in private though Because you're trying to protect them. You're trying to show grace. Be mindful about timeframes. Don't confront that there are only a few minutes. So if you don't have a lot of time. Just say, hey, we don't have time right now, but I'd really like to have lunch or coffee with you and talk about a couple issues. You know, what's a good time for you? What do you want to talk about? You know, have that prepared. And then we talked about I had a question on there, but what if the person does not want to meet? Again, pray. Pray that the Lord would give them the desire because they might know what it's about and they don't want to meet. And if it's a Christian, again, there's ways for us to hold them accountable. We talk about Matthew 18. And the goal isn't to run to church discipline. That's not the idea. The idea is biblical reconciliation, but if you are trying and you need help and they are a Christian, right, your ultimate goal is to protect the church, God's church then we need to do that. We need to take it to the next step. And hopefully that will help de-escalate the situation. Right, when you meet, state your concern humbly and gently using I statements. If appropriate, start by acknowledging your own weakness. and struggles. Again, go back to how did I contribute to this? In your experience when stunt someone started a a confrontation like that with you and they come in humbly, what did that do to you? Right? It's a few you you come in, you're like this, right, man, you're ready to do it. And they come in with that kind of attitude that isn't flattery, but is is um legitimate It just diffuses your barriers, and now you can have a conversation. Right? So go in first and foremost with your contribution. The point is not to be self-centered, but to avoid language that can be construed as attacking. So there's some really good examples here that kind of uh iterate what I was saying earlier So for example, a bad option is the other day I saw you do blank. How could you do that? What what are you doing in that situation? You're attacking. What are you assuming? Motivation, heart attitude, right? You're doing a lot of dangerous things by doing that A better scenario is I saw something the other day that concerned me and I wanted to see if you could help me understand it. I was blank and it looked like you were blank Did I see that accurately? First and foremost, get the story straight. Is that actually what happened? Did you really say those things? Did you really do those things? And can you help me understand what was happening that day Now you're trying to listen to their heart attitude, their side of the story. Okay? Another one. I heard that you said blank about me. Go back to the gossip message. Why would you say that? You know it's not true. What conclusion did you jump to? Yeah. I heard that you said it, probably second hand, third hand. Step one is did they really say that? And if they didn't, alright Now we got a different issue. Better. Someone told me a rumor and I wanted to come directly to you. So you're not going to a third party, you're not going to a second party, you're going directly to the source that shows humility to understand the truth. It was reported to me that you said blank, is there any truth in that? So you're you're not making an assumption. You want to find out the facts first. If it was accurate, um can you help me understand why you said that And then you can now have a conversation. Ask about the apparent offense. Do not assume and do not accuse. That's what we've been talking about. When you ask these questions, you're asking clarifying questions. That's the takeaway I would ask you to think about clarifying questions. You're trying to understand the situation, the facts. We often get this in counseling, right? A couple will come in and you hear this side of the story, you know there's another side of the story. Right? So we have to ask a lot of clarifying questions to really get at. And the truth is what? It's probably somewhere in the middle here, right? Always is But here's the key. As you ask these clarifying questions, do it with the intent of listening. Be a really good listener. Listen to the answers with Christ-like compassion. Now, go back to the home scenario, right? You're in this struggle with your your spouse Tempers are flaring, and we're asking you to step back and walk through these steps in humility, in prayer. As you now confront your spouse, you're doing it with the intent of listening Do you really understand or did you make assumptions? Did you become too comfortable with this person after years and years and years of marriage? Right? Be a good listener. This is a skill that Again, lots of scars on my body for not listening well. I would like to think the Lord is maturing me in this process, but this will be a sanctifying process for the rest of my life. Um until I'm in glory. Good listening is seeking to understand. Rather than formulating your response while they're talking, listen carefully to understand their perspective. Right? This is very true, I would say, in my own marriage relationship. I'm a guy, a typical guy. I want to land the plane. I want to solve the problem. So I'm hearing Kareem talk and I'm solving the problem Right, I'm already ready to go. And it's taken me years to just she needs to be expressing her heart. I used to fail too by saying, I let her just fly the plane. That's not the right answer either. Right? She's expressing her heart. Am I listening? Am I listening to understand? So the Lord's been working on me to be a better listener. We talked about clarifying questions, ask questions to clarify. That's always so good. Again, focus on the facts and make sure you have those clear before you jump into the process. And the last part of this is what should I do if the person repents and seeks my forgiveness? Right? We go back to the four promises of forgiveness. Right? You're not going to dwell on the incident. You're not going to um bring this incident up against them. You're not going to tell others about it, and you're not going to let it stand between you. Who carries the burden of that? The person who forgives, right? Uh you're saying I'm I'm not gonna bring this up again. Um that's the promises that you are making. All right, let me close with Hmm. Uh okay, let me close with this. Um he gives a scenario in the book. I won't go through it all, but Cindy had a roommate who started a relationship with her boyfriend and they walk through the book on um uh Cindy's ability to forgive. The remedy again is God's forgiveness. When Cindy's counselor asked, Aren't you glad, very glad, that God doesn't treat us that way? Cindy was silent. Cindy, she continued, Can you imagine God the Father saying to his son, I am willing to forgive Cindy and let her into my heaven, but I don't want anything to do with her So the context here was this idea that, yeah, I'll forgive her, but no more men. I want nothing to do with her. And so what he's saying here, what if God treated us that way? Yeah, I forgive you, but I want no relationship with you. Crushing. Absolutely crushing. But I don't want anything to do with her. I know that you died for her, and I will honor our agreement to not condemn her. But in terms of my having had any kind of ongoing relationship with her, that's not going to happen. Cindy got the point. True forgiveness seeks to restore the relationship to a wise appropriate level. There are times we've talked about it where that relationship might be broken for a long time. I mean think of adultery, right, and the break of that trust. and relationship, that is going to take time to heal. But can you imagine the Lord saying that to us? Christopher, you did it again. You sinned again. I forgive you, but man, I want nothing to do with you. Crushing. And that's the ad that's the attitude we need to have towards our fellow believers, right? Is that restoration. All right. Any closing comments? A lot of practical application today We find the principles obviously in in God's Word, but I I thought it was helpful as we walk through this process. What is the sense you get though when we talk about all that's involved in preparing for a conflict? What comes to mind? Easy? No. Incredibly difficult. It takes a lot of time to prepare. And why don't we do that? Because it's hard. Right? It's inconvenient, especially in the home, especially with the kids. Right? Sometimes we don't have the time, but when it gets to this level, we need to make the time. So I I need to close but let me do this. This is excellent question and we can apply these principles. Step number one is to pray Number two is that's probably that the time to have a confrontation. Can you help diffuse the situation by potentially separating um the parties involved? Right? In in this case, that was what was Well that's what was done. And then you start to get after, you know, what's going on? What are the hard attitudes? In one case, um There is doubt whether this person is actually a believer, right? So that's going to be handled a different way. In another in the other person there is some counseling that's happening to address some hard issues, right? So to your point, Joni, you have to get after it but you help diffuse the situation in that public setting. Now depending on what happens, there might need to be a public address, right, depending on the situation. And that's where you would need the leaders to have good wisdom and discernment. But the your goal is not to shame that person, but it does need to be confronted. It's just you're looking at the circumstances. Is this the right time? Is this the best way to glorify God is to confront right in the middle of everyone, right? That's what you have to discern. All right, let me close. Father Boy, meaty stuff, hard stuff. We know this is your will, and yet there's a lot of principles here that um need to be cultivated over time, need to be exercised in our lives. So I just pray for all of us that you would put this on our heart. You would put the biblical passages and principles on our heart that we would start to exercise. And be sanctified. Remember, we started with conflict as an opportunity, Lord, that you put in our life to build uh Christlieness, to persevere, uh to build character and ultimately hope that is dependent on trusting you, on having the faith to trust you. And so let us see these as opportunities, not to shy away from them. Because we are fearful, fear of man, or it's uncomfortable, but we are truly motivated by the love of that other person, the unity of the church For your bride to be an example in a dying world. Lord, we love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen.