I will establish his name. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish his clone property. It was weird, wasn't it? And I will uh be a father to him, and he will be a son to me. Verse 14. When he commits iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men and the strokes of the sons of men. But my loving kindness shall not depart from him as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. In accordance with all these things and words, all uh uh and all of this vision. So Nathan spoke to David. So you can see how he moves. Number one, he tells them, he starts off there, Your when your days are complete. Right? So you can see he's giving David these promises and now he's moving into the future. And as we saw in the end, uh Uh his his uh throne, his kingdom are going to be established forever. Right? No, your house, your kingdom, your throne. Right So it's it's obviously it's gotta be future and it's gonna be forever. We haven't experienced that. So that kind of gives you a gist. We're just kind of trying to throw you into this. uh where we are. And what we're gonna do, what we're doing here is we're coming, you're coming even in the middle of this study on the Davidic. And really I'm gonna uh this is we're just gonna try and finish up this week So, the notes I have here, right? David's house, kingdom, and throne would endure forever, right? 2 Samuel 7. 16. This covenant is stated in many other scriptures in Jeremiah 23, 5, and 6. Behold, the days uh are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch, and he will reign as king and uh and act wisely, and do justice, righteousness in the land. In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is his name by which he will be called, the Lord our righteousness. So this is other aspects, okay, of the covenant. This is a Jeremiah's uh statement of it. And sometimes we'll we go with names. It could be called the New Covenant or that, but we're seeing how David Uh it's good it's d David's line. That's what we're narrowing down to. We started with May as well do it now. We started in Genesis, right? They fell. Adam and Eve fell. You're familiar with this? And he said, I'm gonna curse you, but Her seed, uh uh Eve's seed would be in enmity with the enemy, Satan And her seed would overcome them. I hope you're familiar with these passages. Okay? So we're we're we're tracing the seed. Uh Abraham, uh w we've we've come through the fall. We went through right, God cursed the whole land, he said, I'm not gonna do that. He flooded the whole world, he said, I'm not gonna do this again. He made a covenant with him. He said, I'll never do this again. Then we have the Tower of Babel, right? Man makes a name for himself. God takes his his his program and now he chooses a man, Abram. Abram, his seed, is going to come into a nation. Alright, and that's the progression we're going through. Abram's going to be a blessing. He's going to bless those who bless him. He's going to bless all the nations will be blessed in Abraham. He's he's carrying the seed. We're we're following this progression. Uh okay, and then there are some passages and and David or excuse me for Abraham, who talks about some of the land and and these things. Now we're up to David. David, right? Uh well let me back up a minute. At the end of uh Genesis, right? Uh Jacob prophesies and says the throne is going to go through what? The tribe of Judah. So y what we're w again, what we're trying to do is get these big pictures how we're narrowing down and God's adding more detail to these covenants. Not necessarily changing them, but but just showing us the progression. uh what w where we're where we're going on. Uh and then he goes to David. David is going to be so it's the tribe of Judah, now it's the Davidic line specifically The kings are gonna come from David, all the rightful rulers. And this king is gonna rule forever. That's what we just read. And that's what God's trying to tell us. The difficulty with this is that it's not always every son of David, which we're going to get into uh a little bit Uh it's not um every son of Israel, uh right? Um but it is gonna be in the Davidic line. It is going to be there there are going to be certain blesses uh blessings for Israel. Not all Israel, obviously. Uh so look at Zechariah. Uh we went over this last week, did we not? Just where we finished last week? Those you were here? Um so but I want to go over this real quick. Uh so Zechariah 6, 12 through 13. The description of the branch. Uh this branch, we saw this up here in Jeremiah, right? Behold, days are coming. declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch. This becomes kind of a theological word when he uses it in a certain context. Look at how Zechariah uses it. Then say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, a man whose name is Branch. Uh for he will branch out from where he is, and he will build the temple of the Lord. Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord and he will bear uh the honor and sit and rule on his throne. Excuse me. Thus he will be a priest on his throne, and the council of peace will uh be between the two offices. Zechariah excuse me. Um we we're talking after The captivity, right? Let's let's put it in perspective. When Zechariah preaching, they're trying to build a temple. Uh Hadn't he built the temple? Nehemiah and him showing up. They haven't built a wall or anything yet. They've come back from the captivity. So he he's uh obviously he's he's uh this is future And but look at what this branch will have. He's going to have the throne, he's going to be the king, and he's going to be a priest. This has to be somebody Right? We know what it's pointing to. But again, as we're doing all this, it it's kind of there's a lot to contemplate. So we're not gonna you can't contemplate it all now, and I can't give it to you all now. And there's there's all kinds of angles so we can look at this. But think again try and think from one perspective What was they they put yourself in their place and we're not we're on we're looking towards a cross. We don't even know really what that is yet So and that and that helps get to what God is unfolding here. Remember, he is this is difficult for us a lot of this prophecy where we're going back. Imagine what it was for them looking forward. But he was revelation to these people. So whatever sense that is, uh you we also need to consider that Well there was a message for the people at the time. We always have to do that with prophecy, and it's not easy, especially for us, because we have all this revelation. They didn't have. We have twenty twenty pretty much. Well, is is on the yeah, we never have twenty, but you know what I'm saying? On the cross. I mean you saw from the gospels the Jews didn't get it. You're gonna die? Right? It just it's it's so much easier for us to see. But this branch is going to have two officers. To them, to us it's it's to us that's that's easy to see To them, they're like, no, this doesn't happen. Remember, that was Saul's problem. Saul tried to have the sacrifice So this is this is a big sign for them. If they don't understand anything, they're going, well, whoever this branch is, he's going to be king and priest. That's something new. That's different. I we're not gonna go over all these all these, but these are good um related verses here. Um again you can get the notes on Hope Book, right? Um they're posted now. Uh these were posted before. You can get it. So again and I don't care w when you could uh I know it is we're all busy, but to go back and to look at this and to contemplate on some of this There's there's certain aspects you're you're just not gonna get unless you do it. And and y um you know, I've learned a lot going through this th every time you go through it, when you contemplate on this, you you always learn something new. Something just comes more in focus. That the Davidic covenant is not conditioned on obedience of man, but by the sovereign plan of God, as written in Psalm 89. Pentecost right, and I'm just gonna have to fast forward to this again. If you look at this um what I'm about to say is Uh David this psalm is kind of one of these where it's uh he he he goes through and he gives kind of a history. First he tells David in these these early verses in twenty through twenty-nine He tells David that your kingdom is secure. It's going to be forever. But then in uh verses 38 to 45 David realizes not every king is going to be on this throne. There's going to be some that are going to be disobedient. They're going to be kicked off. Okay. David realizes this isn't going to be a perfect succession. Everybody, every king, it comes from me. My son, my son's son, everything's going to be honky dory, they're all going to be blessed. No, it's not going to be that way David realizes it and and he's saying that in these Psalms. He finishes up in 46-52 by blessing the Lord. He knows the Lord is gonna is is is his blessing. And I and I think what it is is he's saying, I believe in you. I know that there's going to be issues He David certainly would've would have recognized this from his prior history, how the people you know, the j in the time of the judges and before these kings. Think about it David, uh, Saul had the kingdom, but David really is just solidifying the kingdom. They moved the Ark to the Covenant to Jerusalem. Okay, things are are there they're getting uh rest on uh all sides. We talked about that before if you read the the verses around the 2 Samuel. Uh think about it. You know, I mean when you have war around you all the time, I mean nothing's we're blessed over here. We don't we don't we don't experience that. Um people who live in the certain areas of the Middle East are always at war. You know, it's just I don't comprehend it really. I can read about it, but I don't comprehend it. It's not I don't I'm not immersed in that. Things are being stabilized here. David re recognizes in this song that this is not going to go smoothly from here to forever. But this is a forever throne So we read this before, but uh this is uh again Jeremiah 33, nine uh nineteen through twenty-one speaks of everlasting nature of the covenant in spite of Israel's disobedience The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah saying, Thus says the Lord, if you can break my covenant for the day and my covenant for the night. so that the day and night will not be uh at their appointed time, then my covenant may also be broken with David my servant, so that he will not have a son to reign on his throne with the Levitical priest, my ministers. Again, it's a guarantee. Jeremiah, again, think of one Jeremiah wrote. He's the captivity's coming. He's told about this for virtually 29 chapters. We'll look at this in uh in uh first in the new covenant. It r uh it it it really hasn't come, but he's given them some some uh in in thirty through like thirty-three I think it is, he's given 'em words of comfort. You're about ready to be carried off. It haven't been carried off to Babylon yet. It hadn't been totally destroyed. But God is is faithful. He's going to be with you. In the New Testament, we have the angels speaking to Mary, right? And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. And you shall name him Jesus. He will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob Okay? The promise keeps going forward. It's it's not been uh re you know i it's it's forever. We haven't experienced that. This is a future promise. Kingdom will have no end. Again, remember, do we have a king, okay, after Jeremiah, do we have a king on the throne of Israel? No, they when they come back they have to use the uh Medo Persian kings to date it. They always uh oftentimes they dated things, right? The g in the second year of king so and so They have to use uh there there's no king of of Israel. We're in the time of the Gentiles There are so there are many debates about this argument concerning Christ's literal reign on earth. And that's one of the things. Is there gonna be this kingdom? Uh but the significance is uh Christ is fulfilling his reign uh on a Davidic uh throne from heaven. That's one of the big things. Uh one of the arguments is uh Christ is reigning on the Davidic throne from heaven right now. There's some problems with that though. Walbert writes, the New Testament has 59 references to David. It also has many references to the present session of Christ. A search in the New Testament reveals there is not one reference connecting the present session of Christ with the Davidic throne. Um kind of an argument from from silence. I know it's it they're not as big, but but uh l let's look at some more. So Ben uh Ben Ware, this is Paul Ben Ware, this is uh Understanding End Time Prophecies. Good good book. It's If you want an overview of eschatology without getting way deep, he does a great view. Uh he covers these covenants, but he moves he he doesn't spend that much time on them per se. He he moves through the whole range. Uh it's a good book if you want kind of a uh handle on this. And uh 'cause the detail of all this i is m multifaceted, obviously. If you've ever done a Study of Revelation you have to bring all things in together really uh from the Old Testament and uh it's just it's a lot to bring together So Ben Ware writes that there are many different thrones mentioned in Scripture. The throne of God, that's Revelation 21. Verse 1, 22, verse 3. The throne of Satan, Revelation 2. 13, the throne of the elders, Revelation 4. 4, the throne of the beast, Revelation 13 132. In Revelation 21 and 22, the throne of God and the Lamb is the name given. This is not the throne of David. David's throne will be revealed during a thousand-year reign of Christ on earth. Now again, well I know a lot of people disagree with that, but again, let's look at some more evidence. The book of Revelation Uh gives two clear statements concerning the future reign of Christ on the earth. Revelation eleven fifteen. Why don't we turn there real quick? Revelation uh eleven fifteen Um so in vi verse fifteen, uh then the seventh angel sounded and there were loud uh voices in heaven saying The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever. And the twenty four elders who sit on the thrones before God fell on their faces and worship God. So, according to this, the kingdom of the world has come, as of our Lord has come. It sounds like it has come at this time. Right? And this is what Thomas writes about this for us. Robert Thomas has a two-volume excellent commentary. on uh revelation. Um it's good he deals with uh Oh a lot of the other commentators quotes them, uses their passages, will use some of their passages when he disagrees with them. So uh Uh a thing and it's kinda nice. Uh new commentaries are getting thicker and thicker and one of the reasons is because they're a lot of them are are considering all the viewpoints and they're giving you all the viewpoints in in one commentary, which is helpful So attempts to identify Basilea kingdom as the church of the present era by assigning it in abstract sense are feudal. So uh what he's saying is uh we'll get into this he's getting into the grammar a little bit. Because of the abstract sense for the noun is impossible when and this is the Greek phrase for the world to cosmo, uh, follows immediately in assigning a realm over which the rule i extends. Nor can the singular number of the noun support an abstract sense, i. e. royal dominion. The singular view of the w of the world as a unit, a singular concrete uh kingdom, uh this world empire once dominated by a usurping power is now passed into the hands of its true owner. Jesus will return and assume the throne of his father David in uh the f this future crisis. at which time he will replace the satanically energized uh sovereignty of the w uh the world rulers that prevailed for so long. The whole theme The revelation is the purging of evil from the world so it can become the dominion of the King of Kings. Only physical kingdom on earth will satisfy this I think Revelation twelve points this out even more clearly. Turn a page or so Now let me read the context here because Revelation 12, let's start in verse 7. And there was war in heaven, Michael and his archangels waging war with the dragon. The dragon and his angels waged war, and they were not strong enough, and there was no longer a place found for them in heaven And the great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old, who was called the devil, and Satan, who deceived the whole world and was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. Then eight. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation of the power and the kingdom of God and the authority of his Christ have come For the accuser of the brethren has been thrown down who accuses them before God day and night. Well, again, A lot of times what they'll say is uh uh uh This is a future kingdom ruled by an anointed one and not uh immediate result of the cross. Because obviously Satan was defeated on the cross Right? God we know God ascended into heaven, Christ ascended, the God man ascended into heaven. Right? But this kingdom in in in these chapters th we have a country we have a problem Because he says in seven right and there was war with uh in uh heaven, Michael and his archangels waging war with the dragon, the dragon is an It says the reason the kingdom is set up is because it's war in heaven. So we have obviously we've got a kind you know, we have a problem there I think if we ta you know, we are uh taking this in a literal, grammatical, historical thing, we're saying, yeah, we this is gonna happen And I think you have a problem if you're trying to say that the Christ is ruling um in heaven I think it's going to be an earthly rule and these these are all these evidences that we're we're just trying to to put there. If you do say that uh Christ uh is reigning in heaven from from just because of this victory on the cross and th that's obviously huge, right? That's that's kinda everything. That's what we're moving towards in the full and in the new in all these covenants, right? We're looking at the seed. We're we're finding out Abraham's gonna be uh part of this line. David's really a descendant of Abraham, the tribe of Judah. We're looking at the seed. We know who we know who the seed is. So it's huge. That's what the these covenants are pointing to. And without that seed, none of this happens. No war in heaven. They're not going to defeat all this, right? We saw this in Revelation. Worthy is the Lamb to take who can open the scroll, right? Title D to the earth. Who can open the scroll? Worthy is the Lamb. So any questions before we uh roll off of the Got a few minutes to get us started in the new covenant. Any questions? Any thoughts? If they come up answer it we'll we'll or ask 'em we'll we'll uh try and go through this. I would like to at least set the the groundwork Well probably I only got uh fifteen minutes, a little bit more. Why don't we look at Jeremiah 3131? We'll read it. Um We'll just kind of go through and do the highlights. Obviously, excuse me. We're not doing a full um uh in in-depth uh Inductive Bible study on this, but I think if we just pull out the facts Uh even from this we'll we'll see certain implications and then we'll start to get into it some as as we unpack it further. So I've been doing all the talking. Why don't we uh can I get some volunteers? Uh couple volunteers What we're going to read is we're going to read Jeremiah chapter 31. We're going to pick it up in verse 31 and read through verse 40. If somebody would read uh verses 31 through 37 and somebody just finish up with uh 38 through 40. Any volunteers? Nothing Behold days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord Lord, I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again, each man his neighbor and each man his brother To say, know the Lord, but they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, the close to the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so this waves more. The Lord of hosts is his name If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel also will cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth stretched out below, then I will also cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done to claim And the measuring line shall go out for the bird. The morality of the dead parties in the ashes and all the fields of squires the birth patron to the center of four speech north east for the All right, so let's just go through and what th what what I've uh let's I want to get this in our minds and um Let's just pick out some of the the uh the obvious uh facts, uh, and that's what we're doing, right? We're gonna do the inductive part uh Uh what are the facts here? It's a new covenant, right? Um 31. Uh he's gonna make it with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Right? Very Jewish. Um but this covenant which I will make uh with their house, right, it's not gonna be like the old one, declares the Lord. I will uh Uh I'm skipping something there. Um so it's not like the covenant which he made with the fathers, right? What covenant is he talking about making with the fathers? They were disobedient Yeah. Mosaic covenant, right? The law. Right? So he's he's recognized, can he's comparing and contrasting these two Uh th they would have gotten this. Um uh although uh I was a husband d you know, uh Right. Um. So uh so this covenant which he will make with the house of Israel, look at what he's doing in thirty-three Again, major major thing here, right? I will put my law within them and on their heart I will write it. And again he says, I will be their God. I will be their God. Again, I should have stressed this. I will Right? I will do this. It's not a conditional kind of a thing. There's nothing on the part that uh they can do And w you know, and w we mentioned this from the get go, we probably mentioned it a little bit throughout, but it's all election, is it, is it not? All of this all through there Election is one of those tough documents, but it it's all God's gonna do this. It's not like Well, you know, I could you know, the poor example or the good example, you know, it's not like God saved me because I was good, right? It's all election throughout. We forget that. We tend to think of uh at least I do, and I I think a lot of us y we tend to move back in towards um performance or, you know, if I you know, and it and there is a certain amount of this uh that tension I think we'll constantly have to bring this up. You know, what I do is important obviously. If I do wrong, I I'm gonna s r reap what I sow And if I and if I do right pr uh hopefully God's gonna bless me for that, but uh there is that performance aspect, but really this whole plan, this whole thing, this election, God's is going to do this. It's not conditional whatsoever, yes. Absolutely. We're gonna look at that, but um yes. Absolutely. We're gonna we're right now I want to jump there. We'll we'll look at Ezekiel. Just if you want to jot something down, Ezekiel uh thirty-six, where is it about twenty-four Day twenty-seven. And we we will look at that covenant. Um Yeah, exactly what it is. Yes. I just want to um be clear about this. Um thank you for that question. So you the law My thinking was that the Holy Spirit helps us to like obey the law, to do God's will. Yes. Okay. Um rather than If I mean can you clarify the difference between um the answer to the question she asked, saying is the police meet I'll be in our heart or or is it that the love in our heart for the Holy Spirit to help us to like be obedient unto God's will? I just want to be more Oh and and and that's it. Um not doing it by the law but doing it by grace. you know, and it's it's that tension, so l let me see if I can help, but let me start with a uh a simple ex uh bold example. Um when I got saved, um I mean I I was going I was almost forty, right around forty. I mean I was doing what I I I was doing stuff I knew was wrong, right? Uh, you know, drinking and this and that, and you know, having a good you know, and I w let's just say it was pr I knew uh in my heart of hearts the stuff I'm doing is not right, but it's not that bad. When I got saved Um and I and really before I just before I got saved, a lot of that stuff I was finally starting to grow up, you know. Uh uh I I by the time I was forty, uh a lot of that I'd gotten out of my life already Um must have been God because you know who knows why we do what we do. What I found was That was just the surf that was just the obvious surface uh real stuff. What I found was is that I was impatient, I was angry, I was selfish. And you get down to these lower levels. And there were things I was doing that I when I when I uh was sinning I didn't think were a sin. I didn't realize that. I God woke me to that. That's what Paul said. The law is the law bad in Romans 7. He goes, I wouldn't do covening if it wasn't written in the law. I started coveting when I when I read about it in the law And it that's the and and so let me move it forward. Okay, I got saved. Now the Holy Spirit's convicting me about those things. Well, uh there's no way I'm gonna take care, Eve, and try and live a godly life if I think they're fine, right? The Holy Spirit is convicting us this is wrong Uh what we do what I was doing, what I said to somebody, it was not nice, it was wrong, it was convicted to me. Whereas before I would have said, you know, they deserved it. And and maybe they I got provoked first But nonetheless, right? You see where I'm kind of moving towards the Holy Spirit does yeah, and he when he convicts us of something, that's kind of when we can move forward If you don't know you have a problem, you're not going to look for a solution. I say that all the time about people who are non-believers. If they don't think they have a problem Which is why you gotta convict them of sin. Because you're just talking to the wall. We don't I mean, we're blind. We don't get it. The Holy Spirit opens our eyes to all this The Israelites were in a religious system and then we're going back to the law, but you you can see how being just and and I've got a good quote from uh um when we move forward Uh Homer Kent, maybe I'll read it now. Uh jumping forward, but it's not too far forward. Um, maybe it's further forward than I thought. But it's a because that's a good question and this is really the the the the questions of if we understand God's plan that's great. But if we d i these are the the core issues that that we really grapple with grace, uh predestination or or God's election. Uh why does he do that? You know, and and at a certain point, well, it's God's plan. It's not a good answer, but that's the end of the story. It's his plan, not my plan. So look at this. The old covenant saint Was the old covenant saint not regenerated and the new covenant saint is? Homer Kant responds to these types of questions. This is what he wrote. This does not mean that no Jew under the Mosaic Covenant had a transformed heart. What is being stated is that the new covenant itself would provide for for this very uh excuse me for this every participant. Doesn't that make any sense, does it? What is being stated is that the New Covenant itself would provide this for every participant. Every participant that is in the New Covenant is going to experience salvation. Now So I want to stop there for a second because think about it. The whole nation was in this Mosaic covenant, right? They were. They were they were supposed to respond to it. They didn't respond. Remember there were certain things. They were supposed to be thrown out of the camp. They were supposed to be stoned. Okay But they said now everybody's not gonna be in the new covenant, right? No But those of us that are are going to and that's what he's talking about. This is a new covenant. This covenant will be you will be regenerated if you are in this covenant, if you are a participant of this covenant. So what is being stated is that the new covenant itself would provide this for every participant. Such was not the case with the Mosaic Covenant, even though it was obviously possible to know God and to have a transformed heart during the Old Testament time The old covenant itself did not provide this. And that's what we have to keep bringing home. Why was that's what Paul's trying to to say in Galatians Galatians 3, over and over again, in Romans, the law can't save you. Where did I end? Isn't the big difference though between the Davidic Covenant uh and the new covenant the fact that the Each individual is gonna gonna have his own responsibility for knowing the Lord instead of depending upon the priesthood to teach him about it. That's what Jeremiah was saying. You're not gonna need you're not gonna need Levitical priesthood to teach you about it. about the law because the law's gonna be written on your hearts. The big difference is that in Old Testament times the Holy Spirit came upon people, but in the new covenant we have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Right we don't have to depend upon somebody else. Else to develop our spiritual life for us because we can do it ourselves. We don't do it ourselves, but we do it because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And and that's uh they had a priest that was visible. Um we have a high priest in heaven, and that's what Hebrews keeps talking about Christ is superior to the angels, right? To the uh to everything, to the law. He's superior, he's a superior priest. And he's trying to show this to the Hebrews. They've been ingrained in this system. And what he's trying to say is that yeah, you're you're right. Our priests, we have connection with our priests through the Holy Spirit. So this this last. The new covenant, however, guarantees regeneration to its beneficiary. Again. The New Covenant, y you're you're not gonna parti you're gonna participate in a new covenant if you are saved. Another sound. But remember, this is a covenant he's making with them. And this is what Jeremiah was prophesying pointing to them. Yes. Okay, so at this point we're still talking about um God meeting probably the Israel only. Right. Well, I mean he's he he's directing it to Israel. Right, at some point it gets extended. Well uh non Jewish people, but at this point Yes. And then that's that's where we'll we'll try and uh That's where we're gonna move forward and that's why I wanna wanna spend some time on this new covenant because um Theologians are even debating sometimes, well, what blessing do we participate in? But let me just say this. So obviously we share in the new covenant. We've got the Holy Spirit, right? The new covenant did come. It did come to a remnant of Israel, right? uh the early church it wasn't until Cornelius, right? When Peter uh went to had the vision, went to Cornelius. You're looking at ten years after the resurrection when that uh event took place. Okay, we Jewish. It was always to the Jew first. And then remember in Acts he gave us the outline. Uh in in Judea and Jerusalem, Judea, and then it spreads out to Samaria and the uttermost parts of the world. A lot of people say it's the outline for Acts. Okay. But my l my thought was um we share in the in the covenant, but what we share in all the blessings. Number one, we don't have a king. We're not sharing in that blessing. We don't have a land. Remember all these things were critical to Israel and he and he keeps repeating them that they are going to have a kingdom. They're going to have a temple We're we're gonna see that. We we talked about it before, we're gonna talk about it again. We're gonna go reverses that say that there is going to be a temple. We don't have a temple, right? Our Our high priest is in the heavenly temple, right? But he's telling if you look at these prophecies, it looks like it's earthly temple. They're gonna have uh priest over there And I'll just give you the a line with this. Isn't this happening when it happens when Christ comes back to set up his reign? He saved all of Israel at that time. Right. All and th this this prophecy Is for that time. Christ comes to reign, and he at that time puts the Holy Spirit in the remnant's heart and he saved all of them at that time. And remember this. Um, you know, I I d I haven't put it together and looked at all the in Zechariah and uh Revelation Uh uh maybe two thirds of the Jewish population is going to be wiped out before Christ comes back. Before he even comes back, right? It's it's gonna be horrible. So if he saves all Israel, good chance could be a third of what will be existing at that time. So you say, well I save every single one of them, you know, uh uh uh It's gonna be a lot of lo and some of those some of those Israelites will be talking about Albany they're all remember they're all gonna weep when they see their Savior for the first time and they realize that he was their Messiah. And um spoiler alert uh and and the hundred and forty four thousand are going to be preaching during the millennium anyway trying to help them understand the scriptures. Uh Zechariah, right? The look on him who may appear. He says that in Revelation. And maybe I will try and pick that up next week. Uh uh what's it? Revelation one. They look on him whom they have pierced. I'm wondering, it almost sounds like when they see him come back they're gonna be He was our Messiah. You know what you say in uh uh Matthew twenty four, every eye is gonna see him. When he comes back, he's not gonna come back. I mean his glory is gonna come up back over the whole earth At one time. They're gonna see him all at once. How that wor I mean, I don't know. It's easier to understand it today than it was when I was a teenager Everybody has a smartphone almost. I mean, they're gonna have some tech some technology. Yeah. Yeah, hard to say how. So we we're jumping ahead but in a lot of ways, but if we i it 'cause if you don't you leave there's a lot of and even so there are details We're not sure if we're going to answer all these details right, but again, we see the program coming. We know the program. Think about that. Especially in times like like now I mean we talk about application. I would be really depressed. I don't know about you, but if I watch the news and look at all that's going on, it does not even if you're not a believer, it does not look good I don't see peace anywhere. Everybody's got turmoil. You look in the world, you look here. Uh you know. Oh yeah, that's why God gives us the program, He tells you. You know? It's not about now Our blessing is is in Christ, right? Heavenly Father, we look