Father, we are just so grateful to be here in the Assembly of Believers. What a joy it is to fellowship with the Saints. Um yes, we are so grateful for this building that you have provided, but The church is the people, and we get excited to to worship you together, a holy God. A very exciting day for us today, and I pray that you would bless it. That you would be glorified. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. So we do have a very special event this morning. We're going to be graduating our spiritual leadership program guys, eleven of them. Um I wish you could have seen it. We had a special dinner for them, was it last Tuesday? Wow Um it was the elders and their wives, but all the the men and most of their wives, some couldn't make it, and it was such an encouraging event Uh we just had a dinner, but each of them got up and spent, I don't know, three, four, five, ten minutes, whatever it was, depending on the person, um, just sharing their testimony of the last three years. And it was just so special. Um There's a couple things that I heard as I heard all them talk. Number one, just just they're growing in the word, right? You could see that that was evident But you could see this band of brothers that was formed. Um some of the uh internal jokes that they had that only they understood came out, you know Um it was really neat to see the the band of brotherhood, if you will. And then the thing that really touched me, I hopefully they weren't prompted, but each and every one of them, you know, recognize the sacrifice that their family made and especially their wife, uh, because it took a lot of time, a lot of effort. Scott can attest to that for sure. I don't think we have any others in the room. So it was a really special event. So today we're gonna formally graduate them um during the service. And to do that we got Pastor Dave is back. So Pastor Dave and Carla are here. Um he'll be preaching, so strap in. Don't know what that's going to look like, but I'm sure it'll be entertaining and uh edifying for sure. So Do what? You got fed on Tuesday. I got fed. Yeah. That's an inside joke too. So when Rob and I went through the program, um the eldership program, we met on a Friday morning at six AM and we didn't get any food These guys got a gourmet every time they met. So we it's a kind of a running joke, but it's all good. Alright, let's jump into our lesson. We are on page seventy-seven. It is the last formal lesson in your book. So what's gonna happen next week? Case studies, right. Can't go through this course without case studies. Now hopefully we've done some of that throughout, because I think it's important to reinforce the lessons here, but Gabe's going to spend some time and I don't know what they are but kind of walking you through some practical application on how to use everything that you've learned. So really it's the culmination of the entire lesson here, which will be good. If we have time, I want to try and leave some time at the end. I would love to hear from you guys. Just what are some of the really key concepts or significant things that we talked about that really jumped out uh because you took this class. It may be like, boy, I hadn't thought about that. So be thinking about that. I would love to hear your feedback on that. Okay This last chapter, we've been kind of beaten around the bush, you guys have asked, um, periodically throughout, but it's this final chapter of You've done everything you can and the person still doesn't respond. What do you do? Hey that happens. That happens in real life. And so this is a really important lesson to talk about what do you do when you feel like you've done everything you can. to help the reconciliation process and and that relationship is still broken. Okay? Let me start with an intro from the resource here. And this is going to be our key verse. We'll come back to this later. Luke 6 You're familiar with it, but I tell you who hear me, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you. Pray for those who mistreat you. We we read it, we see it, but that's really hard to implement, isn't it? Right? And who is our enemy? We'll talk about that in a second. But that's going to be kind of foundational to the implementation of what we're going to do here. He goes on, I wish this chapter were not needed. It's the saddest part of the book, yet for some of us it is indispensable. It seems to answer a simple question, what if the steps for pursuing peace don't work? What if our efforts fail to achieve reconciliation? What if the other person remains hostile cold or irreconcilable. Maybe you have no such alienated relationships, but your friends do, and they need your help. And then in quote, I've been doing what you told me to do, declares your frustrated friend after her recent separation, but it doesn't seem to be working. He's still not willing to work on anything related to our marriage or even to return my phone calls How would you minister to that person? Right? You've been trained to help minister to that person. You are now a counselor, right? I joke, we are all counselors. We all minister God's word. And you've been equipped specifically on how to do that for somebody else or even your own life. As we come to the conclusion of this course, we have to recognize that unity and peace is not always possible. We can do everything we are responsible to do, but we cannot control the other person's So, what do you do when it's clear that they are not interested in resolving the conflict in a way that pleases God? So, this chapter or this lesson is going to talk about five principles. Okay, five principles for glorifying God when reconciliation isn't possible. You remember what we started with, the four G's. I won't go through all of them. What's the first one? Glorify God Right? A conflict is an opportunity to glorify God. How we respond to that is an opportunity to glorify God. Alright, so we're going to go through these five principles fairly quickly Um so that we hopefully have some time to to maybe talk through some practical application on the end. Um this first one may be the most important Keep your relationship with God central. Your life cannot be defined by anyone other than God. Your mood, attitude, and outlook on life must reflect that God is your God Not the other person or the problem between you. It's not in your notes, but Psalm 27:10. For my father and mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. How many of you have come from maybe different religions or faiths um and and your family didn't react very well? Yeah I know sometimes you can leave a a certain religion and and you switch over to being a Christian and they think you're in a cult, uh they deny you, they forsake you Um, it happens. But who is now your father? God. Right? It is so central that this becomes the foundation of everything you do, that you remember who you are as a child of God. Why is that so important? What can happen often, let's say even in this instance where you have this broken relationship, you've tried to make it work. What are some of the thoughts that might creep into your mind? Nothing. All good. God doesn't care about my problems. God doesn't care about my problems. Yes. Of course, right? These are people you love. Maybe your mom and dad, and they're telling you you're in a cult, right? That's gonna create doubt. It's going to cause insecurities. Absolutely. It's natural. Good. So all the more reason we need to go back to God's Word to understand who we are as children of God. I think I said it when I f when I one of the first lessons I had, and I repeat it often because I think it's so important. As we go through equipping classes, when you hear sermons, when you're in the Word, you know, there's this constant drumbeat of trying to cultivate a really high view of God. Really understand the attributes of who God is in his totality. And at the same time, getting a clear understanding of who we are. As fallen creatures, right? As sinful creatures, but also as children of God. Romans 8, right? I love it. Romans 8. 1, it starts with, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So often we condemn ourselves, and it's easy in a situation like this to start doubting, to start condemning yourself because of a broken relationship Now we've learned, are we to examine ourselves? Absolutely. You're going to see that again today. But are we to condemn ourselves? No. You have to fight that. You have to go back to the Word. So really important to keep God central in your relationship. Maintain a dependent and growing walk with God, with Christ, by abiding in the Word, in prayer, and fellowship with God's people. So that's why it's so important to be in the Word, to be praying, to be praying individually, to be praying corporately. Which is why we encourage participation in our corporate uh prayer time. Um meeting on a Sunday, meeting in equipping classes, meeting in small groups, right? It's the body is there to encourage and to protect you Our acceptance by God takes priority over our acceptance by others. Our acceptance by God takes priority over acceptance by others. We are not to fear men. While this issue or relationship may be important in your life, it is not the only aspect of your life that needs attention. Be intentional about growing in the grace and knowledge of Christ in ways that are not directly related to this issue. That becomes critically important in a marriage. Just to quote again from the book here, I regularly encourage couples To love their spouses not because they deserve it. Your husband didn't climb up on the cross to die for you, but because your Lord Jesus deserves deserves it I encourage the wife to visualize by faith Jesus standing above and behind her husband, and to love and serve her husband with eyes on Jesus When she does that, none of her love and service toward her husband, even if he never reciprocates, is ever wasted. For God will reward her. God is not unjust He will not forget your work and the love you have shown him as you have helped his people and continue to help him. Hebrews 6. Alright, so this is a really important concept. I think I've uh brought it up before Um during counseling we we get a lot of this where couples will come in um and by the time we typically see them life is pretty tough, right? Things have have gotten into a situation where it's pretty estranged. This might be the the last ditch effort before they go the next step, right, and separate or divorce. And inevitably what happens, and I've told you guys this, they come in And it's, boy, if you could fix him, we would be good. And he's thinking, if you could just fix her, we would be good. And what we have to do from the very beginning is say, no. You've got to start with your relationship with God. What are your roles and responsibilities? So we take them where? To Ephesians 5, 1 Peter 3. God clearly lays out the roles and responsibility for a husband and a wife. Now, let me ask you this. Are these roles and responsibilities guidelines or are these commands? Commands. They're not if you feel like doing it. Are they conditional or unconditional? Unconditional. Unconditional. This is really important, and that's what I just read. It's not Men love your wives as Christ loved the church when she does good, when she's behaving, right, when she's fulfilling her role. That's not what it says. There's no conditions put on it. And and how are we men to love our wives as Christ loved the church? How did he love the church? He died for the church. He sacrificed himself for the church on the cross. You know, I joke, and my wife chides me at this, but I say marriage is the great sanctifier because every day you are dying to self. It's a blessing. Why? Because that's God's design. That's the way He designed it. It's not meant to be a hardship, a burden. It's a burden because of why? Our flesh, our pride, right? But it's unconditional. So I have to reorient and say, no, you need to focus on your responsibility before God. And we say this too, we never do this because you can't, but Let's say of the problem set, you're only 10% of the problem. I mean nobody knows what that looks like. But if that's true, you gotta own 100% of the 10%. That's what you have to work on. Why? Because you can't control your hook Now, what I've seen many, many times is in the case of the wife, really focusing on her roles and responsibilities, and it it talks about this, I believe, in 1 Peter 3 She wins him over with her behavior. Just by her behavior and being obedient to the Lord, I've seen changes in the men. Unbelieving men, right? So the the power of the Lord in that circumstance, getting back to that alignment of your responsibility before the Lord is so very, very important. I think I've shared this And I don't think she would mind me sharing. My my mom is just a great testimony in my life. She became a believer when I was in middle school. She's the one that I heard the gospel from. from many, many times before I became a believer, she's the one that was praying for me. She is the one that demonstrated what it looks like to submit and respect a husband who is an unbeliever to this day. They've been married 63 years, and she has had to demonstrate that. Now, I'll say this, it's getting harder. As they get older and have some health issues, it's getting harder And yet she still displays that that attitude. So she may not see the results here on earth, you know, like we just read. But But she is is being obedient to the Lord and will reap her reward in heaven. Right? And she doesn't do it for that. She does it because she wants to please the Lord. Is it hard? Yes. Absolutely it's hard So let me just encourage you, it's easy even in a marriage to let that be our identity, right? I'm married. That's my spouse. And understand what I'm saying. I'm not saying you can't be identified by that and have great joy in that. Um but especially when there are difficulties, your identity first and foremost has to be in Jesus Christ. Does that make sense That's really, really important. Alright. Number two. Review, renew, and redo your personal peacemaking efforts In the interest of taking out the log, ensure that you actually have been faithful to what God has called you to. When you confess your contribution was it done with humility, when you confronted them Was it done with gentleness? Don't allow pride to keep you from redoing what you feel like you've done. If you conclude that there is more sin you need to confess, or even that you sinned in the process, uh by omission or commission, command Confess that to the individual. What um have I been kind of harping on since I got here? Two basic elements that we've been talking about here. The heart attitude, and what's the other one I did a poor job, obviously. The response, how you respond, right? That's what it comes down to. So even though you go through this process that we've talked about in the previous chapters about examining yourself, taking the log out of your own eye Let's say you've done that. This can be a very lengthy process. What can happen in the response category over here? Or even the heart attitude over here? Right? Some things can seep back in Maybe bitterness, in bitterness, right? Critical spirit. How about talking about other people? Well, I've tried and tried and tried to reconcile, but she doesn't return any of my calls Right? Easy to do. You may have to go back and reconfess and reconfess. So there's always a process of continuing to examine yourself. Some good questions uh pulled out of the book here. Has pleasing God been my highest desire? Remember, we're we're seeking to glorify God through this entire process. Has that been my highest desire? Where do I need to adjust my goals in relationship to him? Have I examined and repented of any ways I have sinned against this person? Have I humbled myself before him for her? Do I need an attitude adjustment by God's Spirit? Am I harboring any resentment or bitterness in my heart? Do I need to allow more time? Sometimes it's just time. Time will be the healer. Are you going to be patient and rest in the Lord? All right, so again you get to that point, nothing's happening, you've gotta allow time, you've got to allow the Holy Spirit to do his work. In that process though, can Continue to be examining yourself. And again, it's in the spirit of what? As a child of God. Go back to number one there. You're not condemning yourself, you're examining yourself before the Lord. That's why I love uh Psalm one hundred thirty nine. I think I've mentioned that before at the end of it. Search me, O God. Show me any grievous ways. But when you look at the rest of one hundred thirty nine It really talks about someone who is hemmed in by the Lord, protected by the Lord. You're a child of God examining yourself. That's an important context. Alright, number three, seek help. We're not meant to go through the challenges of life alone. Seek help from someone you are confident will be able to provide biblical counsel and help. Don't look for a sympathetic ear but for wise counsel. This is a tough one, isn't it? You want to run to your friend Peggy, I'm just making up names of course, um, because you know she's going to be sympathetic. Or are you going to turn to that friend that you know is going to give it to you straight? Right? That's where you need to go. Um you have brothers and sisters in Christ that hopefully will give it to you straight in grace but with love but we'll tell you the truth. Um what other resources are available? Small group. Small group, excellent. Right. These uh hopefully is an intimate group that that the intent of small group is to get to know everyone pretty intimately. You can share more vulnerable prayer requests. All right? Rely on your small group. Good. What else? Center here. Counseling center, right? We have a very robust counseling ministry here. Um one of the biggest in the region. I don't say that pridefully, but it we have been so blessed Um by Pastor Gabe and setting up that ministry and many folks that have been trained and are in training. Again, you are all counselors, but sometimes it's helpful to get um maybe some specialized help and and we have a lot of resources and people that that can do that. So again either for yourself or you can point people um to the counseling center. Obviously any of the elders, uh the SOP guys, any um you know these seasoned folks in the Lord, uh men and women, are are great, great resources What if some of the situations cause some very practical hardships though? I'm thinking financial, legal, others. Okay. Um divorce might mean you need to get lawyers involved. Or in the case of um abuse, you might need to get, you know, uh law enforcement involved Um you might need to get legal representation. That's the reality of living in a fallen world. Uh how about financial? You know, I've talked about it before. The church has a benevolence fund Right, for that reason, where maybe something happens, a separation, a divorce, and now you're you're in um very delicate situation financially, uh the benevolence fund might be able to help Um I wanted to touch on this point of of physical uh abuse in this situation. On the other hand, if he has physically harmed you or engaged in criminal action that endanger you or your family, domestic violence, theft, kidnapping, uh drug or illegal activities, you need to call the police God has provided civil authority in Romans 13, 1 through 6 to protect citizens from evildoers. The prohibition against taking personal revenge in Romans 12 also causes us to leave room for God's judgment. A judgment that includes the government as God's agent. for justice and punishment. If the person cannot govern themselves, he needs to be governed by others. The most loving action in some cases, what's best for the offender's soul maybe for him to be bodily incarcerated. Alright? So that happens sometimes. There are extreme situations where the safety of the family, the safety of the wife, I'll call it in this case, or the children is paramount and that has to be dealt with first. So there can be phases of this process. Does that make sense? Alright, so sometimes it takes some extreme measures. And and that's why it's so important to be reaching out to others, whether it's small group, uh brother and sister in Christ, because guess what? In the midst of that crisis are you thinking clearly? You're probably not Right, there's a lot of emotions running around. I mean a ton of emotions running around. It's very helpful to get some advice from from those that you trust that will give you good biblical advice, biblical counsel Draw you back to the word. Okay? Good? Alright, let's go to number four. We're going to spend some time there. Let's go to Luke 6 in your Bibles, if you will. Luke six, and we'll start in twenty seven. Oops. Yeah, oops six, twenty-seven. Twenty-seven to thirty-six, and can somebody read that for me? Who's got a big command voice? Scott, would you read that for me? Abby, I don't doubt you have a big command voice. But I say to you who hears, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also And from one who takes away your clothes, do not withhold your tunic either. Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods. Do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them? And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners. to get back the same amount. But love your enemies and do good and less, expecting nothing in return. And your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. Good, thank you. So that's kind of the the framework we're going to talk about. I stole this chart from the book, so that's the the chart you see at the bottom there, and you can you can see its bookend by by 27, um verse 27 to love and then at the end to show mercy. just as Christ did to us. Right? So that's the context. But back up in verse 27. But I say to you to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. So you can see in the chart there the do good the bless and the pray. Um I think it was in this class that I shared at the Ken Sandy conference he shared um an example of an elder and a pastor were were in a huge um disagreement, you know, their relationship was broken and the elder felt this need on his heart to go and wash the pastor's windows, right? And and we talked through um, you know, he was very suspect, if you will, when he showed up, he says, I I'm gonna call the police on you. He says, I don't care. I'm gonna wash your windows. And by the end of that they came out, had lunch together and started that reconciliation process. You know, it's weird to think about, but in that broken relationship, you know, one of those really in in all essence is your enemy. And that's hard to think of, but that's where the relationship has gone. Think about a marriage relationship that has become so embittered estranged, that person really might be your enemy in a sense. You know what I'm saying there? I mean that's how far the relationship has has broken down. And yet what does Scripture tell us to do? Right? To do good, to bless, and to pray. So that's the perspective we we need to have. So let me run through these elements real quick We're going to do number five, and then I want to come back to this and maybe work through a use case. So do good. Consider how you can do acts of kindness and goodness too for them. In the example of washing the windows. Do they have practical needs? Is there something they would benefit from? Can you lessen their burden in some way? So find ways to do good. Find ways to bless them, find ways to speak words of kindness, grace, and encouragement. Write them a card for their birthday or other noteworthy events. And then there were a couple scriptures in the book that I thought were helpful in this particular case. Uh Proverbs fifteen one, you've heard this, but a gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. I think we've all been there when we approach with a A gentle response, what does that do? That usually tears down the defenses of that individual, right? Versus going in like a pit bull, what usually happens? The defenses go up And then uh the example of our Lord in 1 Peter 2. He committed no sin and no deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate. When he suffered, he made no threats. Instead he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. You see there he doesn't um f forget what's happening, but he hands it over to him who judges justly. That's God, God the Father. what we are being asked to do. Now you might say, well, I'm not Jesus. True, but where is Jesus right now and what is he doing? He's at the right hand of God, interceding for us. We've now been indwelt with the Holy Spirit, His Spirit, that gives us the power to do just that. Alright? That's the sacrifice that we're asked to do. And then pray. Ask the Lord to work in their heart, to restore them to himself and to you, and to glorify himself in their life If they are promoting evil or seeking to harm you, it is right to ask the Lord to prevent them from accomplishing their plans and to remove their strength and to distort their counsel. Back to marriage counseling, one of the things I we have a worksheet that we have the couples fill out now where they are supposed to um write out all the roles and responsibilities. So we give them the version uh verses Ephesians 5, 1 Peter 3, and they write out those roles and responsibilities. And then what does that look like? What should that look like in their marriage, right? To really start to get them to think about and to practice their specific roles and responsibilities. And then I have them ask their spouse, can you show me specific ways where I have loved you as Christ has loved the church? Keep it positive at first. And how else can I do that? Okay. What we're doing at the same time, though, is we're giving um observance, if you will, to so let's say I'm the man, here's the roles and responsibilities of the wife Now what I have to caution them is I share this with you because now you can be praying for your wife, right? To respect, to submit to your husband, that's really hard, guy, right? That can be really difficult for the wife How can you be praying for her? Not how can you use it against her? So understanding the roles and responsibilities that she has and vice versa, you can now be praying for your spouse. You can be praying for your wife, your husband. Help them to fulfill this before you, Lord. Right. So that's what that knowledge can do. But that's where praying can come in. When you know what they're supposed to be doing, you don't pray in um anger, you pray in submission to the Lord. Help them to be obedient. Help them to walk faithfully, Lord. And show me again, show me any grievances. Examine myself, Lord. Alright, good. We're going to come back to this. So if you got any questions, just hold that for a second. But this is a good practical um framework. And then number five kind of takes us back to where we started. Keep a God-centered, balanced perspective on your life. Remember that your life is not defined by this conflict. Your identity, your dignity, your significance, and your hope are all bound up in Christ, not in the conflict. That can be really difficult when the relationship is personal, especially um you know two spouses, right, it impacts every area of your life. I I get that. It's difficult. And yet that cannot define us. And that's again why it's so important to be in the Word to be getting um good counsel from others, to have others praying for you, all important elements. Remember that in this sin-cursed world God's people will be sinned against, and God's people will sin. The presence and consequences of sin Proves that God's word is true and must be followed. Don't allow the sinful choices of others to diminish your view of God, His Word, and the church. Remember that Christ came the first time to rescue us from the penalty and power of sin, and at his second coming he will rescue us from the presence of sin. The sufferings we experience at the hands of others is painful but temporary. We must keep our hope on eternity where sin does not exist. Almost impossible to do if you are not in the Word. If you are not praying, if you are not assembling with the saints. Almost impossible. Remember that there is no true, full, satisfying justice in this world. I talked about my mother. My father may pass away an unbeliever. That crushes me to think of. But that may happen. Justice will happen eventually. God will completely and ultimately accomplish justice at the end of time, and all will receive what is due. Okay, I want to ask you this. So in the in the context of of maybe what we just talked about, you know, broken relationships that may last years and years and years, um there's an important concept that I think is often overlooked. in in the Christian community, and that's the ability to lament, right? Hurting is a very real aspect of of the world that we live in As Christians, and when we see broken relationships, hurt is an is an absolute aspect of our life. How do we deal with that? We can lament. What is lament? So there's a great resource, Dark Clouds, Deep Mercy that we have in our counseling rooms over there If you haven't read it, it's a short, quick read. I really encourage you to look it up. I'm going through this book with a counselee. I've never read it before, and it is excellent. So let me give you just a couple inserts from it. First of all, what is lament? Lament, and think about this, lament is the honest cry of a hurting heart wrestling with the paradox of pain and the promise of God's goodness. It's the reality that we are going through pain, we are hurting, and yet realizing that God is sovereign, that He is His He is providential, that He works all things for good for those who love Christ Jesus. How does that work out? It's a paradox, right? Lament gives us that opportunity to work through that. To vocalize your pain, this is what lament does. It gives permission to vocalize your pain as it moves you toward God-centered worship and trust. Lament is how you live between the poles of a hard life and trusting in God's sovereignty Lament is how Christians grieve. It is how to help hurting people. Lament is how we learn important truths about God and our world My personal and pastoral experience has convinced me that biblical lament is not only a gift, but also a neglected dimension of the Christian life for many first century Christians. I don't know if you knew this, but a third of the Psalms are laments. Right? We have a perfect example of how to do this in the Psalms, and he actually quotes one here in the book. Let's go to that Psalm 62. And there, like I said, there's a third, so there are many you could go to, but I want you to see the kind of the pattern here. Psalm sixty-two, a Psalm of David, For God alone my soul waits in silence, from him comes my salvation. He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. But here you see the lament. How long will all of you attack a man to batter him like a leaning wall, a tottering fence, then only plan to thrust him down from his high position They take pleasure in falsehood, they bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. And then you see a turn here. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress I shall not be shaken. On God rest my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock, my refuge is God. Trust in Him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart before Him. God is a refuge for us. So the pattern you typically see in the lament is is first and foremost a turning to God, a recognition that God is God. You see this at the very beginning of the psalm here, don't you? But then what happens? There's a complaint. Lord, why? Why is this happening? How long is this going to happen? Lord, I don't understand. I know you are sovereign. I know you are providential. I know with a snap of the fingers you could heal this cancer. Why? Why is this happening? Now, this is not a permission to be angry at the Lord. This is permission to be heartfelt before the Lord, to let your heart come out and cry before the Lord. But then what happens is that usually in the Psalms you'll see it turns to a recognition. Then I remembered what the Lord did. I remembered how the Lord brought his people out of oppression from Pharaoh Right, those are the examples you see. And usually the psalm ends up just praising God. That's the pattern you will go through, right? Because you're turning to God, but you're you're turning with your honest lament, your honest questions. Why, Lord? How long is this going to happen? Jesus did it, right? My Lord, my Lord, why have you forsaken me? Then you remember. Then it turns you back to praising and worshiping the Lord. Often in this type of scenario where you have these broken relationships and they go on for a long time, you might be going through a grieving period. You're grieving. Recognize that. It's okay But lament and learn how to lament. God has given us that vehicle to do just that, to grieve before the Lord with our honest, open heart. Because what it's going to do is going to turn you back in worship to the Lord. And that's where you want to be Alright, so I encourage you, again, if you're in that type of situation, go to the Psalms. Go get this book. It's really, really good. And we'll walk you through some of those concepts. Or if you have a friend that's hurting, right? Become knowledgeable of how to walk them through, to teach them to lament, how to grieve biblically. All right, good. Any questions on that? Yeah, so I love the verse you brought up, Brian. Very applicable. And that's a case where boy you come across a verse like that, you write it down, you memorize it. So when you're having those periods of doubt, boom, that comes out Right, that's how you reinforce that. As someone coming alongside, if you have that verse ready. Hey, let me take you to God's scripture. And you take them to that verse. Hey You want to memorize that together? Right? That's how you can come alongside people that are hurting. But good. Good example. All right. Any other comments, questions? All right, let's go back to our chart here. Whoops. All right So here's just one use case we'll call it. So thinking about this framework, and you can build in all the extras to the context of this use case, but Here's what we have, a Christian trying to minister to someone who has been excommunicated from his church. So let's say for example we're there on a Sunday morning and unfortunately, you know, Pastor Gabe has to get up there and uh communicate um church discipline where someone is in that final stage where we have to excommunicate them from the church for whatever reason. Okay? Let's start with this. Why are we doing that? Reconciliation. Now wait a minute. We're kicking them out of the church to reconcile them? How does that work? Okay It's always, we are, the motivation is always love. It's always to try and bring them to repentance so that relationship can be reconciled. First and foremost to God And then to the saints. That is always the motivation. Extremely difficult to have to do that, but go back to some of those examples where this is in their best interest. If we truly love them, we need to do that. Just like disciplining your children. If you truly love them, you're going to discipline your children. So good. So yes, so that motivation we understand is repentance. So you know this person. You're good friends with this person. And yet they've been excommunicated from the church. You are to treat them as a tax collector, it says, right? How would you do good to them? How could you do good to them? Let's walk through that example. Every time you speak to them, okay, so speaking truth to them. Okay, good. Joni, you had your hand raised? I was thinking, you know, maybe they would meet with you for lunch every week or something and continue that relationship. Okay. So continuing to foster that relationship. That let me ask you, Joni, that frequency, what do you have to be on guard with? And my point is, you know, the church just did this very serious act of, right? I guess you have to not be maybe not be too sympathetic with your point of view. You have to be standing firm on what God is teaching and not be folding to their side Yep. So I'm not against the frequency, but you would have to be careful that you're not undermining the intent of church discipline and what it's trying to do. Right. So if they're willing to meet every week and boy, you guys are in the Word and you're telling, you know, you're sharing truth with them and you're being honest and they're open to that, that's great. Man, keep it going. Right? But you gotta be careful that it doesn't become too sympathetic like you said. That would be the danger of that. You know, to that point, um, you know, how are you you treat them as a tax collector? How would we treat any tax collector You know, it becomes an evangelistic opportunity. What if um you know what if they were part of a small group and and now they're excu excommunicated, they're not going to that small group, but they have some some issues. There's a sickness in the family, right? Uh the mom becomes really ill. What what are some do goods? Take a meal. Take a meal. Small group. Man, you rally. You rally pronto. That's what you do. You don't stop caring for the and that's That's I think this delicate balance of when someone gets excommunicated, it's almost like they're a leper. And that's not the intent here, right? There are some very practical things. Think about the the expression of love that shows that you've just been excommunicated and your small group is rallying with meals when you are in most need. Incredible demonstration of God's love. Do you still speak truth? Absolutely. Right? But that's a very practical example of how you could do good. Husband's sick, and I'm I'm just generalizing here, right? Maybe you go and help cut the lawn There are so many practical applications that we could be doing to do good. Good. All right. How about bless? So speak well to and about the other person. in this context of excommunication. Let's take it back to the small group. Let's say it comes up the small group. Hey I I noticed um so and so isn't here anymore. What's going on? Probably not delving into the drama of what happened. Mm-hmm. But you can explain what happened, right? And you can explain. Here's an opportunity to really explain. You guys remember when we signed up as members, they talked to us about church discipline. This is church discipline and exercise, and why do we do that? Because the church loves us, the elders love us. So you can explain, it's an opportunity to really explain and reinforce why we do that And then maybe start talking about, hey, how can we continue to bless them and yet still give them truth? As a small group How can we strategize and do that? All right. So now you're speaking well of the situation without condemning them and giving that person insight as to, hey, why aren't they here? opportunity to bring all that to bear as to why we're doing that. What's the danger um in this aspect when we start speaking about this situation? Gossip. Gossip. Yeah, that's probably Abby, were we gonna same thing or yeah, okay. Yeah, it's really easy for those seeds. You you think you're bringing concern to bear, but it it can quickly turn into gossip canon, right? You really gotta be careful about that Does that mean we don't talk about it at all? That's not helpful either, right? But we need to do it in the context of of love. So we have to be very careful about how we're speaking. Do you need to Can you speak truthfully about the situation? You need to, right? You don't need to flatter or or you know speak well in the sense that you know everything's fine. It's not Right, there's a bro broken relationship. In Brian's point, they might be a it might be a salvation issue. I mean a broken relationship with God that needs to be mended. All right, how about the last category there, pray? Specific ways to pray for yourself and the other person. So in this case, uh it's an external person that we're talking about. How about in small group? What what does prayer look like in this context? Well with anxious. Repent. So you're praying for repentance. Good. Okay. Jonathan. What do you do if the mask shows up Either to your small group again or you're not sure. Uh great question. Um I don't know that we've ever had that happen. Um to be honest with you, when When we have the Sunday where we're going to communicate this, we let security know. Because there could be issues, right? There could be circumstances When that person is excommunicated, they are not to enter the church. And so security knows that and are trained to deal with that situation. Um same with the small group. Now if if someone shows up at the small group, all right, let's throw that out. This person excommunicated shows up at your small group. What do you do? If they've been excommunicated then they're not getting the best and letting them know that you're happy flying. Okay, but they're at your front door, Brian. I mean I can't see that. Ask them why they're there. If they are there approaching to say, Hey, I am the next knee Yep. I want to seek reconciliation now. Okay. Okay. If that's the case, all pastor has to come. Yeah. Yeah. Don't assume you understand the heart motivation for them showing up at the your door. Okay? If the person comes and they are just repentant and they want to reconcile and they want to confess before your small group and ask for their forgiveness. Right? Hallelujah. Alright, you have to have a cautious eye. Watch the fruit, but you've got to ask clarifying questions. So good, right? You're not letting them in yet, but you're saying, hey, what's going on? Okay? If they're like, hey, I just I really miss the fellowship, I want to come in. Jess is like no way. Close the door. Yeah, right? Yeah, I can see a couple of of the the guys or ladies, if it's a woman, taking them aside and telling uh reminding them why they've then uh cast out and telling them maybe this is what you have to do if you want to be part of the fellowship again. Like just clarifying the the rules or the boundaries or whatever. Yeah. So I like that. So so you're pulling them now aside, taking them out of the big group and I would encourage a man and a woman, you know, let's say it's the woman You know, don't do that alone. Have somebody with you, but you're trying to de-escalate. There's probably anger, bitterness, what have you. Here's an opportunity to address that, pull them aside. Good. Well, Jonathan. Or no, uh uh Seth. I mean I'm not serious like if it is like a guy it means actually being aggressive. Just being totally honest it would be saying it was saying calmly Hey, I have family, yada yada yada, other families are here. Not just escalating too far. We've already made it clear, you're not coming for reconciliation, just whatever you're doing. If it continues to persist, I'm gonna have to call the cops and say we love you, but this is the reality of the situation. Yeah, that's it. So it may escalate escalate to a point where you have to get, you know, legal folks involved and that's for their best. And it's for the safety of the group All right, so that's how you you frame that. Don't let step one be the guys m mob the guy and beat him up and take him out, right? That's not Christian love. You guys walk through that perfectly. Ask clarifying questions, understand their heart intent, pull them aside, try to de-escalate the situation, get them to a point where you can actually minister to them, but it may come to a point that it's so severe you need to you need to take action. And Pastor, you said you've never seen I haven't seen that here. Now I've only been here four years. So and same here, I've only seen this being presented Like I don't know, three times or whatever. Yeah. We um, you know, the security guys go through training and what I've asked Bill Daniels to do is get the elders involved in some of that, right? So we know how to respond up at the pulpit um and help direct. And so we've had a couple of training videos where that has happened and it's scary. It's very scary. But you have uh just an excellent team here And and you know, we pray to God that would never ever happen here, but we need to be prepared, unfortunately. That's the world we live in. And when you have church discipline, that's always that's always the danger, right? You just never know how that person's gonna respond I don't want you to be fearful at all. It's in the Lord's hands. We do it. It is a mark of a healthy church when a church does church discipline. We've done that several times here at Hope since I've been here. Um it's unfortunate, but it's how we show love to these people and protect the church at the same time. Okay? Yeah, you bring up a good point. You know, every every case is different and it just requires good uh godly discernment. Now, in that particular case, that is something I would want you to let the elders know to say, hey, here's what I'm doing. Is this correct? Um and it might mean hey we show up at the next meeting just to see where things are at, right? Everything needs godly discernment. At the same time we want to be reinforcing the church discipline that's happening. And and Master not to be funny about this. Um also keep in mind there's a lot of mental illness. So you have to kind of know the person to his point, where his point Um you gotta know where this person is kind of coming from if you know has mental illness. Uh he or she. Uh they could be under some sort of medication. So that's Yeah. That complicates the situation and and maybe it's extra help that they need. You know, that's why getting good clarifying questions and and just investing in this person, right? It's not that we treat them as a leper, um, but it's extremely serious. Okay. Good. Alright, so that's in the context of um someone who's been excommunicated. Let me do this. We're at ten thirty. Um I wanted to take a couple minutes. I started at the beginning to get you to be thinking about You've been through twelve weeks of this biblical reconciliation class. Um next week you'll get some some use cases from Pastor Gabe. Just what are some things, you know, now having taken the class, maybe just as you've taken it more than once, what are some concepts or things that just really jumped out at you like, boy, I never thought about that before. Um would love to get a little bit of feedback in the couple minutes that we have left. So let's pray. Father, uh this has been such an encouraging class. I love the feedback from uh the group and I I know that you are imparting these truths in each and every one of us here. Um to see our growth, to see our sanctification. That is your will, to see us conformed more and more into the image of Christ. And we do that through these personal relationships in our families, in the church, in our communities. This is real life, Lord, and I thank you for the equipping. Lord, we pray for just an excellent worship time this morning. It's going to be so exciting to graduate our our SLP guys after three years of just very diligent training uh to kind of have the capstone with Pastor Dave, I pray that this would just be a fun day of celebration and uh ultimately may you be glorified. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.