But I just want to make sure that if you have not made use of Hope Book, and particularly the group, this class group, please look on it because I added an article and a book review last week But to simplify the distinctions between the two groups, complementarians believe that men and women are equal yet different. So just be aware of those distinctions. And what it tells us is that they are co-equal. Because one of the issues that comes up oftentimes, and there was a hint at a question, I think Julie, you mentioned this last week, the issue of the masculine nouns or masculine pronouns And I want to address that because that is a very important issue related to the creation story. So just wanted to highlight for you those distinctions. And here's the distinction, no matter what the culture deems appropriate. Uh now again we can use humanity, we can use humankind, we can do that, but again if we're forcing the text to say something generically that the text says So it's very important for us to see that and to understand it. But at this point, again, it's very important to find a a a translation that you can trust that will again reaffirm And now there's a new international version 2020 that I think is even worse. So again, we're talking about image, we're talking about us as image bearers. And we'll talk a little bit more specifically about what that image and likeness then conveys. In the day when God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. And what a joy that is. And how we do that is again by subduing it, by ruling over it, by having dominion over it. When it comes to the ultimate choice of choosing salvation in God, we don't have that capacity because sin has violently marred us. Yes, we do. That's why a lot of people have concerns about where the country's headed, you know, where where society is today. She was a lesbian for a long time. And uh I don't know if you've read her testimony, but she was redeemed by a pastor just inviting her over to her home over to their home and having dinner together. Yeah. So again, when you think about what it means to be made in the image of God, again you are representing God in the world, but in his likeness, you're patterned Amy, is there anything else related to uh housekeeping that we need to be aware of? Second, the term man or mankind have long been used as appropriate terms for humanity. Yeah. He didn't sin. She's a gal that again, her thinking was really off. who are going through different stages of life and uh it's just a wonderful thing to uh embrace that and you know and it it's it's uncomfortable at first to put yourself out there and to be transparent, um but I mean I mean yeah it's it's it's this guy's Yes. It's it's not in that it's not that kind of blessing, but why don't we do this together? Father, we thank you so much for this day and again thank you for this class. We pray in Christ's name. Isaac has graciously stepped in to uh to cover and to uh be able to teach portions of this class. Saturday is the last day of the creation week. Please don't don't shy away from coming to me and saying, Hey Mike, is that exactly right? either an electronic or a physical copy of the notes. And then also they're just added notes and messages that might come through the Hope Book class, and we don't want you to miss out on those. Uh just focus in on those simple distinctions. We would differ with the egalitarians. is the fact that she's made of the exact same substance. Can you read that? But this just gets us headed in the direction of understanding why God used those terms. And so for example, in Genesis 127, the text says, and this is literally what it says, God created man. that is attached to the direct object mark marker in Hebrew is masculine. And we see this because in Genesis chapter 5, verse 2, it says that He created them male and female, and He blessed them and He named them man. The same word for in the beginning when he created man was Adam, likewise here he named male and female Adam. and not Eve. The use of the term man is consistent with the concept of male headship in the family and in the church. And again, in a day in which they were created. For example, in 1 Corinthians 11 and also 1 Timothy 2, Paul uses creation truths, not culture. First Timothy two is a um is a very uh hot button issue in our culture uh in the church today because in that text in First Timothy two it talks about how um There are role distinctions, role differences. And they will use gender neutral language to describe in the Bible what is very specific And there's an intent by the original author to have used the words that he used. What did he say and then what does it mean by what he said? then I can trust the word and then derive the meaning and the understanding and the application from what the author intended rather than what some translator is translating or um or interpreting the text to be. in describing the human race, but the benefits of using such terminology help us to clarify biblical truth instead of obscuring it. And it's a ver it's a fairly thick book, but they go into all the reasons why you want to be weary of of those um Um, I can bring the book in next week to show you, but very, very good book. And they speak directly to this issue of biblical manhood and womanhood. Now Christ took on human flesh, and he now bears that flesh for all eternity, but prior to the incarnation he was spirit. Um, what does that mean? Father, Son, and Holy Spirit that pulled all this material together to make men and women in his likeness. We need to understand that image, the word Salem, um carries the idea of representation and copy. Now keep in mind, um, when the Holy Spirit in the New Testament comes and is the seal of God's promise to us. to symbolize his sovereign control over all his realm. that we bear the image of God. who's doing everything they can to just obscure the image of a human being, um, they're still made in the image of God. and it no longer is reflecting much more gloriously uh that image that we were created to be. or a form. One person said m uh a mediatorial king um representation. There is a kingship there. We see this because Genesis 5 happens after Genesis 3 and 4, and so when they start giving birth to their children, we see very clearly God reaffirming this statement that he made about Adam and Eve. Now we haven't been directly created by God like Adam and Eve were, but still we bear the exact same image and likeness that they bore. Um much better that we do it face to face, amen? to be alone. But the text says, then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. There's a an intentionality to the image and likeness that we have as God's image bearers and his representatives to the world. So it's very important that there is huge implications for why it is we were created in the image and likeness Um don't just say that that's that's a an issue of sin. The emotion is important. And then we're completely dependent upon God and praying for His help in guiding us to make the right choices. And the scriptures help us to determine that. But you know that a lot is um got to be jealous and you have that uh mutuals or we're gonna start but in our biblical counseling program because we discuss these issues at length and it's very helpful. we're allowing this emotion to take over us rather than again seeing it biblically and seeing it as God would see it. That wasn't just feeling sad, like that was altering like things that made me feel like myself. rationality. Rooted in reality. Not because of anything they do, but the fact we're fallen and so in hospitals you have psychiatric problems that you're not gonna say they send to cause this, but it's an impairment that one of them were born. psychiatric ward or have manifestations of um psychological and sinful problems Being conformed to the image of God is a process. You know, that applies to everybody. But I remember early on my wife and I we were driving somewhere, I think we were going to a meal or something, and we were driving down the road and we saw this person off to the side of the road Um, no Rosario Rosaria Butterfield. You do you guys have any added thoughts to that? find other people in this world Christ that we can talk to, that we can expose ourselves to and that they can help kinda carry us along through 'cause we can go through things we can like the like she said, under like a fall of honesty deception and um Yeah. Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil which I'm the leading part, leading you to fall away from the living God, putting towards one another every day. believe in prayer, reading the word daily, and then having fellowship with other things in half is almost like setting someone in your Christian world. under just where we believe certain things that are just not true. on Sunday is to worship God, but to hold each other accountable to that worship and to uh glorify him. You know, ultimately we cast our cares on the Lord and He is the one who transforms us. There was somebody else. And the best way to do that is to ask a lot of questions. And again, this is how the Bible describes image and likeness at the beginning with Adam and Eve. Because again, we uh we see Adam and Eve relating together, we see them relating to the earth, we see them relating to the animals, we see them relating to God, as God walks with them in the cool of the garden. No. And we'll get to them. And we pray that we can worship you in spirit and in truth and and rejoice in your word and what it has for us. Okay, uh let's begin with prayer. We are able to confront, to hold accountable, but also proclaim your gospel, the truth that you have given us to the world. um joined with me to co-teach. And I pray that as we continue to grow in under our understanding of this issue of true biblical manhood and womanhood, that you would fill our hearts with Perfectly clear. that several of you came up and pointed that out to me. Definitely it will be received with gratefulness. um in terms of a physical copy, just let Amy know and she will print one out for you. However, we will I will be adding notes every once in a while. group page for this class and then you can access those. Um this is our second lesson, although we are still in the first part of the first lesson of your class notes what is at large here with the issues uh related to these two words. Uh we talked about equal in value and in dignity, and this was the first part of the first lesson that we went over last week. so that you will know right away when the word is brought up you know how to define it. So just to briefly go over it real quickly, men and women are each created in the image of God, having an intellect, emotion, and will that's patterned after God's Uh men and women are equal equally given responsibility to rule over the earth and animals. Are we reading too much into that idea that um because Eve was taken out of the side of man, therefore that tells us that she is equal to man? better yet, not created from his head to be superior, not created from his feet to be inferior. And so bone of her that's why you see later on, bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. And so it helps us to really understand um really the complement that they are together as husband and wife. as we're interpreting the passage in Genesis. reflect a negative bias against women. It's not wrong to use those terms. There are legitimate reasons why using the original masculine terms may be more appropriate. Therefore, there is no reason to change the original text. And so we don't want to let um culture determine what is the best understanding or the best interpretation of the text. The inspired and inerrant text of the Old Testament uses masculine nouns and pronouns to describe the creation of mankind. It's superculture. represents the whole of humanity. Paul says, I do not permit a woman to ha exercise authority or teach over a man. Right there at the very beginning of creation, Paul says you see it in the order in which Adam was created first and then Eve. It just is illustrative of the fact that very clearly in the scripture, not only is there equality between men and women, but there are differences. In fact, oftentimes it will create confusion and it will create obscurity that will ultimately breed more confusion than it will clarity. exactly what the original Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic said. I love going back to the original Greek and Hebrew and Aramaic and also having a good word-for-word translation because it helps me to know Again, the further it gets away from the original and focus more on you as a reader and applying the Word of God, the more confusing it gets. Come to me, come to one of the pastors in the church or the elders or ministry leaders, ask them, and they will help you to find a good translation of the Bible. become so confused that you don't even know how to apply or how to apply the Word of God. a comprehensive list. translations that really hone in on gender neutral language. especially Zondervan started changing the NIV. Alright, the next one that we're going to go over is image and likeness. to ask, okay God, what do you mean by that? Again, these terms are there to really show how God has created us to represent that are used of God in the Old Testament, they are there to help us to understand truths about the Lord, about God. we use plural God is using plural pronouns to describe who it is that made men and women. So just as, again, Adam and Eve were created in the image and likeness of God, therefore everybody born after them bears that same image and likeness. We can conclude that mankind is the only visible representation of the invisible God in the world. to every created thing that is on this earth, to every animal, every bird of the air, fish of the sea, beast of the field to the point that when it came to Adam and Eve, there was a distinction to this creature that was created And that's why we need to be God's good stewards, not only of ourselves, of our bodies, but also good stewards of the earth that He's given us as well. When Adam then had lived a hundred and thirty years, he became the father of a son. all of it being tainted by sin, still we are God's image bearers, and we need to remind ourselves that God created us in his image. Genesis 127, and God created man in his own image. That's an amazing statement in the scripture if you think about it. That is the exact terminology that is used concerning Adam and Eve. So, number three, the image of God explains mankind's need to live in relationship with others. We are social people. Again, in the beginning, God created them male and female. over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. It's not good for multiple reasons. We are designed for relationships. So that's number three. Verse 27, and God created man in his own image. Verse 28, God blessed them and God said to them, okay, what are we supposed to do? Fill the earth, subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that creeps on the earth. It means that ontologically, ontological or uh ontology is uh the study of who we are, our being, our existence In fact, the language of the text of the Bible is we're blind and we're dead in what? We can use logic and rational thinking to determine how to make choices. We talked about this. Oftentimes those emotions that we would call today are reactions to emotions They are like stress is a reaction to some emotion that you might have. I wouldn't say he could be depressed. But the issue is is that stress is the manifestation of an emotion and oftentimes it's tainted by sin. that there are times when I can't tell the difference between what's righteous and what's unrighteous anger. But again, it's marred by sin. We want to be in control and we're not in control and yet we don't recognize that this is all part of God's plan. that we need more specifically it really takes some time to sit down and talk about that and um and I would highly recommend all of you if you're interested in these kinds of issues especially helping people get enrolled Yeah, definitely. fog. ultimately sin manifests itself in these issues because we're fallen creatures. Not at all. the fall. a defilement or a handicap. I believe a lot of it can be traced back to the curse, to the fall. That's not the issue. speaks to and can bring life and healing and transformation and change. jumping around and grasping at things. Well the question then came up, are they demon-possessed? And I thought, this person jumping around grabbing at things, what if they jumped out into the road and somebody hit them? You know, thinking about us created in the image of God, that person's created the image and likeness of God. sin has blinded and affected the rationality of a person to the degree that that in their bodies they are She has control over that. So don't underestimate the power of hospitality to win somebody over for Christ. We would try to avoid. and super discouraged, super when feeling like I don't know, like I didn't have someone to talk to. Yeah. Try to what's the language of James? All right. we are able to do what God has called us to do. are even more delayed in our notes. Great. What a joy it is to be made in your image. great joy to know that not only did you have a plan for all humanity, but you have a plan for each and every one of our lives individually. Um the other issue is last week um I said something that was totally incorrect and I want to make it or a circumstance that doesn't go unnoticed by you. not mentioning it, uh but in addition to Amy Dossett and then also my wife Sharon as the assistant, um Isaac Bagley has graciously A birthday card, please sign it for one of our missionaries. Alan Plumley wrote the notes, Pastor Alan, and I'm so grateful for them. that tool uh as often as you can. But last week when we began I I gave you some important definitions and distinctions. because primarily these words are terms that you're going to hear throughout the class, complementarianism and egalitarianism. But I just want to make it clear that when we're talking about these terms, and you're going to hear them often, just make sure that you go back to these kind of definitions So there's no difference not only in personhood, dignity and worth, but there's no difference in roles and distinctions. Men and women are together reflect God's image better than they can individually. interpretation of that particular event that took place, much more what is being said by woman taken out of Eve in a sense, a practical sense that uh yeah, uh Eve is equal, not inferior or superior to man, that is not the direct interpretation of that particular passage the the moving away from the masculine man or mankind to the more generic humanity, human beings, etc. And so they argue that only terms like humanity and humankind should be used. So again, we want to go with what the text says. So again, we see within the language of the text a use of masculine nouns and masculine pronouns, and there's no reason not to use those. Replacing the Hebrew term for man in Genesis with a gender-neutral English word obscures the truth. in his own image and in the image of God he created him. that the first created man represents the whole of mankind. distinctively, we want to be careful about that. And the question is, is does the text indicate that this is a culturally sensitive issue? So before there was really the establishment of a long-term culture to determine how people operate, um and more accurate meaning of the original text. in some cases, it actually causes the reader to misunderstand the author's original intent. In the last probably 15, 20, maybe 30 years, translations of the Bible have been moved for more of a literal translation, a word-for-word translation. to actually a thought for thought or again reader oriented version. Very frequently we will tell people that, yes, we have specific Bible translations that we endorse, and if you press us, we'll tell you which ones we don't endorse. An overemphasis on the terms humanity and humankind, and again this speaks to what I just said, but often blurs the distinction made between male and female, and therefore roles and differences become confused and culturally then irrelevant. So, one last one I think. are synonymous terms in the sense that they are they are there to describe the way in which God has made us Not just as physical beings but also as spiritual beings, as emotional beings, as you know, we'll go into a l a lot of this um in just a minute, but to reflect his image in the world. say about God that he was previously a man and then was glorified. Um, but God, the Godhead was spirit. Um the text reads, Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Go into a culture and especially like England and other places where you have um a monarchy, you're gonna see the image of the king and uh or queen. But who we are, comprehensively, we bear the image of God to the whole world. specifically have the image of Christ being born to people who do not belong to Christ. He brought back and glor and um really transformed that image back into the glory that God originally had in Adam and Eve. So, again, think of it in terms of being an image bearer. Man functions as God's supreme steward over all the earth. bug of your bathroom, we represent the image of God to the whole of creation. It's it's really interesting when you take into account God creating through the first six days and then coming to man at that sixth day, you can see that everything was building So much so that we are different than any other created creature on the earth. of God's creation in the earth. And again, this unity that we have together uh is celebrated. that God has created us uniquely so that we bear his image in the world. Why the significance? They are made in the image of God. who we are by again um having uh having every aspect of our life, our thoughts, our deeds, our actions, our attitudes I should say when women bear children. But the significance of this is that the image of God is affirmed by all persons, male and female alike. Look at the t the language that's being used here. He couldn't find a suitable helper. All of what's wrapped up in us being social really came to its pinnacle and that's why God said be fruitful and multiply uh for the whole or for over all the earth. Essentially what is going on here is that we were we were designed by God and purposed to rule and to subdue the earth. That is huge. of God. And ontologically, the image and likeness of God reminds us that man is a living, personal, self-conscious, active being with personality. We have rationality to us, and we can then choose and make choices. We don't have the capacity after the fall to be able to choose the highest good. That doesn't exist. So ontologically it has significance. we are able to do that. Care, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, self-control. stress or through what was the other term that you used? it that way. I wouldn't necessarily say because God experiences sorrow uh or grief that therefore he gets depressed. His his sorrow is perfect, his his grief is perfect. So he's not in any way um moved or shaped or um or controlled by sin or evil. God gets angry, but our anger is oftentimes not righteous anger. in a sense in the wrong direction because we need to address the emotion in a biblical way and and if we get depressed or we get you know we're filled with anxiety it's because we're of how depraved a person can get. But we can't go back and say can't sin is the root cause of it sin as something that somebody has done is the root cause to this. issues is a sin problem. We take the time to fathom how depraved a person can get and how damaged that sin curse can do to a person. What damage did alcohol do to a person? Um that happens on a case by case basis with people. All of these have the impact of us our depravity coming out in those various forms. literally in absolute rebellion against God and what he has designed creation to be. And she gave such a wonderful testimony concerning how God redeemed her. find herself at times being attracted to women, yes, but she understands that in God's redemptive power in her life Didn't intend to take that much time on it, but um we we've got great time. Wonderful blessings. place to come with brothers and sisters and to cast our cares and our burdens and and allow others to come alongside us and help us. No, you can't. that you cannot make it on your own. As are some uh as are is the habit of some. start to lose sight and understanding of what it means to really live as a Christian and especially an image bearer of God. Have real um understanding and application to this problem that you're going through Can I help you? after what God had created in Adam and Eve, that image bearing, that likeness bearing speaks collectively to who we are as a full as a as a total person. But again, this is an issue where because of sin all of this has been tainted in a certain way. work the earth. has given us everything we need for life and godliness. And that by bearing your image and your likeness in the world, Lord, we can reflect your glory. So it's the equal yet different distinction that you are going to be w you're going to want to be aware of. to the differences, the roles. ourselves. God talks about or when the scriptures talk about God covering us with his wings, he's not a big chicken. our parents the their parents before them and it goes all the way back for us it goes back to Noah and his family but ultimately it goes back to Adam and Eve That being created in the image of God, in the likeness of God, means this. tells you on the outside that you are struggling here. Anger is something that could be rooted back to a righteousness that I need a hatred of sin or a hatred of of sinners doing certain things. gives way to depression and depression if it's allowed to go on and on and on without addressing the root causes of that depression or that sadness Sanctified every single day. as a created humanity, created mankind. um savagely changing who they are. emotion with them but it but for the purpose of helping them to understand with clarity how does God help you in this? the answers not only to interpretive issues, but also practical life issues and your gospel, your word Insects do not have this, birds do not have this. Equalitarianism um really focuses on the fact that men and women are created equal without any differences. Um because again you don't have specificity to what you're saying, you don't have distinctions in what you're saying, your your interpretation and translation um again breeds confusion and then ultimately application so that you don't have to be confused when you sit down and start studying the Word of God. on a very um wide basis today in the church and in academic circles as well. Um that God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. we then become image bearers of Christ because of the Holy Spirit. why it is man's responsibility to rule and to subdue the earth on God's behalf. that you're struggling with. That's that's a hard issue. Yeah. feeling. Yeah. incapacitated. over a period of time. Again, they could have been demon possessed. Hearty Amen, because I cannot tell you how significant the body of Christ is. How wonderful that moment of innocence, that moment of paradise was. But we look forward to that time of again going beyond what paradise was to ultimately what we're we were created to be with God. to emphasize functional differences between men and women in the church. Number five, the use of the terms man and w and mankind are not only appropriate, but they allow for greater clarity Uh culture started to be developed, um societies started to come together, people learned to relate to one another, marriage, children Just important here to understand that the image of God, the likeness of God, speaks to this issue of us needing to live in relationship with one another. And and then number four, emotionally. But again, how to define and describe what is at the root of their ailment love. creature on this earth that has this. that the word rib is not in the original text. And that's what the image and likeness of God tells the world that we bear his image and so we are representative of God to steward this earth. Huge emotions. And having these kinds of difficulties. We have dominion over the earth. Of creation, you made it absolutely clear, male and female, one woman, one man, and Lord, there are no other genders. We see in in uh the fact that Eve was created not out of dust or not distinct from Adam, but that created out of Adam's side that there is equality there. just guidance in our lives and we all go through so many things. I again ch as a Christian it it feels like sometimes I can make it. It's talking about all the creation. Okay, good. Like there was there was losing a train of kind of what makes this like the image of God. you end up becoming so marred in your thinking that you're not exactly sure where you are. You have to be very careful about which ones you choose because some of them are highly um sensitive to culture and to gender Either Bob or Dad contributed to his blindness. I know that's small, but if you're able to read it, I'll read it out loud. It doesn't help in Bible study. So emotion can be happy, sad, but maybe depression is a reaction to the it's a manifestation of it. If you're sad for a day, you're sad for the day. And sometimes it it it blinds us to how we're able to make yeah good choices and it was like altering feelings. Yeah. It's tainted by the world. Where a person is dead and captive to sin. This is just some added stuff that I felt like was important for us to get at the very beginning. The original creation was paradise. Substance abuse or psychological abuse, done this to this person where now they don't have a grasp of reality. Wonderful race and strong encouragement. Functionally, man has all that he needs to fill, rule, and subdue the earth on God's behalf for his glory. Yeah. Anybody else? In fact there's studies I've heard um on isolation and how it psychologically can can really be detrimental. Free will doesn't exist there. And think of it. I couldn't agree with you more. Then we'll get back to the notes next week. It signifies something that is patterned after the after the original. Oh yeah, go ahead. Amen. And so when we see the representation that Adam has for all of humanity, we start to understand why it is his name and who he is The curse is a powerful influence on us as You're still incarcerated in this flesh. Yeah. Again, we are we are people that are meant to relate to one another. And so we need to talk about that. Now again, like I said last week, after the fall, that image has become so um marred by the curse of sin that even today you would look at somebody who's uh We do have a will, and we exercise it every single day. And like you said, do it with grace and love. I think I was talking about the creation week, and I said Sunday being the last day of the creation week. That's huge. We are marred by sin. The issue is there needs to be discussion about changing thinking. What are you struggling with? Um, we have dominion over it. We could go on and on and on. And again, all of that was marred, all of that was obscured and cursed by the fall. Now I think um the conclusion to this is this Again, we want to go back to God and say, I'm I'm sad at this moment. Um oftentimes it's a case by case issue. Yeah. Now, having said that, every English translation is an interpretation of the scripture. Or what significance does this have? And that is because we're made in the image of God. Um just h just think through it biblically as you're trying to address problems and areas in your life We shouldn't do that. And if you uh question that, then just grab somebody's phone and look what look at what they're doing on social media. Number four, the image of God That verb is not correct, but the image of God explains I think that was that. Yeah, and just to be clear, it's not that sin may cause these issues Because it's not just preaching the gospel to them and then having them be saved and therefore all their problems go away. So I'm going to stop saying that because we're we're going to get behind. It's above the culture. And so again, it it speaks to the issue of there's no problem referring to all of creation as mankind. And so these are things that we need to bear in mind when we're talking about these issues that are biblical to understanding man biblical manhood and womanhood Well, one thing that's hard to distinguish because we are fallen creatures is there is what's called mental impairments. Some harsh, you know harsh reading of organizing when you hear that word then. Father, thank you so much for this class and for this opportunity for us to be together. Um, again, does God feel sorrow? Yeah. And she honors and and glorifies God with the distinctions of men and women and the role and the relationship that they have together. What did you do? But again, emotion is something that is born into or created into us when we are made in the image and likeness of God. It's it's it's affected by sin in our whole person. What a glorious joy that is. And specifically, we're designed for marriage relationships. So uh yeah, definitely. Personally, I think the root cause of a lot of psychiatric There seems to be and is very clearly in the scripture distinct roles, and we'll get into that. Um and I can't wait to get rid of this carcass because and get my new one because that one's gonna be perfect and it won't have sin as uh But at the same time I think these days fresh and was that's just justice demonic justice um if you are again that you have to take it here and there's the average people to fight it. So Alright, we're uh we're basically wrapping up time, so we need for we uh What is image? And so God made a suitable helper. And at that point you have to start examining the whole of the person. It's just again we want to ask why are those are the masculine terms being replaced? And again, we need to look at them as an image bearer. Um anger. Wow. Um so doesn't the scriptures say the anger of man never achieves Yeah. He's going to be filling in for several classes. In other words, and this is really important, to remove or replace these terms with more culturally sensitive language not only obscures the meaning of the text Sanctification is a process. So please don't um I think it's one of the reasons why in Hebrews he says, don't let us forsake the assembling together So uh thank you. So yeah, so I wanted to go ahead and cover those two things for sure. I want to talk again about this issue of terminology The the point of all of this is that not only are the terms man and mankind appropriate Um but again, the idea is we've been created for relationship and that's why And uh it has to be again ri in a sense, um All right. Sunday is always the beginning. They're gonna help you tremendously in terms of um understanding Yeah. Yeah, uh I'd like to add something. It's not related to human against human the way sin has kind of places it. What a joy it is to be either made male or female, and to rejoice that this is your perfect design for us. Romans chapter 5, also, 12-14, also holds that Adam is accountable for the fall of the human race And again, those role differences we'll get into later, but they are wonderful, they're glorious, and God has done it so that creation would be very good. I think it's the fall that's contributed to it. But when it comes to masculine terminology, let me begin by saying this. Have you heard that? It doesn't help with giving good, accurate defense of the scriptures to others. We don't want a Bible to be more reader-oriented. And we are so grateful for that. Um so again, this is just a couple of the reasons why. In fact there's a a book that Vern Poethras and Wayne Grudham came out with that addressed some of these gender neutral versions of the Bible It is not good for man to be alone. Um I wanted to make sure that's what you're just talking about. We have to still be able to use that where that I can be sharing. Can I can I help you think through some of that? And she came out with a testimony just recently be on I was the I think it was the anniversary of her original book that she wrote that was her testimony They're not true about what God says about us, they're not true about um what it is of to be in Christ and um and we need constant accountability in just And again, taking taking all of this together, collectively, there is no other creature created In the image of God, he created him. What what did society physical abuse do to a person? We should reach out to them. Again, it's those people who get away from the body of Christ. So uh that being said, let's go ahead and jump into our class today. Last time we looked at the equality part of our personhood and how men and women are created equal. What is likeness? And I think it's important. I don't think that it would be good for us when we see a depressed person to walk up and say you're in sin. Um so don't go in immediately making statements, but better yet Um so that would be wonderful. They'll also be included in the slides so that you can have access to them as well. Well, yeah, like emotion. We're uh that is a great question. And just our first instinctive reaction was there's something seriously wrong with this person The best thing to do is don't make statements first. And there's even debate within scholarly um literature And so in the image of God he created him and then he's and then God further uh further defines that by saying male and female he created them. I thought we'd take a moment on this because, again, we read in the text of Genesis 126 But do we have choices within creation to make choices? Volitionally it has significance. Alright, let's go to the next last one. So let me go ahead and close this with prayer and thank you again for being here. So that's what we covered last week in terms of the design or equal in value and dignity. Um it went to the NIV to the T N today's New International Version And that's in a sense where we where dignity, worth, value So, you know, again, when we get anxious over something, oftentimes it's because Um just a few things before we actually get started. We want to get back to, and this is one of the convictions that we have here at Hope Bible Church, is we want to get back to what the original author said Now God is spirit, uh John 4 tells us. It could be that that person was just high on drugs and was just jumping around. Um what's that? It was perfect until the curse, until the fall happened. And so when we talk about him then creating physically men and women, and he says they were created in the image and likeness of God What about likeness? But then God said, I will make a helper suitable for him. Um it's certainly marred by sin. There may be an internal emotion that's going on, but how it's manifesting itself is through, again You still have the world, the flesh, and the devil attacking you every single moment of the day. Raise your hand really high. The fog I love the fact that you use the word the fog has lifted because oftentimes with emotion if we allow it to control us, uh, we do get into this So yeah. Yeah, no, it speaks to this issue of all of these ontologically, volitionally, and textu uh intellectually, emotionally, now relationally, all of these are tainted by sin. In fact, let me put it this way. It was it was sinful and it was redeemed by the gospel. When we start changing the text, we start imposing our agenda over the text rather than letting the text speak for itself. And it is beyond the culture. And that's what we're striving for. Man can experience a wide range of emotions and feelings. I think when you're depressed that's something that is warping your thoughts. Yeah. We thank you for your word and the clarity of it. And so the idea that it was just a rib that was taken out and fashioned into a woman, no, the text actually says taken from Adam's side. Um again, like I said last week, biblical manhood and womanhood is being attacked Likewise, human mankind bears the image of God and we represent his sovereign control over all the earth. Um all of the emotions that are expressed in Scripture that are related to God, they're perfect in the sense that God is perfect. I I got two little boys and I mean I remember talking to uh Isaac asked them questions about, hey, what do I do with my son at this stage? All of this collectively speaks to us as the image-bearers of God in the world. Yeah. I didn't go back and listen to the recording, but I trust that what you said is accurate and so I I I need to be held accountable to certain things like that. How do we un how are we to understand that? Now, I've seen some pretty masculine guys use this as a mandate for hunting, fishing, and all other things, but um Thank you for yeah, thank you for sharing that. We weep with those who weep, we rejoice with those who rejoice. And again, we can subdue it. They are equal in personhood, they're equal in value, they're equal in dignity, they are equal. Um and they give great answers uh to those questions. Second, volitionally. It it you see how sin has tainted the mind. So any other comments? This is all what's wrapped up in being an image bearer. You'll get the slide so you can look at it later. Number two, even after the fall, every person still possesses the image and likeness of God, though marred by the curse of sin. You are in total control and we thank you for your sovereignty over our lives. And it and it came out a very out of a very timely manner when We we in who we are, not just our flesh. In the image of God, he created him. And I don't think that we could plumb the depths God bless us together as humanity. So just want to make that clear. And so let me just tell you that uh again, having studied the Bible and continuing to study the Bible Sin allowed to run rampant in society will just bring us to chaos and ultimate destruction. Because again, a person could be demon-possessed. Mercy. Well, let's I'm going to give you a few. Why? Great. So again, um equal yet different is is complementarianism and equal without any differences is egalitarianism. So likewise, when we bear children, um Now there are sins that people do commit that ultimately lead to these kinds of emotional states and and again sinful states but There was another to to people in the psychological to be kind of we can heal and be able to Now again, a person can go so far in that to then be mentally All of those issues the gospel speaks to and the word of God speaks to Or i I think you're off there? Egalitarians or Um that is not who God is. And we see that in the creation mandate given to Adam and Eve. He created them male and female, and he blessed them and named them man in the day when they were created. That was in his design to do that. So again, when you get depressed or you are unhappy or you are struggling with something Um this this body, this carcass that I'm living in right now is still tainted by I think for today, um I guess it's what is happening around services pattern that's required for service working. And if I do that, I'm gonna put them on the Hope Book So likewise just as God created us in his image, now we likewise not only bear the image of God to the whole world, but we are And this is where we get into the whole person. All of those communicable attributes that are given to us by God that express emotion I remember my wife and I, we were in Portland I want to be careful saying Portland because Portland's gotten so bad. But um again, if you have the notes, continue to read through them and uh The text is not bound to the culture. Again, there's a reproduction of the image and likeness of God taking place in the world. But again, we still need to be reminded that even after the fall we possess the image and likeness of God So I'm gonna leave it up to God and and God's gonna help me to define if this So uh these are ki some of the issues that you just need to be aware of So fog is a great word for that. She'll provide a notebook as well. We're gonna by and large go through those notes. It just seems like, especially with a in academic circles, you're going to see this often. And when you start using gender-neutral language in the Bible, you start to obscure the meaning of the text. Again, win them with the love of Christ and the gospel of Christ. Isaac. So, first of all, Genesis 126 clearly teaches us that man, both male and female, were created in the image and likeness of God. Likeness, Demouth, um ri can refer to a pattern, a shape Depressed, etcetera. He feels sorrow. It's just really I mean it's some of the I mean it's the long story that you know they were asking about it. Thank you. That is that is Eve. That masculine that uh masculine pronominal suffix And so therefore redemption in Christ can bring healing. Also, if you how many of you have Using gender-specific terms helps us to understand better what the Bible means by what it says. Genesis 2. So the first one is But it's a great question. I mean uh the emotion of sadness But boy I tell you, we see the manifestation of that transformation when we relate together. So likewise he's not a he's not a physical being, he's not a man. God saved her from that lifestyle. Um there's a lot of people out there that we would Adam bears responsibility and accountability as the pattern for leadership in the family as well as representation of the human race. Where now Bibles that are coming out today Um especially when you start looking at the language that's given in Genesis where man is to have dominion over the earth. Male and female, he created them. Intellectually, again, we have a rational mind. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to need to go over to the new members class at least once during the semester or this quarter. And so again, we're patterned after But again, I don't think sometimes we Okay, if you are missing the notes or would like a copy of the notes Now that is um dealing with this issue of masculine terms. So that they will have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, over the cattle and over the earth It's unrighteous anger. So has this been helpful? I was so gracious or so gl glad These terms can certainly be used to describe the whole of humanity, however You can't deny that. I love the fact that here right off the bat But with these two terms then taken together And notice what it says, in his own likeness, according to his image, and named him Seth. I don't know if you've thought about this, but we were designed for relationships Um those are genuine concerns. We have responsibility for that person to help them This is a verse that I find to be extremely important for the believer. So one of the things I liked about this particular verse is his duty or do have been on right Lord, as we continue to just focus on this issue of biblical manhood and womanhood, teach us Men and women are equally blessed. Therefore, they should not be avoided Love Um as well as a question. A lot of people will go back and say that was the culture back then. So very important for that. We represent the pinnacle. Be fruitful and multiply. And I gave you these up front Any other hard questions that you want me to answer or try to answer And I love the way the creation story goes on And we thank you for that. So when you hear these terms tossed around or talked about or discussed, if you can And uh I think it's it's a helpful thing as students of the Bible And so it's something that we need to be mindful of Our trespasses and sins. So, forgive me for saying it, the myth of free will as it relates to salvation doesn't it That tells us that we are an image bearer and we are we are made in the likeness of God Why am I sad? Um now again to define the areas Like that was such a warp. And then allow them to explain Um, relationally man is equipped to participate in the relationships with God and with other people by giving and receiving And it's something that we need to contemplate and we need to understand. We want a Bible to be more author-oriented. So very important for us to understand these two words, image and likeness. Genesis 1 26-28, this was part of our original text that we were looking at So we want to be really careful. 18 says, then Yahweh God said, It is not good for man to be alone. We see it all over the text of Scripture. So even today, you know, a lot of people will talk about quote unquote righteous anger. I was just going to say something along that. Rose yeah. When you're seeing somebody struggling Now there's times when we're picking our weeds that we feel like the earth is getting uh is has dominion over us, but um And here are some of the reasons that I could come up with. Ask questions. We thank you for the joy of being able to study this topic of biblical manhood and womanhood. In one sense, yes, that is not the direct Um let me say right off the bat that image and likeness And again, this is not exhaustive. And where curse has marred um our appearance has marred our We have that capacity to do that. It's it's it's what in a sense Absolutely. And as an image bearer of God, we do this by again loving the world like he loved the world. So Lord willing you'll see him uh from time to time. Eve is created from the exact same substance as Adam was It doesn't. But again, it doesn't take away from the fact It's not good for any one of us. Yeah. Um just let me know and um And then again they were created equal from So again, God is the one who's defining these terms, not us. Again, similar to number three. God doesn't get depressed. Um a couple things that uh well one thing that I didn't mention last week that I feel really bad about Uh number four And I love this because in the ancient world a king would make an image of himself We're designed to fulfill the creation mandate that continues. I appreciate your an your asking it. And I went surprised not that way. Putting off off the old man, putting on the new man. So but this is where the gospel needs to come in. Ultimately, that will be regained in the eternal or in the in the eternal state. We remind ourselves remind each other But do we have the capacity to choose There's a lo there's a losing of train of rational thought and like rational things. And It really just Um and so when there's terms, anthropomorphic terms And this is the creation mandate. I can make it on my own. So um again keep in mind that when you when you think about the issue of image, think about yourself being an image bearer. Are we rational? Um And again, that's not to demean women He doesn't have a body. It was the go it was the Godhead. And so, um, yeah, it is amazing when you think of how people are now just so So thanks. But I want to make sure that you have the notes because uh What we're striving for, and and the reason why I bring this up is because And so it's a glorious thing that in the redemption of Christ And again, um after the children were born Man has a will and the ability to select between various choices Yeah. That's I But again, you're experiencing emotion because you're created in the image and likeness of God. But in today's culture, many believe that using the terms man or mankind And again, we are Male and female, he created them. It's why we gather We thank you that we can trust it, that it holds Thank you for saying that. Yes. So just be wary of that. Now But what sweet fellowship we have together um when we come. We thank you for your Holy Spirit, and we pray in the name of Christ. There is a feminine pronominal suffix that could have been used. What damage did drugs do to a person's brain? Number three. And uh so when we talk about image It's just the outward appearance has been scarred, has been marred God help me. And so what degree? It actually goes all the way back to the original creation. You just want to get a good interpretation that takes you back to the original. It was far more than feeling. Like I don't think it's like yes, depression is wrapped up with lots of feelings, but when I think of depression that's a state of being I think that's more than And uh over time she came to faith in Christ So you just need to be aware of that. Wonderful lady. But again, this goes back to the very beginning, Paul says. And so again, this is what we're striving for is a good, clear understanding of the scriptures. Yeah. That's probably not the first b in fact, let me put it Mm-hmm. And he has a plan for our lives. When God or when man got done naming the animals That's the second part of the first lesson So please make use of that. Men and women are equally held responsible to be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth. So again, just because somebody looks different on the outside, that doesn't mean that they're not made in the image of God. Yes Yes. Animals do not have this You'll understand. Um so it's just one of those things where you need to realize It's great Try to Um we want to try to enter into that So, Father, be with us now as we go to corporate worship. And uh and again, contrary to what some of the cults Maybe there's a legitimate biblical reason to be sad. No. Number six How do you divide the line? I don't know. Um Does she still And um a lot of us, I mean I'm open minded own self, I'm not experienced time for this Just likewise, keep in mind when um This is just a sampling of some of the answers that could be given. We can rationalize things out. How does God's word have I've given you a definition of them It was altering like thought patterns. And so even though we would affirm pri um That is not right. And so for him it it doesn't manifest it that I love how God describes it as work the ground But again, we represent God to the world. And so we represent God in the world. Um again just keep in mind that we can be angry Those are issues that are that are holistic, that have to be addressed. And if you need help It was No, not at all. That none of you may become part of the other sequelness of sin. And so And we see the classic example in John Nine of the uh man born blind. But has Alright Even electronically, we need to be social. I'm thinking how how much time do we want to take on this? To the degree that a person would end up in a And so I wouldn't say blanketly We thank you that in learning this topic I hope it's sufficient. So keep that in mind. I I experienced a post on depression and that was like my first like ever experience of depression. I mean it raised a lot of questions for us There is not a a moment, a detail Our culture is different It can bring it can bring life. You're such a gracious God and we give you thanks and praise. But again, it's But um yeah, I just know how important it's for us to Alright. Great question. Um this is Hebrews three, twelve to thirteen. Now before we move on Um This is certainly not an exhaustive list It was altering behavior. Again, there is a That's the term, and it's a masculine term. Um I don't know if you guys Um I can tell you just personally Portland, Oregon. A question came up last week about It goes back to Adam and Eve We can Yeah. Because there are people who are born with Yeah. Functionally as God's image bearers. Again, this is not a Any comments, any questions? But it's taking it to We are And it's huge. How do you approach those people? And give it a understanding of what that feels like. Yeah. Like we have such a huge body of Christ of people that go on Yeah So again Were it just uh just a sad state of being. And especially in the church, what better Amen. We are made for relationships. Now Maybe there's not We are so grateful that from the very beginning It was like there was paranoia. Um It was not used. So Don't dismiss the emotion. Relationally Um Being gro you like it's no longer being Um So And that's what we need to keep reminding. But So thank you for sharing that 'cause And so I I mean I think for the Or Um, Yes, definitely. It says uh Um that can There was like So