All right, so I'm Isaac Bagley. I'll be subbing in for you guys for Pastor Javas. He's actually teaching the uh what is it, the um memberships class today. And so what we're going to do is a little something different. It's a little different from the format before, which is which is pretty good. He was going to be in, you know, lesson five, but because he already prepared for lesson five, I jumped ahead, so we're in lesson six So if you guys want to open up the lesson six, we're gonna do this traverse through that and then we'll probably double back to five and then we may end up covering lesson six partially again because lesson six actually has two parts to it. Oh Show you have. Okay. Um so before we get into this, let's let's pray. You guys pray with me. Great God and Father, we thank you for your kindness, for production of this week, for your loving hand in spite of ourselves. Well we thank you, Lord God, because you are God and you deserve all glory and praise. Father, we we thank you that you you see us in our weakness, you bless us, and you provide for us. Lord God, we are eternally thankful for you. And we don't really know how to express that. But we thank you, Lord. We pray, Lord God, as we come here to worship you today, as we learn some of this lesson. And then today with the sermon, we pray that you bless our hearts and our minds that we're able to perceive what you're teaching us and work to apply it. We desperately need your help constantly. We bless you and we thank you for this time, for everyone here today. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright, so Um I wanted to read this to you guys like as a little encouragement. I like this book. It's uh The Gospel Primer or Primer. Depends on how you want to say it. So huh? Oh, I was just telling my forgotten. Yeah, it's it's a nice little book. Alright, so I'm just gonna read a section out of this just to get you guys kinda thinking Um freedom from sin is power as long as I instricken with the guilt of my sin I will be captive to them, and I will often find myself recommitting the very sin about which I feel most guilty. The devil is well aware of this fact He knows that if he can keep me tormented by sin's guilt, he can dominate me with sin's power. The gospel, however, slays sin at the root point, and therefore nullifies sin's power over me. The forgiveness of God, made known to me through the gospel, liberates me from sin's power. Because it liberates me first from its guilt. And preaching such forgiveness to myself is a practical way of putting the gospel into operation as it nullifies, as a nullifier of sin's power in my life. And I'm going to give you guys a verse to kind of back up that thought. And this is out of Romans. It's Romans 6. 14. For sin shall not be master over you. For you are under grace. That's where we are, guys. We're under God's grace. So in that, offer me some grace. Because you're rich in it. Alright, so I'll put that away. Alright. So here's the introduction that I've kind of put together because I wanted to kind of like ease into this because we jumped over five and I'm sure how many of you are had a few lessons already reading? Some of you already ahead of lessons? Alright, cool. No? Alright. Cool. Um so the culture around us has taken it upon themselves to blur the lines of masculinity and femininity. The extreme sides of blurring the lines are changing the pronouns and nouns, right? Men and women dressing up as the opposite sex. Um they're disguising themselves They're self-deceivers. So those are extreme examples. But they're subtle examples. that happens in the church that often time we don't want to really talk about. And oftentime we don't really notice. So would you agree that blurring the lines would impact the church or maybe it's impacting your family? Does it? Do you think so? Okay. The real question is why though? Why? It's because we really don't understand our roles. Either we don't understand our roles Or we neglect our roles, or we don't take our roles seriously enough. And that's what this class is for, kind of. Right? This class is set up To point us back to the scriptures. So I have something else here. Knowing your roles as a man and woman Is the beginning of fulfilling your identity in Christ. It points directly to personhood We must accept, understand, and believe we are created by a creator who is sovereign so that we may live in a way that glorifies Him. And it would bring him glory. We live in his presence every day. So let's jump into it. We're back at the lesson again, lesson one. The equality of men and women, the value of dignity. And I'm going to get some reading participation here. I don't want to monologue to you guys the whole time. All right. Letter A. Both share equality in being created in God's image. And I'll read this first one here, and then we'll pass the baton around a little bit. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let him rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over the cattle And over all the earth. I'm reading it nicely too, guys, so if it's a little different. And over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. God created man in his own image, and in his image, God he created him, male and female. He created them. God blessed them. And said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the sky, and over every living thing. that moves on the earth. So it's always good to go back to the foundation. When you understand the foundation, you have a platform that you can build from. So I'll read on here because it has something else in Genesis. And I want to talk just a little bit about this. Alright, it says, this is the book of generations of Adam In the day when God created man, he made him in his likeness, in the likeness of God. He created them, male and female. He blessed them and name them man in the day when they were created. That's important. Why is it important? Because it sets up equality. When we think about the fall, when we think about what's happened, The reality is is there's some disdain about that. When you look at whose fault it was. Do you guys ever think about that? Like whose fault was it? Was it Adam's fault or Eve's fault? Just raise your hand just to say if you ever thought about this question. Right? But God, in his great kindness, and in Christ, he works at once. We have his word, but then you see the restoration and what Christ did. And how we're all fellow heirs, regardless of ethnicity. I don't necessarily believe in race, um, in ethnicity. So let's get into it. So we were all created by God, and we're all made in his image And so let's move down to letter B. Does anybody have any questions about this? I know this is fundamental stuff, and we've covered a lot of this stuff before. But anyone have any input, just jump in there. I'm cool with that But letter B the Holy Spirit poured out on both equally. Now can someone read for me Acts chapter 2? Uh verses 17 through 18 is kind of right there in front of you. But it it it uh uh verse seventeen and in the last days it shall be God declares that I will pour out my spirit in our flesh, and the sons and others shall prophesy, and the young men shall see visions, and the old men shall hear visions. Even on my male servants and female servants in those days I would pour out my steward and they shall prophesy. Yeah. This is all flesh, right? Male and female. Each of you have a responsibility as believers. To participate in serving Christ and serving one another. This is what we're talking about here. All, equally, both, not excluded. Alright, let us see. The Holy Spirit gives spiritual gifts to each for service in the church. Um, can someone read 1 Corinthians 12? Seven through eleven. You don't have to do Peter. Anyone? Any takers? Oh wait. Oh, yes, Mrs. Jobs. But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is profitable. For to one is given the word of wisdom through the spirit, and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same spirit To someone else, faith by the same spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the one spirit. And to another the workings of miracles, and to another prophecies, and to another the distinguishing of spirits, to someone else the various kinds of functions. And to another the translation of tongues. But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as if he will. Amen. Age. Did you guys hear that key word? What's the key word in that passage? One spirit given to each. One. Collectively, together, one spirit doing the work. To bring us to a place of unity, this one spirit, giving us gifts. Um moving on to letter D. Both are baptized as an outward sign of their new life in Christ, in contrast with circumcision. And the verse he has there Is Galatians 3 Oh actually I jumped down that's wrong I'm sorry Acts eight twenty eight eight twelve sorry about that I jumped down Um, can somebody tag that for me? I said tag. Beloved, do not take a strange return to Fierry trial which is to try you if those some strange things happen to you. Yeah. It's not strange. This is what God has been. We have a responsibility. This connects us really deeply with our relationship within marriage, and we're not going to talk about that because that's the passage of Ovice is fire right there. So I'm not going to mess with that. But It's we're connected to serve one another. And the most intermittent relationship we have is husband and wife. And so where am I right here? So this is one of the things I noticed about this. If you look, there's a difference here with circumcision. And you guys remember back in Genesis, there was a covenant that was made, right? That covenant with Abraham. And what was the covenant? I'm gonna bless your seed, I'm gonna bless you Pretty much everything you touch I'm gonna bless. And then he gives God gives Abraham a command after making this covenant. And he says, what? Go out. You be circumcised, and all the men in your household be circumcised, and all of your servants, and all of your slaves, everyone circumcised. If a man is not circumcised, he'll be cut off from the land, be executed, pretty much It did not include women. It didn't include women. This right here, what God is doing, is something unique that He's never done before He's bringing women into a a relationship that's just as intimate to let them know, hey, look, you guys are valued. We love you. I love you. Not we. I love you. I love women. Well I love my wife. You know what I'm saying. Uh is this recording? Scratch that. Oh okay. So My point is this this there's a there's a uniqueness that's going on here. Something that we've never seen before, um, different from circumcision. And and and this is where we have to kind of look at as the differences. There are differences, unique differences, however The differences are set up by God in God's order. So verse E, uh I'm sorry, letter E. We are all in one, we are all Christ, we are we are all one in Christ, male and female Have equal standing before God in Christ. Uh can somebody read for me Galatians three verse uh twenty-eight? Yeah There is neither Jews nor Greek, there is neither slaves nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Yeah. Yeah. There's that oneness again. And why I think so check this out. Why are we beating this so much? Because you guys have to understand that we're one. I have to accept that we're one. We're all in Christ, we're all equal, right? And so if you can you read verse uh twenty-nine as well? That's fine Anybody else got it? And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham Boston heirs according to the promise. Yeah. Yeah. So check this out. Remember when Jesus is talking to the Pharisees in John 8, 34 through 44, and he says, You're your father, the devil? That's powerful, right? He said, we're not a fornication. No, no, no. You're doing the deeds of your father, the devil. He's doing the very thing that he's doing. But right here, we're saying that what We're not illegitimate children that we're trusting in Christ. We are ushered into the throne. We're we're ushered into God's grace. Um let me get back to where we're at then before I go off on a tangent. Don't want to do that. Biblical limitations on women's roles in the church. Now this is hardcore, and I'll tell you a story real quick. I'll read this and then tell you a quick story. 1 Timothy 2, 1115, a woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man but to remain quiet. For it was Adam who was first created, and then Eve. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being deceived, fell into transgression. But the woman will be preserved through the bearing of children if they continue in the faith and love and sanctity with self-restraint. Here's a story. So I'm at a job, and we're gonna talk about this passage, right? But I'm at a job, and uh I'm a contractor and the lady at the front desk, you know, she's always there. And one of the guys who was one of the service techs over there was talking to him and he said, you know, she she's a pastor and she preaches I said, really? He said, yeah. She's a pastor. He showed me a video. I said, man, she's preaching. I said, look, let me show you something in First Timothy I said it is not her role to be preaching. I'm not gonna stir up anything 'cause you know, but it is not her role to be teaching men in the congregation. She's out of pocket God has an order in which he deal uh you know God has an order in which he deals with his church and how women are supposed to conduct themselves. And so I read this passage to him and he was like, oh I said, yeah Yeah, it's not good. But this is the world we live in today, like in the beginning of the introduction. We live in a world where the lines are blurred. And they're blurred because people willingly blur them? Or just out of Not knowing. Not knowing what the scriptures say. Wanting to desire to be faithful and honorable to God, they step out of pocket. And so isn't that the norm though, right? The norm for mankind is to Desire to do something good, but going about doing it his way. Our way. And this is this is an encouragement to you women. The best way is God's way. That sounds simple, right? But do we believe the best way is God's way? That's the poor question. Um yeah, all right, so I'll keep going. The context Before the assembly, the church, the corporate worship, etc. What do they do? Now can someone grab that for me? That's uh 1 Timothy 2, 8, um 8 through 10 Uh yeah, I got water. I just gotta use it. Thank you. Um I I I have a small snippet of it. Um Now we uh know that the law is good if one reasons it all. Okay. You know what? I might have given you something funny. So let me pull that up. Cause this guy doesn't carry a Bible like paper, he carries a Bible like digital. That's being recorded. I'm pretty sure Pastor Gabe's gonna listen to this and be like, Ike, we had this conversation. And that's the reason why. Alright, so let me find it here And I'm not gonna take up too much time, but I'm gonna take up some time. Okay, so here it is right here. First Timothy 2 it says, Therefore I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up Holy hands, without wrath or dissension. And likewise I want the women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, modesty, And discreetly, not with braided hair, gold and pearls, and costly garments. Stop there. This is how we're supposed to conduct ourselves in the assembly of God. You know why? Because we're sinners. We're sinners. Let's be honest We lust, we have issues, hidden issues, only the Lord knows. That's saying, come to my assembly like this This is how you come. Modest. How are men supposed to do? Not with wrath, not with anger, but lift up holy hands to me. When we go before the Lord in worship, if our hands are not up, guess what needs to be up? And I'm not trying to push so much, but I'm going to say this: our heart needs to be in a position that we're worshiping God I mean our church is, you know, on the more conservative side. Sometimes we don't clap, you know, sometimes the music's not, you know, exaggerated, and that's fine. The context of the words are where the words need to be, but is our heart in that position? We need to position ourselves, raising our hearts, as or even raising our hands. I remember um Sean Morning, you see him over in the corner, hands lifted up. Full submission, not with wrath, but with prayer This is what God requires of us. This is how we should collectively come together every morning, even after you've had an argument in the morning with your wife, get yourself together. You know, quickly work to forgive, deal with the children, and present your heart openly to God, because that's what he's calling for. Nothing else but your heart That's how we need to come. And so to that, this is what he's requiring. He distinguishes between the two. He says, men not raffle hands, and women, what? Dress modestly Protect your sexuality. It's for your husband or for your future husband. We need to do that. I'm going to move on. And so we're here, uh, 1 Timothy 3. 14. It reads, I'm writing things these things to you, hoping to come to you before long. But in case I am delayed, I write so that you will know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God Which is the church of the living God, the pillar in support of the truth. Why? If you just got in a fight with your neighbor and they heard you rallying and fighting going to church How are you representing a pillar of truth before God? Huh? We need to be mindful. And this is I'm not talking about fake Sanctified posterity. That's ridiculous. What I'm saying is that position your heart, but you're working continually to honor Christ, and you're coming to the assembly In a wa in the way that would honor him and bring him glory and show reverence for him. I put on a suit jacket. If any of you guys know me, I wear a hoodie You know, I mean I I kinda got I got jeans on, but part of this is hey look I want to make sure I'm one doing my best to honor Christ. I'm speaking to God's people and I want to represent the Lord, the King of the universe. That should be our heart's position. And and I don't do it perfectly. I'm encouraging you guys to do this. Um and so let's keep rolling. We'll keep rolling. I don't how much time we got. Snapdaddy. Okay. We still got a little time. Alright. Cool. Yeah. That's been recorded too. These guys, man. Alright. Rules Women must women must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. That sounds crazy in this day and age. Right? I gotta have my say. I have my own opinion. That doesn't necessarily always work out. God has set these things for reasons. Now he has reasons, right? And I'm going to read the reasons. Alright, and that was letter A. So let's read letter B. Women must not teach or exercise authority over a man Given the context, this means that women must not teach the Bible to men in the assembly church or exercise church authority over the men of the congregation. This is what God is saying. So we sit there and we watch these televangelists sit there and they're preaching like they're like, oh, they're so gifted. You know, I'm gonna tell you something. God I don't know. I want to say this. I want to be careful about saying this. God wants faithfulness. He's not looking for ability. You know? God looks for faithful men. Faithful women. Who are what are the women doing? And we're not even getting there. If I jump ahead It's because I read this a little bit. So it's kind of packed in there, so forgive me. We might read it again. But God wants faithful women. To nurture, to train, to minister to their children, and for men to lovingly lead their wives. This is distinction rules. I'm not going to get into chapter five because part of chapter five talks you know quite a bit about that. Alright, so the reason. Um letter A The order of creation, the man and then the woman, the limitations therefore are rooted in God's original design. What's wrong with God's original design? Nothing. You got a question, sir. Oh no. Uh it was good until man uh uh caused sin into the world. Yeah, yeah. Adam didn't do his part, Eve was deceived. Uh that's pretty short, but gee I agree. Yeah. Are there any other questions before I keep going? I think I'm hammering away at this in a certain way. Is this clear I have to ask that, make sure? Alright. Alright, cool. I'll keep rolling. Um limitations therefore are rooted in God's original design. Nothing's wrong with God's original design. God made everything and he said that it was good. And actually still good. We're the problem. Satan's the problem. Sin is the problem. Um Hmm, original design. Um yeah, let me finish reading this guy. You guys are probably right ahead of me. God's original design and our NR not culture or based on preferences or ability. God gave his initial word of restriction to Adam before he created Eve. That's a pattern. It's a unique pattern. It was then Adam's responsibility to communicate God's word to his wife. That's not what we see in the world today. Most often we see women directing men. And that's fine if it's a workplace. If you got a boss, that's just how it is, you know But even within marriages, it's it's that scenario where the wife is communicating God's word to the husband and the husband is laxadaisically kind of sitting there receiving it. That's not in all circumstances But it's too much a reality. And honestly, we're drinking some of it in our culture. Um yeah It is man's responsibility, the husband's responsibility, to communicate truth to his wife. You guys know this stuff. I feel like I'm preaching to the choir here. Is this right? Yeah, I mean I'm like that. You have an uncle like that. Yeah. Thanks for connecting with my example. Yeah. So he doesn't do anything. But it goes back to the first thing I was saying. You don't know your role. You know, one of the beautiful things, and this is a sidebar, one of the beautiful things about being in Christ is that you have a new identity. You have a restored identity Everything that you thought about yourself when you were being raised in your parents' home or what the culture tells you is a lie. It's what God says who you are. When you believe in Christ, all those things change. It's so beautiful. You'll have a new different name in heaven that only the Lord knows. That's how beautiful it is. That's how great it's like man. And so we can move completely through this life and roles and identity that Christ has given us. But we must fundamentally understand that we're both Man, mankind, male and female. Alright. So let her be. Any questions? Am I ranting too much? Okay. Let it be the deception. E was deceived while Adam sinned knowingly. Old Adam. This was consistent with God's design for masculinity and femininity. Women tend to be more relational, while men tend to be more rational and detached. Although both tendencies have great value, neither implies superiority or inferiority. The context here is protecting sound doctrine in the church, the pillar and the support of truth. By God's design, men are better suited to the task of standing up to error in the church And maintaining discipline, obedience to God's word, and the original fall into sin illustrates this. I mean you say why Cause men oftentimes once they get fixed, ladies, once we get fixed on one thing, no It's no. We can burn the whole bridge down. I don't know if any men are like that. Just raise your hand. Let me know I'm not the only one in the room who walks around with a can of gasoline in his mind. We'll burn it down. We don't want it. It's no. Right We're not gonna we're not gonna relate to it. We're detached from it. Men are better suited for this role. Alright, so letter four, I mean number four, the reassurance. And this is the King James Version, more accurately translates this verse. Nevertheless, she will be saved in childbearing. If they continue in faith, love, holiness, with self-control. Why does he say that? Why does he say if they continue in faith You can't stop with it. It's an active being. You have to keep doing it. No, the change in this verse from singular to plural The antecedent of she is the woman, Eve, referred to the previous verse. The only antecedent, they is the children, implied by childbearing. The verb is sozo, right? And it's a Greek word. And yeah, I looked it up. And it's right here, because Pastor Pumley does a good job with his note. It's save It's the saving. It's constantly saving. This is this is what God has done to restore women. You mean you imagine you go throughout all of history Knowing that you were deceived, right? And every woman, like you guys are in the same lineup, and then there's not it's like, ah, this is where we're at. But God uses the fact that women can bear children To not leave woman's status here, but he maintains a woman's status and he lifts it up. That she brings life to all of mankind This verse then seems to echo the fact that though Eve was deceived, like I said, I'm kind of rerunning over the same thing, fell into sin, she and all righteous women after her Would be restored to the role that God originally designed for her. Bearing, nurturing, raising godly children. God confirmed that in this punishment he gave to Eve her role would become painful, but would not fundamentally change. Genesis three sixteen. And he also announced that One of her descendants, Christ, would one day defeat Satan. Adam apparently believed that immediately and reflected in the name he gave her and he gave her Eve, right? I mean like this is the coolest thing I see in the Bible. It's like these two people fell into sin. Eve messed up. Adam messed up Quick restoration because our God is good like that. Before we can say help he's there, right? This is our God. I mean honestly, I've experienced it. Before I can say He's there with something to help me. And like right there, God provides an answer for Eve and Adam. And then the cool part is Adam responds to this because he believed God's word and change giving Eve a name that reflects all the living. What she would be doing, she would be giving birth to all of the living. It's the coolest thing ever. I don't know if I could say cooler, but is there it's awesome, right? I think it's awesome, right? Alright, um, and so where am I at? Uh and apparently I believe I'm just reading those guys, so let me just catch up. I'll just go with in the context of women not teaching the Bible to or exercising authority over men in the church, the verse seems to emphasize that women's primary teaching role is instead in the home. Oh snack, stepping on people's toes Crazy. Your role is in the home. Now, if you have a financial thing and you have to work and your husband's gonna work, you're also called to be a help helpmate, right? Someone is suitable for him, adequate. I remember years beyond a work part-time job 'cause it was financially tough. You know, I'm a tradesman and things are tough when you're an apprentice and you gotta rack a kid says a teenager. It just makes it difficult. Um but as much as you can do it, if you can't afford it, talk to your wife, think through it. But her place is in the home. Why? Who who's why is that important? Let's let's go down. I'm gonna read down some more and I'm gonna talk a little bit about it. Uh where I'm at? Mm I just lost my place again. Cake reef Nurturing, bearing, raising children, fulfilling the foundation. Oh yeah, here that's right here. As women bear natural nurture and raise up godly children, they are not only fulfilling their God-given role, But they are also laying the foundation for multiple generations of obedience to God's word. This impacts the generations to come. A godly mother That teaching and training role perfectly complements men's role is teaching and exercising authority in the church. So I want to read something to you I thought was cool. Well I did this. And uh kind of reminded me of my wife a little bit. You guys know Charles Spurgeon, right? Yeah, everybody knows Charles Spurgeon. Alright, this is a quote from his mother. I thought was cool She would not just pray some vague generality of prayers. Lord bless my children. She wouldn't pray that. She prayed. Like this, Lord, if my children go on in their sins, it will not be from ignorance. That they perish. My soul must bear swift witness against them at the day of judgment if they do not lay hold of Christ. That's a good mama. That's a good mama. If you're not telling your kid, hey look, if you don't believe in Christ, you're going off into destruction. The schools cannot teach your children Jesus. They can't teach your children Jesus. We put them in school and I'm if you have your kids in school, this is not beating you guys up. Just just bear with me. It just gives you guys extra work. Because you have to overthrow the system. But the reality is the schools are not geared up for that, and nor do they care about your soul, your kid's soul. They're not going to discipline your child because they don't know your child. They are concerned about Johnny's grades and little Susie's grades and how they listen in class. Your children are wicked. The mother, this is why it's so important. Her role is to be the first frontline fighter for the gospel in your child's heart She must contend with the evil in your child's heart because she came from you and your husband. It's necessary. So when I look at faithful mothers I'm like, man, praise God for that. Praise God for those moms and those families who say, we're not gonna buy a big house Because it's going to put you out working, or we're not going to buy this car, because then that's another thing that we have to take care of. And it's going to put you out and away from the children. I need you to be home so you can minister to these guys. You know what I mean If you fail to do that, and I've seen women who have failed to do that, and I won't give a ton of stories, their children are dead. I'm not talking about dead like, oh, they're spiritually dead. No, no, no. I'm talking about in the grave Because they failed to do what they were supposed to do, which is nurture, encourage, convict all the things we're supposed to do as believers. Admonish, reproof, all those things. A mom is a frontline fighter of a child's heart, a little two-year-old's heart. She's fighting this little guy To get him to conform to some sort of righteousness. And it's only for a time, because the Bible talks about your fathers disciplined you for a time. How much more now are you disciplined to the spirit of light, God the Father? It's a stepping stone. And if you miss those elementary years, those younger years, you're losing a lot of ground So it's necessary. And this is what raised the bar. This raises the bar from a woman's responsibility in the home for her responsibility in the home and what happened with Eve. Eve is like boom. This is the aspect that we have to consider that women are so important in the home, nurturing and ministering to children The problem is there's a lie. I'm not telling you guys this because it's oh yeah. There's a lie that's pushing against this. So I'll tell this story of my son and not here so I can do it, and he didn't go to his church, so it works. So years ago, my son, um, my middle son, he was um he got married young like we got married young because I thought he could do it because, you know, we should kind of share some of the same personality characteristics. Anyway Um you got eighteen. So we got married at eighteen. Anyway, um and neither one of them could drive. And the Esparzas helped us out in working through the purity process with them. Anyway, she was in Virginia I worked in um worked at Dulles. We had a contract out there and she lived in um Culpepper and I would scoop up and pick her up on the weekends and we'd drop her off at the Sparza. But on the way up we had a conversation. And the conversation kind of lended itself like this. I said, So Sam, what are you doing with the fact that you're going to marry this guy? You're 18. I'm programming. You're 18. You got your whole life ahead of you. You don't want to get a job or career or something like that? I don't want her to do that. Just asking. Just no, no, no. He said he loves the Lord. He loves me. And I'm willing to I'm willing to go there with him to develop with him She said she said some other stuff. But I was like, hmm, what about all the facts that girls your age are going to school And then they're they're getting degrees and they're pushing for their career. I'm not I'm not diminishing that. I'm just saying there's a we have to be careful, right? She said I'm I'm just By the time I get out of school, I don't know if there are gonna be any guys like this guy at left. That's I get that. That's a big deal. But there's an agenda that school is ahead of being a wife and a mother and nurturing children. Now women can go to school and do all that stuff. I think that's great. I'm not diminishing that. I'm just saying that I think that we put too much on that and it blurs the lines. That's the problem. It blurs the lines between man and woman and their roles in the home and how God has set us up. And so the culture around us, um the culture around us desires to feed us lies, but we must be vigilant to combat that lie with truth. So when we went through this and I'm I'm actually gonna stop Um but when we went through this, one of the things that we looked at was we looked at scripture often because it is the it is the foundation to everything. It is truth. It is real reality. Um so yeah. That's where we're at guys and I have nothing else. That's as far as my note goes. So pastor drivers can get me for cutting it short. You guys have what? 15 minutes Is that right? So any questions, there we go. 15 minutes there you go. Help me out, brother. Yeah, I don't care. Uh I just want to follow in on this verse here. It's commonly misused to teach women that if they have children they're faith, that is not what this verse is. Exactly. You're absolutely right. If God has promised the women that if they're godly, they're doing his will, that they will Survive childbirth because it goes back to the original curse. So that's important to realize because I know there are a lot of Catholic women who believe their salvation is in having children. Yeah, that's why they have a lot of them, right? Yeah. No, yeah, I agree with you. I think having children nurturing them and training them is a testimony to your faith and obedience to Christ and your submission to your husband I think that's primarily what I see in this passage that it radiates um that I want to be obedient to the Lord. I want to nurture and train my children, even though I don't like this little guy. I think we have time. I'll tell a story. Here you go. Um and this is both to encourage younger women to be open to the Lord leading and older women to not be afraid to buck culture in training and teaching the younger women. Yeah. When I was in high school I was fascinated with genetics to the point where I wanted to become a genetic counselor, help couples with infert infertility and things like that. So I was looking for colleges where I could supposedly get a Christian education but also a degree in genetics. And um my aunt sat me down one day as, you know, high schooler who thought I knew exactly what I wanted for my life, a little bit prideful in it. And she was like, You're not gonna do that because all you're gonna do is you're gonna go to school for eight to twelve years and then you're just gonna get married and have babies and not use your degree at all It's like, okay, Aunt Janet, what am I gonna do? You know, smiling on the outside but on the inside, I'm rolling my arms at her. And she said, you're gonna go to master's and you're gonna major in home economics and get married and have babies I was like, okay, sure. I have no idea what the Lord did from that time to when I applied the masters only. went in as a declared homec major and came out and got married two months after college and babies. So I don't I genuinely don't remember the train of thought that the Lord took me on after that conversation with her, but it I was so set on being a genetic counselor that it truly is a miracle of the Lord that she had the courage to fuck culture and speak into my life even though I knew exactly what I wanted. She knew really what was you know, the course of my life was supposed to be and the Lord she allowed the Lord to use her as an instrument of massive change. Um and what not even change really that the instrument that got me where who would wanted need to be for that my life could be what it is today. Still fascinated with genetics, but I have a zero regret about the course that life took for us Um because it doesn't the Lord's will. Yeah. They get married and have babies. So and the thing about it guys, not everybody and and I and you and I'll say this. Your fulfillment comes in serving your family and your children in some ways. Like part it's not the full fulfillment. Crisis are full ful fulfillment, right? And every no matter if you're at home or you're working or whatever, crises are full fulfillment for women. But ultimately it's like you're designed for that. You know? You can't take a, I can't take a a I'm I'm just getting this is stupid but it's an example in my mind. You can't take a a spoon and use it for a screwdriver. Even though you can still scoop it out, it's gonna take you forever And and it's gonna be frustrating. You're you're designed um to nurture and to minister to your to your children. Um And in that, praise God for that. One of the things I love about um the Proverbs 31 woman is that it talks about and everyone will praise her, right? It's like that's powerful. When does that happen? I mean most of the time we may not experience that in a lifetime, but it may happen where everyone stands up and says, Mom, bravo, bravo, bravo, mom because of because of what she's what the Lord's allowed her to do. And how she's been faithful in serving. And like I said, everybody's situation is not the same. But where you are, faithfully serve the Lord and work hard to minister to your children. Because I don't know, I just have this strong conviction, and I don't want to impose this on you, but I just want to say it. They're they're after you. And they're after your children And they hate our God. And that's why we can't dilly-dally around with it. We can't like, oh well, you know, he's working through some identity thing. No. He's lost. I mean we have Thanksgiving coming up and some of the holidays and, you know, we have to deal with people who are not in the faith that are part of our biological family. And um they have their reasons and their thoughts and they want to impose their ideas. You know? Stay Stand on the word of God, understand what the scriptures say. Remember your identity and your role. If I can say anything, remember who you belong to, remember your identity and role in Christ. And don't relent. Go for it. What about for the women that are angry? But what about for those that don't have that? If they're married, they have a husband. Yeah. But they don't have children. So the cool part I'll tell you this. One of the conversations I had with Pastor Jobs, if I don't know the question I'm gonna punt it to him. But I'll share this part and if anyone else wants to chime in, um It's it doesn't like gentlemen like um from Rex, right? Like Rex mentioned, it's not in part like uh for salvation, right? But what a woman who can have children can do, they can adopt children. Why? Because that desire to nurture and train a little sinner doesn't go away You love this little person. That's part of like life. So you can adopt, or you can minister to young women who have children. Or I mean there's so many avenues in the body of Christ. This is the only This is the only, I'll say it this way, organization if I can use that word, that's gonna last for eternity. Nothing else is gonna last. And so you have a family of people who need help and who need love. So women who are like, I want to have a child And I can't have a child. They can either adopt or they can either find a way to minister to some young girl or some family in some way and leave herself available for that. Um, I mean that's the best I can uh give as far as an answer with that. And I think God uses that to to bless. Like we we just you know, Bassi and Jess, they just adopt it. And so it's like I don't know what the deal is. I'm just saying praise God for that. From our own experience, we were about this for sixteen and a half years before the Lord blessed us with our older daughter Ellie. I wanted kids from the get go and so a huge part of my spiritual journey was just wrestling with God over childlishness 'cause I hated it and I was unwilling to receive it from him. It was a spell. But when I got to the point where I could left and realize that he gave me this this blessing of highness We were in a Bible study group that had a lot of single ladies in it and they started coming to me for counsel because they were struggling with their singleness and they saw such a correlation between my struggle with childlessness And I realized I can have this whole rich ministry within God's body to these younger women because of my childlessness. So women as a group have the blessing of bearing children, but some of us can, but that doesn't mean that we're exempt from the blessing. God is if we're his, he'll use us and he's co-created And so beautiful in how he does that. And so whatever he gives us is a loving gift from him, he makes it hurt. And we will use it for his glory if we're willing to be trained by it and reused by it. Yeah. Thank you, sis. Appreciate that. You keep mentioning um parenting in this world. And there is a book I just started reading by John Python. No, who is it by MacArthur. That is um the war on children. And I just started it in this extent that goes right along with what you're talking about. Um and I wanted to expound on something you said earlier. You mentioned how men can be more rational and women in something else, women can be more emotional. And I believe that one hundred percent. And I also believe that God uses that as he matches us together, as we are married, as each couple is married, because I have met so many people. that perfectly complement each other. For example, I am extremely emotional. I cry all the time, very emotionally driven Um, and Joel is like the polar other opposite side. And so we have to come together and if I'm turning into a blubbering mess, he's able to hold me together. Or if he's being like he said about lighting something on fire. You know, this is it. We're gonna burn every other option. This is what we're doing, you know, and I need to be like, actually We need to have a little bit more emotion put into this scenario. So we perfectly complement each other. And like everything else, there is a spectrum. I I've met so many couples where sometimes the woman is less emotional and she's very but yet the man is a little bit more emotional. They just kind of perfectly complement each other. Not that the man is never the is the emotional one, the woman takes the other side. But that they're they complement each other perfectly um in their roles I agree. I think I think the fact that God made us different is beautiful. I call it calibrating Because we're like Like that thing, you know? That's the mechanical side of me, right? But it's like I think about it's like we're just kinda calibrating, so when we're not in sync with one another where communication's off, where it doesn't need to really be have communication off, or you know, you're a little bit more emotional and I'm not as emotional. God uses that to force us into growing really into thinking through things and taking the time and think through things. I think it's it's necessary. I don't necessarily like to argue and that's part of marriage sometimes. And um but I know it's necessary and we have to offer each other grace. And I that's like the thing for believers, we kinda win, guys. I mean, straight talk. I mean, Fairbones, this is it. We win because we have Christ. If you don't know Christ, then believe Christ, love Christ, honor Christ. We win Because I'm not the authority of our marriage. She's not the authority of the marriage. Christ is. We have our roles Sometimes when it gets so hard and we don't agree, I'm playing my role. And my role is to forgive you and to love you. And so that's that's hardcore. But to your point, it's necessary. I love it. It's it's it's kinda cool God designed us like that, you know? Pushes us out out of ourselves. So Oh and then screw it, bro. Alright, so uh we've been married about twenty-eight years. Gangster. Before we got married, uh we come to the parson, Her uh her father was my pastor. Nice show up. Yeah, I think you had maybe five women, five sisters. plus the mother, so it was like six women in the house. So I would come into the house and whenever sin came up I I would always say says it was useful All the time I'd say it was Eve Sky. East guy. I didn't think we were going to get married. But you know, as we're all growing in Christ and I was especially growing Um and her father's disciple also. I learned that the husband's role in the marriage is to protect and to love and to cherish. And Satan's out there ready to pounce. He's ready to come in and destroy the marriage, destroy the church. destroy any ministry that we have. So as the husbands, we need to be careful. And we need to the title over there was Eve's Deception. As the deception is there, it can be protected. by God given us as the husbands discernment to protect our wives, love our lives. So we did get married I see that. They produce an oxmarine. And that is continuing to work on markets. Yeah. Thank you, brother. Yeah. So kind of all along the same lines of what I was going to say is is talking about uh women and uh leadership and uh uh we talk about a woman pastor. Right. And that's because men are advocating the responsibility to lead Right, so you know, I always go back to the the men are we often make it difficult for women to follow our examples, right? Because we don't set good examples and we advocate our responsibility. So I think a lot of the the the social ills we have is because men are not leading by example in the way that they should. So I think I think, you know, men and husbands bear a lot of the the responsibility for for the difficulties that that we see in in society as a whole and and the church even, why, you know, if if if the men are not taking the the necessary, you know, to to lead or to teach Yeah. And that's sad. It's like sad sad Capable men who refuse to c like um I'm completely with you. I looked at my son-in-law and I said to him, I said, I'm so glad that you committed to my daughter to take the mantle to lead. Because it's hardcore in some sense and there's a lot of joy. But you're right, if there's no leader then what are women gonna do? You know what I mean? 'Cause they want to be and they might not say they want to be led, but it they they they want to be led. They need they need that like we need them for companionship. It's like a we need each other. But but men And I'm not gonna beat up on men. They get enough and then the rest of this book the rest of this talks about men as far as leaders, but we'll we'll get into that. But I think that Yeah. A lot of men have dropped the responsibility. You're gonna say something else. Go for it, brother. First Peter chapter three, you know, they'll focus on the women being submitted to their husbands, but then they neglect the in verse seven about husbands growing with wisdom and and honoring them. You know that your prayers may not be hindered. You know, and so men's prayers aren't even being hindered because they're not dwelling with their wives in the appropriate way that's wisdom. Yeah. That's a check balance for me. When I think about that verse that checks me. Like The Lord's not gonna hear my prayer if I'm not dealing with my wife rightly. It's no way possible. It's a checkbound, so I gotta check myself. You know. Um yeah. Oh boom and boom. Okay. I just wanted to bring up something kind of interesting about Like when we're pastors, 'cause I have learned something about like the Church of God denomination, don't open with some Church of God so far. But um or has like a history with that. But the Church of God they have women pastors, so if you were to ask them if they consider themselves egalitarian or complementarian, they consider themselves complementarian still And so I just wanted to address some of the mental gymnastics that really goes into that. Because I think sometimes when we're looking at women pastors, we're not seeing some of the nuances So with that, some of the mental gymnastics that's happening. Church is bound as one pastors, but they've also muddled the word pastor. So we have lots of women that have the title of pastor but they don't exercise biblical authority over men And then there's some instances where you will have like a a a lead woman pastor over a local church. Church of God still considers themselves continentarians because how they see it is that the Church of God in Tennessee That's their local church. That's how they see it. I don't know if it's mental gymnastics, but I'm explaining it because when we're talking to people of different denominations with women pastors, when you're aware of what the line of thought is, you can better like guide them through the scripture because they'll tell you they think they're in that they're in submission to the Second Timothy verses. They do But they do have local churches here in Maryland that are run by that have a s they have a woman pastor who is exercising on rare occasions exercising biblical authority over men But they consider it complementarian because she submitted to all the male bishops and all the male upper heads of the Church of God. So but it's still unbiblical that she would have her own church here in Maryland because uh so they debate what's considered like the local church and things like that. And like so just something to be aware of. But there is like when we're talking to like people in denominations with women churches there are nuances, there are there are there's mental gymnastics happening with the scriptures and with the denominations and the traditions that we are to consider so that we can better better walk them through the scriptures, better walk them through you know, just biblical line of thought. Directly related to that. We actually have a family um interview with Hope Academy And the woman and the man are both pastors, the husband and wife. And so we were like, red flag, what she's a woman pastor. I'm not sure that that alliance was a doctrine. We try to be careful what families we bring into Hope Academy to maintained a doctrinal culture for being ministry of Bible Church. Selma was actually in that interview and she was able to explain to us that the family is from Nigeria. And over in Nigeria they have a different definition of Pastor. Pastor. Yes. So for them it's not about the local church. For them, a woman pastor is one who ministers to women and children. So it's not that it's a pastor over the church, not that it's a pastor over men, but she is a pastor because she is over women's ministry and children's ministry. So it is Sometimes semantics, sometimes it's wrong doctrine. So it is you do have to be careful with different situations. I wanna it was it's cool, but I wanna say something about that. That is crazy. I think for the best thing that we have to do, and like for that woman, she just needs to drop the whole pastor thing and redefine it and really understand um what complimentary means really. She needs to understand that. But I think the biggest thing is, this is why we're a Bible church. Get to the scriptures. Because if it's outside of what God says it's demable. Right, and so that's why we're not in that denomination. But as we talk to people we want to make sure that we're also even though they have like all these different things and it's good to go through and define what a pastor, elder, overseer, all these things mean. Right. That's when everything explodes. And so that's why it's necessary to see the Greek and to stick to the scriptures. You know? Mark you had something to say, bro, and I know we run out of time. I know it wasn't I was thinking about it as other conversations were having this But I I just wanted to say the word for testimony in our lives um is that like me me and Rosie got married and Rosie was before we got saved she was getting a college degree And I was like, alright, she's still doing that. We gotta save the code, don't get married, she finished school and I was like, alright, it's still worse, left flying, just in our s you know I say our singleness because we don't have any kids. But uh in our beginning of our marriage, but we got pregnant right away. I mean three months after getting married we got pregnant and we were just like, All right, I guess we're gonna go straight to home school and that's what we wanted to do. And my family There's two teachers. My mom's one of them, which is like Rosie, like you know homeschooling? What are you guys talking about? And I remember that being like a really light We were kind of ostracized for that. Um just like are you equipped to homeschool your kids like this and that? Um Rosie's also dystemic, so some of her You know, like is she gonna be able to communicate to uh Birdie speaks great? But uh but either way, I just remember there's a lot of pushback um from our family. And um You know, we we made sacrifices to do this stuff. And our you know, in our Christian walk, you know we've had ups and downs. Um me and Rogers are extremely close, they're wonderful wonderful uh relationship together. But even in our child raising, um, you know, disciplining our kids, being at family functions or at family my mom's house or my brother's house and like taking our little ones to you know giving a spanking of pow pow for disobedience and we were very strict in this like man you're very very hard on these kids at times And I mean we do it in love, we talk to them. I mean there's times where I've gotten angry and I've had a repentance for that, my kids. But uh I tell you what now, we've been married ten years, I always says ten Eleven years old. But um, you know, if you ask anybody in my family, I ask all unbelieving families do not believe in Christ at all They love our marriage. They love our children. The church in Christ. And that's the blessing of the Lord. They love that at home school. And they love that we're at home schools now. My brother says he's forty, um, he's not married, and he's he's told me years ago he's like I'm absolutely envious of what you have And uh and I just feel like that's just a beautiful testimony of God. It's like in this world there's just this there's just this drum that we have to Live a certain life, you have to give careers, you have to be successful. That that is the role of drums that uh the dance by. Um the Lord has a wonderful way that we should live. And it and it's a blessing to us to unbelievers and to us. I mean I I love coming home and my wife and my kids are home and greeting at the door. My house is not chaotic. We're not Like I mean yeah, I mean there's little sins that we're dealing with. Don't be hitting on chaos. But I'm saying it's just like I can't imagine she would work. I can't imagine. And Louie I'll be on she's doing way more work than any woman at the at the job actually. One more and then we're gonna pray and then go. only lives at home and that at least got friends with Elena right away. So but she's twenty seven now. And the conversations that I had with her, she's married, and she was a nanny for a while, that can see what it looks like when mom's not there with a little one. And the gratefulness that she expresses that 'cause I never you know I I became a Jew Love when Nathan was three, but even that was part time. It was always I was home all the time. And um just to but just to see as an adult, you know, she's an adult now and she's grateful. And I would not trade that for anything Yeah. Being there to be with our children while they were little. And so yeah, if you can and there were satisfactions to remain So they're worth it. They're absolutely worth it. Well guys, um thank you for your participation, bearing up with me, and offering me so much grace because you guys are rich in it. Let's pray, and uh I guess as we prepare our hearts for for corporate worship in that way. Father God, we thank you for your kindness again, for just the foundational truth of your word and its power Father, we overlook the fact oftentimes that the gospel is power. And it's the only power that we can see in Scripture as being exerted. often to save people. We bless you, Lord God. We thank you, Father. We pray for these families. We ask, Lord God, that they are convinced, they're convicted, and they're designed to serve you and make changes in their life to honor you. We bless you, Lord God. We thank you. Send Christ and pray. Amen.