I've got this uh I've got it in two sections. We'll see how far we get. Uh we've got uh let's see, this week and and uh then next Sunday. But this is uh we we we opened this up a little bit. Let me just I instead we're not gonna read the whole covenant. What what I'm gonna do, first part of this we'll get into the some of the nuts and bolts, and then we'll start to look a a little bit at some of the other uh scriptures uh and start to apply it uh or start to kind of unpack it I guess I should say Uh so and just to see the contrast, what what was this covenant moving towards? And it was always moving towards that. Again, like we said. uh the seed in Genesis three. Right? And we're just getting we're progressing through the revelation. Uh you know, uh he said uh to Eve, Your seed is gonna have enity with Satan's he right? He's gonna crush him, he's gonna overcome 'em. Uh uh the victory is here and and again, uh as we're looking at this, uh try and think uh uh a lot of different ways, but try and think from their point of view. How uh were the hearers of that day hearing this message? What We have to take out what were they what were the concrete facts that they were getting. Uh our difficulty is is that we look back uh it's a blessing but it's also sometimes a difficulty. Sometimes we bring too much from the New Testament back into uh some of the these Old Testament prophecies. They they it wasn't revealed yet. Uh uh and and that's what we ho that's what I hope to do with this uh when they did these covenants. To see this great big panorama. There is d there this is such a study to to look at eschatology because all the these are like train stations or, you know, you've got different lines coming in and they're all connected. And God's painted a tapestry. There's no way. This is a lifelong study like any any study we we do uh righteousness, holiness, anything in the Bible. But uh just know that this this is just an overview. So let's read this real quick. I'm not going to read the whole uh of this because what uh what we're gonna do, what uh this study is duh is gonna do, uh what I've written out is we're gonna kind of procrast progress and just kind of go over these scriptures. So we're going to re be repeating ourselves, but you know, uh let's learn it in layers. So let's go to Jeremiah 31, 31. Jeremiah 31, 31. I'm just going to read right now, 31 through 34, so we have the essence of this new covenant in our mind. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day, I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them, declares the Lord But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord For they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. So that is the essence of of it that uh uh wants to have in our mind. Um this is um This is uh I've lit li uh this is the provisions of the covenants, in other words, these are some of the facts that are drawn out. This is uh I took this from the uh from Pentecost. Really, what he this is Charles Rari has done this. He's quoted him here. And again, let's just look at some of the nuts and bolts of what's in the covenant. Number one, the new covenant is unconditional, resting solely on the I will of God. And again, um A lot of the we're not gonna I'm not gonna spend a whole lot of time on each of these points because I'm gonna go over this again in a way. It's gonna progress through this uh So I will do this. It's not dependent on man. It's it's God is going to do this. The new covenant is an everlasting covenant due to the fact it is unconditional by God's grace. Again, you we we can see this in uh let's so if we're still in Jeremiah, look at 31, 35 through 37. Somebody was somebody there, would they read it for us? Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night. Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, the Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord. Then the offspring of Israel also will cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord: if the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out below, Then I will also cast off all the offspring of Israel, all that they have done, declares the Lord I mean he's using right, if the earth passes away, Israel's gonna pass away. As long as the earth is here, Israel is going to it it couldn't be clear. Um and we've seen that type of thing. Uh with the Davidic. Uh uh it's uh you know, it's a Hebrew uh way of of speaking. Uh uh it's it's uh Well you know, it it's like uh when he says my word will will you know, like the s the snow and the rain, it will not come back to me void. I mean he uses word pictures. But it's clear. It's not going away. The new covenant promise uh promises a new mind and a new heart, also known as regeneration. The new covenant is a salvation. Uh I'll point this out again, but uh Just real quick, think about it. The old covenant, and we'll see this as we go through the uh this the second section I put up Up uh l later in this this the old covenant included everybody, right? And we'll read some passages about that. The alien that was with them, the children, everybody was in that covenant. So if you want to see think of the difference, the new covenant is to the chosen, right? It it's The new covenant is going to be applicable to the people that are going to be saved. So think of the and and that's a difference. And that's w um I think with my mind w w what confuses me is I have to step back and say, this is God's plan. He's telling me what his plan is. Everybody was going to be under this law, so they understood what what the requirements of the of the God's holiness, his righteousness, uh his uh what he wanted to have a relationship, right? But it doesn't mean that because they did that they were going to be saved. That's the point. And it's that hard thing. It's it's all through the Bible, it's that hard doctrine, it's election. The new covenant will uh return the favor and blessing of God to Israel. Um we're gonna see that in these passages, right? He's gonna bless one of uh uh blessings, uh obviously number one blessing is salvation, right? That is the ultimate blessing. But there's the um they're going to uh be fruitful and multiply. So uh they will have their children. They'll they'll be uh uh they'll have plentiful uh um what's the word I'm looking for? The population will grow. Okay, he's gonna bless that. Um Land, uh he's gonna uh bless the work of their hands. Uh the crops come in, right? The rains come down. Uh d so I that's the essence of of what they're looking at as blessing here. The forgiveness of sin. Um God is that is salvation. He forgives our sins, right? That is the we are made righteous. We're right with God. It's not our righteousness, it's his, right? He forgives our sins. The only thing that would pay for sin is just that, right? The righteousness of Christ. We know that. But think from their point of view, they're looking forward. They're not re they're not seeing this Messiah twenty twenty. Uh w w don't for always keep that in mind we're we're we're when we're looking from this side. Uh you saw how they they were with uh the New Testament, they still didn't I mean he was there in front of them, the disciples were there, he believed in it, but they still didn't really get the picture uh that The reason we do, again, is that's the Lord opening our eyes to this. We believe it, we see it. Indwelling of the Holy Spirit is seen uh in the phrase, I will put my law within them. I'm not going to take the time because we I am going to look at I'm going to compare this Ezekiel passage later on. We're going to go through the context of the passage. And we're going to share the contrast between this passage and and uh the old covenant. It's it's uh obvious the difference. the teaching ministry of the Holy Spirit and that God will be known to them. Remember that verse I read? Was it 29-4? He says, Moses is telling them in Deuteronomy 29. 4, he says I haven't given you a heart to know me. Again, think about that. They had all the law. They had they saw the manifestations. And he says in that kind of context of that You saw the great works he did in Egypt. You saw what we did, you know, with the Pharaoh's army. All this was manifested. All that evidence that you look, unless God opens your eyes, there's a blindness we have to it And of course you see that as you know how could they rebel in the wilderness? Well, we're forgetful. Israel will be blessed when they are returned to the land. Uh thirty-eight thirty four, uh I I'm not gonna stop and read that right now, but really what there there's gonna be no more war. When this covenant comes in and this prom well I guess we do have to read it. Uh 38. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord. This is uh Jeremiah 31, 38. When the city will be will be rebuilt uh for the Lord from the Tower of Hananel to the corner gate The measuring line will go uh out further straight ahead to the hill of Garub. Then it will uh then it will turn to Goa. uh and the whole valley of dead bodies and of the ashes of all the fields as far as the brook Kidron to the corner of the horse gate toward the east shall be holy to the Lord And here here it is. It will not be plucked up or overthrown anymore forever. So we so we saw that with David gave him rest. Well this is going to be rest, but it's forever Uh either this prophecy is going to be l literary literally fulfilled or this is just a metaphor. Uh it certainly hasn't happened yet. Uh w so uh the again, and that's what we're doing. We're we're trying to pick up what are the facts and all these different passages that that we're trying to put together. That that's what this study is. trying to do. And this is just an overview of the many passages. The sanctuary will be rebuilt in Jerusalem. Ezekiel 362. 37, 26, and 27. I will make a covenant of peace with them. It will be an everlasting covenant with them. I will place them and multiply them. I will set my sanctuary in their midst forever. My dwelling place also will be with them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. So we see the sanctuary is going to be there, and it's going to be there forever War shall cease and peace shall reign. We just uh looked at that in uh Jeremiah. Uh the blood of Jesus Christ is the foundation of all of blessings of the new covenant, Zechariah 9 11. As for you also, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I have set your prisoners free from the uh waterless pit. And of course Luke, we know this, but we when we think we we start to couple them with these Old Testament uh uh right uh Jesus is uh Then neither the truth of fiction and uh or before he's going to be taken captive. And in the same way he took the cup after they had eaten, saying This cup which is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. Right? It's uh it's Christ, uh we're gonna see this. Christ is the new covenant. He embodies it all. He paid the penalty, he's the only one that could do it. There's so many manifestations from that. It's just it again, this is the terminal, isn't it? I'll probably repeat this, but the whole Old Testament is pointing towards the Messiah. The Christ and His cross. The whole New Testament, where all our foundation is on Jesus Christ and the cross. And everything stems from that. It's the focal point of all history. Uh because it it's not just an event, it's what's what's accomplished there. It's uh it's God's plan, it's it's salvation, it's to bring us into relationship. Relationship, and that's what we need to focus even as we get into the New Testament, even as we ourselves are believers. We can become legalistic. I know I can. If I do a certain thing, God's going to bless me. He wants the relationship. That's the that's the key. Uh you know, I had somebody tell me in uh when I first uh started going to uh Bible college to take some classes. Uh Uh he he made a a really good point. I thought I I was uh just saved. He said, look, uh, you know, uh at the beginning of the of the s the quarter of the semester. Uh he said we can learn a lot about God and miss knowing God. And to me that was I thought about that. I said, yeah, it's true, isn't it? Um we get a a whole lot of head knowledge in there and then miss the relationship In summary, the Old Testament teaching of the New Covenant was made with Jewish people of Israel. The time of the fulfillment is future and will continue throughout eternity. The nation of Israel will be fully re uh uh will not fully realize the provisions of the covenant until the millennium. The new covenant is a light to the nations. Now we're stating this and I and uh as we move forward we're we're gonna kinda look at uh in in this section and the next. Uh Uh we're not just gonna say it's it's a millennium. Again, we're gonna all these facts are pointing to this. If this is if this uh these prophecies are gonna be literally fulfilled. Uh I it it just it hasn't happened yet. It points to a time. Or they're just uh again uh figurative metaphors or uh uh allegory, however you want to label it, and it just means uh a general thing. Uh I think with all these scriptures, uh to me the the evidence is clear Confirm confirmation of the covenant is given in Isaiah uh sixty-one, eight through nine. Would somebody turn to um Ezekiel 37, 21, 28. Uh if I could have somebody read that This is what Pentecost points out. He goes, the confirmation of the covenant is given Isaiah 61, 829, Ezekiel. 37, 21 through 28, both of which speak of the eternal covenant. Pentecost lists these provisions. And again, these are the nuts and bolts. You have to go back and think about it, but um So somebody could read that section, uh Ezekiel uh was it thirty-seven, twenty-one through twenty-eight Say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will take the sons of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, and I will gather them from everyone And I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel, and one thing will be king for all of them. And they will no longer be two nations, and no longer divided into two n two kingdoms. They will no longer defile themselves with their idols, or with their defensible things, or with any of their transgressions. But I will deliver them from all their dwelling places in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them, and they will be my people, and I will be their God. And they will all have one shepherd, and they will walk in my ordinances and keep my statutes and observe them. Jacob my servant in which your fathers lives, and they will live on it, they and their sons and their sons' sons forever. And David, my servant, will be their prince forever I will make a covenant of peace with them, and it will be an everlasting covenant with them, and I will place them and multiply them, and will set them And the nations will know that I am the Lord who sanctified Thank you. Uh uh one thing to uh to contemplate when you when we're looking at these, okay, he uh w we're talking about this covenant, we're talking about it being forever. He w we see the same uh themes in in Jeremiah, Ezekiel. You notice how throughout th sometimes we we can uh n not think about it He he talks about it with David, right? He says, My servant David, right, will be king over them. Okay, so we we're we we're kind of bringing the Davidic covenant in here. Then you notice how he m mentions Jacob, right? Which is harking back to the Abrahamic, right? It's all the they're interrelated. And and that's the difficulty with this. This is why you have to to take this and it's a lot to bring together and then of course um if you have one of those minds memorize and can memorize and bring all these facts real qu ro uh back quickly. It certainly helps, but uh I have to review it so I forget things. Um but all the the threat is there. He's bringing it through. These covenants they're not separate. They're it's the whole thread that that is coming through. All this covenant is really one covenant. So let's look at what um uh that's uh in in general. Uh th this is but specifically towards Israel. the promises. Uh and w we're and we this is one of the the things uh the uh scripture points out uh the people that um I've studied the the p the Pentecost, the Pedigrews, all the articles I said that uh uh this covenant is made to The new covenant, the old these are made specifically to the nation. We'll we're we're gonna get into to this uh as we move to the s second section, but uh Um we share in this covenant, but it is this is a this is a theological point that sep separates it if you believe this and if you feel like these this is what these scriptures are saying. These was made to a specific people. Specific blessings will be to this specific people. Not all blessings are going to come to the Gentiles And I'll show you that uh when I when we get to it. I don't know if I'm gonna get to it today. Um But I'll show you uh some of the differences between Israel uh in uh the millennial kingdom with passages. Pentecost point does a good job point this out. Let me just take a second if you're interested in studying this at all, the White Pentecost things to come. It's not a book you will typically read. He's uh very academic. It's not that it goes over your head, but what he does is he's he doesn't give a lot of explanation. He most of his uh he'll make a point but then he'll give you really virtually every scripture reference he can find on it. So the references are just there. Take a long you know, yeah, look up each reference. I mean, you know, you could spend a long time away. one pages thing. There's that many. The point is, he's what he's saying is, here's the evidence. This is what I'm basing my conclusions on. He gives you the conclusion, but here's the scriptures that that support this. Um but it's good as a reference whereas you have certain questions uh because if you look at his table of context it's like the index in most books. It's just about every page i is he's got, you know, a a different topic, uh, for his in his table of context. So like if you say, uh, what's the difference between the Gentiles and the millennial uh and Israel? Well That's he has that. He's he's drawing that out. And so it's a g really good reference book. Um it's been around for a while, so if you're cheap like me, you can probably find a used one, you know what I mean? Uh you may find it sometimes you pay more for shipping than you do for the Book. All right, so having said that, Israel so these are the points he has. Israel's regathered. We've seen that over and over again in all these past Haven't we? I'm going to bring you back to the land. The land is critical. Remember, we looked at that in the Davidic covenant. I'm going to give you a specific land. It's hard to be a nation without a land, is it not? They're going to be a nation. Nation has to have a land. Their land. Israel's going to be one nation ruled by one king. Again, remember where we are. Um Ezekiel, they're getting ready, uh uh depending on when when this was written, they're either raised the cusp of the captivity or Ezekiel kinda carries over into the captivity, right? They're in Babylon. Israel's destroyed at this point. The temple everything. They leveled it. um or about to be. So uh Israel's uh one nation ruled by one king They no kings after the captivity. Hasn't been a king in Israel. Right? Israel no longer to be idolatrous, to be cleansed and forgiven. We saw that. Of course in Jeremiah. We see it in the other ones, uh different passages of Ezekiel. Israel's to dwell forever in the land after a gathering. We we saw that again in in Jeremiah and chapter. or verse 40 of 31 uh a covenant of peace with them uh uh to be everlasting they're gonna have rest on every side peace Shalom, right? They're still looking for it. God's tabernacle to be with them. Uh and here's the thing, i. e. , he will be present with them in a visible way. That's why we believe in the m uh millennial kingdom that Christ is going to come to earth. If you read Ezekiel 40 to 48, He's got nine chapters basically on the temple and and the glory comes back. You know, uh I was reading uh uh I can't come up with his name right now. It's it's on the back of my mind um Feinberg. Uh and he was saying y and it's obvious, but you forget it sometimes. It's not the temple of the Lord if the Lord's not there. And remember the Lord departed and Ezekiel saw him depart and he's got this vision later where the glory comes back. Remember the Shekinah glory when David dedicated the temple uh you know, w when they uh when they built the tabernacle, we saw the glory of the Lord uh fill the temple. Uh So the glory is going to be there. Israel will be known among the Gentiles as a nation blessed of God. uh uh we're gonna look at uh when we look at Ezekiel uh passage, which we will uh we're we're gonna st we're really gonna pull that out 'cause I I've read the context about it. I'm not just reading about uh you know everybody knows well most of you are probably familiar with Ezekiel. Uh uh I will put a new heart in you. Uh I'll put my you'll get a new spirit and I will put my spirit in you. We're gonna read that. But w if you look at the context of of what he's doing, it's it's uh very important. Characteristics of the new covenant promised to Israel. It's new. The Lord declares that he will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. The Lord will put his law within them and on their heart. Again, remember we tal I talked about that um Deuteronomy 29, 4 passages. They didn't know him. He says, I haven't given you a heart to know me. This is a radical break from the Mosaic tradition. This is a future promise done according to the Lord's will and purpose. Uh the all-all was uh external and that uh the follower had the discipline as well to be obedient to the commands. This new covenant was written in their hearts so that they desired to obey the law. Now Don't get me wrong, when I make that statement, it's still a discipline for us even with the new covenant, but we have a desire to do that I have a desire now to be like God. Now my desire or my will may wax and wane, and I may you a week and you may go, Kara, you're pathetic. Okay, that's fine. But I ultimately I have a desire to do that. That's not my will. It never was. I want to do it now. That's the Spirit doing that to me. It's not about me. It's Him. Again, and uh we read this last week because I jumped ahead um and we'll we'll get to it. Um Yeah, there's a passage coming up. So I we have this desire in there. God's put it in there. Everlasting and irrevocable. The new covenant, the the Davidic and Abrahamic were all declared everlasting, based on a promise of the sovereign Lord. Mosaic covet depended on the ability of the people to uphold their part of the contract. Exodus twenty four seven Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people and said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient. He's it's on their can they're making this confession. Right? It's uh and and it was what he was asking them to do. But that's the law. It's on their part, right? They're they're the source here And the the new covenant the Lord says that if the fixed order the day and the night and the moon and the stars uh pass passes away, then the offspring of Israel will cease, right? We read that in Jeremiah 35-37 Transformation. The key element of the new covenant is the spiritual transformation and the forgiveness of sin. Jeremiah 24. 7, the Lord promises. I will give them a heart to know me, for I am the Lord, and they will be my people, and I will be their God, for they will return to me with their whole heart. As a quote, uh this is Pettigrew has this in his article. He's he's uh uh quoting uh uh Gerhard uh von Rad. He says this. This is the salvation message of Jeremiah in one sentence. What is in view here is the new man is able to obey the law of God because of the miraculous change of his nature. That's it. We just need to keep that in view, and keep it in mind. Uh and and we looked at this last week, but th this is what uh was the old uh covenant saint not regenerated and the new covenant saint is? Homer can't respond to these and other uh uh types of questions similar questions like this. So what are you telling me that no one's saved? No, it's um This is Homer Kent. This does not mean that no Jew under the Mosaic Covenant had um excuse me. This does not mean that no Jew under the Mosaic covenant had a transformed heart. It's I hate it when be in other words, it's not like no Jew was saved, is what he's saying. What is being stated is that the new covenant itself would provide this for every participant. That's my underline. Such was not the case of the Mosaic Covenant. Even though it was obviously uh possible to know God and have a transformed heart during Old Testament times, the old covenant itself did not provide this. Many Jews lived under the provision of the Mosaic Covenant and still died in unbelief. The new covenant, however, guarantees regenerations to its beneficiaries That's why I underline participant. Okay? Every new covenant participant. So again, if we look at a circle, uh uh all people, like the you know, we're saying all of the people uh that came out of Egypt that were were uh listening to Moses and said, All that you have spoken and all that you have written, we will do. All the people were coming under that covenant. Right? But how those people are going to be saved, right? We saw that. And we see in Hebrews. Why did they die in the wilderness? Hebrews 3, end of chapter 3, because the unbelief. And then he goes in chapter 4, enter my rest. You know, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Right? That's what he says in three. Unbelief. It's it's again, and this is where we started this whole thing. Remember, it's always about belief. It's really grace by faith. It always was. Uh Genesis fifteen six. Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. He believed in the uh revelation, uh the information that God had given him. He believed he was who We said he revealed himself to Abraham. Forgiveness. The Lord will change the heart and mind of those uh of the new covenant. The covenant will also be God's provision for sin. The sins of the people will result in the curses of God, even the destruction and deportation for the land However, God will restore Israel, forgive their wickedness, remember their sins no more. On what basis can God overlook sins? God does not overlook sin nor neglect to repay. The penalty was paid by the substitutionary death of Christ on the cross. Isaiah 53, 4 through 6. Familiar passage, but I mean this remember, this is what the prophecy that that these Old Testament people had and this is late even. This is Isaiah's times. We're looking at uh round seven hundred BC, right? Let's just His ministry kind of went 700 even into early 600 BC Surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows he carried. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell upon him. And by his scourging we are healed All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him And again, I repeat this verse, but it is so critical. Luke 2220. And in the same way he took the cup after they had eaten, saying, This cup is poured out for you uh for you is the new covenant in my blood. And he's telling them up front, this is what it is. The forgiveness of sins is part of the new covenant Because God provided the substitute to pay for the penalty of sin. So that's kind of the nuts and bolts a little bit. Um let's see where we're at. Well we got some time. A lot of this, uh again, some of the subtleties of this, there's just no way of You know how God works, uh spirit works. Sometimes it just turns the light on and you go, Oh, I never saw that I just went by me. So uh th that's a critical aspect. Uh again, uh big picture is what we're trying to we're shooting for here. Um So the consummation of the relationship. The new covenant formula is I will be your God and you will be my people. The relationship is also expressed in the Mosaic and Davidic covenants, a comparison of excuse me. Deuteronomy 29, 10 through 13, Ezekiel 36, 22 through 28 will reveal the differences between these two covenants. So the Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 29, 10 through 13. And I uh your eyes can probably see this better than mine. Um uh but I I tried to put the the emphasis uh in a couple of places here, the the you may, he may You stand today, all of you, before the Lord your God, your chiefs, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel. Your little ones, your wives, and the aliens who is within your camp who is within your camps From the one who chops your wood to the one who draws your water, that you may enter into the covenant with the Lord your God, and into his oath which the Lord your God is making with you. you today. In order that he may establish today as his people And that he may be your God, just as he spoke to you, as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and Jacob. So kinda what I want to do was show you look at this. So it you can see how it it it uh w what I was trying to point out before, w there we're all they're all in this covenant, right? He just lists everybody there, even the aliens, the children, uh everybody Right? But uh look at the evidence uh uh inference here. Uh verse twelve, that you may enter into the Covenant with the Lord, your God, into his oath that your Lord your God is making with you today. In order that he may establish you today as his people, and he may be your God, just as he spoke to you and he swore to your father. It's subjunctive, isn't it? You may not Right? You all you have it's you have to look at both sides. It it's it's not a guaranteed thing. It's conditional, it's it's subjunctive. This is the old covenant. Look at the look at the uh Ezekiel. Compare Ezekiel 36, 22 to 28. And again, I I tried to get I I wanted to put the context out, but I think it's so Therefore say to the house of Israel, thus says the Lord God, it is not for your sake, O house of Israel. Israel, that I am about to act, but for my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations where you went, I will vindicate the holiness of my great name which you have profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God when I prove myself holy among you in their sight. For I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the lands and bring you into Your own land. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all filthiness and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will remove your the heart of stone, excuse me. Let me try that again. And I will remove the heart of stone From your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statute. And you will be careful to absorb uh observe my ordinances. You will live in the land that I gave to your forefathers, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. It it's a done deal. God is going to do this. Always it's always been that way. Again, it's it's a it's election. The reason I like the context here is because he says, look, therefore he says, Why are they in the land? Um or you know, uh what have they done? Uh They profane the Lord, right? He didn't do it for for them. He did it for his glory. So the Mosaic Covenant uh was dependent on conditional uh on uh conditional The Mosaic Covenant was dependent or conditional on the people keeping the statutes of God. Each individual may enter into a covenant. With God. God may establish them as His people and may be their God. The new covenant is totally dependent on God's sovereignty and his action. God will make them from the captivity, bring them into the land. He will clean them from all filthiness and idols. He will give them a new heart. uh put a new spirit inside of them. Yeah, he will uh God will put his spirit inside of them, cause them to walk in his statutes. They will be his people, he will be their God. It's I mean, it's just it's it's obvious to me. Uh y if the other's conditional, this is what God is going to do. Uh if we read it literally, you can see the covenant there He's going to do it with the people. Of course you could uh we could move forward and is he going to do it uh with Israel? Is the church going to become Israel? Uh We'll we'll consider some of that. Um but the blessing is to the nations. It's to uh excuse me, a blessing is to the nation, Israel It's to the people he's chosen. We share in that blessing, obviously. Uh and we share in the important part. Uh next week uh when I uh excuse me I haven't put it out there. I think I uh I'll either put it in an addendum or maybe I'll put it in in add it on to these notes. I I'll show you the difference uh to the blessings. Again, Pentecost Point out what happens in the millennial, what's the difference between Jews and Gentiles. Again, I think it's more evidence that we see that they're they're not the same. The millennial kingdom uh well let me stop there before uh I open up any other that uh we don't have a lot of time left. We've gone through a lot. Any thoughts, any questions? Um Anything on your mind? Any observations that you've made while you're looking through this? One thought I was going to share on just the fact that it's a new covenant is I remember one of the clearest experiences at time in Israel when we went in two thousand nine we had a day off on the Sabbath and so we decided to go back we were in Jerusalem we decided to go back to the probable site of the upper room. So we were there sitting outside there reading the scriptures and you could hear right around the corner of the synagogues and the men chanting. you know, in their worship service. Like here you are. We we're under the new covenant and they're right there. Still participating. really a keen contrast in the mind. I think reading these things is explaining to it is literal. You can't I don't know how you can read it without that it's not literal. I know. And how you know, I know Ephesians says that we're a new man, you know, one in Christ, but there is a plan for Israel. You can't you can't Oh I know. I know. A and and as you as you said, it's literal and how many times do we read Uh the sun, the moon, the stars, everything has to pass away if he's gonna turn his back on Israel. Uh And this covenant this the old covenant was made um Not because the children of Israel were so great and praiseworthy. It was just God's choice. And it talks about that in Paul's talk about that. about that. And the New Testament says because we're such a great nation. He it's because he chose us. And then it kind of goes right along with what it says in the New Testament during the New Covenant time that You're chosen the the weak and the foolish things of the world are chosen. Right. The weak and the foolish the same thing he does with Israel. They didn't earn it. They didn't earn his choice and they're not going to earn him Um promise keeping it is a millennium. It it's all because he chose And he chose amazing to me, 'cause he shows the weak and the foolish things. And that's exactly how I see it. Sure. Weak and foolish in his eyes, you know what I'm saying? And he Why don't you choose somebody smarter or freer or or more praiseworthy or you know, more wise, you know, but keep He chooses the weak and the foolish. So I'm so glad he did that. I'm glad that it stayed in Fruit. Right A and that's what we have to forget. Um have to forget. This th I this is what we do forget is that Uh Israel uh had all this covenant, had all these manifestations, had the the Word of God and and all these, but um It it it was the s it's the same as today. Just because they were that nation didn't mean They had salvation and that's that's the point. I think we confuse the thing. Oh, they were religious people, yes. They were this or that, but uh or a holy nation is what he calls them. But they they weren't really, they weren't saved. It was salvation's really the same even in i in it's by faith through grace. And that's the thing that we always need to keep in mind. Even if they had all these all these things, all these manifestations, it it doesn't do you any good without faith and without grace. And and it's a hard thing to comprehend. 'Cause we keep saying, you know, it's it's uh well it's just God does it all. It's losing yourself and just seeing God and everything. It's hard. I think we're we're getting there in aspect, but um and I'm gonna read uh I I stopped here but yeah exactly what you said. We're gonna look at the Deuteronomy passage, you know, where he says, I didn't choose you because you were great. But even here he says, therefore the house of Israel, thus says the Lord, it is not for your sake, O house of Israel. That I'm about to act, but for my holy name. They were representative. And I this is what I was thinking. We're we're ambassadors for Christ, right? Second Corinthians five twenty, right? We're ambassadors for Christ. We represent Christ. We're a kingdom, uh was Peter saying we're a holy We're a kingdom of priests. Um we're representatives now. And Uh so yeah, it's a big responsibility. It's a blessing and a big responsibility too. Uh we don't we don't represent ourselves really. We represent something bigger than ourselves. But he's not bringing them out of of even this captivity. Ezekiel uh is is this is probably b just before they're getting ready to go into captivity. activity he's saying I'm not gonna bring you out because of you. I'm gonna bring you out because of my name. It's for my glory. You are if you uh if we represent him well we glorify him It's his glory. Yeah. It's huge. And and again, uh like I said, if you uh uh Study this, you look at some of these books that I've I've referenced, uh uh Pentecost has a lot of scripture in there. We've only just done a little sampling. Yeah, over like Sue was saying, over and over again, and you keep saying the same thing. Should we just neglect all that? Uh we have it's got it's gotta be pretty delivered. I don't see how else we could look at it. Well, it's just about that time, a couple minutes early for a change. We'll finish up with this. Um think of uh I think there's not a lot more to present next week. I I maybe we'll we'll look at something if we have some time. Maybe we'll consider uh the mystery. We'll look at that briefly. What is the mystery? Uh the church was a mystery. It wasn't revealed. Um maybe we'll look at that uh uh Romans, he he definitely states in Romans uh nine, ten, eleven, but particularly chapter eleven. It There's a mystery. Israel's heart is hardened, but I'm going to, you know, uh where the where the wild branch that's grafted in, they're uh uh the natural branch, so we may look at that. And also I try and get the comparison of of the differences. uh what the Gentiles do in the Millennial Kingdom and we'll see that some of the differences that the Pentecost points out. I have a question um what you're saying about going what we'll do next week sounds like maybe it'll be answered next week. Um but I was listening to something on the book of Jeremiah uh early this week because that's where my sister and I are in our Bible reading plan. Um understanding the This new covenant and then um thinking about the Last Supper in Jesus' name, this is the new covenant. Um that's in my blood and time and the same thing But you and I were talking last week after class about how um processes uh um are clear in what they're saying if they can look at okay this is this is what's being said. Like it's not it's not like con confusing in what it's in what's being said, but maybe the time frame of when things are going to happen and how it's going to work out um aren't completely clear. Or um it may be that it refers to something that's happening now and then also refers to something that's happening later. Um so just thinking about the disciples and the early church, um, how in the in these passages, um God um putting his spirit in his people and having um the descendant of David ruling over the people sounds like it's at the same time. Whereas um in the last book where you have Jesus saying this new covenant Um and then the spirit is poured out on on the um the disciples said at Pentecost um and then the church um write it first is all Jewish until it it's it's the Gentiles, um, which is a mystery that you're referring to. Um but then shortly after that, um Jerusalem is completely destroyed and taken taken off the land and so I think wondering what what the early church would have been thinking as far as um all these things go together with with um passages like this where everything is kind of squashed up together um and it's hard to tell timeframes That's pretty. Yeah, and and you know, w what does he keep saying? They were they were even the disciples in Acts chapter one, is it now that you're gonna restore the kingdom? Right? And he says th not for you to know the times, you know. Yeah. And but the yeah, and w and that's the but that's God. God says it's not for you to know the times. We're to live is if he's Um it's it's it's his doctrine they call imminence. There's uh really nothing has to happen that that Christ could not come back. He could come back any moment. looking for the imminent return of Christ. Right. When they were taken off the land that you know the early church and and they were being persecuted. Right. They think that oh Christ is coming back. He's coming surely as coming sin because of the persecution But we don't know either we don't know it at times, like you say we don't know the times, right. But it could be an event Right. Exactly. Because we're supposed to live as if he's coming back now because we're saved and and and and I think that's the the big picture, the hard picture, and it's easy for me to as flippantly say, uh it's not our circumstances. Uh the trials uh or the tribulations or the sufferings of this time are not to be compared to, right uh because we're ultimately going to be with with the Christ in the Lord. And that's the whole point of eminence Uh if maybe if we knew the times, you know, we go, oh he's not coming back now. No, we need to live moment to moment like he's coming back. So and what will he see when he comes back? Will he see faith or will he see right? And that's I think that's God's plan with eminence and uh Not revealing the times to us. He might be delayed or delaying his coming, you know. And he talked about that it's because he's still a he's still a others he's going to say. But it's not really a delay to him. But we as human beings who live on a timetable, which God does not live on, um time doesn't T he's the one that made time for us. He he's outside of that. Um it's not it's not what's going on is not outside of his and saying this can be bad. Sure. Anytime. It's it's imminent. It should be imminent to us and it should and it is Yeah. The um I hate to s put myself in the school of theology that that I'm embracing the literal Those that uh you could call it progressism or call it dispensational. They say the time of the Gentiles is from uh the captivity. The time of the Gentiles is from the captivity. They never had a king again. They were always under some Gentile rule. Right? The fullness of the Gentiles we see until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in, which we'll see if we look at Romans. uh Romans eleven, the fullness of the Gentiles, like Debbie was alluding to, the number of people who will be saved, then all Israel will be saved That's a long period we're in. The time of the Gentiles is uh uh salvation uh d d uh So, you know, people say, Well, well, you know, not till you really didn't have the Gentiles come into any salvation, so to speak, till uh till Acts of Pentecost. So again, it it's it's uh Take it or leave it. You you you can uh look at it that way. But th as far as Israel was concerned It's the time of the Gentiles because they're not in control. They don't have their king. They don't have their temple forever. The glory of God is not there. All these the things we these uh facts we've been bringing up that the prophecy that's why it's a time of the Gentiles. Not so much for for salvation for the Gentiles. I'm sorry to interrupt. The time of the Gentiles, right? It's our if we know the Lord, it's our responsibility to be have to find Israel still. So they can still be saved. See, so there still are some Jewish people that are seen saved. It's always a remnant. I mean, you know, uh other than just the Jew Well sure, we got Ross, we got uh Dana here. Um do we have to Jewish voice difficult for them because they still were trying to live under that old covenant of the law, they're still trying the work thing, you know, but same thing with some of the Catholic folks. I mean, still always trying to work, you know. I that to me I think is such a great example. Uh you know, you see the Catholics and and that's the really they do have a religion. They do have a moral standard that's biblically based. Um but yeah you see that's works personified, so Think of this and other questions. We'll be finishing up uh trying to bring this to uh again, this is an overview. It's a it's uh it's So hate these are the primary scriptures of what we try to point out. Um there's certainly a lot that that repeat the same message over and over again. So Happy Friday