Last week we made some general observations about God's design for masculinity and femininity. And Today we're going to begin looking at some roles in marriage. We've alluded to some of these already earlier on, but we'll be a bit more specific today. And think through some of the implications. So the first is headship and submission in marriage. Um very uh very kind of central and and uh important area of of doctrine really and very application oriented and yet very misunderstood often and sometimes hard to apply. But Somewhat by way of review, let's look at God's design for headship and submission in marriage, going again back to Genesis chapter 2. And so from uh verse eighteen, for example, the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. This is now the sixth day in the creation week, right at the very end. I will make him a helper suitable for him. And so the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept, and God took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh at that place. And the Lord God fashioned into a woman the rib which he had taken from the man. And he brought her to the man. And the man said, This is now bone of my bone, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. And so I think as as we highlighted in our first week, several important things there. One is God created Eve to well created her differently from the way he created Adam Right? He created Adam from the ground. He could have created Eve from the ground, obviously, but he chose instead to create her from Adam And um even from his side Making it clear to Adam that this is now someone who is very different from the animals he had just seen and given names to Right? This is now very different. And in fact he recognized it. This is now bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. This is now someone who's made for me, like me, and um God made it clear to them both, and we see that recorded especially in chapter one, that they're both created in God's image. And together they reflect God's image. And yet there's this distinction. God says, I'll make him a helper suitable for him. So there's already some early discussion of roles, not very specific at this point. But there's a recognition that God's designed is that there would be roles and even um Although that they're completely equal before God, there's this distinction in in um accountability before God uh and distinction in that makes itself works out in terms of the headship of the man in the marriage and the submission of the wife to him as his helper furthering God's mission there. So then we get to Ephesians 5, where it says, Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. Then it says, husbands, love your wives, just as As Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her. Having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. Nevertheless Each individual among you is to love his own wife, even as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband. And kind of a parallel passage there in Colossians three Wives, be subject to your husbands as is fitting to the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be embittered against them. Maybe I'll just keep reading here and then we can talk about this a little bit Uh 1 Peter 3 speaks very similarly both to the husbands and to the wives. In the same way, wives, be submissive to your own husbands, so that even if any of them are disobedient to the word They may be won without a word by the behavior of their wives, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. Your adornment must not be merely external, braiding the hair and wearing gold jewelry, putting on dresses. Not that those things are wrong, but he says, don't let that be the full extent of your adornment, but let it be the hidden part, the hidden person of the heart. with the imperishable quality of this gentle and quiet spirit, which is precious in the sight of God. For in this way, in the former times, the holy women also, who hoped in God, used to adorn themselves, being submissive to their own husbands, just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord And you have become her children if you do what is right, without being frightened by any fear. Then it says, You husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way as with someone weaker since she is a woman, and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered. And I think we mentioned um was it last week or a couple of weeks ago that this this where he says someone who is weaker, it's speaking primarily of her um Um physical, right? Men have more upper body strength and they're given by God the task to to uh do the the manual labor that will provide for the family. Um women are um uh different in that sense. But it's not just a a physical thing. There's also that that word for weaker I think carries the connotation of um Vulnerable. What uh vulnerable is a word I used last week, I guess. Uh fragile is another one. Not in uh not in a physical sense, not in a uh um emotional sense, but in a in a um something to be protected. And so it gets back to the vulnerability a little bit. You mentioned that because women they will be pregnant, they have to take care of the children. So that puts them in a very um vulnerable position. Vulnerable position speed Yeah, yeah. And as he says here, uh show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life. So there there's there's an equality here in terms of the standing before God But there are different roles. Um and neither of those roles, you know, if you go back to Ephesians five Is easy, particularly in the context of our sin. Right? So it says, um The wives have to submit to their own husbands as to the Lord. The husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church. And so the example here is one example anyway is of the relationship between Christ and his church, Christ and his bride, right? And the example to the husbands is to love their wives as Christ loved the church. That's his whole order, right? Um but it's to be done in his power, strength, and wisdom. Anyway, and dependence on him, but still it's it's a tall order. Um but in the same way It says, as Christ also is head of the church. So as the church submits to its head, Christ, so the wife is to be submitted to her husband Um neither one of those is easy, but God designed it so that when when they are working in harmony by God's design, it brings Um fulfillment to each. Um it it helps to together to glorify God and put on display his design and that's all that's all good. But it does take work. Um that was his design even before sin was introduced. But what does sin do? It just makes it harder. Right. Um Okay. So any questions so far? A lot of that's review, but that's all the hard Yeah. Well, it's all hard, but it's all good. Very special. You know, it's interesting. Before Eve was created, God's after every day, Genesis one says he created this It was good. He created that. God said it was good. After every day, God said it was good. He gets he he makes Adam and he says it's not good. Not that Adam isn't good. But that he's not done yet. Right? He creates Eve and now he says it's very good. Not just her, but the totality of what he has created is now complete. And she's sort of the the the pinnacle of that. that it it all comes to culmination and it's all now balanced and out how he created things and um even before sin There were roles, as we were seeing here, there were roles that she was to be his helper. And God held him accountable for their sin. Right? Yeah. So that's a good question. What's the difference between is there a difference between submitting to your husband and obeying him? Right? Well Um there's a lot of overlap, but they're not exactly the same. Now, 1 Peter 3, we just read, uses both of them in the example. Wives be submissive to your own husbands. And the example he gives is Sarah. Who he says here, being submissive to their own husbands, just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you have become her children. if you do what is right without being frightened by any fear. So there is an element of obedience, but it's not the obedience of A child to his parents, where we read in Ephesians 6, children, obey your parents. in the Lord. Now it's the same word, but it's a different context. Children um have No authority. They they need to obey their parents. In fact, that's the only command given to children in all of Scripture. Obey your parents. Right? In the submission of a wife to her husband, the example in Ephesians six is Alright, Ephesians five is the example of Christ in the church. Now is the cr is the church to obey Christ as part of its submission to him? You bet, right? There is an element of submission there. Um and so that's a picture, but um The wife also has responsibility in the marriage to um Be a helper to and w which can involve being an advisor uh giving her husband the benefit of her experience, insight, wisdom, right? Because they are um They are one, they are partners, they are in this together, even in the context of him being the head and her being submitted to him Um she is still um she still has even a responsibility to offer her Counsel for best advice, her uh suggestions, her um in many ways they would both recognize she has greater uh ability in certain areas that she needs to help him by exercising those abilities well for them as a couple, right All those sort of dynamics are different from the church submitting to Christ. And they're because The man and the woman are both reflecting God's image, but God's created them in that relationship to have different roles. And so her role is not to dictate how things are going to be, because he's the head, but she is to advise him lovingly and submissively Drawing from her experience, her wisdom, her insights, whatever it might be. But because she's to be the helper and he's the head The final decision is his. She has a responsibility to offer the best counsel she can provide in a loving, submissive way But she also needs to be willing for him to make the decision and not to hold it against him if he chooses to do something that that maybe is a little different from what she had advised. Because who is he accountable to? He's accountable directly to God for that decision. God doesn't hold the wife accountable for that decision. He's holding her accountable for for advising him well, uh but it's really his decision to make. Now sometimes they will choose to make decisions jointly, particularly the um non moral decisions like what color do you want to paint that room? Or where do you want to go on vacation? Right? Those are just joint decisions. It's a family decision. And they the children may even have some input, but they don't have final say. Right? Um but when it comes to our accountability to God for something, moral areas, and the direction the family's going, um The husband needs to recognize that he the buck stops with him. He needs to make the final decision, taking into account as much information as he can including and especially from his wife. Um and God would hold her accountable only for the the per her appropriate participation in that decision making process and her um submission to him in whatever he her husband ends up deciding. you know, when we use the words submission and obey, it's just so twisted in the worldly sense that you know, it's really hard to kinda kind of verbalize but you really have to see it in the context of seeing it um with humility, right? Right. It's just like um our humility allows us to submit And obey, you know, give give us the action to be able to obey. And that's totally in the context of how God designed you know, the husband and wife. And I feel like, you know, that uh picture in if um in Philippians where, you know, Christ humbled himself to obey God fully so that God can raise him up to sit at the right hand. You know, and it's that same picture in husband and wife. Not so that the husband can with authority and power rule over the wife, but you know, in in a common goal to glorify God the wife must humble herself to be able to submit so that the husband can protect and you know, I mean also lift her up, right? And so I I I feel like we just always have to remind ourselves that this isn't a context of how God designed it, so that one has power over the other, but that together we can glorify it with our different roles. Yeah, it does come down to um God given authority and design. Um And you know that word to submit in submission in the Greek is hupotaso, to come under the authority of someone. And It's the same word used for our submitting and being commanded to submit to the governing authorities. same exact word, same concept. Um does that include obeying? You bet Is it without limit? No. Because if that governing authority commands us to do something that would be sinful Then God has given us the responsibility to obey Him first, not a government or anybody else who is exercising authority over us. um asking us to do something simple. Either to do or to not do, which would be simple. Just my perspective that, you know, in theory sounds great. Um but if you don't have a God fearing spouse, yes, husband and a wife, even though they say they are Christians You're just not yoked correctly. Right. And so it's really, really hard, and so therefore you have so much divorces, separations, and stuff like that. how uh God has uh created the things differently. And uh through that he shows his expression of love and the things when things are in order. And um and that's an expression of himself through us being all different as we are. They were just angels. But then he created man and they all female. That's right. I want to ask where do we draw the line between Solvishan in the sense that I know ultimately it has to do with the heart and the motive, but I remember the story where David was asking, I can't remember the name of the story. those people. Um and the wife was like, oh sorry, my husband is very foolish. Please take this bread, take this this you know, so the husband has made the ultimate decision, no we're not doing this and she saw that this will present kill the whole family. And she went behind him and did the right thing to save her whole family. To me it's disobedience and it's no disobey. But it saves our whole family. So where do we draw the line? I know the motive was I need to save my people. But sometimes women are in the position of okay, I don't want to be non-submissive or to be disobedient. and then she goes with what her husband says and then the finances crashes, the family goes into tenory and those things that line between I I wouldn't that's an excellent question. I I wouldn't derive my whole Thinking about wives submitting to their husbands and drawing that line from that one little scenario. I would think about the entire teaching of Scripture And would say there's a lot of parallel here with what I mentioned before about our submission to the governing authorities. And the key question is, I mean the default is we obey. We're commanded to obey. We're commanded to pray for them, right? Um but if they're asking us to do or to not do something, which in doing it or not doing it we would be sinning, it's not just a preference thing, but it's actually in conflict with God's revealed word. Then we need to be prepared to resist and disobey, but before we even do that I think scripture makes it pretty clear that the first thing we should do is appeal humbly. Appeal with information, appeal with um not an axe to grind, but with with um sort of a biblical perspective on it. There's no guarantees that's gonna change the the the request, the rule, the law, or whatever. But I think it is important for us to appeal. And that's that's important even for a wife. Who is under authority, to appeal in a humble way, not a belligerent way. And to follow that example with the governing authorities, if if we appeal in a humble, informative kind of way. um and in much prayer. We need to be prepared that if the answer is not change, it's no. We need to be prepared to disobey and to suffer the consequences of that disobedience. Um So a lot of it has to do with the heart. Uh if we do the right thing for the wrong reasons, it's Not necessarily gonna turn out right? We need to do the right thing for the right reasons in the right way. Yeah, so so the ideal is that When um a man and a woman marry, they're already both Christians, not only just Christians, but they have the same mindset of pleasing God in that marriage, serving the their spouse, not themselves, uh committed um Forever, right? All of that is present, but that's often not the case. Often it's the case where where uh One becomes a Christian. They get married before they're Christians. One becomes a Christian and the other doesn't. And Peter, in fact, was addressing that. In 1 Peter 3, where he said, Wives be submissive to your own husbands, so that even if any of them are disobedient to the word, they may be one without a word by the behavior of their wives As they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. There's no guarantee that that's going to change his heart, but that's the role God has put her in in that situation. to be a testimony and and so on. But yes, clearly the ideal is both the husband and the wife are on the same page They have a right relationship with God and they're they're in the marriage to serve each other as a way of serving God. Um That doesn't make it a piece of cake. There's still two individual people that are both sinners and it takes work, right, to to make that work. But That that would be the ideal. They're already much closer to what God had designed. God had designed it without sin being in the picture, right? But they're already pursuing um what God had designed. And so that's but God can build that even from two who are not even Christians yet. They're married. God can build that over time. It takes work, it takes submission to the Lord, it takes cooperation and much prayer and hard work, but God can do that So it's not like all hope is lost. I mean most of us came to Christ long after we would have preferred, right? Um God is in the business of redeeming people. Um can you speak on even yoke? Could you explain it to us? Yeah, yeah. I don't have that passage here, but but Paul um makes it clear a general principle is not to be unequally yoked um in any It's not just marriage. It's applied most often to marriage. Business to yeah. Um if if you have sort of a a ongoing even legal um relationship with somebody else like a a business partner or a a spouse uh where where um Your reputation, your success, your testimony are all affected by what this other person also is doing. Paul's command, not just suggestion, is to not be yoked, that is, to be in a partnership with them If and the picture here is like a team of oxen, where you have this wooden yoke that joins the two side-by-side oxes Is that right? Ox in. Um so they can be controlled by the farmer behind them. to you know, plow the field or whatever, and they're working together as a team, the the two oxen. Um and the yoke keeps them together. They can't just one wander off and and this kind of thing. They're together as a team. And the the picture is not to be yoked with with a partner in a sense who is Not going to balance out that teamwork. So if one of them is an ox and the other is Um a collie, that's not going to work too well. Different sizes, different temperaments, whatever. It was an extreme example. It's the first thing that came to my mind. In the case of our relationships and our partnerships with other people His point here is not just a practical physical equality between the two partners. But um that they're both on the same page with regard to pleasing God. So if one person in this partnership, whether it's marriage or business partnership or or whatever, one person is a Christian and they're going to be making decisions in light of you know, how this is consistent with scripture, how I can be pleasing God. And the other person is not a believer, and not only that is sort of going the opposite direction of pleasing God. Now there's some unbelievers who could be okay in that in that understanding as long as it's uh known and it's oh okay, I'm I I want to do things right and and honorable and and law abiding. And so there can be some partnership there if there's enough of the essentials that are like-minded. But if you've got two people who really have different agendas, different, going different directions for different reasons, one is all selfish and the other is selfless. uh trying to be God honoring, that's usually not going to work well as a partnership. Right? So they would be unequally yoked. Um the wife can say I'm a I'm a believer, or the husband say I'm a believer. And you go to church and you can you know claim scripture and have tons of scripture memorized. But where's your heart? So it's like with submission for instance. If you don't believe in submission, but you know that it's right, because God Says it, if you are not bought into submission, then you are not going to submit well. And on the flip side, that we don't talk a lot about is the leadership side of the husband. We don't talk a lot about that because I think it's assumed that it's fairly easy and it's not. And if you're not bought into what Jesus is for the man, then you're not going to be a good leader. You know scripturally what God says, but you're not bought into it. Right. And that's what the difference is. So so we get in these you know, these marriage classes and so forth and and we struggle. We struggle. We and then we go home and we struggle because we're not bought into it. It's like, well, I don't want to submit really, so I'm gonna I'm going to ask ten thousand questions about submission until I get it. But the heart is not towards submission. But the man, for women, the the oftentimes the man you go home to, he's not bought into biblical leadership. Right. Um so for instance, you know, scripture tells the husband to not be bitter against his wife. So that means that every time that I start to drift towards bitterness, I need to check myself. I need to not blame my wife. I need to say to myself, what do I need to do Scripturally. How do I need to be more like Christ? So I could be, it could be imbalanced. It could be that my wife irritates me No, like she's way down here like there's ten things that she does that I'm just angry about, you know. Why doesn't she just get it? You know, but God tells me, don't be bitter. And look in the mirror, right? Right, exactly. Lead her gently as Christ does. Christ does not yell at me. I mess it up. Repeatedly. The same thing over and over again. And he has no intention of throwing me into hell because it's already saved. So why should I throw my wife into hell? You know and and and disrespect her and treat her but you see if you start to go through all that then then you can see that the leadership side is no easier than the submission side. Right. They're both are particularly because well entirely because of sin. Right, right. Exactly. And and so but the the the quest the thing is so where are our hearts See, I have to do my part regardless of what my wife does. My wife has to do her part regardless of what I'm doing. Right. And and so God's gonna cause uh gonna call each of us to account for our role. Right. Um we can be helpful in helping the other to reach uh to perform their role well, but we're not accountable for our spouse. Um They're gonna answer to God for their their own carrying out of their role. Um But yeah. Usually the problem is we need to look in the mirror. Right. In addition to that. You uh when a husband looks at his wife, he needs to remember that uh she's not just different as a female, she's just different as a person. Each one of us was raised in a different home, different personalities and and different ways we were were raised. That's all impact. Yeah, um we haven't touched on that, but that's an interesting point. That um It's highly likely that both spouses come to the marriage with some baggage. Now some of that baggage is probably going to be very helpful and some of it probably not so helpful. And if each of them is thinking, is kind of blind to what this baggage is, whether it's good or bad. If each of them is blind to it and they're expecting that's the way it's going to be in their marriage and their family without recognizing um the good from the bad and the baggage they're bringing into the marriage, they're gonna s probably have some conflict because they have unmet expectations about what things are going to be. But the reality is, almost always both of them come with some good baggage. Which if if recognized and and both can benefit from the other, uh and there's the potential for their marriage to take great advantage of the good baggage, if you will, that they're bringing into it each of them, and avoiding the bad that both of them would have brought in had they not been alert to it So their marriage is better than even the ones they observed growing up. On top of that It's true of all relationships, but particularly true in marriage that um God wants that relationship to be sanctifying. Now he said it very specifically for the husbands to be sanctifying their wives or at least instrumental in helping them to grow, right? But it's also true that the wives i in the manner of their submission and their their partnership and their cooperation, all that insight that they bring can bring accountability to their husband as well to uh help him to see um Some of the weaknesses maybe of his his thinking point out to him in a loving way that, you know, that wasn't very kind, was it the way you treated that person. Um she in a very humble, submissive way, can still nonetheless be an instrument of the Holy Spirit to work on his heart. And the same is true with the husband and with the wife. I mean it it's it's intended that we Th the more each of us is growing closer to Christ, we're growing closer to each other. And the more the closer we come to each other, the more we're getting closer to Christ. So it's meant to be sanctifying. And I don't know if you thought about it, but those kids come along and and you're gonna realize they're gonna hold you accountable too. Right. Not in a formal sense, but you're gonna realize that they're they're copying your bad stuff, not the good stuff. And y you know, that's that's on you. And um when it comes to their needs and uh your responsibility to to help them Come to know the Lord and so on. It causes you to need to get your act together So they have a good example to follow. So all those relationships ought to be sanctified. And um they can be. It just takes our cooperation with God, what he's doing, and the Holy Spirit of course. Um but yeah it's not easy. But even in our own sanctification the Lord puts us through what? Trials, tests. Um uh Because he hates us? No, because we need it. He loves us. Right? So it's hard because of sin, but God is in the business of um Sanctifying people out of that sin and getting closer and closer to Not only Christ, but God's design in this case, God's design for our relationships, particularly in marriage. Um you see what the world's missing when they assume that men and women are interchangeable? Um It's just so foreign to God's design, God's nature, even. Um Anyway, I think we've touched on some of these things, but on page 20 we make the transition to some practical implications. of headship and submission in marriage. And so first of all, while the husband should seek and value his wife's advice and insight, the ultimate responsibility for decisions in the family rests with him. He's the head by God's Choice, God's design. If the husband doesn't follow the humble advice and even appeals of his wife, she doesn't rip bear the responsibility before God for any errors that her husband makes. She would be responsible if she had some wisdom, she had some truth, she had some advice, some experience that she doesn't offer in a humble way. God would hold her accountable for that. So she fulfills her responsibility by submitting to his leadership and all of that And I didn't mention it earlier, but a loving wife will also refrain from sarcastically saying, I told you so. That's tempting, isn't it? I know that's tempting. Um for both the husband and the wife. Hopefully uh he will be learning anyway, and he'll learn all the more fast if she knows he knows that she was right. Maybe he'll listen more the next time, right? Uh number three, husbands are wise to delegate even major areas of household household management to their wives depending on their relative strengths and weaknesses. So the um Well, uh go ahead and read it. It doesn't um undermine his headship as long as he assumes the ultimate responsibility and they communicate regularly about their agreed-upon division of labor. So, for example, um finances is often a topic of conflict and incompatibility and whatever in a family. And it may be that that One of the spouses is more familiar with, adept with, skilled at handling finances and making financial decisions. Even if that's the wife and she handles a lot of the the the management of the finances, the cash flow, and keeping track, uh making sure they're on budget The husband needs to assume responsibility for that over her as she does it so that they they're on the same page about their budget and how they're going to get from here to there in their financial decisions. He can delegate and just uh be grateful for her skill in that area. But that doesn't mean that um That's not under his headship. It is under his headship. And they need to work out together what it means for her to handle the day-to-day and the practical and and and uh understanding a lot of uh the details while he still assumes ultimate responsibility for the decisions of finance financial decisions they make, particularly the big ones. And setting the budget and and that kind of thing. It's like the virtual suit in uh Proverbs. Yeah, Proverbs thirty one. tragic situation is where the husband doesn't let the wife know what's going on with their finances. I know a couple he died and they didn't have his past password to his computer and everything was just in confusion. They're still in confusion now about you know what he did and what was going on. Right. It's all important to communicate. Right. Definitely Uh where we at here? Four. Headship involves not just authority and responsibility, but also leadership. The husband is to lead his family by his example, by his teaching, by his prayers, and by pursuing godly goals. We often refer to this as servant leadership, which seems like a contradiction in terms. If you're but what did Jesus say? He who would be greatest among you should be what? A servant of all. Yeah. And Our example, of course, is Christ. He's our head, but he's also our primary example of servant leadership, even to the point of sacrificing himself for the benefit of the church. Number five, although wives are to submit to the loving headship of their husbands, they share with their husbands the responsibility for nurturing and training their children. Children are to obey their parents equally. Um and you s You often see parallel passages like in in Proverbs where children are are uh too follow the teaching and wisdom of their mother and their father. Um it's a co process. But even there, again the father is the head of the family and if there's a decision to be made about how the children are to be trained or for them Ultimately he needs to make that decision with wise input from his wife. So just some practical implications there. And that chart here in the middle of page twenty I think it's helpful. Like last week where we talked about the various traits that are associated with masculinity and femininity. They're also, and the ideal is is not at the extremes of those traits, but rather the positive qualities of those areas. The biblical ideal for the husband is that he's exercising loving, humble headship, servant leadership Uh but some husbands are passive in the way they approach their role. And um Wayne Grudem in this book I cite here says you can call that guy a wimp. He's not stepping up to the plate, as it were. He's not fulfilling his role as a loving leader. The other extreme is where he's got a very perverse definition of what that leadership role is, and he becomes a tyrant. Right, it's it's a um autocratic approach to leadership. It's my way or the highway which is which springs from what in the heart. Pride, right? Um selfishness. And that's way off the rails. But you can see it going both ways. One extreme would be he's a wimp in this leadership role, and the other extreme is he's a tyrant. When what's really needed is a Christ-like loving leader by example and exercising authority in humility. Well the wife is called to joyful, intelligent submission as to the Lord. And likewise, she can be at one or the other extremes. If she were passive, she would end up being what Grudom calls a doormat. Just walked on. Just um um used, maybe, right? On the other hand, she may want to take control and be a usurper. You know that the word usurp means to Take um take control over something that isn't yours to have. Um and We saw that actually from lesson one in Genesis three sixteen on page seven. Uh let me just review that here. On the bottom of page seven, God um In his sentence to Eve after they sinned, he said in right in the middle of page seven Genesis 3:16. To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain you will bring forth children, yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. And If we're just kind of glossing over that, we think that that word desire is sort of quaint. Your desire will be for your husband. And he will rule over you. It doesn't really make sense until you realize that that passage is very parallel in structure to Genesis 4. 7, the very next chapter. Where God is instructing Cain to be careful, watch his heart. It says, if you do well, will not your counsel be lift countenance be lifted up? But if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, but you must master it. So is that a good thing or a bad thing? The desire for you. That's a bad thing. Sin is crouching at the door trying to trip you up. It's trying to control you. But you must master it. In other words, don't let that trip you up. Well that was a warning that Cain didn't exactly follow, right? But it's the exact same structure. You see on the bottom of page seven there. Two different contexts, but using the exact same structure in the Hebrew. Um and that word desire in both of those passages Is a desire to control. And if the wife has a desire to control, and it's the the the uh seed for that was in her listening to um Satan about not ab about eating the the forbidden fruit. Um uh Uh that's going to bring conflict into the marriage, but in his in God's uh sentence really to um to Eve, he says, your desire will be for your husband, and that word for is better translated as Grudham says here, um it's as the sense of against, not for the benefit of. Just like in Genesis 4. 7. But it's God said, He will rule over you. So you may attempt to control him, but he will rule over you. And what's that bring? It brings conflict into the marriage. And so back here on page twenty, if the wife is a usurper trying to take control. Um out of could be any motives, then she's directly conflicting with God's design and uh for her for her role, for his role, and that's a problem. So the table on the bottom of page twenty just looks at the various possibilities. What if The husband is a tyrant and the wife is a usurper wanting to control. Man, they're gonna have big conflict. Right Um what if the husband is a tyrant and the wife is uh doormat use. It could very easily uh end up in abuse, whether physical or any kind of abuse. Absolutely. Yeah. So for that um that one that went right ahead. Um Can you maybe blush that one out a bit more? Um I I I was just thinking when there is piracy in the home that kids oftentimes breed, you know, uh sort of doormat complacency into the event. It could breed either extreme. Really, it could breed d depending on where she's at, it could breed either extreme in her, either kind of just giving up and being a doormat. Or fighting back and trying to take on responsibility and control that isn't inherently for her to take, either one of those would be an unhelpful Response. Right, no, no, it's just if if the husband is a doormat and or absolutely if the husband is a is a tyrant and she is a doormat, if both of them are at one of those extremes, you can expect this kind of thing. What's ideal, and it's not even covered here, is let's say if the husband is a tyrant and the wife is in the middle in the biblical ideal. How does that look? It's going to be hard. The wife is to still display joyful, intelligent submission, characterized by appeal. Counsel from others, patience, um God's grace, whatever. That's uh maybe uh in in another version of this, I'm just repeating what what Grutum had in his book, but I think it's a better thing to also include all those pop possibilities where the wife is where she needs to be, but the husband is at one of the extremes. Or the husband's where he needs to be, but the wife is at one of the extremes. All those possibilities would be yeah, I should add that. In fact I'm gonna make a note. Third one. So if the husband is a wimp, he's not stepping up to the plate, he's just watching sports on TV all the time. If she lets him. If she lets him. And she's yeah. So she's a usurper, so she doesn't let him. She's got this long list of things that he's gonna do, right? Um So the observation some people have made is that a lot of times at least um For boys, a lot of the times what leads them into the thought of same-sex attraction, homosexuality, is they've got a father who's a wimp. And a mother who's acting like a father. And it's not always the case, but um when you get that kind of dysfunctionality in the home It can breed all sorts of problems. That's the point. So she can be a tyrant and he can be a goal man. Um the the husband and the wife. Yeah the the wife can be a tyrant and uh and the husband can be a dormant. Essentially. Yeah. Yeah, although you know it's A WIMP and a doormat that's basically it's a WIMP is is saying you're not stepping up to the plate to fulfill your role. A doormat is you someone's walking all over you and Um yeah, they're very similar. Um I do. Yeah. Um You know and the kids in front of it, yeah. Oh yeah, oh definitely. Definitely. Yeah, I know what you mean. Um Pray for opportunity to provide testimony from scripture Um if you have the ability to provide testimony from your own experience, your own family sometimes. Um That can you know the the advice that Peter gave to believing wives who have unbelieving husbands is to Be a good example and uh speak the truth in love, demonstrate the truth in your actions. And it's no guarantee that God's going to open the heart of her unbelieving husband, but um sometimes we can have that kind of role with extended family members as well. But If their heart's not right, they may not be ready for it. Only God can work on that heart. Yeah. Yeah, I think even as believers, like when you see um you know when you see better examples I mean you you know you gravitate towards that. Well what is it you know what is it that they have Like you know, and I mean missionary friends who also, you know, the the um especially like in the Middle East or something like that. I mean where their love for one another and the husband just doing things for the wife is just so out of the ordinary that it causes them to wonder. What makes you tick. Yes, yes. Yeah, for sure. Well, we don't have a a lot of time to delve into the details here, but I want to call your attention on page twenty one. We're still talking about roles in the family. The husband was designed to have primary responsibility for providing for the family and for protecting the family. We introduced those a little bit, I think, in our first lesson. And then on page 22, the wife was designed to have primary responsibility for bearing and nurturing children. And for caring for the home, providing a a context in which the um the family can prosper Um okay. I can let you read uh the rest of this, but good discussion. Next week, we're going to answer some common objections. that uh purported evangelicals have about this um this whole headship and submission thing. So anyway, we'll talk about that next week. Let's pray