All right, very good. Well let me pray and we'll dive in. Heavenly Father, thank you for this day. Thank you for the grace that you give us every day. the privilege and joy that it's ours to gather with the saints today to grow in the knowledge of Christ and in the grace of Christ, to fellowship with one another, to praise and worship. Lord, there's so much that's going to happen today that if our ears are attentive, if our hearts are open, we would not be the same when we leave today than when we came. I know that we all come from different um experiences this week, different challenges, um different heartaches, uh different blessings and joys. Uh help us to Look at all of those things that are fresh on our mind and look at them through the lens of your word and give praise to you and trust in you and respond to them in a way that's pleasing to you. Lord, as we talk about confession today, help us to consider wisely how we can be thoughtful and humble and pursue unity through humble confession. So give us wisdom in these things we ask. In Christ's name. Amen. Okay, so uh quick review of the four G's. Uh what's the G number one? Do you all remember? Glorify God. G number two. Get the log out of your eye. That was the main theme of last week and and this week. G number three. Gently restore, so that refers to confrontation, lovingly uh addressing the sins that we uh see in the other person. And then the final Gonze go and be reconciled. We'll talk about forgiveness uh in that section and how do you live a reconciled life. So last week Pastor Christopher uh began the section on getting a log out of your own eye, and he talked about different Questions you can ask to examine yourself if you have contributed to a conflict, which typically when there is a conflict, we have had some kind of contribution to that And uh w we tend to be self-defensive, right? We tend to think the best about ourselves and and so we struggle to uh assess how we may have contributed, but uh with Um the spirit working in us, uh he can help us to look at the log in our own eye and to consider how have I contributed to this conflict. Even if I didn't start it, how have I responded to it in a way that's pleasing? or or in a way that's displeasing to the Lord and thus uh can take responsibility for uh for my part. So he worked through a number of questions of uh self-examination, both looking at our actions, our words, our thoughts, our motives Right, 'cause it's not just what's on the outside, it's not just what we've said that contributes to a conflict, it's what's in the heart that has given rise to uh our words and our actions that we want to be mindful of and especially if if we want to grow and change, it's not just about changing the outward behavior, it's about changing the heart. Uh how can I re-orient my desires, how can I re-orient my life around pleasing the Lord? And so when we do that, we will be in a better position to actually change in a way that reflects Christlikeness. So that was the the thrust of last last week's lesson. And then the ending of it was recognizing that when we see the sin in our own life, the the first place we need to go with Confession is where? To the Lord. Right? And we we see in Scripture, you know, one of the prime examples is Psalm 51 where David, though he has violated Bathsheba, though he has murdered Uriah, though he's s sinned against his servants who were aware of all of that and and in some way uh had to play a part in it. You know, somebody had to go get Bathsheba for David at his instructions. Uh he had to send instructions to his commander to basically put Uriah in a position where he would be killed. So He participated uh or he involved others in his sin. He sinned against others. But when he confesses his sin in Psalm 51, he says, Against you and you only have I sinned And that's a right thing to say because when we sin in any way, it's God's law that we're violating. Yes, we sin toward others, our sin impacts others, but ultimately it's against God that we sin. And so that that's a right thing to acknowledge, and therefore God is the one that we should go to. Psalm 55, sorry, not Psalm Isaiah 55 Verses six and seven say this, Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord that he may have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. Now obviously as believers we know that our sin has been forgiven, right? Christ has paid fully for our sin at the cross. There's nothing left for us to pay, so that when we sin against God, it's not like, oh, I've lost my salvation and you know now I need to get that back by confessing my sins of the Lord and seeking So our salvation is secure, our forgiveness is accomplished by Christ. Why should we seek forgiveness from the Lord? If if that's true, if God has already forgiven us, why should we confess our sin to the Lord and seek forgiveness from Him? Yes, that's right. But again, he's already forgiven us at the cross, right? that we confess your sins and kill us, but to cleanse us from all the righteousness. Okay. You want we don't want to have this unrighteous stead in our lives. Hinder us from having our folks. Okay. So there's a cleansing effect, is what you're saying? Okay. Any other thoughts? Humble yourself and I think that you Yeah, to act the humility to recognize your sin. Uh absolutely. Good. Uh was there something else? It it it um it actually creates a barrier. Like what I think about parent and child, even though you always love your child, if they do something against you then there's a Yeah, yeah, there's a strain in the relationship. There's a barrier, there's a break, however you want to call it. Uh but something has happened to the relationship. The the relationship in its in and of itself is secure Right, you use the example of a parent-child relationship, but there's still a a tear there. And uh confessing our sin to God, seeking his forgiveness, is really seeking to restore and repair uh that terror. Um so yeah, all of those those are are are good thoughts. You know uh Peter said in 1 Peter 3 seven that husbands are to live with their wives in an understanding way. Uh and one of the things he says is so that your prayers will not be hindered. In other words, if a husband is living in a way that dishonors the Lord toward his wife, if he's uh sinning against his wife, he's not loving his wife as Christ loved the church. Uh and yet there's other areas of his life where he's being faithful. He's serving the church, maybe he's a teacher, maybe he's a pastor, uh, you know, whatever way he might be serving the Lord faithfully. Uh but this area of unfaithfulness is there. The Lord says, uh you cannot expect that I'm going to listen to your prayers over here if you're dishonoring me over here. And in the context of the marriage relationship, one of the reasons for that is because our marriage relationship is one of the primary responsibilities that we have given by the Lord to uh honor him and to reflect the likeness of Christ. And so if we're not uh honoring the Lord in that primary relationship, then all the secondary areas of service, uh the Lord says you need to uh deprioritize those things. You need to Set those aside before and get right with your wife and honor the Lord in that. So the Lord values the relationship that we have with Him. And he desires us to acknowledge and confess our sin. And what's beautiful about this passage here in Isaiah fifty five is that it when he says, Let the righteous man uh forsake his way, let the Uh wicked man forsake his thoughts and return to the Lord, he says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. Now sometimes you hear that those two verses kind of plucked out of there and used in the sense of Well I don't know what's going on in my life. I don't know why I'm having these trials in my life, but hey, you know, God's ways are higher than my ways, his thoughts are are higher than my so Yeah, I'm just gonna trust the Lord. That's a legitimate thing to acknowledge, you know, that God is wise beyond our comprehension, and so we don't need to have all the answers. We can just trust that in the wisdom of God He's allowed providentially challenges to come into our life. But I don't think that's what that those verses are saying in this context. I think what they're saying is the reason that a righteous per or uh a wicked person uh Someone who has sinned against the Lord, the reason they should go to the Lord is because unlike us in our natural sinful state, the Lord is a forgiving God. The Lord forgives those who come to Him Whereas we would hesitate, we would want to punish, we would want to exact revenge, uh, and even when somebody confesses our sin, again, in our natural sinful condition Apart from the grace of God at work in our lives, our natural tendency is to want to hold over somebody the sins that they've committed. And the Lord says I'm not like that. If you come to me and you confess your sin, you acknowledge your unrighteousness, I will forgive you because I am not like you Uh my my ways are higher than your ways. So all of that to say that we need to go to God when we confess our sins. And um you know in the multitude circumstances of life, the the sins that we commit, the conflicts that we're involved in, you know, our natural tendency is just to resolve those things and and try and work through those challenges between ourselves and the other person But it's important for us again to remember that when we sin, when we have spoken in an unkind way, when we have acted in an unloving way. that not only do we need to confess our sin to the other person, but we need to first and foremost confess our sin to God. Now, one of the challenges though is sometimes we kind of examine ourselves, we maybe go through the full process of asking ourselves the questions that Christopher walked through last week, and we're still not quite sure how we have contributed to the conflict. We're not sure, I realize I'm just We're not sure how uh w what exactly I've done, what exactly I've said that has offended uh this other person. Maybe we have some sense of it, but not we realize uh there's probably more here than I'm aware of and and have been able to come up with. What do you do? Well one thing you can do is ask other people You can ask other people. It says here, last week we considered how to identify the log in your own eye. And we mentioned that if after following that process you simply cannot identify uh what you have said or done to contribute to a conflict, the next step is to ask someone else. Now you have in your notes there Proverbs 27, 5 and 6, which says Better is open rebuke than love that is concealed. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. So one of the things we want to open ourselves up to is the possibility that uh because of our tendency towards self-deception and Self-righteousness, uh pride. But maybe we can't see the log in our own eye as clearly as someone else can. And so uh we want to humble ourselves and go to someone who's wise, who's mature and say, hey, here's this situation. I'm really not quite sure how I've contributed to it, or I'm not sure you know where my what what my part has been. Would you help me uh examine my own heart? Would you would you point out something that uh would uh reflect my contribution in this situation. Uh one of the ways that our hearts deceive us is to think that I'm not as sinful as other people think I am. Maybe the other person, you know, you know there's conflict, you know there's tension, and you know their attitude towards you, their anger, their bitterness, whatever. uh way in which they're offended by you. And you're thinking, why are they so upset? Like I I wasn't trying to, you know, hurt them. You know, I had good motives, I had good intentions. Why are they so angry with me? Why can't we resolve this? And our tendency is is to defend ourselves, to think, well uh I know myself and I know that I'm better a better person than they think that I am. What's interesting about that is, you know, you can talk to it anybody in the world, including those on death row, and they would say exact exactly the same thing. Even if they would acknowledge, yeah, I know, you know, I've done some bad things in my life. I've I know I've controlled a person or done these things. But, you know, that doesn't mean that I'm a bad person Uh you know, there's so many other good attributes in in my life. And uh we all have this natural tendency because of our sin to think of ourselves as better than we are. And so, again, we need to humble ourselves sometimes and go to someone who can look at us with clearer vision and with a more objective lens. uh who can speak into our life and help us consider uh how we have contributed. Now, there's a great challenge with that. And sometimes we do that and we hear what they have to say and they point out something to us, either uh what they help us to see what how what we've said is is actually a greater offense than we thought it was, or or maybe they um help us discern our motives uh and we're like oh I don't know about that. We have a we can have a tendency to hear the input of others and push back. And be like, no, I don't think that's true. Uh maybe in our own heart we might say, Well, you know, I know the broader situation and so I didn't communicate everything to them and so maybe if they knew the broader situation they wouldn't have come up with this way in which I've contributed. In a variety of ways, we might be self-defense. And so if we're gonna ask somebody, and I understand this is not what we would do in you know in the normal day-to-day conflicts that we have. But if we have a conflict that rises to the level where we really need the input of a wiser person, we need to go into that conversation prepared to hear, listen and consider what they have to say. Right? We don't want to justify ourselves, we don't want to discount the accuracy right away. Like that doesn't mean that we have to accept and embrace everything that they say You know, just because they said it, like we still need to consider and and have a conversation about those things. But if we know that this person loves us If we know that they care about our growth and they want to minister and help us, then we need to humble ourselves to acknowledge what they're saying, to consider it seriously. So for example, I remember working with a man who uh he had a tendency um to be a loud speaker. Uh just in normal conversation, his his volume tended to be high. And his family would often say to him, Dad, you're you're yelling. And he's like, I'm not yelling. And in his mind what was the normal volume was normal, right? Uh that's how he hears himself And I don't know if there was a hearing issue there, but you know that was just the the case for him as the the perception that others had, especially his family, uh they perceived to be loud, and so they would say, Dad, you're yelling. And he was like he was frustrated by this. Like I'm not yelling. And so just trying to love on him and and encourage him and say, brother, if your family is consistently saying this, you need to You need to consider that. You need to tone down what you think is normal and consider that others are experiencing this in a way that you you know you aren't able to be accurate in your own self-assessment. That that's a simple example, but it's just an example of we need to humble ourselves to receive the input of others, uh no matter how we um we perceive ourselves. And so prayerfully taking that into consideration and and moving forward with that. Now What if you're still not sure? You know, you lay out the situation and that individual isn't quite sure how you may have contributed. What what else can you do? You can uh work up the the courage to ask the person that you have offended or that you know is offended and get their input as to how you may have contributed to the conflict. Uh now, you know, depending on the nature of the relationship, this could be an easy thing to do. You know, if it's somebody that you love and you know that there's a a high um uh possibility that they're gonna be responsive and that they wanna reconcile. You know it's it it may be easy to go to them and say, brother, just Yeah, uh it seems like there's tension here, but I'm not quite sure what I've done. Uh or uh the circumstances may be such that it's difficult, that it's It's risky because you don't know what they're going to say or you think you know what they might say and you're pretty sure that you're going to disagree with what they say Uh whatever the case, uh if you're really not sure how you have contributed to a conflict, again you need to humble yourself and go to them. And you could say something like this. Um let's see, I don't have the quota here on the on the PowerPoint Uh but you can you can uh th this is uh kind of an elongated example, okay? But you can say something like this. I sense that our relationship has felt strained lately. Perhaps I'm misreading the situation But we've not been communicating well and I feel like you've been upset at me. I've started to examine myself and even ask our pastor to help me to think through what I've said or done and just haven't been able to pinpoint anything I'm sorry if it should be obvious, but it isn't. Can you help me understand how I have offended you? I really want to make things right between them. Yes. Right, that's just a a humble expression of again, brothers, I love you, I want to be reconciled with you, I want to have a good r relationship And you know you you might be even upset that I don't know what I've done, but I want to make things right. So please share with me if there's anything that I've said or done that that might be offended offensive And then you have to let them speak and hear what they have to say. Now what you hear might be uh a misunderstanding. They interpreted something you said in a completely wrong way. They took an action, an accidental action and uh imported false motives into that and and were offended by something that was an accident. Or they may have an accurate um assessment of something that you did that that uh contributed to the conflict. You know, it's amazing how we can be so unaware on on the side of the offender, we'll put it that way how we can be unaware of the things that we've done, and how on the side of the offended, we can blow things up into things that they really shouldn't be. Years and years ago there was a situation where Uh there was a a women's event uh and uh you know in the course of women arriving at this this event, uh one woman was walking past another woman that kind of bumped. You know, they're both holding bags and whatnot, kind of bumped and didn't realize because you know, of all the bags that they had, I don't I don't know if I've used the ex example before. But just kept going without saying anything, you know, didn't apologize, just say, Oh excuse me, I'm sorry. Just didn't say anything, just moved on. Well the g the gal that had been bumped was very offended. I mean just how how could she do this? You know why why would she not apologize to Uh and that's something that rolled on for a matter of days and and weeks and and just kinda grew in her head, like why why is she uh w what have I done that she would bump into me and not say anything, right? And so had a conversation with that gal and Uh I say, well have you have you talked to her and and asked her about that? And no, I haven't done that. Well I'd encourage you to do that and and just to lay out the situation, just say You know, was was that intentional? You know, just help me understand what happened there. And of course the lady had no idea what had happened. And of course was super apologetic. Like I didn't, you know, I just didn't realize that I said I'd bump in and see you It's just super easy to get over, right? Conflict over in an instant. As soon as there's clarity in that conversation, uh the conflict dissipates instantly. Th that kind of thing happens all the time. And sometimes you could you know just overlook a situation like that and you know you could get bumped and the person doesn't say anything and you just assume in your mind, uh, they probably didn't even realize that they bumped it But when you do get that sense of offense, when when you do feel hurt by a situation, you know you want to go to that person and give them the opportunity to become aware of their offense and And have them clarify. So if you're on the receiving end and uh you y somebody comes to you and tells you that or you ask them because you can tell there's tension, you just need to be receptive to that and then uh respond you know in a in a gracious uh gentle way. But of course if if they ex express something where you realize, oh my goodness, you're right. You know, I I said that and I didn't realize you know how I was uh offending you or I did that and I didn't realize the impact that it had on you. We want to humbly acknowledge that and uh seek their forgiveness. So uh in all of these things we have to exhibit humility, right? Um let me move on to this next point. Um what what if someone has something against you Uh and uh you're not even aware of it. So yeah, at this point um you're we're thinking of a situation where uh something has something against you and you don't even know that there's a conflict. Uh usually, though not always, but usually in the home we have a pretty good idea if we've offended somebody, right? There's tension in the home, uh there's clarity about uh that something isn't right. That's usually the case. But sometimes, uh outside of the close quarters of the home, uh we can be totally oblivious to the fact that we have offended somebody, you know, like that. woman bumping into another woman. Jesus anticipates that kind of scenario when he says in Matthew 5, 23 and 24, therefore if you are presenting your offering at the altar And there remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. So unlike the first scenario where you feel the tension, you know, uh you already know that there's a conflict, uh there's the idea here that this this fellow or Jesus is saying, you know, you're living your life and you're not necessarily aware or you're not consciously aware that there's a conflict, but you find yourself in line at the temple I know you've both been there, right? With your animal, ready to make your sacrifice, and Something comes to your mind. Now maybe it comes to your mind for different reasons. Maybe it comes to your mind because uh or you rather you weren't aware of it because you don't see that person very often. So out of sight, out of mind kind of thing. Uh maybe you knew about it in the past, but you more or less forgot about it. Perhaps the incident was far enough in the past that you didn't think it was an issue. As far as you were concerned, it was either overlooked or maybe you thought it had been dealt with. Perhaps you didn't know that you did something wrong, uh, that it had the significance that it had for the other person. Uh perhaps you weren't even aware that someone had something against you until somebody told you, whether that person or somebody else. Have you ever been in a situation where somebody told you, hey, did you know that so-and-so Is mad at you. Sometimes that happens. So whatever the case, you weren't aware until now it comes into your thinking, whether somebody told you or you remember or in some way you become aware that there's an offense. Whatever the case, it doesn't matter why you didn't know or how you came to know. What matters is that now you're aware that somebody has something against you. And so whenever somebody has something against you, Jesus calls us to go and be reconciled. So what do you do? Of course you Go hunt to the person humbly and graciously and seek to understand how you have offended them so that you can m move to toward the third step. So again, all of this is under the get the log out of your own eye When you know, when you become aware that there's an offense, that there's a conflict, that there's tension in a relationship, we need to humble ourselves and go to the other person. What's required to do this, to humble ourselves? What do we have to do to humble ourselves when we are aware that there's an offense? Pray. Pray? Sure. Um, just remove pride because pride can't take ownership for your sin. That's your sin in the light of what you've done with God. Great. Remove pride. How do we do that? Let the will be done against God now He's forgiven us. Okay, yeah. That that's that's a a vital way. Remember the gospel of how God has forgiven us, uh and He's forgiven us because Christ died for us while we're still sinners. What does Jesus tell us to do every day? Deny ourselves, take up take up our cross and follow him. Uh in short, die to ourselves. So we die to our pride by remembering Christ on the cross. Uh we we we have to die to ourselves. We have to get rid of or set aside any thought of why are they offended? I haven't done anything, any thought of self-righteousness. Yeah, Kareem. Um we give up our right. We are I I'm thinking about um Philippians two five where um the attitude of Christ where he even though he exists in in the form of God. He did not regard equality with God if we did your ass. So maybe we feel like it was unjustified or maybe we feel like, well, I know my heart didn't think that way, even though they're offended. But we have to just lay that aside like science to help us. Just we're not gonna grasp after our rights and how we think we should be treated, how we feel like we deserve to be treated or regarded or yeah they shouldn't have assumed that about an Elmy, whatever it is Not graphically am I right? Right. Yeah, absolutely. And and on top of that, in addition to that, uh not believing the best about ourselves. Right? We are called to believe the best about others. 1 Corinthians 13, that's how we love others, but we are not to believe the best about ourselves necessarily. Uh in the sense that we need to recognize, you know what, I I do have a tendency to self-deception. I do have a tendency to um be very narrowly focused on my uh perspective and so maybe there's more perspective out there that that will uh help me see myself more accurately Um we we just have that natural tendency to to think of ourselves as more righteous than we are. And there's a difference between thinking of ourselves as innocent versus thinking of ourselves as righteous. What's the difference? What's the difference between innocence and righteousness? Sean thinking of ourselves as innocent is thinking of ourselves as never having innocent It doesn't think or have any culpability whatsoever. Thinking of ourselves as righteous means that we know that we have done wrong and we've been forgiven. that there's that perspective of that needs to be extended to others as well. It doesn't mean that we aren't right, it just means I'm asking more like what's what's the self-righteous what's the difference between uh innocence and self-righteousness like thinking that I actually am righteous Alex I think uh with self-righteousness there's there's a um often a sense of entitlement And so I think kind of like what Corinne was saying, um, like if you're in a circumstance where um like you've done wrong and you have a mindset of innocence, your thought is gonna be that you didn't do wrong, it's gonna be more of a The situation is neutral, there was not a Vintage. But I think the Self-Wices would say, if there was an offense, they would make some excuse to why it should have already been forgiven or um it really wasn't like I'm trying to have a hard way to put it in the word, but like I can see it in my head. But it's like the self-righteous will excuse themselves and justify themselves and the innocent will they don't see it Okay, sure. Yeah, yeah. So let's go with that. Uh the the way that I'm I would frame it is innocence is this idea that I I haven't I haven't really done anything wrong. Like I haven't done pro anything proactively wrong. I haven't done anything intentionally wrong. Whereas a sense of self-righteousness, like I've been righteous in this situation, is I've actually done everything right I couldn't have done things any more right than I already did. So therefore I could not have been wrong. And it's it's m It's more of a mindset of innocence is, you know what, I I don't I'm not aware of anything that I've done wrong, but maybe there's something there that I've I've missed. Whereas the righteousness is like I couldn't have done anything wrong. I know my heart, I know my my mind, I know my intentions, I know what I said, I know what I did. I was right in that. Sean? So from that perspective, you could almost go to say that I may have offended you, but I was totally right in doing that. You were wrong and I was I was correct. And you're in the wrong even to be offended by. Right, right. So I'll let us say we want to set that aside because the reality is As Sean pointed out, we are not righteous, right? We are sinners saved by grace. We are saints in in the Lord. So uh that tendency to say, no, I think I've done everything right I couldn't have done anything wrong. We need to set that aside and say, you know what? Maybe my conscience is clear, but but perhaps there's more to the situation that I'm aware of. We need to humble ourselves to listen to others and consider how uh how may I have contributed to this conflict. Um and often there's sins of omission that we are less aware of than sins of commission. Right. Well we might be very well aware of the words that we've spoken. You know, our tone, our language. Uh we might be very well aware of our actions, how we haven't proactively done anything or how we how we did proactively sin against the person It's often the sense of omission that we're less aware of. I didn't consider you as more important than myself. I didn't consider your circumstances and how I could love you in that situation. Now I didn't listen uh well to you, you know, whatever it might be. So all that to say we need to humble ourselves. If we if we're gonna uh uh take a log out of our own eye, we have to look at that log with humility and be ready to acknowledge whatever the Spirit convicts us of in that moment. And in the case of every conflict, there's going to be So if this is the up this is the pie of conflict, okay, in terms of who has contributed what? There's going to be at least two two parties to every major conflict. And let's just say for the sake of argument that your piece of the pie is something rather small. If you think about a situation, uh you weren't the instigator of it, okay, maybe you responded to that conflict or to what the other person did in an unhelpful, sinful, unloving way. But your perception is I I've contributed to to this. Yes, I know I have. I am a sinner, but my contribution is small. Now, we could make that size whatever we want. We're we're using small for the sake of argument. Our tendency is to say, well because my contribution is less than the other person, then they have greater responsibility to deal with this issue than I do I put myself often in the passive role of, well they're the greater offender, so I'm going to wait for them to deal with this. But what the Lord would say is, no, no, no, if you've contributed, let's just call this 5%. Oops, that's what I meant to do. If you've contributed 5%, then what you want to do is deal with that 5% as if it's the only. element of the conflict. So it's that when we make confession, when we acknowledge our contribution, uh without necessarily denying that the other person has played any role, but when we're ex expressing our contribution We're expressing it in a way that takes 100% responsibility for our contribution to a conflict, right? No matter how big. Now usually our contribution is far more than 5% of a conflict, right? Uh but we want to take one hundred percent uh responsibility for our role, whatever that role was. Yeah, Alex. I just have a question. Do you think um Because we're talking about the you know the biblical mandate that if you have sinned, you need to go ask for forgiveness. Do you think as far as I don't know if priority is the right word or Um I I'm thinking in in uh home relationships, husband and wife, and parents and children, it is more incumbent on the figure of authority to be the initiator of reconciliation Well uh yeah I what I would encourage anyone who is in a position of uh authority or leadership is uh By virtue of your uh role, you have the responsibility and the opportunity to demonstrate leadership uh by initiating uh um resolution, confessing your own contribution. So it's an exercise of leadership to say not only do I want to be Let's say the leader of the home, leader of my kids, leader in the workplace. Uh but I I want to demonstrate that my leadership means I'm going to be the first one to take responsibility for my part in any kind of uh conflict. So that those who follow me know that I am f leading with humility, uh with love. with grace uh that I am modeling uh the attributes of Christ in Philippians two and and others. uh in that way. So that's that would be the ideal uh element. Now I wouldn't say that a wife or kids should wait And say, well, I'm you know, that dad's the one who's supposed to be doing this, or my husband, you know, needs to be leading, so I'm not gonna say anything until they do. Now w we can all be the first ones to take responsibility. But um The better part would be for the person in leadership, husband, father, employer, to take the leadership role in exhibiting that humility first. Yeah. Some of the women that I mentor and they're in a relationship or married, one of the big things I hear is well why should I have to apologize first? I hear it all the time. Yeah and what's the answer? Are you or are you asking? Oh, but do I tell again? Yeah. Oh I'll just say because you're wrong No, no, that's good. That's right. Whenever we know that we're wrong, it's right for us to go, right? Yeah, because it's true. Yeah, you're you're just straightforward and that's good. And I'll say because you're wrong, number one And number two, even if you uh with that attitude, if you apologize first, it's not gonna mean anything. Like you have to know in your heart that you've sinned against God You know, you have to have the humility. Sure. You know, and you can't wait around. Sure. Because you're the one that's going to be not resentful. You're going to be resentful and you're going to have an attitude, your husband could walk out the door tomorrow and have a heart attack. And you're gonna carry that the rest of your life. You know, so it's these kind of things that I I have to say to them in a different way so they understand it. Yeah Yeah. A lot of them are very new to the right way of living, so to speak. And they do ask. I mean that's the good thing. Yeah. You know, but when they cut me off, I'll just say things like you know, you're telling your help how to help you, why are you asking? Right. Yeah, the r the reference is escaping me, but the scripture says he uh to to him who knows the right thing to do, uh and doesn't do it. To him it is him. So if if you know you've done wrong, the right thing to do is to go and and acknowledge that wrong. And if you don't, that's sin. But all right, well Now we want to talk about what do we do? Okay, we're aware of our contribution, we're aware of our sin, whether it's five percent, whether that's ninety-five percent, whatever our role is, what do we do with this And the answer is we confess, right? Confession is saying the same thing that God says about our sin. We already acknowledge, first and foremost, we confess our sin to God. Uh but we also have to confess our sin to others. And as we all know, we are really bad at confession. Just, you know, from the youngest of ages uh to the oldest, our natural tendency is to be really, really bad at confession. We'll say things like, I'm sorry. Whatever it is, whether we've been five percent or ninety-five percent, we'll just say, I'm sorry, leave it at that. Don't you know we don't say what we're sorry about, uh we don't say anything about the else about the situation, uh we just say I'm sorry. And often That's just an attempt to let's just get through this. You know, I don't want to talk about this anymore. I don't wanna I don't wanna have to humble myself any further by acknowledging uh the specifics of my sin I just want to get get it over with. Or we might say something like, I'm sorry you were hurt or offended. Which of course is not acknowledging anything. It's blame shifting on the other person. And we hear this all the time. You know, when we hear public confessions, politicians, celebrities, you know, whoever It's always I'm sorry if anybody was hurt or offended by my actions, right? Never ever uh acknowledging uh their own sin for what it is. Or we might say I'm sorry and then uh articulate what we're sorry about, but then we'll insert that little word, but and uh sh blame uh shift the blame again and p place the responsibility for our sin on others. And so whatever way we We tend to apologize, uh it tends to be uh really uh unhelpful, uh uh often prideful Self-defensive, shifting the blame on others. So we need to think about how can we confess in a way that is helpful, in a way that's healing, in a way that promotes reconciliation and unity in a relationship. So we have these seven A's of confession which our dear brother Ken Sandy has written in his book The Peacemaker. And uh I'll say it again at at the end, but I'll say it up front. This is not to say that every time you have to confess every sin, that you have to walk through all of these seven A's and you know give this lengthy confession, uh in in a way that, you know, that's the only biblical way to do it. Uh think of it this way. When you confess your sin, uh what you want to demonstrate to the Lord and to others is a heart of humility. A heart of um uh love, uh recognizing your sin and desire to reconcile with this other person. And so uh this is just a helpful paradigm, a helpful process way of thinking about how can I acknowledge my sin and talk about the situation in a way that demonstrates a heart of genuine love and repentance. And so there will be many cases, again in the normal day-to-day ways in which we sin against one another, especially in marriage or with our kids, we don't need to s uh cover all of the seven A's, uh, but if we have these in mind, that can help us to say what needs to be said in that particular moment to be genuine and honest and and uh confess in a way that uh restores the relationship. So the first A is address everyone involved. And this is to say that when we sin, sometimes it is just a one-on-one sin, it's a very private uh situation You know, if you're in your home with your spouse, you don't have any kids, or the kids are out and you've sinned against each other, nobody else is aware of the situation, well that's the only person you need to confess to because they are the only ones aware of that sin or that were impacted by that sin and and so that's where it can stay. But so many times we do sin in the presence of others. We sin in the presence of our kids. We sin in the context of a small group perhaps or in the lobby at church or you sin against a coworker with other co-workers who are aware of that. So many times we sin in the presence of other people. And sometimes, some sense, even if they're not done in the presence of other people, they can have significant impact on a broader group of people. And so the general principle is that we want to give confession to the extent of those who were uh who observed the sin, who were impacted by the sin, and in some situations, those who were aware of the sin. Give you one example. So a few years ago, actually, I don't maybe ten plus years ago, some of you might remember this. There was a group of people who left the church in a divisive, simple way. And when we came, our family came about seven, just under seven years ago. Soon after that, there was a couple who came back to the church that had left wrongfully, and they uh recognized the sinfulness and ways they had left the church And they stood up front and made that confession to the whole church and sought forgiveness from the church body as they were being welcomed back into membership. Now by the from the time that they had left to the time that they came back, there were a lot of people in the church who didn't know them, who didn't know the situation. And so in some sense you could say, well, did they really need to do that? Well the reality is their heart was so full of repentance and they they knew that their sin had infected a great number of people and it would have been really impossible to go one by one to every person who was affected and whatnot. So the the the best thing in that situation was to just make a confession to the whole church. They had sinned against the membership of whole Bible Church and they made confession to the membership of Hold Bible Church. Now those kind of situations are rare, right, in the sense of uh that's not the kind of thing we're doing week in and week out But the principle is you give confession to the scope or to the extent of those who were affected by or aware of that sin. So more commonly, maybe that includes acknowledging to our kids how we have sinned against their mom or their dad, recognizing that our kids have observed that, that they've heard that, that they heard the yelling and the shouting, they heard the words that were spoken We want to model for our kids humility in confessing our sin. Or again, if you've sin in the workplace and other coworkers are aware of that, it's important to model that humility And that can give rise, of course, to an opportunity for the gospel to talk about why uh you're able to confess your sin. But We want to address everyone involved. We want to avoid if, but, or maybe. As you're making confession, as you're acknowledging your sin. The word if, like if I've hurt you, or if I've offended you, or using the word but to uh shift blame to basically cancel out our own acknowledgement because we're now we're actually putting the blame on the other person or or maybe which uh again is putting blame on the other person like Maybe if you weren't yelling at me, I wouldn't yell back at you. You know, all of those words have a way to just wipe away any sense of I'm taking responsibility. So avoiding if butter maybe Is a way of saying, I'm going to take 100% responsibility. I'm not even going to, in this moment of confession, I'm not going to talk to you about your sin. I'm not going to talk about how your sin made it easy for me to sin, how you tempted me in a way that that uh y made it easy for me to sin. I I'm just gonna acknowledge and take full responsibility for my own sin. Now Oh dear, time's getting away from us. But what is the fear? What m what what what might we fear that would want uh cause us to want to talk about the other person's sin? If I just take full responsibility for my sin, what might I fear? They don't take responsibility for their part of the action? Yeah, and what could that lead to? Uh them being extremely prideful. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Good. Resentment? Yeah. Yeah. Uh if if I take responsibility, if I take 100% responsibility and I don't try and explain my sin, I don't try uh and and explain the context or the circumstances then they might think that it was 100% my fault and they're not going to acknowledge their sin. Now can that happen? Absolutely that can happen. Is it our responsibility to prevent that from happening? No, it's not. Our responsibility is to confess our own sin regardless of how the other person responds. So we want to avoid if but or maybe Well, we want to admit specifically. Again, uh sometimes we just say, I'm sorry. We don't say anything about what we've done. And so in admitting specifically We want to acknowledge what it is that we are confessing, what sin we've committed. Certainly we want to confess the outward thing I said this. And you can, you know, in some cases it's appropriate to uh uh quote yourself. I know that I've I've said this and that was a hurtful thing. If you have cussed somebody out, you probably don't want to repeat that again, but you can say, I I sinned with my mouth, I attacked you, you know, whatever that might be. If we've uh acted in some way, we want to acknowledge those actions. Uh so we want to confess certainly the outward things, but we also want to acknowledge the heart. Uh how have we Uh how how were we motivated in a sinful way? What was I desiring, right? In what way were my desires ungodly or uh out of proportion or out of um out of uh pri priority from what God's desires are. So we want to confess not just the outward but the heart as well. We want to use biblical language for our sin. Yeah you know rather than saying, I know I haven't I don't think I've ever heard anybody say this, but just as an example, I know I fibbed. Maybe somebody might say I wasn't completely honest. Yeah. Okay, you weren't completely honest. That was a white lie. No, I d I lied. I misrepresented the situation. I lied to you about that. You know, in a more serious case, it it wasn't a one-night stand, I committed adultery. I violated our marriage covenant We want to use biblical language to acknowledge our sin. And I would add uh in this category we want to be Verbose for the purpose of clarity. Daniel 9 is an example of a confession by Daniel on behalf of the people of Israel. In it he models for us how we can acknowledge the the reality of our sin. Just listen to this. Uh y otherwise just listen. He says in Daniel nine verse four, O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments Listen to these words. We have sinned, we have done wrong, and acted wickedly, and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules. We have not listened to your servants the prophets. We spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. So seven or eight different ways, depending on how you count it, he he's acknowledging the reality of uh Israel's sin you know from over the centuries. And uh in the full passage he uses every word for sin that exists in the Hebrew uh language. You know, iniquity, sin, transgression, uh all of those words just to take full responsibility on the part of the nation for their sin. And so we want to use language that conveys I understand the reality and the nature of my I haven't just made a mistake. I haven't just, you know, been thoughtless. But I I've sinned against the Lord. I I've violated his command for me as a husband to love you, and I have violated your trust. Uh, you know, we want to be verbose in expressing uh our sin in a way that conveys to the other person, wow, they they really understand uh their sin. So we want to admit specifically We want to acknowledge the hurt. Again, if it if it's a significant sin that has brought pain in the other person's life, we want to acknowledge that. Uh and and not say if I've hurt you when we know for sure that we have hurt them. But I I know that I've hurt you. I know that I I have caused great pain in your life. I know that I violated your trust And I I understand that I've made it difficult for you in this home because of my sin. We want to acknowledge the impact that our sin has had on the other person. Now one thing to think about here is sometimes our perception is that the person's response to our sin was overblown. Like they're more hurt than they should be. Like what I've done shouldn't have broken their trust in me like they say it has. In acknowledging the hurt, we we want to acknowledge the reality of their experience without evaluating it of yes, you know, you're right to be hurt or no, you are hurt too much. No, we want to acknowledge the hurt for what it is and and not uh judge them for maybe our perception of how their hurt might be beyond what is necessary Just acknowledge the reality of it. There are times where we need to accept the consequence when our sin has violated trust and we Uh know that it's going to take time to earn that trust back rather than assuming that their forgiveness, if if it comes to us, instantly regains trust, but saying, I I know it's going to be hard for you to trust me again. Again. But I'm willing to uh be patient and earn your trust back. Maybe it's a loss of privilege, you know, for uh a teenager who has uh done something and they know they're about to lose driving privileges or something. I know that I need to give up the keys to the car and I'm I'm I'm okay with that. I I I've lost that privilege Maybe it's in the workplace. You've sinned against your company or your boss and you acknowledge the fact that this has implications for your employment. I know that you may need to fire me, that you may need to let me go Uh and and you need to be okay with that and e express the fact that you accept those consequences. Uh or some form of restitution or justice that's required. You you broke something, I know I'm I'm gonna replace it, I I know I'm gonna need to uh make this right between us. So we want to accept the consequences. Six is alter the your behavior So in acknowledging your sin, maybe it's a pattern of sin that you are recognizing you need to grow in. And so expressing how you plan to grow in this area of your life. I'm going to start meeting with somebody who can disciple me in this area, who can uh counsel me. Or here's what I plan to do next time this a situation like this comes up. I don't want to repeat this in, and so here's the plan that I am putting into place to grow in this area And then finally ask for forgiveness. for forgiveness, not just say I'm sorry, not just say I apologize. We want to ask the question, will you forgive me. Because when you do that, there's clarity of how the person can respond. If you just end with I'm sorry or I apologize, then the other person has to come up with, now how do I respond? Do I respond to some of what was said, or how do I respond to all of what was said? I I don't know how to what's the right response in this moment. But when you ask, how t or will you forgive me Then the person knows, okay, now I have an action item. I know exactly what I'm being asked of here. And uh again, in the majority of uh conflicts that we're in with our those who are close to us, usually the response will be, you know, yes, I forgive you. But sometimes The nature of our sin is such that they're not in a place where they're ready to forgive yet. And so the last aspect there is allow time You need to acknowledge that, you know, I know I've hurt you in a way that um it may be difficult for you to forgive me. I I want you to take the time that you need to process this. And just know that I'll be praying for you. I love you. I want to be restored. And I'll do anything to pursue that with you. But I want you to have the time that you need. You don't need to answer me right now if you're not ready. Now again with all of these, uh if the sin that we've committed is uh relationship breaking, destroying, covenant breaking, uh if it's had a significant impact in the life of another of another person or in a group of people. Uh the the greater the sin, the greater the impact, the the more in-depth our confession should be. But you can still take principles from this in our day-to-day confession. confessions. Again, admit specifically is probably the best one to take away of being clear of acknowledging your own sin. Alex Um I was just wondering how you reference Daniel for the third point for admitting specifically. But as far as like repentance goes, is this I just see so much of this mirrory But what our behavior should be in our prayers and following actions of repentance. Is this like what this is called after? Um or is there is I'm not I'm not quite sure what you're getting at. Um I just think like when and maybe this is just inecol from my own experience, but you know like when I'm When I'm praying through repentance like I do a lot of these things, sure. You know, of admitting of all the people I've wronged Taking full ownership, things specifically in my heart. Okay. Well if that's what the by the Lord's grace, what you have a tendency to do in in your prayers before the Lord, then uh praise the Lord. But in my experience that's not very common. Um because of the the verse you're saying. I think if I can remember any from actually other Old Testament passages where prophets have prayed for the sins of issues, ownership and recognition Yeah, there there's now obviously I didn't look at any specific passages with any of these other than Daniel 9 But um I I don't know, Ken if you would have any thoughts about that, but I think generally there's both a an imitation of biblical principles or applying biblical principles, as well as just considering what's the loving thing to do How how can I love this person uh in who they are, the impact of my sin? Uh what what is a loving thing to acknowledge? for that. W would you say anything more about kind of how you came up with V seven specifically? No? Exactly on a point, but look at the Titalia scripture, those are the the essence of how people approach God and the repenting and the example of good repentances you reach out, but also just experience. Yeah. If you leave out any of those things you often will leave a little doubt or question or frustration the other person. I I would still say this though just to tell a story. You made the point about not using this as a checklist as a chapter. Um I've done that with my wife and she said it sounds really mechanical because it wasn't from the heart. And um one time our son when he was like Ten years old. We're in the mountains, they went off with a friend disappeared, and we thought, boy, the loss, we had all the sheriffs and everything else. We went out of the woods, walks our two little boys, just gonna have fun. And we went When Jeff saw the look in his mother's face, he burst into tears and said, Mommy, I'm so sorry. That's all she meant. Yeah. It was from the heart. Yeah. Truly from the heart. So I think most of us rather have something truly from the heart than a detailed theological, perfectly correct. Which is often an attempt to just reestablish our righteousness Yeah. Yeah. No, that's helpful. All right. What if they don't forgive you? Not only in that moment, like not only do they uh You know, they don't say I I need time to process this, but maybe they're thinking I I don't forgive you at all, and you get that sense from them. If they don't forgive you, just remember that your goal is to glorify God Right, we just keep hitting that reminder. Our goal is to glorify God. Our goal is not to manipulate the other person. Uh in fact, uh often we get frustrated Uh or angry when the person doesn't forgive us or we don't perceive that they're acting or or following through with their forgiveness based on the the way that they're treating us. And when we get angry at their lack of forgiveness, that's showing that our motivation in confession was actually to manipulate them rather than to honor the Lord. And so we need to Continually check our heart and say, Lord, I just I want to be faithful. I want to honor you. I want to represent Christ. I want to exemplify the character of Christ. regardless of how the other person responds. And so how do we engage in that relationship? Well, of course we want to pray for them. If you're Uh Jesus says to pray for your enemies. We want to pray for not only the Lord to work in their heart to soften them so that we can restore the relationship, but you also want to pray for them beyond the conflict. You know, so often we when we're in a relationship breaking conflict, we look at the other person exclusively through the lens of that conflict. Like the their only existence is in the circle of that conflict. And so one of the ways we can pray for them is pray for their family, pray for God's blessing on their work, pray for God to use them in ministry. Whatever else is going on in their life, you want to pray for them in a way that uh acknowledges the the wholeness of that individual. You want to ask them if there's anything that you have yet to acknowledge. Maybe part of their struggle is There's sin that you've not yet confessed. Maybe it's because you're not aware of it, whatever the case, but you can ask them, is there anything that that you see in me that I haven't acknowledged And again, be humble and ready to receive that. You want to do good to them, right? Romans 12, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. For in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Don't don't be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So look out for opportunities to show kindness and love and uh acts of service in a way that would uh move you toward them and soften even your own heart toward them. Uh in some cases you might ask, is there the possibility of meeting with someone else. Hey, can we go to our small group leader? Can we go to our pastor and try and work through this? Would you be willing to come with me? Because I really would love to see us resolve this. So opening that as a a uh as a possibility. And then if they continue to refuse to forgive And they're sinning in their interaction with you, seek help from a mature believer who can uh who knows both of you or who can help in the situation. We don't want to allow ongoing unrepentant sin to go unaddressed. We want to love one another by confronting it the way that Scripture calls us to do. Alright, we're out of time here, but uh confession is so important Uh these are good things to practice. Uh even in a situation, you know, if you're here with your spouse and you've both heard these things, you can practice with each other. Kind of go overboard if you want just for the sake of practicing Um you know, uh you uh you're you uh burn your spouse's toast, you know, just confess that sin and acknowledge the hurt. Yeah. These things are good to practice. Alright, let's pray. Father, thank you for uh this uh wisdom. Thank you for the truth of your word and how you call us to love one another Thank you that you are gracious and forgiving God, that when we confess our sins to you, you graciously forgive us and you are abounding in steadfast love. Lord, help us to be those kind of people who, having been forgiven not only are ready and willing to confess our sin, knowing that it's all been taken care of at the cross, but that we are eager to forgive the sins of others when they confess their sins toward us. Lord help us to glorify you in these things in Christ's name. Amen.